91 other disclosures The annual report 2012 has been prepared for, and only for, The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting themembers of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and the TheCompany, its directors, employees, agents and advisors do Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy notaccept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom atany time thefinancial position of the Company and the Group this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
This annual remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, report may contain statements which are not based on current or asregards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the historical fact and which are forward looking in nature.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the forward looking statements reflect knowledge and information assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking available atthe date of preparation of this annual report and the reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward andother irregularities.
Such forward looking statements are subject The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity toknown and unknown risks and uncertainties facing the Group ofthe Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing the including, without limitation, those risks described in this annual preparation and dissemination of financial statements may report, andother unknown future events and circumstances which differfrom legislation in other jurisdictions.
can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
Nothing in this annual report should be construed Each of the current directors, whose names are listed on pages 62 asaprofit forecast.
and 63 of the annual report, confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the t the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and with applicable law and regulations.
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared t the business review includes a fair review of the development the consolidated financial statements in accordance with andperformance of the business and the position of the Group, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties the European Union and the parent company financial statements that it faces.
in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice dividends UK Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company Subject to shareholder approval, the directors have proposed law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless a2012 final dividend of 10.2p per share.
The total dividend for the they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of year ended 31 December 2012 is 15.2p per share 2011: 14.4p.
affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing these financial statements, dividend ex dividend record payment per share p date date date thedirectors are required to: 2012 interim 5.0 08.08.12 10.08.12 04.09.12 t select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 2012 final 10.2 24.04.13 26.04.13 22.05.13 consistently: t make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: principal disposals The disposal of the Personal Care business was completed during t state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the year for a total consideration of 430m.
The transaction applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, comprised the disposal of the High Barrier Food business to subject to any material departures disclosed and explained asubsidiary of Silgan Holdings Inc, a US based supplier of intheconsolidated and parent company financial statements packaging for consumer goods products, completed on 31 August respectively: and 2012, and the disposal of the Cosmetics, Toiletries and Household Care Products business to an affiliate of Sun European Partners LLP, t prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis a private equity firm, completed on 31 December 2012. unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 92 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report other disclosures directors and directors interests At the General Meeting on 24 January 2013 GM 2013 held to The board of directors and changes to the board during the year approve the return of cash and share consolidation, shareholders ended 31 December 2012 and at the date of this annual report is passed a resolution, which replaced the resolution passed at the set out on pages 62 and 63.
AGM 2012, to authorise the Company, should it wish to do so, to purchase a maximum of 79.05m shares in the market.
No shares None of the directors had any interest during or at the end of have been purchased in the market, nor has any contract been theyear in any contract of significance in relation to the business made to purchase shares under the previous or existing authorities ofthe Company or its subsidiary undertakings.
from 1 January 2012 to the date of this report.
The directors are seeking a further renewal of the authority at theAGM 2013.
Full details of the interests in the share capital of the Company of Further details can be found in the notice of AGM2013.
those directors holding office on 31 December 2012, including any interest of a connected person, are set out in the remuneration report.
AGM 2012 GM 2013 AGM 2013 share purchase authority approved approved proposed share capital 10% of issued share capital 87.70m 79.05m 79.08m At 31 December 2012, the Company had 878,378,644 ordinary 2 shares of 64 7p each inissue as shown, together with details of the substantial shareholdings rights and restrictions attaching to the ordinary shares, in note 29 At 31 December 2012, the Company had been advised of the to the consolidated financial statements.
following significant direct and indirect interests in the issued return of cash and share consolidation ordinary share capital of the Company, in accordance with On 8 January 2013, the Company announced a return of cash to theDisclosure and Transparency Rules DTR of the Financial shareholders of 45p per existing ordinary share by way of one Services Authority.
new B share for each existing ordinary share.
In addition, the number of shares % interest in issued returnof cash was accompanied by a consolidation of the existing name of shareholder disclosed share capital ordinary shares in the ratio of nine new ordinary shares for every BlackRock Inc 44,138,256 5.03 ten existing ordinary shares held.
The Companys issued ordinary 34,660,260 3.95 Legal & General Group Plc share capital following the share capital consolidation on 3 28 January 2013 was 790,546,023 shares of 71 7p each.
1 The information disclosed above was notified to the Company prior to the share consolidation and no further notifications had been received at the date of this report.
Following approval of the return of cash by shareholders on 24 January 2013, 878,384,470 B shares were issued on 28 January Information provided to Rexam pursuant to the DTR is publicly 2013.
On 11 February 2013 a dividend of 45p per share was paid available via the regulatory information services and on the on 585,302,440 B shares and these shares were reclassified Companys website.
asdeferred shares, and a further 284,810,974 B shares were research and development redeemed for 45p per share.
The remaining 8,271,056 B shares The Groups expenditure on research and development during will be redeemed on the final redemption date on 8 April 2013. theyear amounted to 8m from continuing operations and 7m Further details can be found on our website.
from discontinued operations 2011: 8m and 11m respectively.
powers given to directors significant agreements The powers given to the directors are contained in the articles Rexam has a number of commercial agreements which are ofassociation the Articles and are subject to relevant legislation essential to the Groups business, as discussed in the key risks and, in certain circumstances, including in relation to the issuing section of the business review on pages 40 to 47.
Mitigation orbuying back by the Company of its shares, subject to authority arrangements are in place to safeguard, as far as possible, being given to the directors by shareholders in general meeting.
theGroups business in the event of the unexpected termination The Articles also govern the appointment and replacement oramendment of such agreements.
The Articles, which may only be amended with shareholders approval in accordance with relevant legislation, The Company is also required to disclose any significant can be found on our website.
agreements that take effect, alter or terminate on a change ofcontrol of the Company following a takeover bid.
Some purchase of own shares commercial agreements allow the counterparties to alter or At the AGM 2012, shareholders passed a special resolution terminate the arrangements in these circumstances.
The Company renewing the authority granted to the Company, in accordance also has committed debt facilities all of which are directly or with the Companies Act 2006 and relevant institutional guidelines, indirectly subject to change of control provisions, albeit the to purchase alimited number of its own shares in the market.
facilities do not necessarily require mandatory prepayment onachange of control.
93 At 31 December 2012 the debt facilities subject to these payments to suppliers provisionswere: The Groups operating businesses are responsible for the terms andconditions under which they conduct business transactions debt facilities amount maturity with their suppliers.
It is Group policy to agree the terms of payment Subordinated bond 750m June 2067 and make payments to suppliers in accordance with those terms, US private placement US$175m December 2024 provided that suppliers have complied with all relevant terms US private placement US$395m December 2022 andconditions.
US private placement 25m December 2022 The Company had 16 days 2011: 14 days purchases outstanding Revolving credit facility 602m November 2017 at 31 December 2012 based on the average daily amount invoiced Bilateral credit facility 45m November 2017 by suppliers.
Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2017 corporate governance statement Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2017 The information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2017 governance statement in accordance with rule 7.2 of the DTR Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2017 canbe found in this directors report within pages 10 to 93.
Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2017 auditors Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2017 disclosure of information to the auditors Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2017 Each person who is a director of the Company at the date of approval of this annual report confirms that: Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2017 US public bond US$549m June 2013 t so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit US private placement US$225m June 2013 information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Medium term note 638m March 2013 t each director individually has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make him or herself aware 1 All of the above bilateral credit facilities and the revolving credit facility are multicurrency.
ofany relevant audit information and to establish that the 2 The revolving credit facility and certain of the bilateral credit facilities include options to extend the final maturity from November 2017 to November 2018, subject to the agreement Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The service contracts of the executive directors do not contain reappointment of auditors achange of control provision.
 LLP will be proposed for reappointment as the Companys auditors at the AGM 2013 as recommended by The trustee of the Rexam Employee Share Trust the Trust holds the audit and risk committee.
shares in order to satisfy awards under the Rexam employee share incentive plans.
Ifan offer is made to acquire the Companys annual general meeting 2013 shares, the trustee is not obliged to accept or reject any such offer The AGM of the Company, details of which can be found in the in respect of any shares which are intended to satisfy awards notice of AGM 2013, will be held at 2.30pm on 18 April 2013 which are outstanding.
However, the trustee shall have regard atChurch House, Deans Yard, London SW1.
to the interests of the beneficiaries andshall have the power to consult them to obtain their views onsuch offer and, subject to theforegoing, may consider any recommendations made to it On behalf of the board bythe Company but shall not be obliged to comply with such recommendations.
David Gibson company secretary The Company has granted a qualifying pension scheme indemnity 20 February 2013 inthe form permitted by the Companies Act 2006 to the directors ofRexam Pension Trustees Limited, the Trustee to the Rexam Pension Plan.
The indemnity remains in force at the date of this report.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 94 Rexam annual report 2012 build a winning organisation Theachievement of our strategy iscontingent on us having a strong, world class organisation where everyone is engaged to achieve our goals and has the right tools, incentives and motivation to be the best.
95 95 consolidated financial statements 96 independent auditors report to the members of Rexam PLC 121 note 15 investments in subsidiaries 97 consolidated income statement 121 note 16 investments in associates and joint ventures 98 consolidated statement of comprehensive income 122 note 17 available for sale financial assets 99 consolidated balance sheet 122 note 18 insurance backed assets 100 consolidated cash flow statement 123 note 19 inventories 101 consolidated statement of changes in equity 123 note 20 trade and other receivables notes to the consolidated financial statements: 124 note 21 cash and cash equivalents 102 note 1 principal accounting policies 125 note 22 assets classified as held for sale 108 note 2 segment analysis 125 note 23 trade and other payables 110 note 3 operating expenses 126 note 24 borrowings 111 note 4 employee costs and numbers 127 note 25 net borrowings 112 note 5 auditors remuneration 128 note 26 financial instruments 112 note 6 exceptional items continuing operations 135 note 27 retirement benefit obligations 112 note 7 interest 139 note 28 provisions 113 note 8 tax 140 note 29 share capital 115 note 9 earnings loss per share 140 note 30 other reserves 116 note 10 discontinued operations 141 note 31 share based payment 117 note 11 equity dividends 143 note 32 reconciliation of profit loss before tax to cash generated from operations 117 note 12 goodwill 143 note 33 contingent liabilities 119 note 13 other intangible assets 143 note 34 commitments 120 note 14 property, plant and equipment financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 96 Rexam annual report 2012 independent auditors report to the members of Rexam PLC We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Rexam PLC for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 91, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: thereasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Inaddition, we read all the financial and non financial information in the Rexam annual report 2012 to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
"opinion on financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: t HJWF B USVF BOE GBJS WJFX PG UIF TUBUF PG UIF SPVQ T BGGBJST BT BU %FDFNCFS BOE PG JUT QSPU BOE DBTI PXT GPS UIF ZFBS thenended: t IBWF CFFO QSPQFSMZ QSFQBSFE JO BDDPSEBODF XJUI '34T BT BEPQUFE CZ UIF &VSPQFBO 6OJPO BOE t IBWF CFFO QSFQBSFE JO BDDPSEBODF XJUI UIF SFRVJSFNFOUT PG UIF $PNQBOJFT ""DU BOE ""SUJDMF PG UIF M""4 3FHVMBUJPO opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the directors report for the financial year for which the consolidated financial statements are prepared is consistent with the consolidated financial statements."
matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: t DFSUBJO EJTDMPTVSFT PG EJSFDUPST SFNVOFSBUJPO TQFDJFE CZ MBX BSF OPU NBEF PS t XF IBWF OPU SFDFJWFE BMM UIF JOGPSNBUJPO BOE FYQMBOBUJPOT XF SFRVJSF GPS PVS BVEJU Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: t UIF EJSFDUPST TUBUFNFOU TFU PVU PO QBHF JO SFMBUJPO UP HPJOH DPODFSO t UIF QBSU PG UIF $PSQPSBUF PWFSOBODF 4UBUFNFOU SFMBUJOH UP UIF $PNQBOZ T DPNQMJBODF XJUI UIF OJOF QSPWJTJPOT PG UIF 6, $PSQPSBUF Governance Code specified for our review: and t DFSUBJO FMFNFOUT PG UIF SFQPSU UP TIBSFIPMEFST CZ UIF CPBSE PO EJSFDUPST SFNVOFSBUJPO other matter We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements of Rexam PLC for the year ended 31 December 2012 and on the information in the remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Robert Milburn Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 20 February 2013 97 consolidated income statement 2011 2012 restated For the year ended 31 December notes m m Continuing operations Sales 2 Operating expenses 3 Underlying operating profit 2 Exceptional items 6 33 16 Amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets 18 19 Fair value changes on certain operating derivatives Operating profit Share of post tax profits of associates and joint ventures 16 9 9 Retirement benefit obligations net finance cost 16 Underlying interest expense 89 98 Fair value changes on financing derivatives 20 23 Interest expense 109 Interest income 8 Underlying profit before tax Exceptional items 6 33 16 Amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets 18 19 Fair value changes on derivatives 13 23 Profit before tax Tax on underlying profit 8 109 118 Tax on exceptional items 6 9 Tax on amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets Tax on fair value changes on derivatives 3 6 Tax 8 90 113 Profit for the financial year from continuing operations 289 Discontinued operations Loss profit for the financial year from discontinued operations 10 Total profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of Rexam PLC Underlying earnings per share pence 9 Continuing operations 33.9 Discontinued operations 2.0 3.1 Total Basic earnings loss per share pence 9 Continuing operations 30.3 33.1 Discontinued operations 10.0 Total Diluted earnings loss per share pence 9 Continuing operations 30.0 32.9 Discontinued operations 9.9 Total For details of equity dividends paid and proposed see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.
5IF OPUFT PO QBHFT UP GPSN QBSU PG UIFTF DPOTPMJEBUFE OBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 98 Rexam annual report 2012 consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2012 2011 For the year ended 31 December notes m m Profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of Rexam PLC Retirement benefits: actuarial losses 33 Retirement benefits: tax on actuarial losses 8 10 30 Exchange differences before recognition of net investment hedges 30 86 30 Net investment hedges recognised 30 Exchange differences recognised in the income statement on the disposal of businesses 30 89 Cash flow hedges recognised 30 92 Cash flow hedges transferred to inventory 30 66 16 Cash flow hedges transferred to the income statement 30 1 Tax on cash flow hedges 8, 30 9 28 Cost recognised in the income statement on annuitisation of certain pension obligations net of tax 30 3 Premium paid on annuitisation of certain pension obligations 2 Disposal of non controlling interests 2 Other comprehensive loss for the year 260 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity shareholders of Rexam PLC 80 116 99 consolidated balance sheet 2012 2011 As at 31 December notes m m Assets Non current assets Goodwill 12 Other intangible assets 13 260 Property, plant and equipment Investments in associates and joint ventures 16 68 Insurance backed assets 18 23 23 Deferred tax assets 8 292 Trade and other receivables 20 110 106 Available for sale financial assets 1 1 Derivative financial instruments 233 3,999 Current assets Inventories 19 Insurance backed assets 18 2 2 Trade and other receivables 20 626 Available for sale financial assets 1 Derivative financial instruments 38 38 Cash and cash equivalents 21 2,361 Assets classified as held for sale 22 3 2 Total assets 6,363 Liabilities Current liabilities Borrowings 1,106 Derivative financial instruments 26 63 Current tax 9 13 Trade and other payables 23 861 Provisions 28 36 2,021 1,026 Non current liabilities Borrowings 1,106 Derivative financial instruments 181 Retirement benefit obligations Deferred tax liabilities 8 63 Non current tax Other payables 23 Provisions 28 91 Total liabilities Net assets 2,319 Equity Ordinary share capital Share premium account 992 989 Capital redemption reserve Retained earnings 286 211 Other reserves 30 93 Shareholders equity 2,319 Approved by the board on 20 February 2013 Graham Chipchase, chief executive David Robbie, finance director financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 100 Rexam annual report 2012 consolidated cash flow statement 2012 2011 For the year ended 31 December notes m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 32 Interest paid 82 91 Tax paid 86 Net cash flows from operating activities Cash flows from investing activities Capital expenditure 291 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 1 1 Disposal of discontinued businesses 10 392 Disposal of continuing businesses 3 Pension escrow investment payment 10 Repayment of loan from loan from joint venture Dividend from joint venture 10 Interest received 8 Other investing items 1 Net cash flows from investing activities 108 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings Repayment of borrowings 36 Proceeds from issue of share capital on exercise of share options Purchase of Rexam PLC shares by Employee Share Trust 18 Dividends paid to equity shareholders 11 128 111 Other financing items 16 9 Net cash flows from financing activities 288 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 866 300 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 99 Exchange differences and other adjustments 19 3 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 866 300 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year Cash and cash equivalents comprise: Cash at bank and in hand 21 83 Short term bank deposits 21 923 329 Bank overdrafts 10 101 consolidated statement of changes in equity Ordinary Share Capital Non share premium redemption Retained Other Shareholders controlling Total capital account reserve earnings reserves equity interests equity m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2012 989 211 2,319 2,319 Profit for the financial year Retirement benefits: actuarial losses 33 33 33 Retirement benefits: tax on actuarial losses 10 10 10 Exchange differences before recognition of net investment hedges 86 86 86 Net investment hedges recognised Exchange differences recognised in the income statement on the disposal of businesses Cash flow hedges recognised Cash flow hedges transferred to inventory 66 66 66 Cash flow hedges transferred to the income statement 1 1 1 Tax on cash flow hedges 9 9 9 Other comprehensive loss for the year 23 111 Total comprehensive income loss for the year 191 111 80 80 Share options: value of services provided 11 11 11 Share options: dividend equivalent 1 1 1 Share options: proceeds from shares issued 1 3 Share options: tax 2 2 2 Dividends paid 128 128 128 At 31 December 2012 992 286 93 At 1 January 2011 989 32 386 2,322 3 Profit for the financial year Retirement benefits: actuarial losses Retirement benefits: tax on actuarial losses 30 30 30 Exchange differences before recognition of net investment hedges 30 30 30 Net investment hedges recognised Exchange differences recognised in the income statement on the disposal of businesses 89 89 89 Cash flow hedges recognised 92 92 92 Cash flow hedges transferred to inventory 16 16 16 Tax on cash flow hedges 28 28 28 Cost recognised in the income statement on annuitisation of certain pension related liabilities net of tax 3 3 3 Premium paid on annuitisation of certain pension related liabilities 2 2 2 Disposal of non controlling interests 2 2 Other comprehensive loss for the year 182 2 260 Total comprehensive income loss for the year 300 182 118 2 116 Share options: value of services provided 8 8 8 Purchase of Rexam PLC shares by Employee Share Trust 18 18 18 Dividends paid 111 111 1 112 At 31 December 2011 989 211 2,319 2,319 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 102 Rexam annual report 2012 notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 principal accounting policies The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS andInternational Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments, share based payment and retirement benefit obligations.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, comparative amounts have been restated to reflect Personal Care within discontinued operations.
The following accounting standards are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by theGroup.
i IAS19 Revised Employee Benefits, issued in June 2011.
The Group will adopt IAS19 Revised for the accounting period beginning on BOVBSZ 4FF OPUF W GPS GVSUIFS EFUBJMT ii IFRS9 Financial Instruments, issued in November 2009, is the first step in the process to replace IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The standard introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets.
5IF SPVQ JOUFOET UP BEPQU '34 OP MBUFS UIBO UIF BDDPVOUJOH QFSJPE CFHJOOJOH PO BOVBSZ TVCKFDU UP FOEPSTFNFOU CZ UIF European Union.
The Group has yet to assess the full impact of this standard.
iii IFRS13 Fair Value Measurement, issued in May 2011, aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements.
The requirements do not extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied where its use is already required or permitted by other accounting standards.
The Group will adopt IFRS13 for the accounting period beginning on 1 January 2013.
There are no other IFRS or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that are expected to have a material impact on theGroup.
key estimates and assumptions The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The key estimates and assumptions used in these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
goodwill impairment testing Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment in accordance with the accounting policy for goodwill.
The recoverable amounts of cash generating units relating to continuing operations are determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates which include cash flow projections for each cash generating unit and discount rates based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted forspecific risks associated with particular cash generating units.
For details of impairment testing see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.
The accounting policies for goodwill and impairment testing are setout below.
retirement benefits The consolidated financial statements include costs in relation to, and provision for, retirement benefit obligations.
There are two principal funded defined benefit pension plans, in the UK and US, and an unfunded retiree medical plan in the US.
The costs and the present value of any related pension assets and liabilities depend on factors such as life expectancy of the members, the salary progression of current employees, the returns that plan assets generate and the discount rate used to calculate the present value of the liabilities.
The Group usesestimates based on previous experience and external actuarial advice in determining these future cash flows and in determining the EJTDPVOU SBUF G UIF EJTDPVOU SBUFT XFSF UP GBMM CZ UIF OFU MJBCJMJUJFT PG UIF QMBOT BU %FDFNCFS XPVME SJTF CZ BQQSPYJNBUFMZ b N b N G FRVJUZ WBMVFT XFSF UP GBMM CZ UIFO UIF QMBO BTTFUT BU %FDFNCFS XPVME GBMM CZ BQQSPYJNBUFMZ b N 2011: 90m.
The accounting policy for retirement benefit obligations is set out below and details of the assumptions used forthe two QSJODJQBM QFOTJPO QMBOT BOE UIF SFUJSFF NFEJDBM QMBO BSF TFU PVU JO OPUF UP UIF DPOTPMJEBUFE OBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT income taxes Judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations whose ultimate taxtreatment is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes are likely to be due.
The Group recognises deferred tax assets and liabilities based on estimates of future taxable income and recoverability.
Where a change in circumstance occurs, or the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax balances in the year in which that change or outcome is known.
The accounting policy for income taxes is set out below.
103 1 principal accounting policies continued non GAAP measures The Group presents underlying operating profit, underlying profit before tax and underlying earnings per share information as it believes these measures provide a helpful indication of its performance and underlying trends.
The term underlying refers to the relevant measure being reported before exceptional items, the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets and fair value changes on certain operating derivatives which are not hedge accounted and on financing derivatives.
These measures are used by The Group for internal performance analysis and as a basis for incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
The terms underlying and exceptional items are not defined terms under IFRS and may, therefore, not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
They are not intended to be a substitute for, or be superior to, GAAP measurements of performance.
basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise Rexam PLC and all its subsidiaries, together with the Groups share of the results of its associates and joint ventures.
The financial statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are prepared at the same reporting date using consistent accounting policies.
Intercompany balances and transactions, including any unrealised profits arising from intercompany transactions, are eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are entities where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanied by a share PG NPSF UIBO PG UIF WPUJOH SJHIUT 4VCTJEJBSJFT BSF DPOTPMJEBUFE GSPN UIF EBUF PO XIJDI DPOUSPM JT USBOTGFSSFE UP UIF SPVQ BOE BSF included until the date on which the Group ceases to control them.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence CVU OPU DPOUSPM HFOFSBMMZ BDDPNQBOJFE CZ B TIBSF PG CFUXFFO BOE PG UIF WPUJOH SJHIUT PJOU WFOUVSFT BSF FOUJUJFT PWFS XIJDI UIF Group has joint control, whereby the strategic, financial and operating decisions relating to the venture require the unanimous consent of UIF QBSUJFT TIBSJOH DPOUSPM BOE BSF HFOFSBMMZ BDDPNQBOJFE CZ B TIBSF PG WPUJOH SJHIUT OWFTUNFOUT JO BTTPDJBUFT BOE KPJOU WFOUVSFT are accounted for using the equity method.
If the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its investment inthe associate or joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf ofthe associate or joint venture.
All acquisitions are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the fairvalues, at the acquisition date, of the assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group.
Theidentifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non controlling interests.
The excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value oftheidentifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised asgoodwill.
foreign currencies The financial statements for each of the Groups subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are prepared using their functional currency.
The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are recognised directly in the consolidated income statement.
Exceptions to this are where the monetary items form part of the net investment in a foreign operation, designated as hedges of a net investment, or designated as cash flow hedges.
Such exchange differences are initially recognised in equity.
The presentation currency of the Group is sterling.
The balance sheets of foreign operations are translated into sterling using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the income statements are translated into sterling using the average exchange rate for the year.
Where this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rate prevailing on the transaction date, the exchange rate on UIF USBOTBDUJPO EBUF JT VTFE &YDIBOHF EJGGFSFODFT PO USBOTMBUJPO JOUP TUFSMJOH BSJTJOH TJODF BOVBSZ BSF SFDPHOJTFE BT B TFQBSBUF component of equity.
On disposal of a subsidiary, any cumulative exchange differences held in equity are transferred to the consolidated income statement.
On the repayment of a quasi equity loan, the proportionate share of the cumulative amount of the exchange differences on the loan recognised in other comprehensive income is not reclassified to the consolidated income statement unless the Group loses control over theentity to which the quasi equity loan related.
The principal exchange rates against sterling used in these consolidated financial statements are as follows: Average Closing Average Closing 2012 2012 2011 2011 Euro 1.23 1.23 1.19 US dollar 1.62 1.60 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 104 Rexam annual report 2012 notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 principal accounting policies continued revenue recognition and other income Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration, net of rebates and trade discounts.
Revenue from the saleof goods is recognised when the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods to the buyer, whenthe amount of revenue can be measured reliably and when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow tothe Group, typically on delivery of goods.
The Group makes certain advance payments to customers and suppliers in relation to contracts which arecharged against sales in respect of customers and operating expenses in respect of suppliers over their useful economic lives, typically being the related contract term.
Otherincome includes licence income and project management fees for the construction of manufacturing lines and equipment onbehalfof customers.
exceptional items Items which are exceptional, being material in terms of size and or nature, are presented separately from underlying business performance in the consolidated income statement.
The principal events which may give rise to exceptional items include the restructuring and integration ofbusinesses, significant changes to retirement benefit obligations, gains or losses on the disposal of businesses, goodwill impairments, major asset impairments and disposals and significant litigation and tax claims.
retirement benefit obligations The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans.
A defined benefit pension plan is one that specifies the amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement.
The Group operates both funded defined benefit pension plans, where actuarially determined payments are made to trustee administered funds, and unfunded defined benefit pension plans, where no such payments are made.
The asset or liability recognised in the consolidated balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation less, for funded schemes, the fair value of plan assets at the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated, at least triennially, by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method and is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are included in operating expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Past service costs are similarly included where the benefits havevested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
The pension element of the net finance cost in theconsolidated income statement comprises the expected return on assets of funded defined benefit pension plans, less administration expenses of pension plans, and the interest on pension plan liabilities.
Differences between the actual and expected return on assets, experience gains and losses and changes in actuarial assumptions are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
A defined contribution plan is one under which fixed contributions are paid to a third party.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised in the consolidated income statement when they are due.
Prepaidcontributions are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in futurepayments is likely.
The Group also provides post retirement healthcare benefits retiree medical to certain of its current and former employees.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on an employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
The consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet accounting treatment with respect to retiree medical is similar to that for defined benefit pension plans.
These obligations are valued by independent actuaries, usually on an annual basis.
share based payment The Group operates equity and cash settled share option schemes.
For equity settled share options, the services received from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the share options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date and recognised in the consolidated income statement, together with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based onan estimate of the number of options that will eventually vest.
Vesting conditions, which comprise service conditions and non market performance conditions, are not taken into account when estimating the fair value.
All market and non vesting conditions are included in the fair value.
For cash settled share options, the services received from employees are measured at the fair value of the liability and recognised inthe consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
The fair value of the liability is measured at each balance sheet date and at the date of settlement with changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated income statement.
TheRexam Employee Share Trust holds ordinary shares in Rexam PLC which are presented in the consolidated balance sheet asadeduction from equity.
105 1 principal accounting policies continued interest Interest on cash and cash equivalents and borrowings held at amortised cost is recognised in the consolidated income statement using theeffective interest method.
Interest includes exchange differences arising on cash and cash equivalents and borrowings, where such exchange differences are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Interest includes all fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments, and corresponding adjustments to hedged items under designated fair value hedging relationships, where theyrelate to financing activities and are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Interest relating to payments made over anextended period of development of large capital projects is added to the capital cost and amortised over the expected lives ofthoseprojects.
Non hedge accounted financing derivative financial instruments fair value changes and hedge ineffectiveness on financing derivative financial instruments are separately disclosed, within interest, on the face of the consolidated income statement.
segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision maker has been identified as the executive leadership team, which comprises the executive directors and certain senior executives.
The executive leadership team is responsible for assessing the performance of the operating segments for the purpose of making decisions about resources to be allocated.
Operating segments are combined for external reporting purposes where they have similar economic characteristics, and the nature of products and production processes, the type and class of customers and the methods todistribute products are all similar.
goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilitiesof the acquiree at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at 31 December each year and at any time where there is any indication that goodwill may be impaired.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
At the date of acquisition, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions on or CFGPSF %FDFNCFS IBT CFFO EFEVDUFE GSPN FRVJUZ BJOT BOE MPTTFT PO UIF EJTQPTBM PG B CVTJOFTT JODMVEF UIF DBSSZJOH BNPVOU ofgoodwill relating to the business sold except for any goodwill deducted from equity.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is presented in goodwill and goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates and joint ventures is presented in investments in associates and joint ventures.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised as an asset.
other intangible assets Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation begins when an asset is available for use and is calculated on a straight line basis to allocate the cost of the asset over its estimated useful life as follows: Computer software acquired 2 to 3 years Computer software developed 6Q UP ZFBST Customer contracts and relationships acquired UP ZFBST Technology and patents acquired UP ZFBST Other development projects 6Q UP ZFBST The cost of intangible assets acquired in an acquisition is the fair value at acquisition date.
The cost of separately acquired intangible assets, including computer software, comprises the purchase price and any directly attributable costs of preparing the asset for use.
Computer software development costs that are directly associated with the implementation of major business systems are capitalised as intangible assets.
Expenditure on research is recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement as incurred.
Expenditure incurred on other development projects is capitalised as an intangible asset if it is probable that the expenditure will generate future economic benefits and can be measured reliably.
The amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets, comprising acquired customer contracts and relationships and technology and patents, is separately disclosed within operating profit on the face of the consolidated income statement.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 106 Rexam annual report 2012 notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 principal accounting policies continued property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Cost comprises purchase price and directly attributable costs.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated.
For all other property, plant and equipment, depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis to allocate cost, less residual value of the assets, over their estimated useful lives as follows: Freehold buildings 6Q UP ZFBST Leasehold buildings 4IPSUFS PG ZFBST PS MFBTF UFSN Manufacturing machinery UP ZFBST Computer hardware Up to 8 years Fixtures, fittings and vehicles UP ZFBST Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at least at each financial year end.
impairment of assets This policy applies to all assets except inventories, deferred tax assets, financial assets and non current assets classified as held for sale.
Ateach balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes an estimate of recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount the asset is written down to its recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value inuseand is determined for an individual asset see also accounting policy for assets and liabilities classified as held for sale and discontinued operations below.
If the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs is determined.
Discount rates reflecting the asset specific risks and the time value of money are used for the value in use calculation.
When an asset is written down toitsrecoverable amount the impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Impairment losses incurred in a cash generating unit or group of cash generating units are applied against the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated tothe units.
Where no goodwill exists, the impairment losses reduce the other non current assets of the cash generating units.
Should circumstances change which result in a reversal of a previous impairment, the value of the asset is increased and the reversal is recognised in the consolidated income statement in the year in which it occurs.
The increase in the carrying amount of the asset is limited tothe amountwhich would have been recorded had no impairment been recognised in prior years.
Impairment losses applied to goodwill arenot reversed.
inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a first in first out or a weighted average cost basis.
Cost comprises directly attributable purchase and conversion costs and an allocation of production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less estimated costs to completion and selling costs.
cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement comprise cash at bank and in hand, bank and money market deposits and other short term highly liquid investments generally with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are presented in borrowings within current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
grants Grants received in respect of property, plant and equipment are capitalised and released to the consolidated income statement in equal instalments over the estimated useful lives of the related assets.
leases Leases are classified as finance leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the liability and finance charge to produce a constant rate of interest on the finance lease balance outstanding.
Assets capitalised under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the assetand the lease term.
Leases other than finance leases are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases arerecognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Any incentives to enter intooperating leases are recognised as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term on a straight line basis.
107 1 principal accounting policies continued income taxes The tax expense represents the sum of current tax, non current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax and non current tax are based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and itfurtherexcludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is recognised in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred tax arising from initial recognition of an asset or liability inatransaction, other than an acquisition, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, is not recognised.
Deferred tax is measured using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable thatfuture taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the timing ofthereversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Taxisrecognised in the consolidated income statement, unless the tax relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case the taxisrecognised directly in equity through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
provisions Provisions are recognised when a present obligation exists in respect of a past event and where the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions for restructuring are recognised for direct expenditure on business reorganisations where plans are sufficiently detailed and welladvanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken on or before the balance sheet date.
Provisions are discounted where the time value of money is considered to be material.
dividends Final equity dividends to the shareholders of Rexam PLC are recognised in the period they are approved by the shareholders.
Interimequity dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
financial instruments Financial instruments that are measured at fair value are disclosed in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the following fair value measurement hierarchy: i Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1. ii Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices orindirectly that is, derived from prices level 2. iii Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs level 3.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
Ifallsignificant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and forward aluminium, resin and energy commodity contracts.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Groups risk management policies.
Hedges are classified as follows: i Fair value hedges where they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
ii Cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated witharecognised asset or liability or a forecasted transaction.
iii Net investment hedges where they hedge exposure to changes in the value of the Groups interests in the net assets of foreignoperations.
For fair value hedges, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and similarly recognised in the consolidated income statement.
For cash flow hedges and net investment hedges, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity, with any ineffective portion recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When hedged cashflows result in the recognition of a non financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity areincluded in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the consolidated income statement in the same period in which the hedged cash flows affect the consolidated income statement.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 108 Rexam annual report 2012 notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 principal accounting policies continued Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments related to operating activities are included in operating profit when recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments related to financing activities are included in interest when recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Borrowings are measured at amortised cost except where they are hedged by an effective fair value hedge, in which case the carrying value is adjusted to reflect the fair value movements associated with the hedged risk.
Where borrowings are used to hedge the Groups interests in the net assets of foreign operations, the portion of the exchange gain or loss on the borrowings that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity.
Upfront fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities and bonds are initially capitalised as transaction costs of the loan and bond and amortised in interest over the expected term of the loan and bond.
Ongoing commitment fees are expensed in interest as incurred.
Available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value.
Unrealised gains and losses are recognised in equity except for impairment losses, interest and dividends arising from those assets which are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Trade and other receivables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment.
They are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Trade and other payables are measured at cost.
2 segment analysis For internal reporting, Rexam is organised into three operating segments for Beverage Cans based on the geographical locations of Europe and Asia, North America and South America, and one operating segment for Healthcare.
For external reporting, thethree operating segments for Beverage Cans are combined into one reportable segment.
Beverage Cans comprises aluminium and steel cans for a wide variety of beverages including carbonated soft drinks, beer and energy drinks.
Healthcare comprises rigid plastic devices andpackaging for customers in the healthcare markets.
During the year, Personal Care comprising the Cosmetics, Toiletries and Household Care products business and the High Barrier Food packaging business has been reported within discontinued operations in the segment information set out below.
Previously, Personal Care and Healthcare comprised the Plastic Packaging segment.
i segment information 2012 Underlying Underlying Underlying Exceptional operating return on return on and other 1 Sales profit sales net assets items Profit m m m m Continuing operations Beverage Cans Healthcare 11.2 26.0 20 28 Total reportable segments 32.0 16 Exceptional items not allocated to reportable segments 28 Operating profit Share of post tax profits of associates and joint ventures 9 Retirement benefit obligations net finance cost Net interest expense 101 Profit before tax Tax 90 Profit for the financial year from continuing operations Discontinued operations Loss for the financial year from discontinued operations note 10 Total profit for the financial year Depreciation Impairment: Impairment: Capital and Impairment: intangible property, plant 2 Assets Liabilities expenditure amortisation goodwill assets and equipment m m m m m m m Continuing operations Beverage Cans 866 231 Healthcare 881 Total reportable segments 1,022 Associates and joint ventures 68 Unallocated assets and liabilities Total continuing operations 6,363 Discontinued operations 32 181 2 6,363 311 193 181 2 1 Other items comprise the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets and fair value changes on certain operating derivatives.
109 2 segment analysis continued Share of post tax profits and assets of associates and joint ventures are wholly attributable to Beverage Cans.
Segment assets are disclosed BGUFS EFEVDUJOH JOUFS TFHNFOU BTTFUT PG b N GPS #FWFSBHF $BOT BOE b N GPS FBMUIDBSF 4FHNFOU MJBCJMJUJFT BSF EJTDMPTFE BGUFS EFEVDUJOH JOUFS TFHNFOU MJBCJMJUJFT PG b N GPS #FWFSBHF $BOT BOE b N GPS FBMUIDBSF Underlying operating profit comprises operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items, the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets and fair value changes on certain operating derivatives.
Underlying return on sales comprises underlying operating profit divided by sales from continuing operations.
Underlying return on net assets comprises underlying operating profit plus share of post tax profits of associates and joint ventures divided by the average of opening and closing net assets after adding back retirement benefit obligations net of tax and net borrowings and excluding goodwill and certain acquired intangible assets.
Non specific central costs are allocated to segments on the basis of underlying operating profit.
Unallocated assets comprise derivative financial instrument assets, deferred tax assets, pension escrow investment, insurance backed assets and cash and cash equivalents which are used as part of the Groups financing offset arrangements.
Unallocated liabilities comprise borrowings, derivative financial instrument liabilities, current and non current tax, deferred tax liabilities and retirement benefit obligations.
ii segment information 2011 restated Underlying Underlying Underlying Exceptional operating return on return on and other 1 Sales profit sales net assets items Profit m m m m Continuing operations Beverage Cans 11.8 31.6 Healthcare 38.2 28 Total reportable segments 12.1 32.3 Share of post tax profits of associates and joint ventures 9 Retirement benefit obligations net finance cost 16 Net interest expense 68 Profit before tax Tax 113 Profit for the financial year from continuing operations 289 Discontinued operations Profit for the financial year from discontinued operations note 10 Total profit for the financial year Depreciation Impairment: Impairment: Capital and intangible property, plant 2 Assets Liabilities expenditure amortisation assets and equipment m m m m m m Continuing operations Beverage Cans Healthcare 30 2 Total reportable segments 921 180 6 Associates and joint ventures Unallocated assets and liabilities Total continuing operations 180 6 Discontinued operations 99 20 20 20 1 Other items comprise the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets and fair value changes on certain operating derivatives.
Share of post tax profits and assets of associates and joint ventures are wholly attributable to Beverage Cans.
Segment assets are disclosed after deducting inter segment assets of 3m for Beverage Cans, 3m for Healthcare and 1m for discontinued operations.
Segment liabilities are disclosed after deducting inter segment liabilities of 3m for Beverage Cans, 1m for Healthcare and 3m for discontinued operations.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 110 Rexam annual report 2012 notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 segment analysis continued iii geographic and other information 2011 2012 2011 Non current 2012 Non current Sales assets Sales assets restated restated m m m m Continuing operations US 1,161 1,360 Brazil Austria 323 86 326 86 Russia 293 189 281 191 Spain 211 82 223 93 UK 189 192 210 Germany 262 123 288 France 81 86 220 Other countries 992 Unallocated non current assets Total continuing operations 3,999 Discontinued operations 3,999 4BMFT BSF TUBUFE CZ FYUFSOBM DVTUPNFS MPDBUJPO 0OF DVTUPNFS QSJODJQBMMZ JO #FWFSBHF $BOT DPOUSJCVUFE TBMFT PG b N b N SFTUBUFE BOE BOPUIFS #FWFSBHF $BOT DVTUPNFS DPOUSJCVUFE TBMFT PG b N b N Unallocated non current assets comprise derivative financial instrument assets, deferred tax assets, pension escrow investment and insurance backed assets.
3 operating expenses 2011 2012 Continuing Continuing 2011 operations 2011 2011 2012 operations 2012 2012 Continuing exceptional Continuing Discontinued Continuing exceptional Continuing Discontinued operations and other operations operations 1 operations and other operations operations underlying items total total 1 underlying items total total restated restated restated restated m m m m m m m m Raw materials used 180 2,312 2,312 Changes in inventories of WIP and finished goods 1 12 10 10 Employee benefit expense 622 8 193 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11 29 Amortisation of intangible assets 9 18 11 19 30 8 Impairment of goodwill 181 Impairment of intangible assets 2 20 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 2 Reversal of impairment of property, plantandequipment 11 1 1 Freight costs 216 216 8 Operating lease rental expense 26 26 6 26 26 10 Operating lease rental income 2 2 2 2 Fair value changes on operating derivatives 2 2 Other operating expenses 6 Other operating income 9 9 18 18 3 3,808 610 1 Other items comprise the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets and fair value changes on certain operating derivatives.
0QFSBUJOH FYQFOTFT JODMVEF SFTFBSDI BOE EFWFMPQNFOU FYQFOEJUVSF PG b N GSPN DPOUJOVJOH PQFSBUJPOT BOE b N GSPN EJTDPOUJOVFE operations 2011: 8m and 11m restated : hedge ineffectiveness gains on forward aluminium commodity contracts of 11m from DPOUJOVJOH PQFSBUJPOT bOJM BOE GBJS WBMVF MPTTFT PO GPSXBSE GPSFJHO FYDIBOHF DPOUSBDUT OPU IFEHF BDDPVOUFE PG b N GSPN continuing operations 2011: gain 2m.
111 4 employee costs and numbers i employee benefit expense 2011 2012 restated m m Continuing operations Wages and salaries Social security 63 Share based payment note 31 16 Retirement benefit obligations 22 Total continuing operations 622 Discontinued operations 193 Included as part of employee benefit expense is key management compensation as set out below.
ii key management compensation including directors of Rexam PLC 2012 2011 m m Salaries and short term employee benefits 10 10 Post employment benefits 2 1 Termination payments 2 Share based payment 19 Key management comprises all directors of Rexam PLC and band 1 executives.
"For details of directors remuneration see the remunerationreport. """
GPSNFS NFNCFS PG LFZ NBOBHFNFOU IBE BO PVUTUBOEJOH MPBO PG b N BU %FDFNCFS UIBU XBT SFQBJE JO OUFSFTU DIBSHFE PO UIF MPBO EVSJOH XBT b b iii average number of employees 2011 2012 restated Number Number Continuing operations Beverage Cans Healthcare 3,300 Total continuing operations 11,100 11,000 Discontinued operations 6,900 9,200 18,000 20,200 2011 2012 restated Number Number Continuing operations US 3,300 3,300 Brazil Germany 1,100 1,100 France 1,000 1,000 Russia UK 600 600 Other countries 2,900 2,800 Total continuing operations 11,100 11,000 Discontinued operations 6,900 9,200 18,000 20,200 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 112 Rexam annual report 2012 notes to the consolidated financial statements 5 auditors remuneration 2012 2011 m m Fees payable to  LLP for the audit of the Rexam PLC and consolidated financial statements 0.8 0.9 Fees payable to  LLP and its associates for the audit of subsidiaries of Rexam PLC 2.0 Total audit fees 2.8 Fees payable to  LLP and its associates for other services: Audit related assurance services 0.2 0.2 Other assurance services 2.1 2.2 Tax advisory and compliance services 0.3 All other non audit services 0.3 6.6 Included in total audit fees are amounts payable to associate members of  LLP of 0.1m in relation to discontinued PQFSBUJPOT b N SFTUBUFE 0UIFS BTTVSBODF TFSWJDFT DPNQSJTF BTTVSBODF SFQPSUJOH PO IJTUPSJD OBODJBM JOGPSNBUJPO SFRVJSFE GPS business disposals, of which 0.8m in 2012 is recoverable by Rexam from the purchaser of Personal Care.
6 exceptional items continuing operations 2012 2011 m m Restructuring 29 Impairment of property, plant and equipment net of reversals 2 Exceptional items before tax 33 16 Tax on exceptional items 9 Total exceptional items after tax 12 &YDFQUJPOBM JUFNT CFGPSF UBY GPS DPNQSJTF b N GPS SFTUSVDUVSJOH DPTUT JODMVEJOH b N GPS POFSPVT MFBTFT BOE b N PG FOWJSPONFOUBM QSPWJTJPOT BOE b N GPS JNQBJSNFOU PG QSPQFSUZ QMBOU BOE FRVJQNFOU UIBU BSPTF BT B DPOTFRVFODF PG UIF EJTQPTBM PG 1FSTPOBM $BSF PGGTFU by a 1m reversal of a previous impairment.
Exceptional items before tax for 2011 comprise 9m for restructuring costs and 2m for impairment of property, plant and equipment in respect of previously announced plant closures and restructuring of some of the remaining continuing businesses following the disposal PG$MPTVSFT 5IFZ BMTP JODMVEF b N PG SFTUSVDUVSJOH DPTUT JO #FWFSBHF $BOT JO SFTQFDU PG QSFWJPVTMZ BOOPVODFE QMBOU DMPTVSFT 7 interest 2011 2012 restated m m Interest expense Continuing operations Bank overdrafts 6 8 Bank loans 8 US public bond US private placements 9 9 Subordinated bond Medium term notes Interest on financing derivatives Foreign exchange losses 3 3 Underlying interest expense 89 98 Fair value losses gains on financing derivatives 20 23 Total continuing operations 109 Discontinued operations Bank overdrafts 1 1 Total interest expense 110 Interest income Continuing operations Cash and cash equivalents 8 113 7 interest continued An analysis of fair value losses gains on financing derivatives is set out below.
2012 2011 m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 3 Cross currency swaps 30 Fair value adjustment to borrowings 11 18 19 9 Not hedge accounted Interest rate swaps Cross currency swaps 3 9 1 Fair value losses gains on financing derivatives 20 23 The net loss on fair value hedges of 19m 2011: gain 9m represents the total hedge ineffectiveness on financing derivatives for the year.
8 tax i tax included in the consolidated income statement 2011 2012 2011 Exceptional 2012 Exceptional Underlying and other 2011 1 Underlying and other 2012 profit items Total 1 profit items Total restated restated restated m m m m m m Continuing operations Current and non current tax Adjustment in respect of prior years 3 3 2 2 Current and non current tax 80 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 10 Adjustment in respect of prior years 11 11 Deferred tax 29 10 Total continuing operations 109 19 90 118 113 Discontinued operations 22 19 90 1 Other items comprise the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets and fair value changes on derivatives.
ii tax credited charged in equity 2012 2011 m m Retirement benefits: actuarial losses 10 30 Cash flow hedges 9 28 Share options 2 Annuitisation of certain pension obligations 1 Tax included in equity 3 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 114 Rexam annual report 2012 notes to the consolidated financial statements 8 tax continued iii tax reconciliation A reconciliation of the tax charge applicable to the Groups profit loss before tax on continuing operations at the UK statutory rate of XJUI UIF UBY DIBSHF PO DPOUJOVJOH PQFSBUJPOT CBTFE PO UIF SPVQ T FGGFDUJWF SBUF JT TFU PVU CFMPX 2011 2012 2011 Exceptional 2012 Exceptional Underlying and other 2011 1 Underlying and other 2012 profit tax items Total 1 profit tax items Total restated restated restated m m m m m m Profit loss before tax on continuing operations 12 Tax on continuing operations at the UK statutory rate 102 110 3 Non deductible and non taxable items 2 1 3 2 1 1 Higher lower domestic tax rates on overseas earnings 13 8 12 3 9 Tax overprovided in prior years 8 8 2 2 Tax in the consolidated income statement 109 19 90 118 113 Effective rate of tax on continuing operations 1 Other items comprise the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets and fair value changes on derivatives.
iv analysis of deferred tax 2012 2011 m m Deferred tax assets 292 Deferred tax liabilities 63 Net deferred tax assets 233 231 Retirement Accelerated Goodwill Other benefit Tax tax and other temporary obligations losses depreciation intangible assets differences Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2012 169 106 231 Exchange differences 8 3 2 13 Charge credit for the year 10 2 31 22 16 Credit charge to equity 10 3 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 1 3 29 3 28 At 31 December 2012 161 31 233 At 1 January 2011 90 10 Exchange differences 1 2 1 2 Charge credit for the year 22 Credit to equity 30 28 At 31 December 2011 169 106 231 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented as non current in the consolidated balance sheet.
Of the total deferred tax assets, 39m 2011: 36m are recoverable within one year.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balance net.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised where it is probable that they will be recovered.
In recognising deferred tax assets, the Grouphas considered if it is more likely than not that sufficient future profits will be available to absorb tax losses and other temporary EJGGFSFODFT %FGFSSFE UBY BTTFUT PG b N b N IBWF OPU CFFO SFDPHOJTFE JO SFTQFDU PG MPTTFT BOE PUIFS UFNQPSBSZ EJGGFSFODFT EVF to the uncertainty of the availability of suitable profits in the foreseeable future.
The principal items on which nodeferred tax assets have CFFO SFDPHOJTFE BSF UBY MPTTFT QSJODJQBMMZ DBQJUBM MPTTFT PG b N b N PG XIJDI b N b N FYQJSF XJUIJO WF ZFBST No deferred tax has been recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries except where it is probable that the temporary EJGGFSFODF XJMM SFWFSTF JO UIF GPSTFFBCMF GVUVSF G UIF FBSOJOHT XFSF SFNJUUFE JO GVMM UBY PG b N b N XPVME CF QBZBCMF 115 9 earnings loss per share i basic and diluted earnings loss per share Basic Diluted Basic Diluted 2011 2011 2012 2012 restated restated Pence Pence Pence Pence Continuing operations 30.3 30.0 33.1 32.9 Discontinued operations 10.0 9.9 Total 2011 2012 restated m m Profit loss for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of Rexam PLC Continuing operations 289 Discontinued operations Total 2012 2011 Millions Millions Weighted average number of shares in issue 869.9 Dilution on conversion of outstanding share options 11.0 6.2 Weighted average number of shares in issue on a diluted basis 880.9 ii underlying earnings per share 2011 2012 restated Pence Pence Continuing operations 33.9 Discontinued operations 2.0 3.1 Total 2011 2011 2012 2012 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations operations operations restated restated m m m m Underlying profit before tax 32 Tax on underlying profit 109 118 22 Underlying profit for the financial year 309 296 Underlying earnings per share is based on underlying profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders of Rexam PLC dividedby the weighted average number of shares in issue.
Underlying profit for the financial year is profit before exceptional items, theamortisation of certain acquired intangible assets and fair value changes on certain derivatives.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 116 Rexam annual report 2012 notes to the consolidated financial statements 10 discontinued operations The sale of the Personal Care High Barrier Food packaging business completed on 31 August 2012 and the sale of the Personal Care Cosmetics, Toiletries and Household Care products business completed on 31December 2012.
"In the period from 1June 2012 to the SFTQFDUJWF EBUFT PG DPNQMFUJPO JO BDDPSEBODF XJUI '34 PO $VSSFOU ""TTFUT FME GPS 4BMF BOE %JTDPOUJOVFE 0QFSBUJPOT 1FSTPOBM $BSF was classified in the consolidated balance sheet within assets and liabilities classified as held for sale."
The sale of Closures completed on 1September 2011.
A summary of results, exceptional items, profit on disposal, cash flows and other comprehensive loss are set out below.
i summary of results 2012 2011 2011 Personal Personal 2011 Total Care Care Closures restated m m m m Sales Operating expenses 610 231 Underlying operating profit 33 13 Exceptional items note ii 192 39 39 Amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets 3 Operating loss profit 162 30 26 Interest expense 1 1 1 Loss profit before tax 163 29 26 3 Tax on underlying profit 22 Tax on exceptional items note ii 2 13 13 Tax on amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets 1 2 2 Tax 12 8 Loss profit after tax 18 Profit on disposal note iii 9191 Net loss profit ii exceptional items 2012 Personal 2011 Care Closures m m Impairment of businesses 181 28 Other impairments 2 6 Restructuring 9 Exceptional items before tax 192 39 Tax on impairment of businesses 3 10 Tax on other impairment and restructuring 1 3 Exceptional items after tax 190 26 iii profit on disposal 2012 Personal 2012 2012 2011 Care Closures Total Closures m m m m Gross proceeds Cash costs 26 31 10 Cash and cash equivalents disposed 2 Net cash inflow in the cash flow statement 392 Net assets disposed net of tax Accrued costs 19 6 Exchange differences recognised in the income statement on disposal 89 Profit on disposal 91 5PUBM DPTUT XJUI SFTQFDU UP 1FSTPOBM $BSF PG b N DPNQSJTF b N PG USBOTBDUJPO DPTUT BOE b N PG PUIFS DPTUT EJSFDUMZ SFMBUFE UP UIF disposal.
117 10 discontinued operations continued iv cash flows 2012 2011 2011 Personal Personal 2011 Total Care Care Closures restated m m m m Net cash flows from operating activities 6 38 19 19 Net cash flows from investing activities 32 Net cash flows from financing activities 30 1 1 Net cash inflow outflow 3 31 v other comprehensive loss 2012 Personal 2011 Care Closures m m Exchange differences recognised in the income statement on disposal 89 Disposal of non controlling interests 2 Total other comprehensive loss 91 11 equity dividends 2012 2011 m m OUFSJN EJWJEFOE GPS PG Q QBJE PO 4FQUFNCFS 'JOBM EJWJEFOE GPS PG Q QBJE PO VOF OUFSJN EJWJEFOE GPS PG Q QBJE PO 0DUPCFS 'JOBM EJWJEFOE GPS PG Q QBJE PO VOF 128 111 A final dividend per equity share of 10.2p has been proposed for 2012 and, subject to shareholder approval, is payable on 22 May 2013.
Theproposed final dividend has not been accrued in these consolidated financial statements.
12 goodwill i summary 2012 2011 m m Cost At 1 January Exchange differences Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 216 At 31 December Impairment At 1 January 3 Exchange differences 1 Impairment of Personal Care 181 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 181 At 31 December 3 3 Carrying value at 31 December financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 118 Rexam annual report 2012 notes to the consolidated financial statements 12 goodwill continued The carrying value of goodwill at 31 December is allocated to cash generating units or groups of cash generating units CGUs as set outbelow.
2012 2011 m m Europe 639 US Brazil Russia Egypt 30 33 Mexico Beverage Cans Healthcare 313 Personal Care 222 Carrying value at 31 December ii impairment testing The recoverable amounts of CGUs or groups of CGUs were determined based on value in use calculations at 31 December 2012.
"Thecashflow projections used in these calculations are based on the Groups financial budget for 2013, as approved by the board in %FDFNCFS BOE UIF SPVQ T OBODJBM QMBOT JO SFTQFDU PG BOE ""T IJHIMJHIUFE JO UIF QSJODJQBM BDDPVOUJOH QPMJDJFT UIF calculation of value in use requires the use of estimates which, although based on managements best knowledge, may ultimately differ from actual results."
Key assumptions The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are: a Discount rates.
The pre tax discount rates used in the value in use calculations are set out in the table below.
These discount rates are derived from the Groups pre tax weighted average cost of capital WACC, as adjusted for the specific risks relating to each region in which the CGUs operate.
2012 2011 Europe 10 10 US 10 10 Brazil 13 Russia Egypt 23 20 Mexico C SPXUI SBUFT $BTI PXT CFZPOE UIF UISFF ZFBS QMBOOJOH IPSJ[PO IBWF CFFO FYUSBQPMBUFE VTJOH HSPXUI SBUFT PG GPS &VSPQF GPS UIF 64 BOE FBMUIDBSF GPS #SB[JM BOE BU SBUFT SBOHJOH CFUXFFO BOE GPS BMM PUIFS DPOUJOVJOH PQFSBUJPOT $ 6T BOE 5IF HSPXUI SBUFT VTFE EP OPU FYDFFE UIF NFEJVN UP MPOH UFSN GDP growth rates relating to each region in which theCGUs operate.
Forecasts for sales and margins are based on analyses of sales, markets, costs and competitors.
Consideration is given to past experience and knowledge of future contracts.
Forecasts for aluminium and resin are based on forward prices and time projections after taking into account pass through of costs and hedging.
Forecasts for other raw materials and energy are based on inflation forecasts and supply and demand factors.
Sensitivities Management considers that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would cause the recoverable amount of goodwill attached to the above CGUs to fall below their carrying value at 31 December 2012.
119 13 other intangible assets Customer Computer Computer contracts and Technology Other software software relationships and patents development acquired developed acquired acquired projects Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2012 96 20 126 16 601 Exchange differences 1 1 6 23 Additions 6 6 Disposals 3 1 Other movements 1 3 2 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 1 30 At 31 December 2012 92 18 90 13 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2012 103 8 Exchange differences 62 12 Amortisation for the year 8 1 6 1 31 Disposals 1 12 Impairment 2 2 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 12923 2 60 At 31 December 2012 83 6 Carrying value at 31 December 2012 16 1 181 260 Cost At 1 January 2011 98 16 611 Exchange differences 1 3 1 Additions 1 Disposals 1 10 At 31 December 2011 96 20 126 16 601 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2011 18 86 228 Exchange differences 1 1 1 3 Amortisation for the year 9 2 18 8 1 38 Disposals 9 Impairment 2 2 At 31 December 2011 103 8 Carrying value at 31 December 2011 20 3 8 5IF JNQBJSNFOU PG b N JO b N DPNQSJTFE UIF XSJUF PGG PG DFSUBJO TPGUXBSF MJDFOTFT financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 120 Rexam annual report 2012 notes to the consolidated financial statements 14 property, plant and equipment Plant and Assets under Property equipment construction Total m m m m Cost At 1 January 2012 Exchange differences 23 83 8 Additions 19 Disposals 21 Disposals of continuing businesses Other movements 2 2 Reclassifications 19 128 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale At 31 December 2012 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2012 180 Exchange differences 9 Depreciation for the year 19 162 Impairment Reversal of impairment 1 1 Disposals 16 30 Disposals of continuing businesses 2 2 Other movements 1 2 1 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 30 298 328 At 31 December 2012 1,162 Carrying value at 31 December 2012 890 Cost At 1 January 2011 2,289 Exchange differences 23 Additions 61 168 Disposals 2 2 Reclassifications 19 136 At 31 December 2011 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2011 160 Exchange differences 112 13 Disposals Depreciation for the year 21 Impairment 9 9 Reversal of impairment 1 1 At 31 December 2011 180 Carrying value at 31 December 2011 1,023 5IF DBSSZJOH WBMVF PG QSPQFSUZ QMBOU BOE FRVJQNFOU JODMVEFT OBODF MFBTFE BTTFUT PG b N b N JO SFTQFDU PG QSPQFSUZ 5IF JNQBJSNFOU PG b N JO SFMBUFT UP SFTUSVDUVSJOH GPMMPXJOH UIF EJTQPTBM PG 1FSTPOBM $BSF O UIF JNQBJSNFOU PG b N DPNQSJTFE b N UP XSJUF EPXO BTTFUT PO DPOWFSTJPO GSPN TUFFM UP BMVNJOJVN JO UIF OEJBO #FWFSBHF $BOT CVTJOFTT BOE b N JO SFMBUJPO UP $MPTVSFT The reversal of impairment of 1m in 2012 was in relation to a previous over impairment of a closed plant.
The reversal of impairment of1m in 2011 was an over provision relating to the write down of assets on conversion from steel to aluminium ina Spanish beveragecanplant.
121 15 investments in subsidiaries The principal subsidiaries, all of which are wholly owned, are shown below.
An asterisk indicates that the capital is directly owned by Rexam PLC.
Subsidiaries incorporated in the UK are registered in England and Wales.
All subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements.
Country of Principal area Identity of Nature of incorporation of operation capital held business activities Rexam Beverage Can Company US US Common stock Consumer packaging Rexam Beverage Can Naro Fominsk LLC Russia Russia Capital stock Consumer packaging Rexam Beverage Can South America SA Brazil South America Common stock Consumer packaging Rexam do Brazil Ltda Brazil South America Quotas Consumer packaging Rexam European Holdings Limited UK UK Ordinary shares Holding company Rexam France SA France France Ordinary shares Consumer packaging Rexam Group Holdings Limited UK UK Ordinary shares Holding company Rexam Holdings AB Sweden Continental Europe Ordinary shares Holding company Rexam Inc US US Common stock Holding company Rexam Overseas Holdings Limited UK UK Ordinary shares Holding company Rexam Plastic Packaging Inc US US Common stock Holding company 16 investments in associates and joint ventures The principal associate and joint venture are set out below.
Country of incorporation and area of operation Issued capital Group share Hanil Can Company Limited associate South Korea N TIBSFT PG XPO FBDI Envases Universales Rexam fide Centroamerica SA joint venture Guatemala N TIBSFT PG RVFU[BM FBDI Associates Joint ventures Total m m m At 1 January 2012 39 31 Exchange differences 1 1 Share of post tax profits 9 Dividends paid 10 10 At 31 December 2012 68 At 1 January 2011 26 61 Share of post tax profits 9 At 31 December 2011 39 31 There is 3m of goodwill allocated to the joint venture in Guatemala 2011: 3m.
5IF GPMMPXJOH UBCMF TFUT PVU TVNNBSZ JOGPSNBUJPO PO BMM BTTPDJBUFT BOE KPJOU WFOUVSFT PO B CBTJT 2012 2012 2011 2011 Associates Joint ventures Associates Joint ventures m m m m Sales Profit after tax 11 9 11 9 Assets 60 161 Liabilities 66 12 11 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 122 Rexam annual report 2012 notes to the consolidated financial statements 17 available for sale financial assets 2012 2011 m m At 1 January 2 28 Exchange differences 1 Cash repayment 1 Income for the year 2 Payments in respect of pension obligations 2 Disposals At 31 December 1 2 Non current assets 1 1 Current assets 1 At 31 December 1 2 Available for sale financial assets at 31 December 2012 comprise unlisted investments of 1m 2011: 1m.
Also included in 2011 were cash or cash equivalent investments of 1m used to satisfy certain US retirement obligations.
Disposals in 2011 comprised 23m of assets transferred to insurance backed assets and a 2m loss on the buy in of insurance policies onthe transfer.
The 2m was recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The carrying amounts of available for sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies, which are the functional currencies of the relevant subsidiaries.
2012 2011 m m Euro 1 1 US dollar 1 1 2 18 insurance backed assets 2012 2011 m m At 1 January Exchange differences 1 Additions 23 Payments in respect of pension obligations 2 1 Actuarial gains 2 2 Non current assets 23 23 Current assets 2 2 At 31 December The Group, through its subsidiary Rexam Inc, has a number of non qualified defined benefit pension plans in the US, some of which are structured as Rabbi Trusts, whereby investments held by the Group are linked to the obligations in the plans.
JTUPSJDBMMZ UIF SPVQ XBT SFRVJSFE UP NBJOUBJO JUT EFOFE CFOFU 3BCCJ 5SVTU BTTFUT BU PG UIF WBMVF PG UIF SFMBUFE 64 EFOFE CFOFU pension obligations and this gave rise to volatile cash funding requirements.
To eliminate this investment and demographic related WPMBUJMJUZ UIF SPVQ QVSDIBTFE B OVNCFS PG OPO RVBMJGZJOH JOTVSBODF QPMJDJFT JO VMZ BU B DPTU PG b N JODMVEJOH B b N CVZ JO insurance premium, recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Theinsurance policies pay the benefits to the Group as they fall due, and the Group in turn makes the payments to the eligible beneficiaries.
Although eligible beneficiaries have no vested rights in the insurance policies, the policies remain under the Rabbi Trust structure and assuch they cannot be used by the Group, but they would revert to the benefit of general creditors in the event of Rexam Incs bankruptcy.
The insurance backed assets are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at the present value of the matching defined benefit pension obligations and are accounted for in accordance with the Groups accounting policy for retirement benefit obligations.
123 19 inventories 2012 2011 m m Raw materials, stores and consumables 211 Work in progress 9 Finished goods 289 An analysis of provisions against inventories is set out below.
2012 2011 m m At 1 January 29 Exchange differences 2 Charge for the year 8 22 Released in the year 2 6 Utilised 2 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 6 At 31 December 36 20 trade and other receivables 2012 2011 m m Non current assets Trade receivables 2 Provision for impairment 2 Net trade receivables Prepayments 62 Taxes 9 11 Pension escrow investment 10 Other receivables 26 33 110 106 Current assets Trade receivables Provision for impairment 8 9 Net trade receivables Prepayments 36 36 Taxes 33 Other receivables 39 626 Total trade and other receivables An analysis of provisions for impairment of trade and other receivables is set out below.
2012 2011 m m At 1 January 13 21 Impairment in the year Released in the year Utilised 2 1 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 1 At 31 December 10 13 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 124 Rexam annual report 2012 notes to the consolidated financial statements 20 trade and other receivables continued An analysis of total trade and other receivables including those which are past due but not impaired is set out below.
2012 2011 m m Not yet due 691 Past due less than 1 month 31 Between 1 and 2 months 2 Between 2 and 3 months 2 Between 6 and 12 months 1 The maximum amount of credit risk with respect to customers is represented by the carrying amount on the balance sheet.
Customer credit facilities for new customers must be approved by designated managers at business level or by senior sector management.
Credit limits are set with reference to trading history and reports from credit rating agencies.
Customer credit facilities are reviewed at the sales order entry stage and at the time of shipment so as not to exceed customer limits.
Overdue accounts are regularly reviewed and impairment provisions are created where necessary.
As a matter of policy, all outstanding trade balances greater than three months are fully provided except as approved by senior sector management and with due regard to the historical risk profile of the customer.
The Group has extremely low historical levels of customer credit defaults, due in part to the large multinational nature of many of its customers and the long term relationships it has with them.
There were no major new customers in 2012 where the Group considered there was a risk of significant credit default.
There are no trade and other receivables that would otherwise be past due or impaired whose terms have been renegotiated.
The carrying amounts of total trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies which, in most instances, are the functional currencies of the relevant subsidiaries.
2012 2011 m m Euro 220 US dollar Brazilian real Other 21 cash and cash equivalents 2012 2011 m m Cash at bank and in hand 83 Short term bank deposits 923 329 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2012 includes the early refinancing of 2013 debt maturities and receipt of the Personal Care disposal proceeds.
The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the following currencies.
2012 2011 m m Sterling 683 166 US dollar Euro 80 22 Brazilian real 13 Other 30 125 22 assets classified as held for sale Assets classified as held for sale comprise properties in the US deemed surplus to requirements.
23 trade and other payables 2012 2011 m m Current liabilities Trade payables Social security and other taxes 66 Accrued expenses 191 198 Loan from joint venture 3 9 Other payables 108 861 Non current liabilities Accrued expenses 21 Other payables 32 Total trade and other payables The carrying amounts of total trade and other payables are denominated in the following currencies, which in most instances are the functional currencies of the relevant subsidiaries.
2012 2011 m m US dollar Euro Brazilian real 80 Sterling Other 60 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 126 Rexam annual report 2012 notes to the consolidated financial statements 24 borrowings 2012 2011 m m Current liabilities Bank overdrafts 10 Bank loans 10 US public bond 1 US private placement 1 Subordinated bond 20 21 Medium term notes 16 1,106 Non current liabilities Bank loans 28 US public bond US private placement Subordinated bond Medium term notes 1,106 Total borrowings 2,212 1,838 5IF SPVQ IBT B SBOHF PG CBOL GBDJMJUJFT NBUVSJOH JO 5IFTF GBDJMJUJFT NBZ HFOFSBMMZ CF ESBXO JO B SBOHF PG GSFFMZ BWBJMBCMF currencies and are at floating rates of interest.
In addition, the Group has a US public bond, a subordinated bond, medium term notes and US private placements in issue.
The US public CPOE BOE B 64 QSJWBUF QMBDFNFOU UPUBMMJOH 64 N XFSF JTTVFE BU B YFE QSJDF BOE NBUVSF JO 5IF TVCPSEJOBUFE CPOE JT EFOPNJOBUFE JO FVSPT XJUI B NBUVSJUZ JO U XBT JTTVFE BU B YFE SBUF PG JOUFSFTU BOE IBT CFFO QBSUJBMMZ TXBQQFE JOUP 64 EPMMBS PBUJOH SBUFT PG JOUFSFTU VOUJM UISPVHI UIF VTF PG DSPTT DVSSFODZ JOUFSFTU SBUF EFSJWBUJWFT 5IF NFEJVN UFSN OPUFT BSF EFOPNJOBUFE JO euros and mature in 2013.
"They were issued at a fixed rate of interest and have been partially swapped to floating rates of interest in euros UISPVHI UIF VTF PG JOUFSFTU SBUF EFSJWBUJWFT "" 64 QSJWBUF QMBDFNFOU UPUBMMJOH 64 N BOE N XBT JTTVFE JO BU YFE SBUFT PG JOUFSFTU XJUI 64 N BOE N NBUVSJOH JO BOE 64 N NBUVSJOH JO 0G UIF 64 N 64 N XBT ESBXO EPXO JO December 2012 with the balance drawn down in January 2013."
The carrying amounts of total borrowings are denominated in the following currencies.
2012 2011 m m Euro 1,282 1,291 US dollar Other 36 38 2,212 1,838 127 25 net borrowings Net borrowings at 31 December by instrument.
2012 2011 m m Cash and cash equivalents Bank overdrafts 10 Bank loans 32 US public bond US private placements Subordinated bond Medium term notes Pension escrow investment 10 Financing derivatives 1,312 Movement in net borrowings.
2012 2011 m m At 1 January 1,312 Exchange differences 29 Disposal of subsidiaries Increase in cash and cash equivalents 866 300 Proceeds from borrowings Repayment of borrowings 36 Pension escrow investment 10 Fair value and other changes At 31 December 1,312 Reconciliation of net borrowings to the consolidated balance sheet.
2012 2011 m m Total derivative financial instruments net 98 Derivatives not included in net borrowings 16 Financing derivatives included in net borrowings Pension escrow investment 10 Cash and cash equivalents Borrowings included in current liabilities 1,106 Borrowings included in non current liabilities 1,106 1,312 The pension escrow investment is included within net borrowings as the directors consider that until any amounts held in the escrow investment become due to the UK pension plan they should be treated as cash held on deposit for the purpose of the definition of netborrowings.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 128 Rexam annual report 2012 notes to the consolidated financial statements 26 financial instruments i carrying amount and fair value of financial assets and liabilities Analysis of the carrying values and fair values at 31 December, by category and by class, of financial assets and liabilities.
Derivatives Derivatives Loans Available Other Total used for held for and for sale financial carrying Total hedging trading receivables assets liabilities amount fair value m m m m m m m At 31 December 2012 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 1 Trade and other receivables Available for sale financial assets 1 1 1 Derivatives 189 82 Financial liabilities 2 Trade and other payables Bank overdrafts Bank loans US public bond US private placements Subordinated bond 662 Medium term notes Derivatives 168 86 1,831 1 3,039 1,109 At 31 December 2011 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 1 Trade and other receivables Available for sale financial assets 2 2 2 Derivatives 300 3 303 303 Financial liabilities 2 Trade and other payables Bank overdrafts 10 10 10 Bank loans 32 32 32 US public bond 381 US private placement Subordinated bond Medium term notes Derivatives 228 169 1,002 2 2,686 1,623 1 Excludes prepayments and taxes.
2 Excludes social security and other taxes.
Market values have been used to determine the fair values of available for sale financial assets, bank overdrafts and floating rate bank loans.
The carrying values of trade and other receivables and trade and other payables are assumed to approximate to their fair values dueto their short term nature.
The fair values of the US public bond, subordinated bond and medium term notes have been determined by reference to quoted market prices at the close of business on 31 December.
The US private placement maturing in 2013 is not a publicly traded instrument and its fair value has been approximated using the market value of the US public bond, which has a similar maturity date.
The US private placement issued in December 2012 is not a publicly traded instrument and its fair value has been approximated using the market value of similar financial instruments with similar parameters issued around the same time.
The fair values ofinterest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and fixed rate loans have been determined by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts has been determined by marking those contracts to market against prevailing forward foreign exchange rates.
The fair value of forward commodity contracts has been determined by marking those contracts to market at prevailing forward prices.
In both 2012 and 2011, all financial instruments measured at fair value are categorised as level 2 in the fair value measurement hierarchy, whereby the fair value is determined by using valuation techniques.
The valuation techniques for level 2 instruments use observable market data where it is available, for example quoted market prices, and rely less on estimates.
129 26 financial instruments continued ii financial risk management The Group bases its financial risk management on sound economic objectives and good corporate practice.
Group treasury operationsare carried out under policies and parameters approved by the Rexam board.
a market risk: currencies Currency risks arise from the multi currency cash flows within the Group.
These risks arise from exchange rate fluctuations relating tothetranslation of balance sheet items of foreign subsidiaries translation risk and from currency flows from sales and purchases transactionrisk.
The policy regarding translation risk is to mitigate the impact of foreign exchange movements between overseas currencies and sterling arising on the translation of the value of non UK operations into sterling for reporting purposes.
This is achieved by borrowing a proportion of debt, either directly or through the use of cross currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts, in currencies which match or are closely linked to the currencies of the overseas businesses.
This approach also provides some protection against the foreign exchange translation of overseas earnings as it matches the currency of earnings to the currency of the interest expense.
These amounts are included in the consolidated financial statements by translation into sterling at the balance sheet date and, where hedge accounted, offset in equity against the translation movement in net assets.
Some cross currency swaps used to manage the Groups currency exposures, whilst economically effective, are ineligible for hedge accounting treatment.
The policy regarding transaction risk is to hedge the reported net transaction exposure in full less an allowance for variability in forecasting.
This is generally achieved through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts with amounts hedged being based on thereporting from individual Group businesses.
None of the foreign exchange derivative instruments at 31 December 2012 related to derivative trading activity, although some fair value gains and losses were taken to the consolidated income statement because IAS39 hedge accounting treatment was not applied.
Foreign exchange derivative instruments are used for hedging general business exposures inforeign currencies such as the purchase and sale of goods, capital expenditure and dividend flows.
Transactional foreign exchange risks are hedged by Group treasury unless it is a legal requirement in the country where the foreign exchange risk arises that hedging is carried out locally.
In the latter case, hedging is carried out by the individual responsible for treasury within the local business, but still operating within the overall Group policy on foreign exchange management.
5IF DVSSFODZ EFOPNJOBUJPO PG CPSSPXJOHT BU %FDFNCFS XBT JO 64 EPMMBST BOE JO FVSPT 64 EPMMBST FVSPT b market risk: interest rates Changes in interest rates on interest bearing receivables and floating rate debt in different currencies create interest rate risk.
The objective of the Groups interest rate risk management is to manage its exposure to the impact of changes in interest rates in the currencies in which EFCU JT CPSSPXFE SPVQ QPMJDZ JT UP LFFQ CFUXFFO BOE PG JOUFSFTU PO CPSSPXJOHT BU YFE SBUFT OUFSFTU SBUF SJTL JT NBOBHFE through the issue of fixed rate debt and through the use of interest rate derivatives that are used to manage the overall fixed to floating mix PG EFCU XIJDI XBT YFE BOE PBUJOH BU %FDFNCFS BOE SPVQ USFBTVSZ PQFSBUFT XJUIJO B CSPBE framework in respect of the mix of fixed and floating rate debt, as the optimum blend will vary depending on the mix of currencies and the Groups view of the debt markets at any point in time.
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on bank deposit rates in the relevant currency.
Short term deposits are usually made forperiods varying between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short term deposit rates.
Other floating rate financial instruments are at the appropriate LIBOR interest rates as adjusted by variable margins.
Interest on floating rate financial instruments is repriced at intervals of less than one year.
Interest on fixed rate financial instruments is fixed until maturity of the instrument.
Some interest rate swaps used to manage the Groups fixed to floating debt mix, whilst economically effective, are ineligible for hedge accounting treatment.
Fair value gains and losses on these hedges are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
In 2012, there was a loss of 20m 2011: gain 23m on fair value changes on financing derivatives, disclosed separately within interest expense in the consolidated income statement.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 130 Rexam annual report 2012 notes to the consolidated financial statements 26 financial instruments continued c market risk: commodity prices Changes in the market price of commodities used by the Group create commodity risk.
Group policy is to manage these risks through both its supply chain management and through use of financial derivatives.
Where financial derivatives are used, the Group uses mainly over the counter instruments transacted with banks, which are themselves priced through a recognised commodity exchange, such as the London Metal Exchange.
The Group manages the purchase of certain raw materials, including aluminium, resin and energy costs through physical supply contracts which, in the main, relate directly to commodity price indices.
With regard to aluminium, which represents the Groups largest commodity exposure, the policy is to eliminate as far as possible any market price variability through hedging in tandem with contractual commitments to customers.
Where Rexam assumes the aluminium price risk on customer contracts, it has defined a risk appetite with apredetermined aggregate consolidated income statement limit arising from any related aluminium hedging activities.
Itsposition against this limit is monitored and reported on a monthly basis.
For other commodities, the policy is to follow an incremental hedge approach over a period of up to three years in order to manage the price year on year and limit uncertainty.
None of the commodity derivative financial instruments at 31 December 2012 related to derivative trading activity, although fair value gains andlosses were taken to the consolidated income statement because hedge accounting was not applied or hedges were ineffective.
The commodity hedges mainly relate to contracted and expected future purchases of aluminium, but also include resin and energy.
d market risk: euro In response to the instabilities in the eurozone and the risk of break up of the euro single currency, Rexam created a euro crisis committee comprising members from Group treasury, Group enterprise risk management and relevant businesses.
The committee met regularly in 2012 to identify key exposures, discuss and monitor developments and develop appropriate mitigation actions.
Key actions included limiting cash held in countries at risk, confirming that IT systems could cope with a return to multiple currencies, enhanced monitoring of European bank counterparty exposures and a review of commercial contracts.
e market risk: sensitivities A sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities affected by market risk is set out below.
Each risk is analysed separately and shows the sensitivity of financial assets and liabilities when a certain risk is changed.
The sensitivity analysis has been performed on balances at31 December each year.
The rates used are based on historical trends and, where relevant, projected forecasts.
Key methods and assumptions made when performing the sensitivity analysis net of hedging : a For the floating rate element of interest rate swaps and borrowings, the sensitivity calculation is performed based on the floating rates at31December each year.
b The translation impact of overseas subsidiaries into sterling is not included in the sensitivity analysis.
c The sensitivity analysis ignores any tax implications.
currencies The foreign exchange rate sensitivity analysis set out in the table below is based on foreign currency positions, other than each Group entitys own functional currency, on the balance sheet at 31 December.
The analysis includes only risks arising from financial instruments BOE HJWFT UIF FTUJNBUFE JNQBDU PO QSPU CFGPSF UBY BOE FRVJUZ PG B JODSFBTF BOE EFDSFBTF JO FYDIBOHF SBUFT CFUXFFO DVSSFODZ QBJST with significant currency positions.
Impact on Impact on profit Impact profit Impact Increase before tax on equity Decrease before tax on equity m m m m At 31 December 2012 Sterling US dollar 10 13 36 10 16 Sterling euro 10 3 10 1 31 10 3 21 10 20 Euro US dollar At 31 December 2011 Sterling US dollar 10 10 Sterling euro 10 11 29 10 13 36 Euro US dollar 10 1 23 10 1 23 The impact of currency risk on net investment hedges is offset by the translation of overseas subsidiaries on consolidation.
The net impact of currency translation resulted in sales and underlying profit from continuing operations reducing increasing as set out below.
"2012 2011 Underlying Underlying 2012 operating 2011 operating Sales profit Sales profit m m m m US dollar 2 81 9 Euro 13 20 3 Other currencies 22 3 8 6 131 26 financial instruments continued interest rates ""U %FDFNCFS JG UIF 64 EPMMBS JOUFSFTU SBUF XFSF JODSFBTFE CZ XJUI BMM PUIFS WBSJBCMFT IFME DPOTUBOU QSPU CFGPSF UBY XPVME JODSFBTF CZ b N b N BT B SFTVMU PG 64 EPMMBS EFOPNJOBUFE PBUJOH SBUF EFCU BOE JOUFSFTU SBUF BOE DSPTT DVSSFODZ EFSJWBUJWFT UIBU BSF OPU IFEHF BDDPVOUFE G FVSP BOE TUFSMJOH JOUFSFTU SBUFT XFSF JODSFBTFE CZ XJUI BMM PUIFS WBSJBCMFT IFME DPOTUBOU QSPU CFGPSF UBY XPVME JODSFBTF CZb N SFEVDF CZ b N BT B SFTVMU PG YFE SBUF EFCU CFJOH TXBQQFE JOUP PBUJOH SBUF EFCU "" SFEVDUJPO JO JOUFSFTU rates would not have a significant effect on profit before tax."
There was no significant interest rate risk relating to equity in either year.
commodity prices At 31 December 2012 all forward aluminium commodity contracts were ineffective from an accounting perspective resulting in fair value movements from the date of the last effective test being recognised in the consolidated income statement.
If the aluminium price was JODSFBTFE PS EFDSFBTFE CZ XJUI BMM PUIFS WBSJBCMFT IFME DPOTUBOU QSPU CFGPSF UBY XPVME JODSFBTF PS EFDSFBTF CZ b N b N equity increase or decrease.
equity prices The Group is not subject to any significant equity price risk.
f liquidity risk An analysis of undiscounted contractual maturities for non derivative financial liabilities, derivative financial instruments and undrawn committed debt facilities is set out below.
Total Within 1 to 2 UP More than contractual 1 year years years ZFBST amount m m m m m At 31 December 2012 Non derivative financial liabilities: Trade and other payables 12 22 Bank overdrafts Bank loans 9 1 26 36 US public bond 362 362 US private placements 163 16 Subordinated bond Medium term notes Derivative financial instruments: Derivative contracts settled gross payments Derivative contracts settled gross receipts 128 Derivative contracts net settlements 3 2 Commodity contracts 13 1 Undrawn committed debt facilities 809 809 At 31 December 2011 Non derivative financial liabilities: Trade and other payables 13 Bank overdrafts 10 10 Bank loans 2 26 32 US public bond 381 US private placement 9 Subordinated bond 128 Medium term notes 23 Derivative financial instruments: Derivative contracts settled gross payments 1,186 1,861 Derivative contracts settled gross receipts 1,189 Derivative contracts net settlements 1 1 Commodity contracts 10 3 62 Undrawn committed debt facilities 809 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 132 Rexam annual report 2012 notes to the consolidated financial statements 26 financial instruments continued The Group monitors its liquidity to maintain a sufficient level of undrawn committed debt facilities, thereby ensuring financial flexibility.
"""TBU %FDFNCFS 3FYBN IBE b N PG VOESBXO DPNNJUUFE EFCU GBDJMJUJFT BWBJMBCMF b N The Group mitigates refinancing risk by raising its debt requirements from a range of different sources."
The range of maturity dates arising on committed debt facilities is set out below.
2012 2011 Maturity date m m 2012 2013 996 1,039 2016 809 809 2022 108 2,802 5IF TVCPSEJOBUFE CPOE IBT B OBM NBUVSJUZ JO PXFWFS 3FYBN IBT BO PQUJPO UP SFEFFN JU BU QBS JO 'PS EJTDMPTVSF QVSQPTFT JUJT BTTVNFE UIBU 3FYBN XJMM FYFSDJTF JUT PQUJPO UP SFEFFN JO g credit risk The maximum credit risk exposure of the Groups financial assets at 31 December is represented by the amounts reported under the corresponding balance sheet headings.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk associated with financial instruments of theGroup.
Credit risk arises from exposures to external counterparties.
In order to manage this risk, the Group has strict credit control quality measures that are applied to counterparty institutions and also limits on maximum exposure levels to any one counterparty.
To manage credit risk, the maximum limits for bank exposures held under Group policy are set out in the table below by individual counterparty credit rating category.
These limits are used when making investments and for the use of derivative instruments.
The table also sets out the Groups financial asset exposure at 31 December for each counterparty credit rating category.
2012 2012 2011 2011 Individual Cash Individual Cash counterparty and cash 2012 2012 counterparty and cash 2011 2011 limit equivalents Derivatives Total limit equivalents Derivatives Total Credit rating m m m m m m m m AA UP 23 23 60 to 80 13 61 A UP 86 108 UP 132 209 A UP UP 136 223 A UP 82 810 UP 130 91 221 BBB and below UP 9 10 to 30 1 1 303 See note 20 for information on credit risk with respect to customers.
h capital risk management The Groups objective is to minimise its cost of capital by optimising the efficiency of its capital structure, being the balance between equity anddebt.
The Group views its ordinary share capital as equity.
This objective is always subject to an overriding principle that capital must bemanaged to ensure the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders.
The Group is able to adjust its capital structure through the issue or redemption of either debt or equity and by adjustment to thedividend paid to equity holders.
The Group uses a range of financial metrics to monitor the efficiency of its capital structure, including itsweighted average cost of capital and net debt to EBITDA and ensures that its capital structure provides sufficient financial strength to allowit to secure access to debt finance at reasonable cost.
"""U %FDFNCFS UIF SPVQ T OFU EFCU UP &# 5%"" GPS OBODJBM DPWFOBOU QVSQPTFT XBT UJNFT UJNFT 5IF SPVQ BJNT UPLFFQ UIJT SBUJP CFMPX UJNFT 'PS UIJT QVSQPTF OFU EFCU JT CSPBEMZ OFU CPSSPXJOHT BEKVTUFE UP FYDMVEF JOUFSFTU BDDSVBMT DFSUBJO derivative financial instruments and an equity portion of the subordinated bond and reflects non sterling amounts at average exchange rates."
EBITDA is underlying operating profit after adding back depreciation and amortisation of computer software and adjusted where appropriate to include acquisitions on a pro forma basis and exclude disposed businesses.
133 26 financial instruments continued iii derivative financial instruments The net fair values of the Groups derivative financial instruments designated as fair value or cash flow hedges and those not designated ashedging instruments are set out below.
2012 2011 m m Fair value hedges Cross currency swaps Interest rate swaps 6 9 181 Cash flow hedges Forward aluminium commodity contracts Forward gas commodity contracts 1 2 Forward resin commodity contracts 1 Forward foreign exchange contracts 3 9 3 Total hedge accounted 228 Not hedge accounted Forward aluminium commodity contracts Cross currency swaps 166 Interest rate swaps 9 Forward foreign exchange contracts 2 Total not hedge accounted 86 169 Total net fair value of derivative financial instruments 98 fair value hedges The Group has designated interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps as fair value hedges whereby interest is receivable at fixed JOUFSFTU SBUFT WBSZJOH GSPN UP UP BOE QBZBCMF BU PBUJOH SBUFT 5IFTF TXBQT IFEHF UIF FYQPTVSF UP changes in the fair value of medium term notes which mature in 2013 2011: 2013.
The cross currency swaps hedge changes inthe fair WBMVF PG UIF FVSP TVCPSEJOBUFE CPOE XIJDI NBUVSFT JO FU JOFGGFDUJWFOFTT MPTTFT PG b N XFSF JODMVEFE JOJOUFSFTU JO 2011:9m gain.
"cash flow hedges 'PSXBSE GPSFJHO FYDIBOHF DPOUSBDUT IFEHF GPSFJHO DVSSFODZ USBOTBDUJPO SJTL BOE NBUVSF CFUXFFO BOE CFUXFFO BOE 5IF HBT BOE SFTJO DPNNPEJUZ DPOUSBDUT IFEHF BOUJDJQBUFE GVUVSF QVSDIBTFT PG HBT BOE SFTJO SFTQFDUJWFMZ BOE NBUVSF CFUXFFO BOE BMTP JODMVEFE BMVNJOJVN DPNNPEJUZ DPOUSBDUT NBUVSJOH CFUXFFO BOE not hedge accounted 'PSXBSE BMVNJOJVN DPNNPEJUZ DPOUSBDUT IFEHF BOUJDJQBUFE GVUVSF QVSDIBTFT PG BMVNJOJVN BOE NBUVSF CFUXFFO BOE ""U 31December 2012, these hedges were ineffective from an accounting perspective and therefore hedge accounting was discontinued with all fair value movements from the date of the last effective test being recognised in the consolidated income statement."
In addition other derivatives may not qualify for hedge accounting, orarespecifically not designated as a hedge where natural offset is more appropriate.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 134 Rexam annual report 2012 notes to the consolidated financial statements 26 financial instruments continued net investment hedges An analysis of the Groups non derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges with respect to its subsidiaries, principally in the eurozone and the US, is set out below.
Medium US public term notes bond Total m m m At 1 January 2012 Net increase decrease in designations Exchange differences recognised in equity 12 12 Exchange differences recognised in the income statement on the disposal of businesses At 31 December 2012 At 1 January 2011 Net decrease in designations 13 Exchange differences recognised in equity 12 2 At 31 December 2011 An analysis of the notional amounts and maturity dates for derivative financial instruments is set out below.
2012 2011 Notional Notional Maturity amounts amounts Currency date m m Fair value hedges Cross currency swaps Euro 630 Cross currency swaps Sterling Interest rate swaps Euro 2013 163 168 Forward aluminium commodity contracts US dollar Cash flow hedges Forward foreign exchange contracts US dollar UP 188 Forward foreign exchange contracts Sterling UP 3 30 Forward foreign exchange contracts Swedish krone Forward aluminium commodity contracts US dollar Forward gas commodity contracts US dollar UP 8 Forward resin commodity contracts US dollar 2013 8 Not hedge accounted Cross currency swaps Sterling Cross currency swaps US dollar Cross currency swaps Euro Interest rate swaps US dollar UP 803 Interest rate swaps Euro 163 168 Forward foreign exchange contracts US dollar UP Forward foreign exchange contracts Euro 2013 190 2 Forward aluminium commodity contracts US dollar UP Forward iron ore commodity contracts US dollar UP 6 For forward foreign exchange contracts, there are other currencies traded which have been excluded as the fair values for these contracts were immaterial.
135 27 retirement benefit obligations i summary UK US Other Total Gross defined defined defined defined retirement benefit benefit benefit benefit Other Total Retiree benefit pensions pensions pensions pensions pensions pensions medical obligations m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2012 13 19 Exchange differences 118 1 19 6 Service cost continuing operations 8 6 1 8 23 2 Service cost discontinued operations 2 2 2 Net finance cost 1 6 2 9 9 Actuarial losses 12 33 33 2 Cash contributions and benefits paid 3 96010 Other movements 2 2 2 2 Transfer to liabilities classified as held for sale 33 3 At 31 December 2012 20 323 393 16 Restated: At 1 January 2011 19 38 18 111 Exchange differences 1 1 1 1 Service cost continuing operations 1 13 8 21 1 22 Service cost discontinued operations 3 3 3 Net finance cost credit 11 2 6 6 6 12 Actuarial losses 68 102 102 106 Cash contributions and benefits paid 32 11 3 10 9 Other movements 2 2 2 2 At 31 December 2011 13 19 2012 2011 m m Gross retirement benefit obligations Tax 161 169 Net retirement benefit obligations The Group operates various defined benefit pension plans throughout the world, the largest being the funded plans in the UK and the US.
With respect to the UK, a full actuarial valuation by a qualified actuary was carried out as at 31 March 2011.
The next full actuarial WBMVBUJPO JT EVF OP MBUFS UIBO.
BSDI 8JUI SFTQFDU UP UIF 64 B GVMM BDUVBSJBM WBMVBUJPO CZ B RVBMJFE BDUVBSZ JT DBSSJFE PVU annually, the latest being as at 1 January 2012.
O UIF USVTUFFT PG UIF 6, QFOTJPO QMBO BHSFFE B TJY ZFBS FTDSPX JOWFTUNFOU XJUI DPOUSJCVUJPOT PG b N JO BOE b N GPS FBDI ofthe following five years.
At each subsequent valuation date, the assets in escrow will either be allocated to the plan, to Rexam PLC or remain in escrow depending on the funding position of the plan.
If there were a change of control with a subsequent material decline in Rexams credit rating or Rexams financial covenant, the escrow would be paid into the plan.
In 2012 10m was paid into escrow and is included in non current trade and other receivables.
In 2009, Rexam PLC entered into a security agreement with the trustees of the UK pension plan, granting them a charge over the #FWFSBHF $BOT 6, GBDJMJUJFT BOE NBDIJOFSZ BU.
JMUPO, FZOFT BOE 8BLFFME XIJDI JT FOGPSDFBCMF VQ UP %FDFNCFS JO UIF event of a contribution default or a material decline in Rexams financial covenant.
"'3 $ ""4 o 5IF MJNJU PO B EFOFE CFOFU BTTFU NJOJNVN GVOEJOH SFRVJSFNFOUT BOE UIFJS JOUFSBDUJPO IBE OP JNQBDU PO UIF SPVQ in2012 or 2011."
O BEEJUJPO UP UIF b N OFU OBODF DPTU GPS TFU PVU BCPWF UIFSF XBT BMTP B b N USBOTGFS GSPN UIF BWBJMBCMF GPS TBMF OBODJBM BTTFUT reserve relating to market value losses transferred to the consolidated income statement following the annuitisation of certain pension obligations.
This gave a total net finance cost for 2011 of 16m as disclosed in the consolidated income statement.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 136 Rexam annual report 2012 notes to the consolidated financial statements 27 retirement benefit obligations continued ii defined benefit pension plans UK US Other Total UK US Other Total 2012 2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011 2011 m m m m m m m m a Amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet Fair value of plan assets 1,092 13 2,811 Present value of funded obligations 23 1,380 20 3,132 Funded defined benefit pension plans 20 8 301 13 301 321 Present value of unfunded obligations 92 86 Net liability 20 323 393 13 b Amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement Current service cost 8 6 1 1 13 Expected return on plan assets 1 Interest cost 80 2 136 61 3 Net finance cost credit 1 6 2 9 11 2 6 Total 9 12 3 20 3 19 c Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income Actuarial gains losses on plan assets 1 169 88 1 139 Actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations 96 98 8 202 120 6 Total 12 33 68 102 d Changes in the fair value of plan assets At 1 January 13 2,811 1,026 13 Exchange differences 2 2 Expected return on plan assets 1 Actuarial gains losses 1 169 88 1 139 Employer contributions 31 2 32 9 1 Plan participant contributions 2 2 2 13 Benefits paid 96 1 161 60 92 At 31 December 1,092 13 2,811 e Changes in the present value of defined benefit pension obligations At 1 January 3,218 Exchange differences 1 3 3 Current service cost 8 6 1 1 13 Interest cost 80 2 136 61 3 Actuarial losses 96 98 8 202 120 6 Plan participant contributions 2 2 2 1 3 Benefits paid 99 2 60 2 Other movements 2 2 2 2 At 31 December 3,218 Total UK UK US Other US Other Total 2012 2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011 2011 f Major categories of plan assets Equities 1 29 12 32 Bonds 98 21 88 23 Cash and other 1181 1 31 137 27 retirement benefit obligations continued g principal actuarial assumptions UK US Other UK US Other 2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011 Future salary increases 3.10 Future pension increases 3.10 3.10 1.32 Discount rate 3.30 Inflation rate 3.10 2.00 3.10 2.00 Expected return on plan assets net of administration expenses : Equities 6.11 Bonds 2.20 3.60 Cash and other 0.20 0.31 0.20 To develop the expected return on plan assets assumptions, the Group considered the current level of expected returns on risk free investments, primarily government bonds, the historical level of the risk premium associated with the asset class concerned and the expectations for future returns of the asset class.
The resulting returns for equities, bonds and cash were then reduced to allow for administration expenses.
The mortality assumptions used in valuing the liabilities of the UK pension plan are based on the standard tables S1NA as published by theInstitute and Faculty of Actuaries.
These tables are adjusted to reflect the circumstances of the plan membership.
The life expectancy BTTVNFE GPS B ZFBS PME QFOTJPOFS JT ZFBST ZFBST GPS B NBMF BOE ZFBST ZFBST GPS B GFNBMF 5IFMJGFFYQFDUBODZ GPS B OPO QFOTJPOFS DVSSFOUMZ BHFE JT ZFBST ZFBST GPS B NBMF BOE ZFBST ZFBST forafemale.
The mortality assumptions used in valuing the liabilities of the US pension plans are based on the RP2000 combined active and retiree NPSUBMJUZ UBCMF QSPKFDUFE UP XFJHIUFE CMVF DPMMBS BOE XIJUF DPMMBS 5IF MJGF FYQFDUBODZ BTTVNFEGPSB ZFBS PME QFOTJPOFS JT ZFBST ZFBST GPS B NBMF BOE ZFBST ZFBST GPS B GFNBMF h historic information on defined benefit plans 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 m m m m m Fair value of plan assets 2,811 Present value of defined benefit obligations 3,218 Net liability 393 266 81 Cumulative actuarial losses gains 163 130 28 223 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Experience gains losses arising on plan assets: Amount m 169 139 221 1FSDFOUBHF PG QMBO BTTFUT 6 3 9 Experience losses gains arising on defined benefitobligations: Amount m 202 169 191 1FSDFOUBHF PG QSFTFOU WBMVF PG EFOFE CFOFU PCMJHBUJPOT 6 6 9 5IF SPVQ FYQFDUT UP DPOUSJCVUF b N JO DBTI UP JUT EFOFE CFOFU QFOTJPO QMBOT JO FYDMVEJOH BOZ BNPVOUT QBJE JOUP FTDSPX iii other pension plans The Group operates a number of US based defined contribution plans, included as part of other pensions in i above, for which the charge JO UIF DPOTPMJEBUFE JODPNF TUBUFNFOU GPS UIF ZFBS XBT b N GPS DPOUJOVJOH PQFSBUJPOT BOE b N GPS EJTDPOUJOVFE PQFSBUJPOT b N BOE b N SFTUBUFE BOE UPUBM DBTI DPOUSJCVUJPOT XFSF b N b N financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 138 Rexam annual report 2012 notes to the consolidated financial statements 27 retirement benefit obligations continued iv retiree medical Certain current and former employees in the US are provided with cover for medical costs and life assurance, referred to in these consolidated financial statements as retiree medical.
These unfunded benefits are assessed with the advice of a qualified actuary.
2012 2011 m m a Amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet Present value of the retiree medical obligation b Amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement Continuing operations Current service cost 2 1 Interest cost including administration costs of 1m 2011: 1m 6 c Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income Actuarial losses 2 d Changes in the present value of the retiree medical obligation At 1 January 111 Exchange differences 6 1 Current service cost 2 1 Interest cost 6 Actuarial losses 2 Benefits paid 10 9 At 31 December e principal actuarial assumptions 2012 2011 Discount rate 3.30 8.00 reducing to 8.00 reducing to Healthcare cost trend rate PWFS ZFBST PWFS ZFBST The mortality assumptions used in valuing the liabilities for retiree medical are based on the RP2000 combined active and retiree mortality UBCMF QSPKFDUFE UP XFJHIUFE CMVF DPMMBS BOE XIJUF DPMMBS 5IF MJGF FYQFDUBODZ BTTVNFE GPS B ZFBS PME QFOTJPOFS JT ZFBST ZFBST GPS B NBMF BOE ZFBST ZFBST GPS B GFNBMF Healthcare cost trend rates do not have a significant impact on the Group with respect to retiree medical.
A one percentage point change in assumed rates would have the impact as set out below.
2012 2011 m m JODSFBTF o TFSWJDF DPTU BOE JOUFSFTU DPTU DPNCJOFE JODSFBTF JODSFBTF o SFUJSFF NFEJDBM PCMJHBUJPO JODSFBTF 3 3 EFDSFBTF o TFSWJDF DPTU BOE JOUFSFTU DPTU DPNCJOFE SFEVDUJPO EFDSFBTF o SFUJSFF NFEJDBM PCMJHBUJPO SFEVDUJPO 3 3 f historic information on retiree medical 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Present value of retiree medical obligation m 111 111 Cumulative actuarial gains m 16 20 19 Experience losses gains arising on retiree medicalobligation: Amount m 2 1 1 1FSDFOUBHF PG QSFTFOU WBMVF PG SFUJSFF NFEJDBM PCMJHBUJPO 2 1 1 139 27 retirement benefit obligations continued v IAS19 Revised Employee Benefits The Group will adopt IAS19 Revised for the accounting period beginning on 1 January 2013.
The impact on gross retirement benefit obligations for 2012 is set out below.
Gross Gross retirement retirement benefit benefit Net obligations obligations Administration interest under 1 2 as reported expenses cost IAS19 Revised m m m m At 1 January 2012 Exchange differences Service cost continuing operations 8 33 Service cost discontinued operations 2 2 Net finance cost net interest cost 10 19 Actuarial losses 2 22 Cash contributions and benefits paid Other movements 2 2 Transfer to liabilities classified as held for sale 3 3 At 31 December 2012 1 Under IAS19 Revised, plan administration expenses are included in service cost and investment management fees are included in actuarial losses.
Currently all administration costs are included in net finance cost.
2 Under IAS19 Revised, net interest cost based on opening gross retirement benefit obligations replaces net finance cost expected return on plan assets less interest on present benefit obligations.
The interest rate is based on high quality corporate bonds.
28 provisions Share Regulatory based Environmental Restructuring Indirect tax and other payment compliance of businesses exposures claims Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2012 19 22 33 106 Exchange differences 11 6 Charge for the year 30 19 63 Release for the year 3 Utilised 3 11 Other movements 1 6 Transfer to liabilities classified as held for sale 3 3 At 31 December 2012 22 39 31 8 Current liabilities 3 16 3 Non current liabilities 19 23 31 13 91 At 31 December 2012 22 39 31 8 Current liabilities 20 11 36 Non current liabilities 2 33 At 31 December 2011 19 22 33 106 Environmental compliance relates to the US and France and is long term in nature with the timing of utilisation unknown due to the need to complete remedial investigations, to negotiate remedial plans with relevant authorities and to implement agreed plans.
The provision for restructuring of businesses comprises 36m relating mainly to restructuring following the disposal of Personal Care including 21m for onerous leases and 3m relating to Beverage Cans for previously announced plant closures.
The timing of restructuring payments is dependent on various contractual arrangements arising from the disposal of Personal Care and on lease payment schedules together with related carrying costs and sublease income, if any.
Indirect tax exposures relate to Brazil and are long term in nature, with the timing of payment, if any, dependent upon the outcome of tax cases and exposures.
Regulatory and other claims relate to various proceedings where the timing of payment, ifany, is dependent upon the outcome of those proceedings.
Share based payment relates to cash settled TIBSF PQUJPO TDIFNFT XIJDI EFQFOEFOU PO WBSJPVT QFSGPSNBODF DSJUFSJB CFJOH NFU XJMM WFTU PWFS UIF QFSJPE UP PWFNCFS financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 140 Rexam annual report 2012 notes to the consolidated financial statements 29 share capital 2012 2011 2 VNCFS PG JTTVFE BOE GVMMZ QBJE PSEJOBSZ TIBSFT PG p Thousands Thousands At 1 January Issued under employee share option schemes At 31 December The rights and restrictions attaching to the shares and the provisions relating to the transfer of shares are as governed bylaw and in accordance with the Companys articles of association.
Holders of shares are entitled to receive all shareholder documents, to attend, speak and exercise voting rights, either in person or by proxy, on resolutions proposed at general meetings and participate in any distribution of income or capital.
The directors may refuse to register a transfer of shares where such transfer documents are not lodged by acceptable means or proof of title is required.
Shares are held by the Rexam Employee Share Trust Trust for the satisfaction of certain share options note 31.
The independent trustee of the Trust has the same rights as any other shareholder.
Participants in option schemes do not hold any voting rights on the shares until the date of exercise.
There are no restrictions on thevoting rights of holders of shares nor any known agreements between holders of shares under which financial rights areheld by any person other than the registered holder, or voting rights or the transfer of shares are restricted.
0O BOVBSZ 3FYBN 1-$ BOOPVODFE B SFUVSO PG DBTI UP TIBSFIPMEFST PG Q QFS FYJTUJOH PSEJOBSZ TIBSF CZ XBZ PG POF OFX # TIBSF for each existing ordinary share.
In addition, the return of cash was accompanied by a consolidation of the existing ordinary shares in the ratio of nine new ordinary shares for every ten existing ordinary shares held.
Rexam PLCs issued ordinary share capital following the share 3 DBQJUBM DPOTPMJEBUJPO PO BOVBSZ XBT TIBSFT PG p each.
'PMMPXJOH BQQSPWBM PG UIF SFUVSO PG DBTI CZ TIBSFIPMEFST PO BOVBSZ # TIBSFT XFSF JTTVFE 0O 'FCSVBSZ B EJWJEFOE PG Q QFS TIBSF XBT QBJE PO # TIBSFT BOE UIFTF TIBSFT XFSF SFDMBTTJFE BT EFGFSSFE TIBSFT BOE B GVSUIFS # TIBSFT XFSF SFEFFNFE GPS Q QFS TIBSF 5IF SFNBJOJOH # TIBSFT XJMM CF SFEFFNFE PO UIF OBM SFEFNQUJPO date on 8 April 2013.
30 other reserves Available Net for sale investment Cash flow financial Translation hedge hedge assets reserve reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m At 1 January 2012 310 90 16 Exchange differences before recognition of net investment hedges 86 86 Net investment hedges recognised Exchange differences recognised in the income statement on the disposal of businesses Cash flow hedges recognised Cash flow hedges transferred to inventory 66 66 Cash flow hedges transferred to the income statement 1 1 Tax on cash flow hedges 9 9 At 31 December 2012 61 93 At 1 January 2011 3 386 Exchange differences before recognition of net investment hedges 30 30 Net investment hedges recognised Exchange differences recognised in the income statement on the disposal of businesses 89 89 Cash flow hedges recognised 92 92 Cash flow hedges transferred to inventory 16 16 Tax on cash flow hedges 28 28 Cost recognised in the income statement on annuitisation of certain pension obligations net of tax 33 At 31 December 2011 310 90 16 141 31 share based payment i summary of Rexams share based payment schemes Scheme name Abbreviation Scheme status Settlement basis Long Term Incentive Plan 2009 LTIP Open Equity and cash Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS Closed Equity Phantom Stock Plan Phantoms Closed Cash Savings Related Share Option Schemes SAYE Open Equity LTIP The LTIP is the primary long term incentive plan for Rexams executive directors, band 1 executives and other senior management.
The LTIP measures performance targets over athree year period.
Options will normally vest, subject to performance targets being achieved, on thethird anniversary of the date of grant at a nominal cost to the employee.
Employees who leave with a right to exercise options must normally wait until the end of the measurement period.
If the option vests, the employee will receive an entitlement which normally will betime apportioned for the period from the start of the measurement period to the date on which employment ended.
Options granted in 2012 to executive directors and band 1 executives are subject to three performance conditions, compound annual growth in underlying earnings per share EPS, return on capital employed ROCE and relative Total Shareholder Return TSR, in the 1 1 1 proportion 33 3 3 BOE 3 SFTQFDUJWFMZ 5IFTFPQUJPOT BSF FRVJUZ TFUUMFE 0QUJPOT HSBOUFE JO UP PUIFS TFOJPS NBOBHFNFOU 2 1 are subject to two performance conditions, EPS and ROCE, in the proportion 66 3 BOE 3 SFTQFDUJWFMZ 5IFTF PQUJPOT BSF FJUIFS equity settled or cash settled depending on the seniority of the employee.
Options granted in 2012 include a dividend equivalent element whereby employees will be entitled to receive, in cash, the notional dividends paid during the measurement period on any options that vest.
For further details of the LTIP refer to the remuneration report.
ESOS Prior to 2009, annual grants of options over ordinary shares were made to certain senior management.
For grants up to and including2006, shares vested if a performance target growth in economic profit was met over the three year measurement period.
PQFSGPSNBODF UBSHFUT XFSF TFU GPS UIF BOE HSBOUT 0QUJPOT BSF FYFSDJTBCMF UISFF ZFBST BGUFS HSBOU EBUF BOE FYQJSF UFO yearsafter grantdate.
The exercise price was set at market value using the market price of a Rexam share at the grant date.
Phantoms This cash settled scheme operates in the same way as the ESOS scheme and relates to certain senior management located outside the UK and Europe.
SAYE All employee SAYE schemes are open to eligible employees resident in the UK and Ireland.
Annual grants of options over shares are DVSSFOUMZ NBEF BU BO FYFSDJTF QSJDF PG PG UIF NBSLFU WBMVF PG 3FYBN TIBSFT BU UIF HSBOU EBUF 0QUJPOT WFTU UISFF WF PS TFWFO yearsafter the commencement of the savings contract, depending on the term selected by the employee at grant and expire six monthsafter vesting.
ii employee benefit expense 2011 2012 Underlying Underlying 2012 operating operating Exceptional 2012 profit profit items Total restated m m m m Continuing operations Equity settled 91 10 8 Cash settled 8 Total continuing operations 1 16 Discontinued operations Equity settled 1 1 1 Cash settled 3 3 2 Total discontinued operations 3 28 1 29 19 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 142 Rexam annual report 2012 notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 share based payment continued iii key assumptions used in valuing options granted during the year LTIP SAYE Valuation models TSR Monte Carlo Binomial EPS ROCE Black Scholes &YQFDUFE EJWJEFOE HSPXUI &YQFDUFE IJTUPSJDBM WPMBUJMJUZ 543 o UP UP 3JTL GSFF JOUFSFTU SBUF TSR 0.2 to 0.6 0.2 to 0.6 Expected life years 3 UP Weighted average share price UP Weighted average fair value UP UP The assumptions made to incorporate the effects of expected early exercise have been included by assuming an expected option life based on historical exercise patterns for each option scheme.
Historical volatilities are arrived at using a period comparable with the expected life of the option.
The correlation coefficient for LTIP is calculated using the correlation matrix for the TSR simulation using threeyear daily historical stock price series for each company in the comparator group, including Rexam, from the beginning of the measurement period.
iv number of options and weighted average exercise prices of all option schemes 2012 2012 2011 2011 Number of Weighted average Number of Weighted average options exercise price options exercise price Thousands Thousands Outstanding at 1 January 28,336 0.82 1.18 Granted 0.16 Exercised 1,926 3.20 Lapsed 2,621 Outstanding at 31 December 28,336 0.82 Exercisable at 31 December 3.98 v exercise prices and average remaining contractual lives of options by scheme 2012 2011 2012 2012 Weighted average 2011 2011 Weighted average Number of Range of remaining Number of Range of remaining options exercise prices contractual life options exercise prices contractual life Thousands Years Thousands Years LTIP 1.1 ESOS UP 2,808 UP Phantoms 1,238 UP UP SAYE 2.12 to 3.88 2.3 2.12 to 3.88 2.8 vi Rexam Employee Share Trust 2 5IF SPVQ PQFSBUFT BO FNQMPZFF TIBSF USVTU UIF 3FYBN &NQMPZFF 4IBSF 5SVTU UIBU PXOT PSEJOBSZ TIBSFT PG p in 3FYBN1-$ BU %FDFNCFS BDRVJSFE BU BO BWFSBHF DPTU QFS TIBSF PG b b BOE JODMVEFE JOUIF consolidated balance sheet within retained earnings at a cost of 26m 2011: 26m.
These shares will be used to satisfy LTIP exercises.
Thepurchases are funded by cash contributions from participating companies.
Dividends receivable during the year have been waived.
The administration expenses of the Trust are borne by the Trust.
Shares are allocated by the Trust when related LTIP options are exercised.
The market value of the shares at 31 December 2012 was33m 2011: 26m.
143 32 reconciliation of profit loss before tax to cash generated from operations 2011 2011 2011 2012 2012 2012 Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total operations operations operations operations operations operations restated restated restated m m m m m m Profit loss before tax 163 191 3 Adjustments for: Share of post tax profits of associates and joint ventures 9 9 9 9 Net interest expense 101 1 102 68 1 69 Impairment of goodwill 181 181 Impairment of intangible assets 22 2020 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 21 Reversal of impairment of property, plant and equipment 1 1 1 1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11 162 29 Amortisation of intangible assets 31 30 8 38 Movement in working capital 10 12 22 38 Movement in provisions 22 3 Movement in retirement benefit obligations 30 1 29 28 28 Fair value changes on operating derivatives Equity settled share options 10 1 11 18 Other adjustments 11 11 3 8 Cash generated from operations 616 30 33 contingent liabilities In an international group a variety of claims arise from time to time: some have little or no foundation in law or in fact and others cannot bequantified.
The claims include litigation against Group companies, investigations by regulatory and fiscal authorities and obligations arising under environmental legislation.
Provision has been made in these consolidated financial statements against those claims which thedirectors consider are likely to result in significant liabilities.
There are no contingent liabilities at 31 December 2012 or 31 December 2011 that require disclosure.
34 commitments i operating lease commitments The Group leases offices and warehouses under non cancellable operating leases.
The leases have varying terms, purchase options, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group also leases plant and equipment under cancellable operating leases.
An analysis of the total future minimum lease payments under non cancellable operating leases is set out below.
2012 2011 2012 Plant and 2011 Plant and Property equipment Property equipment m m m m Less than 1 year 23 #FUXFFO BOE ZFBST 0WFS ZFBST 38 Total 12 109 10 Total future minimum sublease receipts under non cancellable operating leases are 9m 2011: 8m.
ii capital commitments 2012 2011 m m Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided in the consolidated financial statements: Property, plant and equipment financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
