62 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report directors and officers senior independent chairman executive directors director non executive directors 1 2 3 4 5 Stuart Chambers 56 Graham Chipchase 50 David Robbie 49 Johanna Waterous CBE Noreen Doyle 63 appointed 1February 2012 as chief executive finance director 55 appointed 22 March 2006 and anonexecutive director and retired from the board on appointed 1January 2010 as appointed 3 October 2005. appointed 4May 2012 as a succeeded Sir Peter Ellwood as 31December 2012. chief executive.
Joined the strengths Strong financial, nonexecutive director and chairman on 23 February 2012. committees Audit and risk, board as finance director on accounting, strategic and senior independent director.
10February 2003 and corporate finance experience committees Audit and risk, chairman.
strengths A diverse wasgroup director plastic andskills.
strengths Extensive breadth of businessbackground with packaging from 2005. previous business experience strengths A leading European business experience, including experience and knowledge strengths Comprehensive Chief financial officer of Royal expert in retail and customer experience of global business offinancial markets.
financial and operational P&O Nedlloyd NV and finance relationship management with to business markets.
previous business experience knowledge, proven leadership director of CMG plc.
wide knowledge of the global previous business experience Senior operational positions at skills and a detailed other directorships Trustee of retail world.
Group chief executive of NSG Bankers Trust Company and at understanding of Rexams Aldeburgh Music.
previous business experience Group, the Tokyo based global the European Bank for businesses andmarkets.
Aformer director of McKinsey, glass company, until 2009.
previous business experience the global management Chief executive of Pilkington PLC other directorships Non Finance director of GKN plcs consulting firm.
until its acquisition by NSG executive director of Credit aerospace services business other directorships Non executive Group in 2006.
Senior positions Suisse, Newmont Mining and held various positions director of RSA Insurance Group at Mars Inc. and a variety of Corporation and QinetiQ within the European and US plc, Wm Morrison Supermarkets European roles at Royal Dutch Group PLC, and a member of subsidiaries of BOCGroup plc.
PLC and Shoppers Drug Mart Shell plc.
Previously a non theadvisory panels for the Operational experience as Corporation, chairman of executive director of Smiths Macquarie European group director of Rexams Sandpiper CI Limited, a director Group plc.
Infrastructure Fund and the plastic packaging business.
of the RBG Kew Foundation and other directorships Non executive Macquarie Renaissance other directorships Non executive an operating partner of director of Tesco PLC, Tesco Infrastructure Fund.
Personal Finance PLC and The Manchester Airport Group PLC.
3 1 2 4 6 63 executive company secretary leadership team 6 7 8 9 Graham Chipchase John Langston 63 Leo Oosterveer 53 Jean-Pierre Rodier 65 David Gibson 50 Chief executive appointed 30 October 2008. appointed 1 September 2011. appointed 7 June 2006.
David Gibson Acting senior independent committees Nomination.
committees Remuneration Legal director from 24 November strengths Strong operational chairman, audit and risk, 2011 to 3 May 2012. leader with global management nomination.
changes to the board Oliver Graham committees Audit experience and a track record strengths Significant Marketing andrisk chairman, in marketing, sales and strategy international business Rich Grimley Sir Peter Ellwood retired as nomination, remuneration.
development gained both experience and an extensive Beverage Can North America theCompanys chairman on strengths A chartered inEurope and Asia.
knowledge of the packaging 22 February 2012.
Wolfgang Marc Hmel accountant with international, business experience Leads the and aluminium industries.
Healthcare Meusburger and Noreen Doyle, commercial and corporate global food service division of previous business experience non executive directors, retired Malcolm Harrison finance experience.
From 2002 to 2006 Chairman and chiefexecutive of from the board on 31 August Operations previous business experience chairman CEO of Unilever in Pechiney until Pechineymerged 2012 and 31 December 2012 Joined the board ofSmiths Thailand and Indochina.
Group plc in 2000 holding executive of Union Minire and Beverage Can Africa, operational roles, and was chairman and chief executive of Middle East and Asia The appointments of Stuart appointed asfinance director in MetalEurop France.
Chambers and Johanna Carlos Medeiros 2006 until his retirement in May other directorships Advisor Waterous are disclosed in this Beverage Can South America 2010.
Adirector of TIGroup plc toCorporate Value Associates.
There were no other Iain Percival prior to itsacquisition by changes to the board during Beverage Can Europe SmithsGroup.
2012 and up until the date of this David Robbie annual report.
Finance director Nikki Rolfe Human resources 7 5 8 9 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
