7 what we make beverage cans healthcare packaging We make around 61bn metal beverage cans each Rexam Healthcare is a global business.
Building year, the vast majority in aluminium.
Wehave a range onour expertise in plastic injection, injection of products from standard 33cl 12oz cans, through blowmoulding and high speed automated assembly, slim and sleek versions to large one litre cans and we design, develop and manufacture a range of innovative aluminium bottles.
We have arange solutions, in compliance with Good Manufacturing ofinnovative inks and coatings toadd further value Practice, that helps protect and deliver forour customers.
We also make the ends toseal the pharmaceuticals for global and regional customers.
cans and have a range of printed andcoloured ends Products include delivery devices such as insulin pens, as well as distinctive features such as cut out or laser asthma inhalers and metering pumps as well as coded tabs.
The cans are used for beers, carbonated regulatory compliant pill jars and caps.
We also soft drinks and energy drinks as well as iced tea, support our customers with broad regulatory juices and a whole range of innovative beverages knowledge to help smooth the path to market.
where thecan is a crucial element of the brand.
our supply chain connections aluminium cans We are part of a supply chain that stretches from ore extraction to manufacturing and recycling.
Our long term success depends on effective co-operation both up and down the supply chain to the benefit of all concerned.
mining of bauxite can body manufacturing virgin aluminium melted into ingots and rolled into sheets cupping drawing and washing and coating, necking packing ironing drying printing and shipping drying can end manufacturing recycled aluminium can filled and sealed by melted into ingots and brand owner, and then drunk rolled into sheets by consumer stamping application formation scoring of formation and packing ofsealing oftabrivet opening panel attachment of shipping compound stay on tab can recycled by consumer read more about our businesses in the Operating review on page 24 fina financ ncia ial l s st tatement atements s go gov five er rn na an nc ce e s su ust stainabili ainabilit ty y bu busines siness s r re ev vi ie ew w o ov ver ervie view w
