18 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report market review In 2012 the global economy was the global market for beverages oncemore characterised by uncertainty.
Global beverage consumption grew 3% in 2012.
Growth rates Theglobal consumer packaging market, varied around the world as mature markets and developing however, remained resilient.
The market markets follow different economic cycles and are at different stages of consumer development.
value of consumer packaging grew 3%, Europe was affected by the eurozone turmoil and consumption toreach c US$420bn.
Eastern European countries performed better than the rest of Europe with Russia, Turkey and Poland all showing solid growth in 2012.
In North America The value of the metal beverage packaging consumption was flat.
Spending was affected by high segment, Rexams core business, was unemployment levels and a lack of price promotions by the main brand owners, but the region still has one of the highest per capita estimated at around US$22bn as beverage consumptions in the world.
Emerging regions all posted good growth.
As in recent years, China and India drove growth in Asia, cans continued to be a dynamic segment up 8% and 5% respectively.
In 2012 nearly 260 litres of beverages were consumed per capita globally, of which nearly a third were hot drinks, such as tea or coffee.
Packaged water and milk based drinks accounted for another 33%, ahead of other beverages such as carbonated soft drinks CSDs and beer, the staple categories for beverage can makers such as Rexam.
The share of throat charts on page 19 contrast the type of beverages consumed in the mature US market and the emerging Indian market.
Drinking preferences are expected to change in emerging markets as its youthful and growing populations emulate the habits of more mature markets.
Rising urbanisation and an expanding middle class increasingly able to afford packaged food and drinks once considered luxuries are other important drivers.
However, even though emerging markets show the highest growth rates and good opportunities for packaging companies to expand in the future, the absolute volumes in mature markets mean that they continue to be the main source of sales for the beverage packaging industry.
Up to 2015, the fastest growth in beverage categories is expected to come from energy and sports drinks, still drinks and iced teas.
GDP and beverage can consumption, 20032015F Billion US$ Billion cans There is a close correlation between the consumption of beverage cans and GDP growth.
Typically, beverage can consumption grows 120K 350 300 100K inline with disposable income.
Urbanisation in emerging economies 250 80K is a driver of GDP and higher population density, both of which favour 200 60K growth of beverage cans.
The presence of larger, modern retailers 150 40K 100 who appreciate the better cubic efficiency and cheaper logistics 20K 50 ofthecan compared with glass and PET, isalso key to beverage 0 0 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013F 2015F candemand and growth.
GDP based on purchasing power parity valuation of country GDP Beverage can source: Rexam Radar: IMF World Economic Outlook Database, October 2012 19 the global beverage can market consumption in India commercial products 2012 As seen in the chart on page 18, global beverage can consumption litres per capita: 143 has grown in line with GDP over time, and it is expected to follow a O Hot drinks 66 similar trajectory in the future.
Beverage cans have proven to be O Milk drinks 51 relatively resilient during recessional periods and have maintained O Packaged water 9 their share in the pack mix.
Consumers, with less disposable income O Spirits 6 tospend in bars and restaurants, are tending to stay at home for their O CSD 4 entertainment which often favours the beverage can.
O Juice, nectars & still drinks 4 O Beer 2 Around 90% of the worlds beverage cans are made of aluminium.
O Fruit powders & squash 1 In the US, beverage cans are made exclusively from aluminium, but steel is still used in some parts of Europe, Africa and Asia.
Nearly all beverage cans in North America and Europe are two piece but consumption in US some three piece steel beverage cans are still used in China and commercial products 2012 South East Asia.
litres per capita: 582 O CSD 149 Rexam estimates that c 300bn beverage cans were consumed O Packaged water 108 worldwide in 2012 and the market is predicted to grow at a rate O Beer 77 ofc 3% pa in unit terms through to 2015.
The largest markets are O Milk drinks 75 the US, Japan, China and Brazil.
US consumers drink around O Juice, nectars & still drinks 48 320cansper capita per year whereas Indians drink less than O Hot drinks 48 one, highlighting the potential for beverage can growth in O Sports & energy drinks 23 emerging markets.
O Iced RTD tea drinks 21 The US remains the largest single market with more than 100bn O FABs, wine & spirits 16 cans consumed in 2012 c 92bn were filled in the US, the rest O Other 17 comprising imported filled cans.
It is a mature market and consumers are tending to move away from CSDs to other types The US consumer drank on average 582 litres in 2012, ofbeverage.
While demand for plastic bottles and pouches is making itone of the most mature beverage markets in the increasing, beverage can demand is helped by the growth world, compared with India where consumption was 143 litres ofspecialty cans as beverage producers seek to add differentiation per capita, well below the global average.
Whereas Americans to their products.
preferred CSDs, packaged water and beer, people in India consumed mostly hot drinks and milk drinks which together In Europe, around 52bn cans were consumed in 2012 making it the accounted for over 80% of the Indian share of throat.
The number of cans actually filled was greater c 59bn as Europe remains a strong exporter of filled source: Canadean cans to the rest of the world.
The beverage can markets of South East Asia are growing rapidly.
The Latin American market has been performing well led by Brazil, where the introduction of new can sizes and innovative decorative global beverage can market, consumed volume 2012F technology drove growth.
While the Chinese and Brazilian markets 301bn cans and estimated beverage can market tend to attract the main attention, the Middle East has experienced CAGR growth 20122015F significant growth in recent years.
Despite the absence of beer and other alcoholic beverages, can demand is strong for CSDs, energy drinks and non carbonated drinks.
14.3 bn 45% 33.8 bn The beverage can markets in sub-Saharan Africa and India have 119 bn 23% 1% been slow to develop.
Can demand is expected to increase in the 82.2 bn 12.5 bn 56% coming years in line with rising incomes, better retail infrastructure 67% and changing consumer tastes.
2.5 bn 7.8 bn 45% 67% 24.4 bn 56% 4.6 bn 23% source: Rexam Radar, Rexam estimates financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 20 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report market review competitive environment what gets packed in a can?
The global beverage can market is concentrated.
The three largest manufacturers, Rexam, Ball and Crown, account for more than Beverage cans are used to package both alcoholic and non 60% of the global supply of beverage cans and close to 90% in alcoholic drinks soft drinks.
In 2012 beer and CSDs accounted Europe, North and South America.
for 76% of what is consumed in a can globally.
Iced tea and coffee drinks, juice, nectars and still drinks, energy and sports In terms of pack mix, metal cans compete with various pack types drinks and a small volume of other beverages accounted for the and materials, but the main competition comes from plastic and remaining volume.
With CSD consumption in cans stagnating glass bottles.
Plastic bottles are a challenging competitor.
Their globally, canned beer drinks are driving the industry in most of the world.
availability in large sizes for more favourably priced family packsand the resealability of the single serve sizes are seen asstrong advantages.
global beverage consumption 2012, based on unit volume Glass bottles are well established in emerging markets due to their O Beer 39% robust qualities and opportunity for reuse.
They remain popular for O CSD 37% beer and high value products such as spirits.
O Iced RTD tea & coffee 8% O Juice, nectars & still drinks 7% O Energy & sports drinks 6% O Other 3% source: Rexam Radar healthcare north america market The healthcare packaging market grew in value by 3% in 2012 share 2012 with devices growing 5% globally and containers and caps 2%, O Rexam 21% largely boosted by growth in emerging markets.
In the coming O Ball years growth in the healthcare packaging market overall is O Crown expected to be close to 4% pa. O MCC The dynamics of the market are changing.
Emerging countries US and Canada only aretaking on greater relevance.
Traditional pharmaceuticals are giving way to biotechnology based drugs.
There are more over europe market thecounter and generic drugs, and there is a shift from oral to share 2012 injectable formulations.
In addition, the greater prevalence of O Rexam 42% chronic diseases, ageing populations and higher incomes in O Ball emerging countries is boosting the consumption of drugs.
The O Crown adoption of healthcare coverage in developing countries, such as O Can-Pack China, or new programmes, such as Healthcare Reform in the US, O Other are set to boost consumption but the pressure to curb healthcare costs and the aforementioned rise of generics are expected to result in some pricing pressure.
south america market share 2012 Growth will be supported by innovation.
New, more fragile formulations require enhanced protection which means the use O Rexam 56% O Crown ofspecial barrier materials.
The rise of alternative routes of drug delivery increases the need for devices that are convenient, easy O Ball touse and patient friendly.
They also need to aid compliance and O Metalic enable patients to take treatments without the need for a doctor or a nurse.
Further emphasis on patient safety and new regulatory requirements will also lead to the development of safer and more sophisticated delivery systems.
source: Rexam estimates 21 also be seeking healthier and more adult oriented beverages to global megatrends and key meet functional, aspirational or lifestyle needs.
These beverages tend to command a premium price relative to standard CSDs.
drivers of beverage can growth Beverages such as energy and sports drinks are already addressing increasingly specific needs as beverage producers This section links the main global megatrends and key drivers of realise that a one size fits all approach is no longer viable.
There are a number of factors that determine Consumers are looking for more individual and customised and drive demand in beverage cans.
Among those are products that are right for me.
The vast range of can sizes today, macroeconomic factors, customer needs, consumer behaviour, the as well as high quality graphics and the proven environmental pack mix and the characteristics of the distribution channel as well credentials of the pack, mean that cans are well positioned to as legislation.
address needs such as portion control, on the go consumption, Rexam has identified nine global megatrends as well as a number product stand out and a desire to do right for the environment.
of subtrends that are likely to influence and help shape our industry In Europe there is a trend towards consuming beverages at home over the next decade or more.
Although these megatrends are supported by a highly developed retail environment.
The take largely global, they tend to have different impacts depending home beer market has grown in Europe in recent years due to onregion, cultural traditions and maturity of market.
adrop in disposable income levels and has helped drive growth Europe for beverage cans.
The can has become one of the favoured packages: light and convenient and available in cost effective multi ageing population: demand for healthier products: packs.
The introduction of high resolution graphics has enhanced individualism customisation right for me: cocooning the cans visual appeal, and with consumers becoming more and comfort: smart & connected digital lifestyles demanding and digitally smart, the can has proven particularly suitable for interactive technology such as Quick Response QR In Europe more than a quarter of all soft drinks are consumed by codes and promotions using augmented reality.
In the past, consumers have tended to drink less soft drinks the older they get on average 88 litres per capita for over 55s vs 118 litres for 1824 year olds.
The difference is likely to be less pronounced in coming years as the new cohort of over 55s will be more culturally accustomed to drinking CSDs.
"But they will global megatrends Changing demographics Health & wellbeing Sustainability & ethics t ""HFJOH UJNF CPNC JN NPCJMJUZ t %JBCFTJUZ BOE MJGFTUZMF EJTFBTFT t 3FDZDMBCJMJUZ SFVTBCJMJUZ MFTT NBUFSJBMT t. BTT VSCBOJTBUJPO TNBMMFS IPVTFIPMET t 1SFWFOUJWF IFBMUIDBSF UBSHFUFE OVUSJUJPO t 1FSDFJWFE HSFFOFTT PG NBUFSJBMT t $IBOHJOH CMVSSJOH PG MJGF TUBHFT t %FNBOE GPS IFBMUIJFS QSPEVDUT t $BSCPO FOFSHZ XBUFS GPPUQSJOU -$"" t 8PNFO QPXFS FNFSHJOH NBSLFUT t 1SPEVDU TBGFUZ BOE TFDVSJUZ t &UIJDBMMZ TPVSDFE GBJSUSBEF BOE $43 Easy, convenient & simple Aspirational consumers Premium & affordable t PO UIF HP MJGFTUZMFT t SFBUFS DIPJDF PG QSPEVDUT t 2VBMJUZ DSBGUTNBOTIJQ BVUIFOUJDJUZ t 5JNF TDBSDJUZ TJNQMJDJUZ TFFLJOH t 4PDJBM TUBUVT TFFLJOH B CFUUFS MJGF t 5SBEJOH VQ BEEFE WBMVF t 1SPEVDU EJGGFSFOUJBUJPO TUBOE PVU t. JHSBUJOH JOVFODF HMPCBMJTBUJPO t 1SJWBUF MBCFM BOE CBSHBJO IVOUJOH t $PDPPOJOH BOE DPNGPSU t $POTQJDVPVT DPOTVNQUJPO t 1SFNJVN UJFST BOE BGGPSEBCJMJUZ Sensory & indulgence OEJWJEVBMJTN DVTUPNJTBUJPO Smart & connected t OEVMHFODF BOE USFBUJOH t $POTVNFST NPSF JOEJWJEVBMJTUJD t %JHJUBM MJGFTUZMFT BOE TNBSU MJWJOH t PWFMUZ BOE FYQFSJNFOUBUJPO t 3JHIU GPS NF."
"BEF GPS NF t OGPSNFE TIPQQJOH t &YQFSJFODF FDPOPNZ t 1SPMPOHFE TJOHMF MJGFTUZMFT t FYU HFOFSBUJPO TIPQQJOH t 4FOTPSZ GVTJPO NVMUJQMF TFOTPSZ DVFT t 4FMG CSBOEJOH TFFLJOH JNQSPWFNFOU t 5FDIOPMPHZ OUFMMJHFOU QBDLBHJOH -$"" -JGF $ZDMF ""OBMZTJT $43 $PSQPSBUF 4PDJBM 3FTQPOTJCJMJUZ financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 22 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report market review North America US and Canada Latin America including Mexico and Central America demand for healthier products: quality, craftsmanship aspirational consumers seeking a better life: demand & authenticity: sensory & indulgence novelty & for healthier products: premium & affordable trading experimentation: sustainability & ethics up & added value: sustainability & ethics The debate about obesity and healthier living has made North Latin America is a diverse region with a large multi ethnic Americans more aware of their daily sugar and calorie intake."
While some countries are seeing a rise in per capita Many consumers are switching to an ever increasing choice of income and the growth of a middle class, in general, alternative beverages, such as iced tea, energy drinks and unemployment, inflation and poverty levels remain high.
packaged water which are perceived as healthier and more Consumers are attracted to economy branded or lower value refreshing than CSDs.
CSDs, however, remain the single largest products in line with their budget and taste preferences.
Through and most popular beverage category in the US and Canada.
The increasing trade with other emerging regions and prudent fiscal continued development of the diet or light segment is seen as key policies in most key markets, the region as a whole is in a position to the future of such drinks.
Beverage can makers are supporting to continue on a sustainable growth path.
soft drinks companies with portion sized cans and clear labelling Among the emerging middle class in Latin America there is a of the calorie content.
tendency towards self indulgence in products and services as they While the US beer market remains stagnant with mature per capita aspire to the American Dream lifestyle they could not previously DPOTVNQUJPO MFWFMT BU BSPVOE MJUSFT UIF HSPXUI PG UIF TQFDJBMUZ afford.
A growing segment is becoming preoccupied by the idea niche beer sector emerges as an important continuing trend.
Led of affordable luxury where price is not the only factor in product initially by the strong growth of craft brewers, consumers are choice quality and variety also play an important role.
increasingly looking for interesting and unique flavours.
This sector In many Latin American countries, the social and communal aspect now accounts for 8% of beer volume in the US and benefits from of life is very important.
Beer consumption tends to take place in being demonstrably different from regular beers.
Many craft informal, relaxed surroundings.
It is traditional for a group of brewers are migrating to aluminium cans see page 27 which are friends to take turns in buying large bottles and sharing them.
Canmanufacturers have recognised this as a great opportunity North Americans are traditionally open and receptive to product byoffering larger sized cans that are equally suitable for sharing.
innovation, and the number of new beverage launches grew by 7% Demand for beer, CSDs and energy drinks the most important in 2012.
Consumers are actively seeking drinks that provide them categories for beverage cans is growing rapidly in the region with physical and mental health benefits as well as novelty taste with Mexico registering the highest per capita CSD consumption sensations.
The beverage can industry is responding by offering an inthe world and being second only to the US in volume consumed.
increasing variety of can sizes and can ends, innovative decoration A larger variety of beverage can sizes and decoration and printing techniques and added functionalities such as easy opening, finishes is helping beverage companies to diversify their product resealability, smoother pouring and drinking experiences, ranges and attract younger consumers to purchase their products.
toensure that the beverage can remains a package of choice.
Brazil is by far the largest beverage can market in the region.
US consumers tend to be price sensitive and consumer spending It is also one of the worlds leading recyclers of used aluminium continued to be impacted by the sluggish economy and high cans with recycling rates nearing 100%.
Beverage can demand in unemployment.
With a lack of retail promotions and price rises Brazil has been supported by strong economic growth and tougher consumers are tending to cut down on weekly food and drink drink and drive legislation.
It has resulted in Brazilians switching expenditure.
A change in shopping and consumption habits, such beer consumption from the bar to the home, benefiting sales of as less mid week top up shopping and fewer impulse purchases at cans at supermarkets, where more than 70% of cans are estimated convenience outlets, is affecting sales of beverages.
The FIFA Confederations Cup in 2013, the FIFA World Sustainability and ethical consumption remain important.
Cup in 2014 and the Olympics in 2016 are all set to stimulate Consumers are more aware of the environmental impact of food further beverage can consumption.
waste and a recent survey by Eco Pulse revealed that nearly 40% Sub-Saharan Africa of Americans feel guilty about food spoilage.
Shifting consumption changing demographics: aspirational consumers patterns had led to a decline in aluminium can recycling during the 2000s, as an increasing number of beverage cans were drunk on greater choice of products: premium & affordable the go, away from residential recycling programmes.
Now, a well trading up & added value: smart and connected established recycling infrastructure and programmes to educate The African region can be divided into two major areas, North and encourage communities to recycle supported by Rexam, other Africa and sub-Saharan Africa.
Whereas the majority of the beverage can makers and the aluminium industry have succeeded population in the north is Muslim, the south is more diverse.
In this in moving recycling rates up to above 60% see also page 62. market review, North Africa is included in the commentary for the Middle East as trends there are similar.
23 In sub-Saharan Africa most people survive on less than US$2 MENA consumers are also looking for specially designed products adayand consumption of soft drinks and alcoholic drinks is as well as services delivered in the way that suits them.
Due to fragmented and informal retailing and to a survey conducted in 2012 by Ernst & Young, customisation, the lack of infrastructure, much of the rural consumer base remains innovation and instant availability are among consumers top out of reach for most food and drink companies.
However, with a priorities which they are willing to pay for.
Some 45% of MENA young and rapidly rising population and increasing urbanisation, consumers said they would spend more for instant or swift consumption patterns are changing, unveiling a consumer market availability, and 20% said they would spend extra for products with massive potential.
As incomes rise, consumers are able to with innovative features.
trade up to higher value goods.
The African youth in particular is Beverage cans have proven very suitable for the regions hot becoming more brand conscious and interested in new, innovative climate as they are quick to chill.
Owing to the intensity of the heat, products, including technology and clothes.
They want products a great deal of social activity takes place indoors, often in that project the right image and offer quality that is affordable.
shopping centres with consumers demanding recognised brands, Thepopularity of mobile digital channels is rising rapidly as urban offering experience and quality equal to that found elsewhere.
Demand for globally recognised soft drinks is high and almost 60% Many African countries have a large home brew beer sector.
of packaged CSDs are sold in cans in the Middle East: this share is expected to increase.
This has thrived up until now as most people have been unable to afford the mainstream and premium brands.
Affordability is vital Asia Pacific in driving packaged beverage growth.
The continents growing mass urbanisation aspirational consumers: health & middle classes have been instrumental in the positive development of the alcoholic and soft drinks segments.
The official beer market wellbeing product safety: premium tiers and is developing rapidly as incomes grow and tastes evolve for more affordability: sustainability & ethics modern alcohol consumption and socialising patterns.
Beverage Over the next decade, an extra 1.2bn people in the Asia Pacific cans are making inroads in selected African markets, providing region will join the middle class.
In essence, this means that instead anew form of package and price differentiation for brewers.
of spending their income solely on subsistence goods, they will Large glass bottles remain very popular in the on trade but now start to adopt a more western consumer lifestyle.
Research shows ahigher percentage of premium brand volume is packaged in that Asians are seeking a better life and are excited about their smaller, more affordable units.
They place importance on new products and Middle East and North Africa experiences.
Packaged beverages that were once considered a luxury are poised to grow strongly in the coming years which large aspirational young population: migrating augurs well for the can.
influence globalisation: quality & added value: Asian consumers are generally concerned about their health customisation: sensory & indulgent andwellbeing and interested in pursuing healthy lifestyles and In the Middle East and North African MENA region deep maximising their quality of life.
Asian consumers place high cultural and socioeconomic shifts are underway.
The region has a importance on an ethical life as a route to wellbeing.
Mainly due burgeoning urban population and a large proportion of younger to cultural reasons, they consume less alcohol than Europeans and people around 30% in many countries.
They are embracing more Americans, and iced teas and coffees are proving increasingly recognised shopping habits, with the shopping mall replacing the popular: 21% of Asian adults consume these types of beverages traditional souk.
These conditions have created an aspirational which are well suited to the can.
consumer base with an appetite for recognised brands offering quality and choice.
There is also a large and growing ex pat Closely related to health is the issue of product safety and integrity population of more than 16 million with high levels of and the need for packaging that prevents counterfeiting, tampering disposableincome.
In this respect, the beverage can is seen as a safe and reliable package.
Although alcohol is discouraged for cultural and religious reasons, consumers still seek to emulate western lifestyles.
Young consumers In some countries in Asia, such as India and Indonesia, the can is still in Saudi Arabia, for example, drink almost 4 litres of energy drinks anovel form of packaging but this is likely to change with international per capita per year compared with 3 litres in Western Europe.
and local beverage producers choosing the can to supply their This favours the beverage can as 96% of all energy drinks in the markets and address the desire for aspiring consumers to trade up region are consumed in cans and the category is still growing.
andseek more premium beer and soft drinks options.
Maltbased drinks, which often resemble beer in appearance and packaging, are also popular in the region.
The sweet taste of most malt based drinks mirrors the general preferences in the region and allows consumers to replicate the act of drinking beer while respecting their cultural and religious norms.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
