co. uk Growing trafc rightmove.
co. uk is now ranked as the 6th most popular UK website by page impressions.
-Vi i i] Mobile searches % 30 of Rightmove property searches are now performed on mobile devices.
8 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rightmove plc annual report 2012 Business and financial review continued Market share of top 3 UK property websites by pages viewed Over 15m of our revenue in 2012 was from products launched in the last three years.
nVi i i `, }i] December 2012 app helps agents present their marketing material in the testimonials, proles of members of staff as well as properties ivi i`} ` i i recently sold or rented.
Through a Rightmove microsite an larger customers ensure that their staff are using the latest agent can signicantly enhance the quality of its presentation version of the marketing material.
to the Rightmove audience and, should they wish, also save Rightmove launched the Little Blue Book of property themselves the cost of their own website by pointing their trends in 2012.
This biannual publication brings together URL to the microsite.
trends and expert opinion from a number of sources as a w V i]v }i `ii resource for all property professionals.
We also continued developers spending is now on the enhanced advertising our programme of free seminars to agents and developers products that we started to introduce in 2007.
Over the last and over the past four years have presented to over 9,500 two years we have seen spend on these products more than attendees across more than 100 locations.
We expect to see the proportion of total spend Using Rightmoves position at the heart of home moving accounted for by these and future similar products continue in the UK, we have launched a series of reports for agents, to rise in the coming years.
allowing them to gather feedback on their service from their Whilst Rightmoves main focus in terms of innovation is on clients.
We have also built the facility to enable agents to track property advertising products, 2012 also saw considerable their performance on this against their nearest competitors on development and commercial success for our data services an anonymous basis.
Of particular note was the development, launch and widespread adoption of our service to surveyors, providing Innovation in advertising products them with data on comparables i. e. other properties which 2012 saw the ofcial launch of the Local Valuation Alert provide a reference point for property valuations.
Advertisers taking this service can promote themselves directly to prospective sellers of homes and Uncertainties, threats and risks raise their brand awareness with a key local audience.
The Rightmove business model has proven remarkably The product made a significant contribution to revenue resilient in the face of a depressed UK property market.
The number of estate agents, lettings agents and new We also launched Agent Microsites for lettings agents and home developments is a major determinant of Rightmoves i i`vi Vv i }i Vi`V revenues, and has remained stable from 2009 onwards.
Agent Microsites operate in a similar way do not believe the number of agents or developments is likely i - i `ii } to decline further unless there is another material downturn in way to promote all aspects of their proposition, not just the the market.
properties they currently have available.
