Iron Ore Financial performance Review of operations 2012 2011 Iron Ore achieved its stated production target of 250 million tonnes in US$ million US$ million 2012, overcoming volatile weather and market challenges along with Revenue 24,279 29,475 afast-tracked expansion schedule to increase overall group production Operating cash flow 15,827 21,778 to253 million tonnes.
Rio Tintos share of production was 198.9 million tonnes, a 3.7 per cent increase over the previous year.
Underlying earnings 9,242 13,267 Capital expenditure 7,149 4,004 This evidenced a great recovery from what was a particularly difficult first Net operating assets 21,068 12,531 quarter, when the seasonal weather conditions in the Pilbara produced three tropical cyclones.
However, satisfactory operating performance was maintained, with inland mining and in-load facilities continuing to Strategy and strategic priorities operate in a limited but functional capacity throughout the events.
The Iron Ore product groups strategy is to: The second half in particular demonstrated the integrated Pilbara r Create and protect shareholder value by maximising the return systems enhanced operational efficiency, with operational capacity fromexisting assets and building value through appropriate re-rated at 237 million tonnes per year Mt a in November with minimal projectdevelopments.
The business set, and met, the challenge of reaching r Implement value-generating major expansion programmes while a 260Mt a run-rate towards the end of the year.
maintaining production at nameplate capacity.
As in 2011, a volatile iron ore market produced wide and rapid swings in r Maintain close control of capital and operating costs to protect spot prices, across which most contract prices were based, highlighting margins, achieving savings through more efficient processes and the sales and marketing teams sustained achievement in placing tonnes reducing support and services costs.
Relevant index prices reached higher than US$150 per r Continue to develop, and benefit from, technology and innovation tonne and as low as around US$80 per tonne, before settling in the to deliver supply chain efficiencies, reduce or maintain costs, and US$120-130 range through the fourth quarter as demand recovered and maximise underlying profit.
The dynamic nature of the market was highlighted with broad r Capitalise on its position as the leading iron ore supplier close variations in customers responses to peaks and lows in demand, to the worlds largest, fastest-growing markets.
resulting in fragmented price referencing models across major markets.
r Maximise shareholder returns by applying a value-in-use focus Marketing strategy remained focused on achieving high recognition for to itsportfolio marketing strategy across its suite of products.
the superior value-in-use of Rio Tintos iron ore products, matching them with particular markets where optimal value could be realised.
Despite Safety the volatile conditions, sales increased each quarter through the year.
Following the three fatalities that regrettably occurred in 2011, a comprehensive examination of Iron Ores approach to safety was Operational improvement throughout the year was directed to achieving launched.
This resulted in key safety improvement initiatives that were productivity gains, particularly through minimising or eliminating implemented in 2012.
Integral to improved performance will be the bottlenecks across the Pilbara rail network.
Additional sidings were strong commitment to safety improvement at all levels of the organisation constructed to reduce delays.
and a focus on critical risk management, safety leadership, employee A US$518 million investment Rio Tinto share US$478 million was development, hazard awareness and safety systems simplification.
announced to reinstate Iron Ores AutoHaul automated train Critical risk monitoring programmes continue to be enhanced, and programme.
Scheduled for completion in 2015, this will result in the include increasing leadership capability and accountability.
Initiatives worlds first automated long-distance heavy-haul rail network.
AutoHaul designed to comprehensively reduce Iron Ores overall risk profile will enable Rio Tinto to expand capacity without making a substantial included the phased introduction of a safer 5-star ANCAP investment in additional trains.
The programme involves a number of Australasian New Car Assessment Program rated light vehicle fleet safety initiatives to ensure current safety levels are not compromised.
and the implementation of the Nine Lifesaving Commitments hazard The years operational efficiency gains often involved small but valuable awareness programme.
For example, two additional ore cars Iron Ore maintained a major focus on health issues, particularly emerging were added to all 234-car trains, increasing annual ore throughput issues impacting on the mental health of its workforce.
This included capacity by approximately 500,000 tonnes.
embedding a mental health strategy with a focus on depression.
Rio Tintos longstanding commitment to the Mine of the Future In 2012, the Iron Ore groups all injury frequency rate was 0.74, compared programme was reflected in a number of decisions, leading towards the with 0.65 in 2011.
Several significant potential incidents were also first fully autonomous large-scale mining operation in the Pilbara.
These shortcomings highlighted the need to embed Operations Centre OC in Perth has become the nerve centre for the better safety programmes and improvement initiatives throughout 2013.
Most management and oversight functions formerly based in the Pilbara have been brought into the OC.
Construction began Greenhouse gas emissions on Stage 3 of the OC, which will enable more roles and responsibilities A number of measures were implemented during the year to ensure that tobe based there in 2013.
Rio Tintos iron ore business applied best practice to its environmental The five original Autonomous Haulage System AHS driverless trucks performance.
From a regulatory perspective, several programmes were transferred from West Angelas mine to Yandicoogina, where they produced greenhouse gas GHG improvements.
All federal government were joined by five new autonomous trucks.
They now comprise the requirements for the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting System entire fleet in the Junction South East pit, hauling about 30 million and Energy Efficiency Opportunities Act were met.
Pilbara operations tonnes of high-grade ore a year.
They will be progressively joined by 150 alsoproduced savings of 479 TJoules 1.4 per cent of the total energy more AHS trucks over the next three to four years, to be initially deployed footprint for the iron ore business.
The Iron Ore groups total greenhouse at the expanded Nammuldi mine and the new Hope Downs 4 mine.
gas emission intensity has improved 4.1 per cent from 2008.
The 40-year-old Cape Lambert power station was decommissioned during 2012 and dismantling commenced.
The HIsmelt plant in Kwinana has also been decommissioned and preparation for dismantling and potential sale of some equipment has begun.
30 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Performance The ongoing challenge to recruit the workforce of the future was met with atCape Lambert port and rail expansions.
These early works include a number of activities including commencement and consolidation of replacing an ageing car dumper with a new dual car dumper, increasing regional fly-in fly-out FIFO hubs, introduction of the national FIFO the ports annual capacity by 20 million tonnes by 2015, and aligning programme, recruitment of record numbers of apprentices and graduates, in-loading capacity with current ship-loading capacity.
utilisation of five dedicated regional training facilities, and the funding of This was followed in June with a US$3.5 billion investment Rio Tinto 43 mining-related scholarships to the University of Western Australia.
share US$2.0 billion, providing for an additional two berths and Negotiations for participation agreements with Traditional Owners significantly increased rail capacity to support it.
continued, augmenting the five agreements reached in 2011.
This Investment of US$570 million was allocated to construct a new energyfeatured a strong commitment to finalising regional standards, efficient gas-fired power station at Cape Lambert, producing significantly incorporating mutual obligations to deliver commitments on employment, lower carbon emissions than its decommissioned predecessor.
financial compensation, education and training, heritage surveys and practices, environmental care and land use.
A further US$1.7 billion Rio Tinto share 100 per cent of largely sustaining capital expenditure was approved to extend the life of Aboriginal employment remained a key priority of the Pilbara business, the Yandicoogina mine to 2021 and boost nameplate capacity from and the year saw a steady improvement in workforce numbers, boosted 53Mt a to 56Mt a. Awet processing plant will also be added in order to by the significant addition of contractors associated with the expansion maintain product specification levels and provide a platform for future programme.
At the end of the year, total Aboriginal employment in the potential expansion.
Western Australian iron ore business stood at more than 1,660 workers.
The commitment to fostering Aboriginal business produced outstanding This is the largest integrated mining project in Australian history, and is achievements.
In the last three years more than A$1.6 billion in Pilbara on track to complete the announced schedule: contracts has been awarded to Aboriginal joint venture and direct contracts.
225Mt a by Q1 2011 Dampier port debottlenecking complete A number of regulatory and administrative arrangements were also 2.
230Mt a by end Q1 2012 Dampier port incremental complete, resolved including the government approval of stage two for the Wickham re-rated to 237Mt a in November 2012 residential sub-division supporting the Cape Lambert expansion.
290Mt a b y Q3 2013 Cape Lambert 53Mt a increment inimplementation Brockman 4 phase 2 expansion was successfully commissioned, lifting 4.
360Mt a in H1 2015 Cape Lambert 50Mt a incr ement and car mine annual capacity to 40 million tonnes, as was the Hamersley dumper replacement 20Mt a increment infrastructure approved Agricultural Project, using surplus water from the Marandoo mine extension to develop a year-round crop-growing capability.
The milestone of 290Mt a capacity was brought forward to Q3 2013, delivering greater shareholder value more quickly.
In September, the High Court of Australia overturned earlier decisions by the Federal Court not to declare the Hamersley and Robe rail lines open The planned installation of a wet plant at Brockman 4 was removed, for third-party access.
The Australian Competition Tribunal reconsidered saving US$1 billion in capital expenditure.
Through such measures, the matter, and, in February 2013, ruled that the lines not be opened up capital intensity has been kept at the mid-US$150s per tonne, despite for other users.
rising costs and currency movements.
The Iron Ore Company of Canada IOC, Rio Tinto share 58.7 per cent In response to the increased demand for iron ore from traditional and enjoyed a solid year, recovering from a difficult first few months to new markets, IOC re-launched the CEP that will increase capacity from produce 9.7 million tonnes of pellets and 4.4 million tonnes of 18 million tonnes of iron ore concentrate per year to 23 million tonnes.
Sales were 9.9 million and 4.2 million tonnes The first stage of the CEP, comprising the construction of a new primary respectively.
During the year a number of improvements helped achieve ore crusher, a 6km overland conveyor and a fourth autogenous grinding efficiency gains, notably in the mobile equipment and operations sectors.
line to increase primary processing capacity, is being commissioned and A number of challenges remain as a result of the Concentrate Expansion will ramp up towards full production in 2013.
Project CEP first stage, still in commissioning, which impacted The second stage involves the addition of two new spiral lines to the concentrate production.
Pellet production was stable through the year.
gravity separation circuit which was being delivered to operations from In March, IOC successfully secured a six-year labour contract with its late 2012.
This is planned to be followed by the installation of a new unions without disruption.
This agreement will enable IOC to be magnetite grinding and processing circuit scheduled for commissioning competitive, attract the necessary skills, and reward, attract and retain by the end of 2013. the right people to generate greater value.
Further proposed expansions are being progressed through study stages.
During the year, the Dampier Salt business moved within the Diamonds During 2012, the Simandou iron ore project in Guinea covered on page 27 &Minerals organisational structure, and is reported on page 27. moved within Diamonds & Minerals, as it remains the responsibility of that groups chief executive, Alan Davies, appointed in September.
Development projects A number of incremental improvements to the Pilbara integrated Outlook network, largely involving debottlenecking, resulted in a re-rating of the Market softening since 2011 was a result of destocking following lower systems current annual capacity in November 2012 to 237 million tonnes than expected Chinese steel demand, which in turn led to the final with minimal capital investment.
quarter rebound to levels above US$120 per tonne, moving higher into The expansion of Pilbara annual capacity to the revised target of the new year.
With European and American economies still suffering poor 360 million tonnes remained on track in 2012, following a two-staged growth conditions, the market will continue to show volatility in the short investment process and a successful year of project execution.
approvals for the expansion to 290 million tonnes capacity are in Notwithstanding this volatility, Rio Tinto is confident of the strength of place, and all rail and port approvals for the 360 million tonne stage the long-term demand outlook for iron ore. Increasing global wealth is are completed except for immediate rail links to new mine developments leading to billions of people moving through steel intensive phases of still in study phase.
Global steel demand is expected to grow at two per cent In February, a US$3.4 billion Rio Tinto share US$2.9 billion investment per annum to 2050, driven by China out to 2030, with India and other was approved, comprising US$2.2 billion to extend the life of the South East Asian countries offsetting a potential flattening in Chinese Nammuldi iron ore mine by 14 years and US$1.2 billion for early works demand growth thereafter.
