Diamonds & Minerals Financial performance Review of operations 2012 2011 Diamonds & Minerals underlying earnings of US$119 million include US$ million US$ million evaluation costs in respect of Simandou of US$262 million.
Excluding Revenue 4,056 3,654 Simandou expenditure, underlying earnings of US$381 million were Operating cash flow 238 4 52per cent higher than in 2011.
The group benefited from higher prices for titanium dioxide feedstocks and borates.
The acquisition of BHP Underlying earnings loss 119 162 Billitons interests in Richards Bay Minerals also contributed to the Underlying earnings excluding Simandou 381 251 increase in earnings.
This was offset by lower prices for diamonds and Capital expenditure 1,785 1,392 higher depreciation at Diavik following an impairment reversal in 2011.
Net operating assets 8,049 5,407 Rio Tinto Minerals RTM Following changes to Rio Tintos management announced in July 2012, the Simandou iron ore project is now reported within Diamonds & Minerals to reflect management responsibility.
Prior RTM 100 per cent interest supplies over 30 per cent of the worlds year comparatives have been restated.
refined borates from its world-class deposit in Boron, California.
RTM also has borates refineries and shipping facilities in China, France, Malaysia, Strategy and strategic priorities the Netherlands, Spain and the US.
Demand growth for diamonds and industrial minerals typically follows Borates production of 463,000 tonnes boric oxide equivalent was eight peak requirements for commodities such as iron ore and copper.
The per cent lower than in 2011, reflecting current global economic market Diamonds & Minerals product group intends to capitalise on this trend by conditions.
The sale of Borax Argentina which historically contributed strengthening its portfolio and securing opportunities for valuable growth.
around four per cent of RTMs borates production completed in August The product group strategy is to: 2012.
Despite a weakening in demand during the year, RTM achieved a r Improve its existing businesses operational and commercial performance.
one per cent improvement in refined borates revenues.
Earnings of r Build value by executing growth projects within its existing asset base.
US$140 million were six per cent higher than 2011, excluding the contribution from talc in the prior period.
r Grow its portfolio through value accretive exploration and acquisitions in existing and complementary sectors.
Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium RTIT RTIT is the largest producer of titanium dioxide feedstocks.
RTIT mines Safety ilmenite at its wholly-owned Rio Tinto Fer et Titane RTFT operation in The product group continues to focus on fostering a culture of Quebec: its managed operation Richards Bay Minerals RBM in South accountability and awareness among employees and improving Africa 74 per cent interest : and its QIT Madagascar Minerals QMM contractor safety.
The product groups all injury frequency rate AIFR operation 80 per cent interest.
RTIT produces high-quality titanium increased slightly to 0.57 in 2012 from 0.55 in 2011. dioxide feedstocks at its world-class metallurgical complexes as well as The product group faces some unique challenges in health and safety.
co-products including high purity iron, steel, metallic powders, zircon The workforce spans multiple nationalities, ethnicities, languages and and rutile.
In response, management is employing In September 2012, Rio Tinto doubled its holding in Richards Bay innovative strategies and visible safety leadership to educate the Minerals to 74 per cent following the acquisition of BHP Billitons entire workforce.
The product group is committed to eliminating risks of interests.
The purchase price paid by Rio Tinto on completion was fatalities and permanent injuries, particularly in the large development US$1.7 billion.
The acquisition was triggered in February 2012 by projects under way.
At Diavik, where the transition to underground mining BHP Billiton exercising a put option agreed with Rio Tinto as part of was recently completed, the mine rescue team came third at the RBMs restructuring in 2009.
The price was determined through a 8thInternational Mine Rescue Competition held in Donetsk, Ukraine, previously-agreed expert valuation process.
asignificant achievement at the highest possible skill level.
In 2012, titanium dioxide feedstock production increased by 11 per cent Greenhouse gas emissions year-on-year to 1.6 million tonnes.
This reflects higher production at Overall greenhouse gas GHG emission intensity improved across the RTFT which completed a furnace rebuild in 2011 and an increase in product group due to higher production levels and the implementation attributable volumes at RBM resulting from Rio Tinto doubling its stake of more efficient equipment and technology.
GHG emissions per tonne inSeptember.
Production was negatively impacted by the furnace rebuild of product were marginally higher at Rio Tinto Minerals in 2012 as a at RBM that commenced in May 2012. result of lower production, and intensity decreased by 8.4 per cent across RTIT increased its revenues by 41 per cent due to higher prices for Rio Tinto Iron & Titaniums operations, reflecting efficiencies associated titanium dioxide feedstocks and the RBM transaction.
RTIT continued with higher production levels and new technology.
GHG emission toreplace its multi-year sales contracts with alternative pricing intensities improved across all Rio Tinto Diamonds operations.
In 2012 mechanisms, increasing the exposure to current market prices.
The Diavik commissioned its wind farm which will reduce diesel consumption impact of improved pricing more than offset increased input costs by approximately ten per cent and lower greenhouse gas emissions by resulting in a 163 per cent increase in year-on-year earnings to approximately six per cent.
The Diavik wind farm is the largest wind US$397 million, including the higher contribution from RBM.
diesel hybrid system in the world and the first wind generation facility for Rio Tinto.
Rio Tinto Diamonds RTD RTD is a leading producer of rough diamonds with a product portfolio thatprovides a presence in all major markets.
Rio Tintos diamond assets currently comprise the Argyle Diamond Mine in Australia Rio Tinto: 100 per cent, the Diavik Diamond Mine in Canada 60 per cent, Murowa Diamonds in Zimbabwe 78 per cent and the Bunder diamond project inIndia 100 per cent.
RTD sells its share of production through its centralised marketing office in Belgium and has a niche cutting and polishing factory in Australia, where it cuts and polishes the high-end pink diamonds from the Argyle mine, and sells them to an international customer base.
26 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Performance In March 2012, Rio Tinto announced a strategic review of its diamond received a Letter of Intent from the Government of Madhya Pradesh to business that includes exploring a range of options for the potential issue the mining lease for Bunder, following approval in principle from divestment of its diamonds interests.
RTD produced 13.1 million carats in 2012, a 12 per cent increase from During 2012, the Simandou iron ore project in Guinea also moved within 2011 that reflected increased grades, higher ore throughput and the Diamonds & Minerals, as it remains the responsibility of the groups new absence of adverse weather interruptions which impacted 2011.
Revenue chief executive, Alan Davies, appointed in September.
Simandou is a key in 2012 was two per cent higher than in 2011, as the effect of higher pillar in Rio Tintos long-term growth strategy, involving one of the largest volumes was largely offset by lower prices.
RTD reported a loss of known undeveloped iron ore resources in the world.
The concession will US$43 million in 2012, compared to earnings of US$10 million in 2011, enable the development of the largest mine and infrastructure project reflecting lower prices and higher depreciation.
This will include the progressive development of a 95 million tonne per annum mine, a 650-kilometre trans-Guinean A post-tax impairment of US$460 million was recognised relating to the railway and a new deep-water port.
An impairment review of Argyle was triggered by the announcement of the Diamonds strategic review as well as changes The project is adopting a stage gate approval process allowing for studies to the forecast ramp-up date for the underground mine.
This is not to be finalised in parallel with early works, and for investment to be made included in underlying earnings.
in line with Government of Guinea approvals and financing processes.
Construction of the Argyle underground mine is proceeding and The year saw significant progress, with Rio Tinto and Chinalcos listed production is scheduled to commence in the first half of 2013, with subsidiary, Chalco, completing the formation of the Simandou Joint ramp up to full operation to be completed by 2015, extending the life Venture for the development and operation of the project.
In June, the of mine until at least 2020.
Production from Diaviks underground mine project committed a further investment of US$1 billion Rio Tinto share: commenced in early 2010 in parallel with open pit operations.
The US$501 million for detailed design studies, and early works and transition to a fully underground operation was completed in 2012 long-lead items, primarily for developing the rail and port infrastructure.
and will sustain Diavik production well past 2020.
Rio Tinto, with the support of Soguipami, the State Mining Company, submitted the Social and Environmental Impact Assessment to the Dampier Salt DSL Government of Guinea for review and approval.
The Republic of Guinea Dampier Salt Limited, the worlds largest salt exporter, produces also issued a presidential decree declaring the Simandou infrastructure industrial salt by solar evaporation of sea water at Dampier and Port aProject of National Interest PIN in October 2012, protecting the Hedland, and from underground brine at Lake MacLeod, all in Western areaof land needed to develop the rail and port infrastructure from any Australia.
Salt is sold principally to the base chemical industry markets acquisition or development by third parties.
During the year, DSL moved within the Diamonds & Minerals organisational structure.
Salt production of 6.8 million tonnes Outlook Rio Tinto share increased three per cent year-on-year.
Diamonds & Minerals businesses serve a range of different industries, butare linked through their track record of creating and defining new and Development projects profitable markets for their products.
Demand softened in these markets In 2011, Diamonds & Minerals re-entered the potash business through in 2012 in response to broader economic trends, and the outlook for 2013 anexploration joint venture with North Atlantic Potash Inc. a subsidiary remains uncertain.
However, the mediumto long-term outlook continues ofJSC Acron.
Acron is a world leader in fertiliser production and holds to be positive across all products as urbanisation and rising standards of multiple potash exploration permits in Saskatchewan, Canada, home living drive higher levels of demand.
to about half the worlds potash reserves.
Drilling results indicate encouraging potash grade and thickness.
Higher nutritional standards, In the borates marketplace, RTM will seek to capture profitable growth in population growth and limited arable land make potash a critical factor emerging economies and maintain its position in its established markets.
inmaintaining global food security, and a natural complement to RTMs Planned supply chain improvements will facilitate speed and flexibility existing borate fertiliser business.
inshifting supply to promising sectors and regions.
RTM will focus on increasing refined borates capacity to meet higher than GDP demand Large diameter drilling was conducted and resource assessment and growth while achieving world-class safety performance and improving planning also progressed at the groups Jadar lithium-borate deposit in itscost position.
If developed, the deposit has the potential to supply more than 20 per cent of global lithium demand.
Lithium carbonates fastestDemand for titanium dioxide feedstock is expected to continue to grow growing application is in batteries that provide clean power to industrial inthe mediumto long-term, in line with improving global economic systems and electric and hybrid cars.
conditions, urbanisation and demand growth in emerging markets.
In response to current weak demand and in order to reduce operating costs, Good progress was made on RTITs TIO4 project aimed at expanding its RTIT is taking action at a number of its operations.
RBM will place its mining and smelting capabilities in Canada and Africa.
However, in zircon and rutile processing operations on care and maintenance, while January 2013, against a backdrop of weaker market conditions for its maintaining production at the core ilmenite mining and smelting products and the need to manage and reduce its costs, RTIT has reviewed operations.
RTFT is taking its upgraded slag UGS production facility the economic viability of the project and suspended prefeasibility studies temporarily offline.
The Zulti South mine expansion at RBM and exploration programme in Mozambique continue.
The mediumto long-term fundamentals for the diamond industry are positive and expected to support sustainable future price growth.
The Following the announcement in 2011 of TiO a proposed investment 2050 global mineral reserve base is steadily declining, compounded by limited of C$800 million over five years to enhance mining and processing exploration investment and success, and expected reductions in supply operations RTFT commenced investment in 2012 to upgrade its water over the medium to longer-term.
Demand in India and China is expected filtration system at its steel plant, acquire a new crusher at its mining to continue to grow, and to represent nearly 50 per cent of global operation and begin a furnace rebuild.
Demand in mature markets is expected The Bunder diamond project is currently more than halfway through to grow in line with GDP.
its prefeasibility studies, which began in July 2010.
These studies have confirmed the economic potential of the orebody and work is well under way to define the best development option.
In January 2012, Rio Tinto riotinto.
