Energy Financial performance Review of operations 2012 2011 After a period of robust earnings following the global financial crisis, US$ million US$ million the performance of the Energy product group declined in 2012 due Revenue 5,783 7,003 to lower prices for coal and uranium, a strong Australian dollar and Operating cash flow 724 2,019 escalating input costs.
Underlying earnings 283 1,074 All Energy businesses reacted swiftly to this challenging economic Capital expenditure 1,819 1,327 environment by implementing plans to address declining productivity Net operating assets 6,996 8,164 and the sharp rise in operational costs.
An impairment charge of US$2.86 billion post-tax was also recognised relating to Energys coal business in Mozambique refer to next page for explanation.
Strategy and strategic priorities The Energy product group has a mix of assets in its portfolio and remains Rio Tinto Coal Australia Rio Tinto: 100 per cent focused on safely supplying the worlds growing energy needs through Rio Tinto Coal Australia RTCA manages the groups Australian coal the sustainable development and operation of large-scale, long-life, interests.
These include the Blair Athol Rio Tinto: 71.2 per cent, low-cost mines.
Clermont Rio Tinto: 50.1 per cent, Hail Creek Rio Tinto: 82 per cent In light of market conditions for coal and uranium, the high-cost and Kestrel Rio Tinto: 80 per cent coal mines in Queensland.
operating environment in eastern Australia and infrastructure constraints RTCA also manages the Energy product groups coal mines in New South in Mozambique, the Energy group is undertaking a review of the optimal Wales, which are Hunter Valley Operations Rio Tinto: 80 per cent, growth profile for all its business units.
Bengalla Rio Tinto: 32 per cent, Mount Thorley Rio Tinto: 64 per cent The Energy product group is focused on: and Warkworth Rio Tinto: 44.5 per cent.
r Remaining flexible to respond to the impacts of external factors such Coal & Allied is 80 per cent owned by the Rio Tinto Group and 20 per cent as global economic volatility and commodity price fluctuations.
Coal & Allied also has a 36.5 per cent interest in Port Waratah Coal Services which operates the Kooragang and r Increasing productivity and operational performance in all business Carrington coal port terminals.
units, as well as reducing costs, to increase profitability in the near-term, while positioning the group to meet forecast long-term Australian coal production increased by eight per cent in 2012 compared demand for coal and uranium.
to 2011 due to the completion of brownfield expansions in the Hunter r Maintaining strong relations with customers in expanding energy Valley and the continued ramp-up of the Clermont Mine in Queensland.
export markets, particularly in Asia.
This was achieved despite the impacts of wet weather in eastern Australia in the first half of 2012, and carry-over effects from a shortage of Safety explosives in New South Wales in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Net earnings The Energy product group aims to achieve the goal of zero harm by of US$402 million represent a 68 per cent decrease from 2011, due fostering a culture where employees and contractors have the knowledge, largely to lower prices for all coal types, the continuing strength of the skills and desire to work safely at all times.
In 2012, this commitment was Australian dollar, and higher input costs.
demonstrated with Mount Thorley Warkworth named joint winner of the Coal production is forecast to increase again in 2013 through the Rio Tinto Chief Executive Safety Award.
Mount Thorley Warkworth was realisation of benefits from the business-wide debottlenecking and asset recognised for the passion of its senior leaders to build a safe and highly management programme, the ongoing ramp-up of the Clermont Mine engaged workforce including seamless inclusion of contractors within and first coal from the Kestrel Mine Extension.
The production increase the sites safety culture and the rigour with which Rio Tintos safety through these activities is forecast to more than offset the impact of systems and standards are applied.
In 2012, Energys all injury frequency closure of the Blair Athol Mine in central Queensland which produced its rate was 0.66 compared with 0.80 in 2011, which was reflective of lower last coal in November 2012.
Over nearly three decades, Blair Athol Mine injury rates across all its business units.
In addition, core fatality produced close to 250 million tonnes of thermal coal, and at its peak was prevention processes including thorough investigation of significant Australias largest exporter of thermal coal.
Its infrastructure facilities are potential incidents and active management of critical operational risks now being used by the nearby RTCA-managed Clermont Mine, which were further entrenched in the way the group works.
Greenhouse gas emissions In response to increased community concern regarding impacts from To date, Rio Tinto has spent more than US$100 million on research and mining in the Hunter Valley, RTCA has made significant improvements development into technologies that will reduce emissions from coal-fired to both operational and rehabilitation practices.
This investment is necessary because all forecasts point to purchasing noise-attenuated heavy mobile equipment and retrofitting coal continuing to play a significant role in the global energy mix, but existing fleet, and the use of real-time monitoring to modify operations in an increasingly carbon-constrained environment.
In 2012, the Energy inresponse to environmental conditions.
group launched a three-year, A$6 million sponsorship of The Otway Energy Resources of Australia Rio Tinto: 68.39 per cent Project in Victoria, Australias first industrial-scale demonstration of Energy Resources of Australia ERA is a publicly listed company.
Since geological carbon dioxide storage and research.
Combined with work 1981, ERA has mined ore and produced uranium oxide at its Ranger open at the University of Melbourne, the Energy group is helping to create a world-class hub for research into this important technology.
In 2012, pit mine, 260km east of Darwin in the Northern Territory.
Energys Australian coal operations implemented a new industry ERA also holds title to the adjacent Jabiluka mineral lease, which is under methodology at its New South Wales mines to more accurately estimate a long-term care and maintenance agreement.
Ranger and Jabiluka are fugitive emissions from coal extraction, instead of using the default surrounded by, but remain separate from, the World Heritage listed emission factor.
In 2012, greenhouse gas emissions for the Energy Kakadu National Park.
ERAs operations are subject to stringent group remained steady at approximately 4.3 million tonnes of carbon environmental requirements and governmental oversight.
28 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Performance Ranger mine finished open-cut mining in December 2012 after 31 years.
In Queensland, RTCAs Kestrel Mine Extension project is well advanced Uranium production will continue by processing previously stockpiled and scheduled to start production in mid-2013.
The project will lower grade material while studies proceed to assess the feasibility of incrementally increase production by one million tonnes per annum, underground operations at Ranger.
extend the life of the current mine to 2032 and reduce unit operating costs.
In January 2013, a suite of agreements covering the Ranger Project Area were executed by ERA, the Mirarr Traditional Owners, the Northern Land In Mozambique, work to refresh the development strategy is being Council and the Commonwealth Government.
expedited in light of the non-cash impairments announced in January 2013.
The Energy product group continues to engage with the Key features of the agreements include the Mirarr Traditional Owners Government of Mozambique on a range of transport infrastructure receiving an increased share of the financial benefits from the Ranger options, the success of which remains the key to unlocking the full mine, the creation of a regional Sustainability Trust which will deliver valueof coal tenements in the Moatize Basin.
social initiatives in the local region, and an agreed approach to increasing opportunities for local Aboriginal participation in business development, At ERA, the Ranger 3 Deeps orebody contains an estimated 34,000 training and employment.
tonnes of uranium oxide making it one of the most significant recent uranium discoveries anywhere in the world.
Construction of a The finalisation of these agreements is a significant achievement A$120 million exploration decline started in May 2012 with exploration and reflects a strengthening in the relationship between ERA and drilling expected to commence in Q2 2013. the Gundjeihmi Aboriginal Corporation representing the Mirarr Traditional Owners.
Following a successful exploration programme, Rssing Uranium is considering mining the Z20 orebody.
In order to access the orebody, an Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique Rio Tinto: 100 per cent infrastructure corridor would need to be established linking Z20 to the Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique RTCM manages the Zambeze Project existing Rssing mine.
100 per cent : Tete East Project 100 per cent : Benga Mine 65 per cent : and the Zululand Anthracite Colliery 74 per cent.
Outlook With European and American economies continuing to experience RTCM holds mining and exploration licences in the Moatize Basin in the low-growth conditions, subdued prices for coal and uranium are expected Tete province of Mozambique.
The Benga Mine was officially opened in to continue in the short to medium term.
Notwithstanding the near-term May 2012 with first coal exported in June 2012.
An impairment charge of outlook, long-term demand for coal and uranium is expected to US$2.86 billion post-tax was recognised relating to Energys coal business remain strong.
The development of infrastructure in Mozambique to support the undeveloped coal asset is more challenging than initially Under even the most ambitious climate change policy scenarios, anticipated which, combined with a downward revision to estimates of Rio Tinto expects demand for energy to increase significantly with future recoverable coking coal volumes, has led to a reassessment of the overall global growth dominated by Asia.
The International Energy Agencys scale and ramp up schedule of RTCM and consequently to the assessment most recent scenario shows China alone representing 43 per cent of of its fair value less costs to sell FVLCS.
global energy growth over the period 2010 to 2020.
In the same scenario in the period 2010 to 2035, Asia accounts for 67 per cent of global Benga Mine commercial production in 2012 was 460 thousand tonnes.
growth, with India and other countries accelerating as Chinas growth Near-term sales volumes will reflect the availability of rail and profile starts to flatten.
Many countries seek a diversified energy mix to safeguard energy Rssing Uranium Rio Tinto: 68.58 per cent security, while looking to minimise costs and manage the various Rssing Mine is located near Arandis in Namibias Erongo Region.
environmental impacts of energy use including carbon emissions.
Improving costs and efficiencies continued to be a focus at Rssing This challenging three-way balance means that coal will continue to be in2012.
Benefits from the business improvement strategies that were an important baseload fuel for decades to come and nuclear power will initiated in 2011 are now being realised and this work will continue provide additional energy security with low emissions.
Rssing is evaluating options to expand operations and extend steel demand is expected to grow at two per cent per annum to 2050, the mine life beyond 2023. underpinning the demand for high-quality metallurgical coal.
Development projects Rio Tinto completed the acquisition of Hathor Exploration, a junior Canadian uranium exploration company with assets in the Athabasca Basin region of Saskatchewan, in January 2012.
The new entity was renamed Rio Tinto Canada Uranium RTCU.
Its assets give the Energy product group access to a significant highgrade uranium deposit and further highly prospective exploration tenements in an area of Canada that currently supplies approximately 20 per cent of global uranium.
RTCUs Roughrider Project is located in anarea that hosts all of Canadas producing uranium mines.
Rio Tinto has commenced an environmental baseline programme for theRoughrider Project and engagement with local communities and stakeholders is also well under way.
Rio Tinto is continuing to work with the governments of Saskatchewan and Canada to promote the growth ofthe uranium mining industry.
