Performance Technology & Innovation Rio Tintos Technology & Innovation group T&I collectively seeks Mining and Asset Management Centre to maximise total shareholder value by partnering with the business The Asset Management Centre provides strategic direction on the to provide technical insights in operational improvements, technical effective selection and utilisation of the Groups equipment for mining assurance, project delivery, and innovation.
T&Is focus is on creating and processing.
Working with businesses, the centre supports asset sustainable value by embedding fundamental changes in the way improvement initiatives through the use of global metrics and Rio Tinto operates.
The work also includes developing capability through competency frameworks and formal T&Is gross cost in 2012 was US$415 million, compared with training to support sustainable improvement and standard business US$343 million in 2011 and US$213 million in 2010. processes with fit-for-purpose technical operating systems.
The total number of employees in T&I increased from 925 at year end The focus of the Surface Mining team is to establish leading practice and 2011 to 1,031 at year end 2012. develop, share and implement Group-wide solutions in core mining production processes.
Other Surface Mining initiatives include payload Strategy and strategic priorities management, load and haul efficiency improvements, increased orebody T&Is strategy is to: recovery, improved stockpile management, drill and blast, and off-road r Maintain and promote a safe working environment.
r Continue to embed operational improvements in business units.
Mining Technology also includes a Strategic Production Planning SPP r Maximise the contribution of technology to the Groups strategy team that works with business units to develop comprehensive plans and ofmaximising shareholder value.
valuations of strategic development options.
Results from SPP provide a logical resource development framework for more detailed studies and r Deploy technology solutions that increase value.
r Design and build valuable new investment projects.
r Position the Group to unlock orebodies that require innovative Project Development & Implementation miningsolutions.
Project Development & Implementation PDI is responsible for the implementation and delivery of major capital projects.
PDI is made up Safety of a centralised Project Management Office PMO and Project Delivery T&I is committed to the safe operation of its facilities and to employee Hubs which are aligned by geographic location or commodity.
The all injury frequency rate for T&I in 2012 was 1.57 compared is responsible for developing, promoting and supporting the to 2.57 in 2011.
The improvement in the rate was primarily attributed implementation of the processes, standards and tools to achieve to improvements in existing safety efforts as well as the addition of the repeatable project success.
The hubs are responsible for the delivery Rio Tinto Alcan Major Projects group to T&I Project Development and of major capital projects in partnership with product groups and Implementation.
PDI is delivering a significant proportion of Rio Tintos major projects Performance within a newly developed Capital Projects Framework which is shaped Innovation around four key elements project portfolio planning and reporting, Innovation is the research and development group within T&I.
Its focus project governance, practices, and people.
ison developing radically innovative technologies that can address the significant challenges facing the mining industry and drive increased Technical Evaluation Group production, efficiency and safety.
The Technical Evaluation Group TEG is a team of internal professionals responsible for rigorously reviewing all major project proposals to ensure While Rio Tinto as a whole looks at continuous improvement, Innovation Rio Tintos Investment Committee is provided with independent technical is focused on step-change technologies, including the Mine of the assessments to support its decision-making.
The Mine of the Future programme is not a single mine site: it is an approach used across Rio Tinto to find advanced ways Underground Technology Centre to find, extract, and process minerals from deep within the Earth while The objective of the Underground Technology Centre is to create reducing environmental impacts and further improving safety.
and develop a world-class team in technical aspects of underground The wealth of technical and project expertise within Innovation is mining that will provide Rio Tinto with a competitive advantage.
The centre partners with the product groups on the technical aspects leveraged through a network of key partnerships with organisations and of design, construction and operation, including the delivery of institutions around the world providing a vast and interconnected group of world-class experts to generate solutions.
The output of this work is protected by an intense focus on competitive Outlook advantage and developing tailored intellectual property protection T&I will continue to maintain a culture that makes safety and safety strategies for each programme of work.
To support the business where technical expertise and external networks will have the largest benefit to Mineral Technology Services Rio Tinto and its shareholders, T&Is focus in 2013 will be on four main Mineral Technology Services MTS comprises a team of technology areas: partnering with product groups and functions on operational professionals based in seven offices in North America, Australia, South improvement, the safe and efficient development and implementation Africa and the UK, who partner with Rio Tintos business units in the TM ofprojects, the pursuit of the Mine of the Future programme and the delivery of large, measureable increases in earnings and value.
MTS development of innovative alliances and relationships, and technical provides technical service in the areas of geology, mining, mineral assurance all of which will create competitive advantage for the Group.
processing, geotechnics, hydrometallurgy, process control and T&I is reviewing the Groups approach to due diligence and technical environmental management.
A key area of focus for MTS continues to be the Improving Performance Together programme launched in 2005.
In 2012 the focus was aligning the work in processing, asset management and mining to provide support across the entire value chain with a focus on targeting the highest priorities for throughput, recovery and operating performance.
