b Information for the years 2004 to 2012 is stated under EU IFRS.
The Group implemented IAS 39 on 1 January 2005 without restatement of comparatives.
c Adjustments have been made for 2003 and subsequent years to include in sales revenue, certain amounts charged to customers for freight and handling costs, which previously were deducted from operating costs.
d Certain units that were equity accounted under UK GAAP are proportionally consolidated under EU IFRS and vice-versa.
Gross sales revenue includes the sales revenue of equity accounted units in addition to Consolidated sales revenue after adjusting for intra-subsidiary equity accounted units sales.
Consolidated revenue includes subsidiaries sales to equity accounted units which are not included in sales revenue.
e Underlying earnings is an additional measure of earnings, which is reported by Rio Tinto with its EU IFRS results to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations.
It is defined in note 2 to the Financial Statements.
Underlying earnings is similar but not identical to the Adjusted earnings measure that Rio Tinto reported with its UK GAAP results.
Adjusted earnings was defined as excluding exceptional items of such magnitude that their exclusion was necessary in order that adjusted earnings fulfilled their purpose of reflecting the underlying performance of the Group.
Underlying profit before interest and tax PBIT and Adjusted PBIT are similar to Underlying earnings and Adjusted earnings except that they are stated before tax and interest.
f Finance costs include net interest and amortisation of discount.
g Under EU IFRS, certain gains and losses on exchange and on revaluation of derivatives are included in the Groups Net earnings.
Under UK GAAP, these did not have an impact on the income statement.
These items are excluded from Underlying earnings.
h Dividends per share are the amounts declared in respect of each financial year.
These usually include an Interim dividend paid in the year, and a Final dividend paid after the end of the year.
The Special dividend of 90 US cents per share paid in 2006 is not included in the table.
2003 to 2008 ordinary dividends per share have been restated using a number of shares which reflects the discounted price of the July 2009 rights issues the bonus factor.
i Fixed assets include property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, goodwill, and investments in and long term loans to equity accounted units.
j Capital expenditure comprises purchases less disposals of property, plant and equipment, capitalised evaluation costs and purchases less disposals of other intangible assets plus direct funding provided to equity accounted units for Rio Tintos share of their capital expenditure.
The figures include 100 per cent of subsidiaries capital expenditure, but exclude that of equity accounted units except where directly funded by Rio Tinto.
k Total cash flow from operations comprises Cash flow from consolidated operations together with dividends from equity accounted units.
Exploration and evaluation costs charged against income were previously included in Cash used in investing activities but are now included within Cash flow from operating activities.
As a result, exploration and evaluation costs expensed have been reclassified in the comparative periods within the cash flow statement.
l Cash flow before financing activities is stated before deducting dividends payable to Rio Tinto shareholders, which involved restatement of 2003. m Operating margin is the percentage of Underlying Adjusted PBIT, after excluding tax on equity accounted units, to Gross sales revenue.
n Total capital comprises year end shareholders funds plus net debt and outside shareholders interests.
o Underlying Adjusted earnings: shareholders funds represents Underlying or Adjusted earnings expressed as a percentage of the mean of opening and closing equity attributable to Rio Tinto shareholders.
p Interest cover represents the number of times interest payable less receivable excluding the amortisation of discount but including capitalised interest is covered by Underlying operating profit, less amortisation of discount, plus dividends from equity accounted units.
Underlying operating profit is similar to Underlying earnings but is stated before tax, interest and share of profit after tax of equity accounted units.
q 2009 earnings per share from continuing operations and Underlying earnings per share have been calculated using a number of shares which reflects the discounted price of the July rights issues the bonus factor.
2003 to 2008 comparatives have been restated accordingly.
r Comparatives for Gross revenue have been restated 2011: US$324 million, 2010: US$206 million to exclude an amount relating to product sold by the Group to an equity accounted unit and subsequently sold to third parties.
The amount was correctly included within consolidated sales revenue which remain unchanged.
Disposals for 2010 and 2011 have been adjusted to include net proceeds from the disposal of assets held for sale.
