Overview Strategic context commodities such as titanium dioxide and other industrial minerals.
Global economy Ourview remains that Chinas steel demand will peak at around one The global economy continues to deal with the aftermath of the global billion tonnes per annum towards 2030.
Over this timeframe, India financial crisis GFC and associated volatility.
European policymakers andcountries in South East Asia are expected to become increasingly held successive summits during 2012 to tackle tensions from excessive important sources of demand for commodities, including steel.
sovereign debt levels in the eurozone, and debate the balance between austerity and growth policies.
Increasing capital intensity for mining projects was a persistent trend in2012.
This was a reflection of continued real labour cost escalation, In the US, employment remained below 2008 levels, forcing the Federal declining resource grades and increased mining projects complexity.
Reserve to launch a third round of quantitative easing to further stimulate Through 2012 the mining industry also continued to face increased a recovery.
stakeholder pressures, highlighting the importance of proactive stakeholder In contrast, the Chinese government maintained policies to control engagement and good track records in sustainable development.
inflation and other effects from the 2009 stimulus and excess liquidity.
Nevertheless, rising threats of resource nationalism, greater rent extraction This led to a sharper slowdown than expected during the third quarter by governments, or simply increased uncertainty, have implications for the of 2012 in China, contributing to fears that the global economy was economics and feasibility of projects across the industry.
Combined with significant price volatility and stronger calls from Political leadership transition in China added to the perception of investors for near-term returns over long-dated options, these supply uncertainty in 2012, forcing markets towards greater risk aversion.
challenges are resulting in further investment delays and deferrals.
This was felt strongly in commodity markets, with prices for some Ironore and copper projects are being particularly impacted.
metals and minerals experiencing large fluctuations during the year.
Largely due to the supply-side challenges, copper prices remained On average, prices for most commodities were ten to 20 per cent lower at levels equivalent to pre-GFC prices throughout 2012.
This is in sharp than in 2011, although they remained at high levels in the longer contrast with the aluminium market, where capacity and production historical context.
Cost escalations, project delays and other supply in China continue to match the rapid pace of demand.
Even so, constraints continued, in many cases, to offset a weaker and more physical market premia for aluminium reached new records in 2012. uncertain demand growth environment.
The availability of profitable financing deals continued to lock in access Towards the end of 2012, several encouraging developments started to surplus metal.
Thermal coal was another market with less favourable to emerge.
In Europe, action from the European Central Bank, combined supply and demand dynamics in 2012.
Prices came under constant with the release of bailout funds for Greece, reduced the likelihood of pressure throughout the first half of the year.
Finally, following continued a Greek departure from the eurozone in 2013.
It also provided European strong upward momentum at the start of 2012, rutile and zircon prices governments with more time to work towards further integration and faced heavy downward pressures during the second half of the year from greater resilience.
Economic activity started to pick-up again in China in the final quarter Lower prices and continued cost escalations have put increasing pressure of 2012, alleviating fears of a hard-landing.
Although liquidity controls on margins across the mining industry.
This is particularly true in in China are expected to remain in place, we would expect positive Australia where the dollar has remained resilient to falling commodity momentum to be carried into 2013, with Chinese GDP growth for the prices.
The country has attracted money-flows from investors reallocating year moving back to just above eight per cent.
The industry in general is starting to respond to the squeeze on margins through a renewed focus on productivity.
There remain many risks that could derail a stabilisation and improvement in global activity, including continued tensions in the Outlook Middle East.
We expect volatility to remain a feature of our markets As the world economy returns to the trend rate of growth, rising incomes in 2013. and increased prosperity in developing countries with associated Our belief in the underlying and longer-term trend of rising prosperity industrialisation and urbanisation will continue to drive demand for in Asia remains unchanged.
This will ultimately contribute to support commodities.
Looking to the future, our view remains that there will and sustain an elevated level of global economic growth over the next be high average demand growth in our markets while cost escalations couple of decades.
While recognising that the commodity-intensive and stakeholder pressures remain key challenges to grow future supply.
growth in China is maturing, the industrialisation and urbanisation forces associated with the economic development of emerging countries will continue to support demand for commodities.
Commodity markets Commodity markets started 2012 relatively positively, with prices for most metals and minerals making a continued recovery from the declines experienced in the second half of 2011.
However, prices largely peaked during the first quarter of 2012, sliding downwards throughout the rest of the year, with a sharp correction in the third quarter in the iron ore market.
The price trends and volatility reflected the OECD macro-uncertainties described above and concerns from the market that Chinas slowdown was signalling the end of investment-led, steel-intensive growth.
China is entering an important and necessary transition phase to rebalance its economy towards consumption-led growth.
The near-term reform agenda remains unclear and is likely to generate volatility and uncertainty.
Reforms and a rebalancing of the economy will ultimately be a positive development for the sustainability of growth in China.
Overall, we expect a falling level of demand intensity for early development phase commodities, but absolute demand growth should remain strong over thenext two decades and new opportunities will arise for late-cycle riotinto.
