Copper during the second half of the year due to improved mine production and Financial performance 2012 2011 processing of inventories built up during a maintenance shutdown of the US$ million US$ million smelter in the second quarter, which was planned to coincide with the Revenue 6,661 7,634 period of lower grades.
Operating cash flow 492 3,136 Escondida Rio Tinto: 30 per cent Underlying earnings 1,092 1,932 Operated by BHP Billiton, Escondida is the worlds largest copper mine.
Capital expenditure 4,347 3,784 Located in Chiles Atacama Desert, it represents five per cent of global Net operating assets 12,682 12,094 production and 16 per cent of all copper production from Chile.
In 2012, Escondida produced 1,047 thousand tonnes of copper 100 per cent basis.
Production was higher than 2011 due to higher grades and an Strategy and strategic priorities increase in ore delivered to the concentrator owing to improved The Copper product groups strategy is to maximise shareholder returns material handling.
by delivering superior margins and growth from high-quality assets.
This strategy will be realised by: Grasberg a joint venture that gives Rio Tinto a 40 per cent r Continuing progress toward zero harm and risk mitigation across share of production above specified levels until the end of the business.
2021 and 40 per cent of all production after 2021 Grasberg is owned and operated by PT Freeport Indonesia, a subsidiary r Prioritising investment and retaining development optionality on of US-based Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.
Located in the high-quality assets.
province of Papua in Indonesia, it is one of the worlds largest copper r Optimising current assets through operational performance and mines.
Production in 2012 did not reach the specified level, so Rio Tinto disciplined cost management.
did not receive a share of production for the year.
r Delivering a notable reduction in overhead costs and maintaining strong EBITDA margins.
Northparkes Rio Tinto: 80 per cent Located in New South Wales, Australia, Northparkes is a joint venture with r Developing a strong pipeline of value-generating greenfield projects.
Northparkes produced 53.8 thousand tonnes of r Using technological innovations such as processing and rapid copper and 72 thousand ounces of gold in 2012 100 per cent basis.
The underground development to deliver operational efficiency and mine is the site of an innovative tunnel boring trial that has the potential reduce costs.
to increase the rate of tunnel development underground.
The site is also r Collaborating with local governments and communities to contribute home to a state-of-the-art underground training facility.
Palabora Rio Tinto: 57.7 per cent r Developing leadership and managing talent to deliver our businessstrategy.
Palabora Mining Company is a South African company listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
The mine produced 40.9 thousand tonnes Safety of refined copper in 2012 100 per cent basis.
In December 2012, In 2012, the Copper product groups all injury frequency rate was 0.50, Rio Tinto announced an agreement to sell its interest in Palabora for compared to 0.56 in 2011.
The Copper product group regrettably suffered consideration totalling US$373 million.
While South Africa remains an a fatality at its Palabora operation in South Africa and two industrial important and prospective region for Rio Tinto, and Palabora is a good fatalities occurred at the non-managed Grasberg mine in Indonesia.
business, it is no longer a natural fit within Rio Tintos portfolio.
The Copper product group is committed to managing the risks inherent Development projects inits business and providing a workplace where there is a culture of zero Extending mine life harm.
To that end, the group is developing enhanced programmes and The Copper product group is pursuing several promising projects to procedures to manage process safety, underground safety and contractor extend the life of existing operations in its portfolio.
In addition, the group is embedding the need for all leaders and employees to focus on personal safety and work In June 2012, Rio Tinto approved a US$660 million investment to extend collaboratively toward the goal of zero harm.
the life of Kennecott Utah Coppers Bingham Canyon mine from 2018 to 2029.
The project, known as Cornerstone, involves pushing back the Greenhouse gas emissions south wall of Bingham Canyon to gain access to 515 million tonnes of The Copper product groups 2012 greenhouse gas GHG emissions were 0.79 per cent copper equivalent ore. Work continues on evaluating 10.66 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per tonne of copper cathode projects to expand and upgrade the power plant to natural gas and produced, compared with 8.15 tonnes in 2011.
The decline in efficiency expand the tailings impoundment.
resulted from the smelter shutdown at Kennecott Utah Copper and At Escondida in northern Chile, the Ore Access and Laguna Seca decreased production at Palabora.
The Copper product group represented Debottlenecking projects were completed in the second half of 2012, 6.8 per cent of Rio Tintos total emissions.
withsignificant production improvements already realised, in particular with the material handling process.
Review of operations The Copper product group portfolio is made up of large, long-life, Escondidas Organic Growth project costing US$3.8 billion Rio Tinto low-cost operations that present meaningful opportunities to grow and share: US$1.2 billion was 26 per cent complete at year end.
In 2012, the group produced 549 thousand tonnes involves constructing a new, 152,000 tonnes per day concentrator to of mined copper Rio Tinto share, making Rio Tinto the worlds sixth replace the Los Colorados concentrator and allow access to high-grade largest supplier.
The product group also produced 294 thousand ounces ore located under the existing facilities.
The additional Oxide Leach Area of mined gold, 3,657 thousand ounces of mined silver and 9.4 thousand project will cost US$721 million Rio Tinto share: US$216 million and tonnes of molybdenum as by-products of its copper operations.
involves the construction of a new dynamic leach pad that will maintain current levels of oxide leaching after the existing heap leach has been Kennecott Utah Copper Rio Tinto: 100 per cent fully exhausted.
Construction of the project is expected to be completed Kennecott Utah Copper, adjacent to Salt Lake City, produces about 17 per in 2014. cent of US copper supply.
In 2012, Kennecott produced 163 thousand tonnes of refined copper, 279 thousand ounces of refined gold, and 9.4 In Indonesia, the Grasberg mine is continuing its transition from primarily thousand tonnes of molybdenum.
Refined metal production was higher an open pit to a fully underground operation.
The Grasberg underground 24 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Performance block cave project will come on line in 2017, when the current open pit The current plan is to develop the project using a staged, three-phase mine will be depleted, and is expected to ramp up to full capacity by approach, in which the group will develop aninitial leach operation, 2022, reaching 160,000 tonnes of ore produced per day.
In addition, expand the operation and then construct aconcentrator on site.
Grasberg has begun construction on the Deep Mill Level Zone block cave Employing this phased approach will defer significant capital investment mine, which will produce an additional 80,000 tonnes of ore per day at until after production begins, with operating cash flows supporting further full capacity, expected in 2021.
Together, these two projects will supply expansions.
Rio Tintos knowledge of La Granjas orebody and of the ore to the mill at 240,000 tonnes per day by 2022. broader region continues to evolve.
Developing La Granja will provide access to an attractive orebody and will allow the Group to establish a Technological innovations positive presence in a part of the world with significant mineral potential.
Technology continues to be a primary lever to improve productivity Eagle Rio Tinto: 100 per cent and cost performance by increasing recoveries, enabling the Located in Michigan, US, the Eagle copper nickel mine is scheduled to processing of low-grade material, as well as optimising underground begin operation in 2014.
The mine will produce an average of 16 and capital development.
thousand tonnes and 13 thousand tonnes per year of nickel and copper In 2014, Kennecott will commission its Moly Autoclave Process MAP, metal respectively over seven years.
Eagle Mine is also located in a highly which will process lower grade molybdenum concentrate more efficiently prospective region where Rio Tinto currently holds significant tenements.
than conventional roasters and will improve recovery rates by Resolution Copper Rio Tinto: 55 per cent eight per cent.
The Resolution Copper project, located in Arizona, US, is ranked among Kennecott has also completed construction and commissioning of a pilot the top ten undeveloped copper assets in the world, and is expected to TM ore sorting facility.
The new technology, Copper NuWave, has the bea major underground block cave operation.
potential to upgrade marginal ore and waste material by rejecting barren Resolution Copper has mining tenements covering the identified orebody.
material from the mill pebble recycle stream.
However, to realise the full potential of the project, Resolution Copper Northparkes began commissioning of a new tunnel boring technology in requires access to public land where mining is currently prohibited.
This technology is one pathway toreduce up-front capital Resolution Copper continues to seek legislative approval in the US costs and decrease construction time for underground operations.
Initial Congress to acquire full legal title to all needed land including the tests have demonstrated a 40 per cent increase in the speed at which adjacent public land.
In exchange for that title, the project would give tunnelling occurs.
Additionally, in August 2012, the Rio Tinto Block Cave the public more than 2,400 hectares of high-quality Arizona conservation Knowledge Centre officially opened at the Northparkes mine, providing lands.
Permitting of the project will start in 2013 with submission of the employees from across the Group with the highest standard of technical General Plan of Operations GPoO to the United States Forest Service, and safety training for underground block caving operations.
Submission of the GPoO will initiate the process of assessing the projects environmental impacts and applying Greenfield projects appropriate mitigation.
This will be done through the generation Rio Tinto is focused on developing greenfield projects that can deliver of an Environmental Impact Statement EIS, written by the Federal thehighest potential returns.
The Group approaches each project with Government, per the National Environmental Policy Act NEPA.
world-class environmental standards, and with a goal of creating In parallel, work continues on the prefeasibility study, with a timeline sustainable economic benefits for all stakeholders.
that has been extended to allow for a more complete evaluation ofmining Oyu Tolgoi Rio Tinto: 51 per cent interest in Turquoise Hill Resources and processing options and to determine the optimal pathforward.
In a span of 34 months, the Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold mine in Mongolia Outlook has gone from the planning stage to near completion as a world-class operation and is the flagship of the Copper product groups growth Rio Tinto is confident in the fundamentals of the industry and the long-term future of the copper market.
While the Group expects portfolio.
At the end of 2012, the project was 99 per cent complete for the continued volatility in the short term, the copper markets robust open pit, and the group has signed a binding agreement with a Chinese long-term fundamentals remain intact.
power company for the supply of electricity.
Commercial production of copper concentrate is expected in 2013, and With roughly 60 per cent of copper used as an electrical conductor, the electrification and urbanisation of emerging markets, primarily China, Oyu Tolgoi is set to be a top five copper producer once fully developed.
followed by India and South East Asia, will drive copper demand growth Over its life, it will deliver an average annual production of 425,000 through the next several decades.
While new mine supply is due to come tonnes of copper and 460,000 ounces of gold, and will have net unit cash costs in the first quartile of the industry cost curve.
on line in 2013 as a result of higher prices in the past few years, Rio Tinto has exceptional copper assets and is well positioned to make the most of Oyu Tolgoi contains a 1.5 billion tonne reserve and a 3.1 billion tonne these market conditions.
The deposit provides opportunities for further expansions that The Copper product group is keenly focused on managing costs across could see production continuing for more than 50 years.
In addition, Oyu Tolgoi is in a highly prospective region with further exploration potential.
itsbusiness, and maximising the technological innovations that can lower the cost of developing new mines and improving the productivity of La Granja Rio Tinto: 100 per cent existing operations.
The La Granja project in northern Peru has the potential to be one of Through a strategic approach of carefully prioritising work and organising the Groups highest value opportunities.
La Granja could be the largest key projects into phases, the Copper product group will continue to be undeveloped greenfield copper project in Latin America, and has the flexible and focused on making investments that create the most value.
potential to be a very large, long-life operation.
In 2012, Rio Tinto launched a prefeasibility study to mine copper from anopen pit, with low technical risk, and using a leaching process to maximise recovery of copper.
To date, 168,000 metresof drilling has been completed and further drilling will be ongoing during 2013. riotinto.
