Group overview Introduction to Rio Tinto Key production locations Key sales destinations Rio Tinto is a leading international mining group that focuses on finding, mining and processing the Earths mineral resources in order to maximise r Canada r Asia shareholder value.
We have a diverse portfolio and a global presence: r Europe r Americas our 71,000 people work in more than 40 countries.
r Europe r Australia To deliver superior returns to shareholders over time, we take a long-term Full operating review on page 22. and responsible approach to our activities.
This means concentrating on developing first-class orebodies into large, long-life and efficient low-cost operations, capable of providing competitive returns through Copper product group business cycles.
Rio Tintos Copper group has a global presence and holdings in some of the worlds largest copper mines.
We are among the worlds Sustainable development is integrated into everything we do.
Our operations give us the opportunity to bring long-lasting positive change largest producers of copper, gold and molybdenum, and are uniquely to the communities, regions and countries in which we work, and our positioned to deliver exceptional long-term value due to our high-quality metals and minerals are transformed into end products that contribute assets, leading technology and a keen focus on managing costs and improving efficiency.
Our responsible approach to mineral development ensures we gain and Mined copper production 2012 vs 2011 maintain our licence to operate.
It means we provide confidence to our stakeholders, and improve our access to the mineral resources, people and capital we need.
Our five product groups summarised below are 6% supported by our Exploration and Technology & Innovation groups also see pages 22 to 31.
Products Copper Aluminium product group The world uses more than 19 million tonnes of copper every year.
Building on more than a century of experience and expertise, Rio Tinto Coppers malleability, strength and conductivity make it useful in Alcan is a global leader in the aluminium industry.
Our fully-integrated a broad range of building, construction and electrical applications.
facilities include high-quality bauxite mines, large-scale alumina Copper is found in nearly every home and vehicle and is a critical refineries, and some of the worlds lowest-cost, most  of todays industrialised world.
Gold Golds conductivity and non-corrosive properties make it a vital Bauxite production 2012 vs 2011 fabrication material in technology, electronics, jewellery, space exploration and dentistry.
Rio Tinto is currently one of the top 15 gold producers in the world, and the largest among the diversified miners.
11% We have interests in two of the largest gold resources, at Oyu Tolgoi and Grasberg.
The latter contains the largest gold reserves in the world.
Products Silver Bauxite Bauxite is the natural ore used to make aluminium.
It is refined into Silver has very good electrical and thermal properties.
It is used in many alumina which is smelted into aluminium metal.
Our wholly-owned and electrical and electronic applications, such as photovoltaic cells, and is the principal ingredient of x-ray film.
Silver is also regarded as a precious joint venture bauxite mines are located in Australia, Brazil and Guinea.
metal used as an investment and to make jewellery.
Alumina Alumina aluminium oxide is extracted from bauxite via a refining Molybdenum process.
Approximately four tonnes of bauxite are required to produce Molybdenum is a metallic element frequently used to produce stainless steel and other metal alloys.
It enhances the metals toughness, high two tonnes of alumina, which in turn makes one tonne of aluminium temperature strength and corrosion resistance.
Our wholly-owned and joint venture alumina refineries are located in Australia, Brazil and Canada.
Key strengths Aluminium r Participation in and ownership of high-quality, low-cost assets Aluminium is a unique and versatile modern metal.
Light, strong, flexible, with meaningful opportunities for expansion and efficiencies.
non-corrosive and infinitely recyclable, aluminium is one of the most r Management of the Oyu Tolgoi project, scheduled to be a top widely-used metals.
Its largest markets are transportation, machinery five copper producer and a significant gold producer.
Our smelters are mainly concentrated in Canada.
r Investment in substantial growth projects.
We also have plants in France, Cameroon, Iceland, Norway, the UK and the Middle East.
Key strengths Key production locations Key sales destinations r Access to the largest and best-quality bauxite reserves in the industry.
r US r US r Industry-benchmark smelting technology.
r Chile r China r Enviable hydropower position, which delivers significant cost and r Mongolia r Japan other advantages in todays carbon-constrained world.
Full operating review on page 24. r Industry-leading cost position for aluminium smelting, and moving into the second quartile of the cost curve for alumina refining.
r Lowest-cost quartile for bauxite production.
2 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Overview Products Diamonds & Minerals product group Coal The Diamonds & Minerals group comprises mining, refining and Coal is abundant, relatively inexpensive and safe and easy to transport.
marketing operations across four sectors.
Rio Tinto Diamonds is one We are a large supplier to the export thermal coal market.
Thermal coal of the worlds leading diamond producers, active in mining, sales and is used for electricity generation in power stations.
Rio Tinto Minerals is a world leader in borates, with mines, higher-value coking, or metallurgical, coal which, when mixed in furnaces processing plants, commercial and research facilities.
Dampier Salt is with iron ore, produces steel.
one of the worlds largest producers of seaborne salt.
Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium is an industry leader in high grade titanium dioxide feedstocks.
Uranium The Diamonds & Minerals group also includes the Simandou iron ore Uranium is one of the most powerful natural energy sources known, project in Guinea.
used in the production of clean, stable, base-load electricity.
After uranium ore is mined, it is milled into uranium oxide the mine product Titanium dioxide production 2012 vs 2011 that is sold for processing into fuel rods for use in nuclear power stations.
Key strengths 11% r Strong customer relationships and high-quality assets located in close proximity to growing Asian markets.
Products r Success in operating long-life, cost-competitive mines and businesses.
Diamonds r World-class growth opportunities including brownfield expansions Diamonds share a role with gold as an important component in jewellery at our existing coal operations in Australia and greenfield uranium that ranges from top-end jewellery through to more affordable diamond exploration opportunities in the Athabasca Basin in Canada.
Rio Tinto is able to service both established and r Strong product stewardship strategy including investment emerging markets as it produces the full range of diamonds in terms in technologies to reduce emissions from our products.
of size, quality and colour distribution.
Borates Key production locations Key sales destinations Refined borates are used in hundreds of products and processes.
r Australia r Japan They are a vital ingredient of many home and automotive applications, r Namibia r South Korea and are essential nutrients for crops.
They are commonly used in glass and ceramic applications including fibreglass, television screens, floor r Mozambique r Europe and wall tiles, and heat-resistant glass.
Full operating review on page 28.
Salt Salt is one of the basic raw materials for the chemicals industry and is Iron Ore product group indispensable to a wide array of automotive, construction and electronic We are the second-largest producer supplying the global seaborne iron products, as well as for water treatment, food and healthcare.
After a decade of rapid expansion in Australia, and more recent Titanium dioxide growth in Canada, we are well positioned to benefit from the continuing The minerals ilmenite and rutile, together with titanium dioxide slag, strong demand in China and other Asian markets.
We are driving can be transformed into a white titanium dioxide pigment or titanium performance through effective project management and value-adding metal.
The white pigment is a key component in paints, plastics, paper, operational efficiencies.
inks, textiles, food, sunscreen and cosmetics.
Titanium metals key properties of light weight, chemical inertness and high strength make Iron ore production 2012 vs 2011 it ideal for use in medical applications and in the aerospace industry.
Other products include high purity iron, metal powders, zircon and rutile.
4% Key strengths Products r Poised to benefit from late-cycle demand growth.
Iron ore r Substantial brownfield and greenfield development pipeline including Iron is the key ingredient in the production of steel, one of the most the Simandou project in Guinea.
fundamental and durable products for modern-day living, with uses from railways to paperclips.
Our iron ore mines are located in Australia and Canada.
Key production locations Key sales destinations r North America r North America Key strengths r Proximity of the expanded Pilbara operations in Australia to the worlds r Australia r China largest and fastest growing markets.
r South Africa r Japan r Success in increasing operational efficiency and controlling costs.
Full operating review on page 26. r Vast potential of brownfield developments near existing infrastructure.
r Proven success in implementing large-scale and complex, valueEnergy product group generating major projects on time and budget without significant We are a leading seaborne supplier of thermal and coking coal to Asian impact on operational efficiency.
customers and are one of the worlds largest uranium producers, serving Key production locations Key sales destinations electric power utilities worldwide.
The Rio Tinto Energy product group has operations, exploration and development projects in Australia, southern r Australia r China Africa and Canada.
r Canada r Japan Thermal coal production 2012 vs 2011 r South Korea Full operating review on page 30.
