Aluminium Financial performance Greenhouse gas emissions 2012 2011 Rio Tinto Alcan accounted for 20 per cent of Rio Tintos total greenhouse US$ million US$ million gas emissions GHG in 2012, compared to 19 per cent in 2011.
At year Revenue 10,105 12,159 end, total GHG intensity was 24 per cent lower than 2008 baseline Operating cash flow 522 1,216 performance.
The realised reductions made a significant contribution to the Rio Tinto Groups overall total GHG intensity improvements.
This Underlying earnings 3 442 sizeable reduction in emissions over the past several years is mainly Capital expenditure 2,550 1,957 related to the divestment or closure of non-core assets, as well as Net operating assets 19,606 26,204 ongoing operational improvements that have combined to give Rio Tinto Figures above exclude aluminium assets identified for divestment or closure and that are now Alcan the lowest carbon footprint in the aluminium industry.
Taking into managed by the Business Support & Operations group.
account recent portfolio changes, 96 per cent of Rio Tinto Alcans power supply is carbon-free and falls into the lowest-cost quartile for energy.
Strategy and strategic priorities Aluminium produced using hydroelectricity which currently represents The aluminium industry is likely to continue facing challenging market some 83 per cent of the Aluminium product groups power supply has conditions for some years, as a structural shift has occurred, driven by the lowest footprint with respect to primary energy consumption and the decoupling of the supply chain for bauxite, alumina and aluminium climate change in lifecycle analysis studies.
and the continued growth of the Chinese smelting industry.
Against this Rio Tinto Alcan works closely with stakeholders to address sustainability backdrop, Rio Tinto Alcan is focused on a transformation strategy to concerns and help identify ways to foster greater transparency and improve the performance of the product group.
This strategy has sustainability throughout the aluminium industry.
delivered improvements, but much more needs to be done in this market environment of depressed prices.
Further action will be required to During 2012, the Aluminium product group played a lead role as a reduce costs, improve the productivity of the assets, and the returns that co-founder of the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative ASI, along with the are generated on capital invested.
International Union for Conservation of Nature and several other founding members.
The mission of ASI is to define and deliver the first Rio Tinto Alcan is committed to achieving further significant performance comprehensive global standard for the responsible production, use and improvements by delivering over US$1.6 billion of EBITDA improvement re-use of aluminium.
Rio Tinto Alcan also agreed to participate in by the end of 2015 from both strategic investments and business Empreinte Carbone Qubec, a pilot project launched by Quebecs Ministry improvement initiatives.
This will incorporate the Aluminium groups of Economic Development, Innovation and Export to develop a method contribution to Rio Tintos sustainable cost reduction targets by 2014.
The for calculating carbon footprint.
annual run rate from sustainable business improvement initiatives is now exceeding US$460 million, with US$250 million delivered in 2012, as Review of operations planned.
Key elements of this ongoing second phase of Rio Tinto Alcans Rio Tinto Alcans underlying earnings of US$3 million were transformation include: US$439 million lower than in 2011, primarily from a significant r Widespread business improvement initiatives, including accelerated deterioration in market conditions and the impact of the lock-out at the cost reduction and productivity enhancement efforts designed to Alma smelter in Quebec.
The combined impact of movements in prices provide a leaner and more efficient structure.
and exchange rates, inflation and increasing prices for coke, pitch and r Stringent focus on high-return production creep and caustic reduced underlying earnings by US$569 million year-on-year and modernisation projects.
lowered EBITDA margins by 11 per cent.
This market impact was partially offset by controllable cash cost improvement initiatives which had a net r Optimisation of the product mix.
positive impact of nearly four per cent on margins.
The absence of the r Disciplined portfolio management, including the divestment of abnormal weather events that occurred in 2011 was outweighed by the assetsno longer aligned with the product groups core strategy.
impact of reduced operations from the lock-out at Alma.
r Maximising the benefit of industry-leading positions in Further deterioration in aluminium market conditions in 2012, together bauxite and energy.
with strong currencies in certain regions and higher raw material costs, r Modernising and expanding long-life Tier 1 assets.
has had a negative impact on current market values in the aluminium r Strictly limiting growth in line with market conditions.
The annual impairment review for Rio Tinto Alcan and other a aluminium businesses including Pacific Aluminium resulted in a Safety post-tax impairment charge of US$11.0 billion, which includes goodwill In 2012, the Aluminium product groups all injury frequency rate impairment of US$6.0 billion.
Regrettably, in January there was one fatality, which resulted from an incident on the The average aluminium market price in 2012 was US$2,018 per tonne, Roberval-Saguenay railway in Quebec, Canada.
The product groups a decrease of 16 per cent from 2011.
Rio Tinto Alcans average realised ongoing priority is toimplement the Zero Harm by Choice programme, price for primary metal products in 2012 was US$2,383 per tonne, as well as to continue deploying Rio Tinto HSE performance standards 12 per cent lower than US$2,715 in 2011. and risk management practices, to reach Rio Tinto Alcans ultimate Gross sales revenue for Rio Tinto Alcan decreased by 17 per cent goal of zero incidents.
Process safety management has made significant compared with 2011.
This was due to the combined effects of lower progress, with reporting, investigation and analysis of significant potential market prices across the product range and reduced production at Alma, incidents andcompletion of corrective actions as a main focus.
offset by the Yarwun refinery expansion in Queensland, Australia.
The Grande-Baie aluminium smelter in Quebec jointly won the 2012 Aluminium production decreased by nine per cent to 2.2 million tonnes in Chief Executive Safety Award.
Three Aluminium sites were recognised 2012.
This was partly due to the lock-out at Alma resolved through the in other categories: signing of a new labour agreement.
Two thirds of the smelters capacity r Most Improved Site: Yarwun, Queensland, Australia was curtailed throughout the first half of the year.
Alma was progressively returned to full production by January 2013.
The new organisational r Best Project: Shipshaw, Quebec, Canada design implemented after the negotiated labour agreement will enable r Small Business: Anglesey, Wales, UK productivity improvements and lower total operating costs.
This new organisational design is now being deployed in other facilities and will contribute to further cost reductions in 2013. a In 2011, Pacific Aluminium and certain of the Aluminium operations were transferred to the Business Support & Operations group.
22 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Performance Rio Tinto Alcans bauxite production was 31.4 million tonnes in 2012, Outlook 11 per cent higher than in 2011.
Record production levels were achieved Macroeconomic sentiment remains uncertain and continues to impact at Weipa in Queensland, Australia, as well as in Guinea.
The increase in the groups product prices particularly for aluminium.
output was driven by production creep initiatives to supply requirements With a number of regional economies expected to improve, total primary from the expanded Yarwun refinery, and increased third-party demand.
demand for aluminium is forecast to increase by nearly six per cent in Alumina production increased 19 per cent to 7.0 million tonnes during 2013.
However, inventories are still high and warehousing transactions, 2012, as expanded refining capacity at Yarwun came on line.
First bauxite driven by forward pricing estimates and low interest rates, remain was injected into the expanded Yarwun plant in July 2012.
Medium-term supply growth is currently forecast to match the expanded refinery was operating at 90 per cent of its nameplate orexceed demand growth, resulting in a global market surplus for the capacity of 3.4 million tonnes per annum.
The ramp-up is on schedule to industry in the near term.
reach full capacity by the third quarter of 2013.
Yarwun is moving the Smelter grade alumina demand is underpinned by aluminium production, product groups alumina production into the second quartile of the so alumina demand over the long term is directly tied to aluminium industry cost curve.
Development projects Of Rio Tinto Alcans three core commodities, bauxite presents the best Rio Tinto Alcans development pipeline is focused on developing its opportunities for attractive returns in the near term, given strong Chinese long-life Tier 1 assets, while strictly limiting growth in line with market demand and supply uncertainty.
The current focus of the traded bauxite conditions.
Project characteristics include a low carbon footprint, low market is on Chinas sharply increased demand for imported product.
operating costs and attractive forecast returns on capital.
Although shipments from a traditional key supplier in Indonesia have been recovering in the wake of bauxite export restrictions introduced in Feasibility and environmental impact studies are currently being May 2012, the fundamentals for traded bauxite continue to look strong completed for the South of Embley project.
This would extend the life going forward.
of the Weipa bauxite mine in Queensland, Australia by approximately 40 years, depending on production rates.
The expansion would facilitate On balance, while higher regional market premiums have helped staged increases in production of up to 36 million dry product tonnes partiallyoffset prevailing low aluminium prices, the short-term outlook ayear, from the current level of 23 million tonnes.
It would enable for aluminium markets remains challenging, with lingering economic thecontinuity of supply to Rio Tinto Alcans two Gladstone alumina uncertainty and continuing price volatility.
This underscores the refineries and capitalise on the rapidly-growing third-party market for importance of the ongoing drive to transform Rio Tinto Alcan into a seaborne bauxite.
leaner, highly-efficient aluminium producer capable of generating solid returns throughout the economic cycle.
Two major smelting projects under way in Canada are designed to leverage Rio Tinto Alcans clean, self-generated hydroelectricity and The longer-term outlook for aluminium remains robust and Rio Tinto generate advantages from the latest AP smelting technology.
In Alcan believes strong returns will be available in the future for the Quebec, the construction of the AP60 smelter is complete and is now well-positioned, low-cost operator.
This 60,000 tonne plant is the first Rio Tinto Alcan anticipates strong future demand in key sectors like commercial-scale implementation of Rio Tinto Alcans newest smelting transportation, infrastructure and consumer goods, spurred by the technology platform.
Operating at an unprecedented 600 kiloamperes, continued move to urbanisation and the growth of megacities, the energy-efficient AP60 is designed to deliver a US$60 to US$90 per particularly in China and other emerging Asia-Pacific economies.
tonne full economic cost advantage over the existing benchmark.
First Ameasure of the enormous potential is that per capita consumption metal at the AP60 smelter is expected in the first half 2013.
Subsequent ofaluminium is currently just one kilogram in India and five kilograms phases will be delayed until the aluminium market shows clear signs inBrazil, well below the average of more than 20 kilograms per capita of recovery.
The Kitimat Modernisation Project in British Columbia will increase Mature markets will also require significantly increased volumes of thesmelters current production capacity by more than 49 per cent, aluminium.
A good example is the automotive industry, currently toapproximately 420,000 tonnes per year.
The modernised aluminium among the top-performing sectors in the economies of both the US smelter will be powered by self-generated hydroelectricity and use and Germany.
advanced AP40 technology to cut GHG emissions intensity by more than 50 per cent.
Once completed at the end of 2014, Kitimat will be one of The global demand picture outlined above would translate into a need the lowest-cost smelters in the world, strategically located to supply foraround 40 million tonnes of modernised aluminium production net of keyemerging markets in the Pacific Rim.
inventory reductions between now and 2025, along with 75 million additional tonnes of alumina and, very importantly, around 230 million The modernisation of the ISAL aluminium smelter in Iceland is expected additional tonnes of bauxite.
Despite this positive outlook for demand, to increase production from 190,000 tonnes to 230,000 tonnes and itis ultimately supply growth that will determine whether, or when, the includes a leading-edge casting facility to produce value-added billet.
aluminium industry returns to a more balanced market in the long term.
The new casting facility produced its first billet in the second quarter of 2012. riotinto.
