Group strategy and business model Pursuing greater value for shareholders The global economic outlook remains Objective Strategy uncertain and volatile.
This requires Maximising total shareholder return Investing in and operating large, long-term, us to have a clear and consistent strategy by sustainably finding, developing, mining expandable, low-cost mines and businesses, designed to support a single commitment: and processing natural resources.
driven by the quality of each opportunity the pursuit of greater value for our in the most attractive industry sectors.
To achieve this we are building an even stronger, more focused, and more accountable organisation.
We will apply a disciplined and rigorous investment process to ensure Shared value that capital is invested only in assets that, after prudent assessment, offer Pursuing greater value for our shareholders means delivering superior attractive returns, well above our cost of capital.
Our approach balances returns for the people who own and invest in our company.
We will do this while maintaining a focus on safety and by staying true to our core investment to grow the value of the business and returns to shareholders, values, wherever we operate.
while aiming to maintain a strong balance sheet and retain our single A credit rating.
Delivering superior shareholder value brings with it the opportunity Our strategy is underpinned by our leading capabilities across the to share our success with many of our other stakeholders.
For host governments and communities, it means ensuring widespread and value chain and we intend to deepen our expertise and leadership in these areas.
For our customers, it means delivering what they need to be successful.
And for our employees, it means creating Industry-leading capabilities opportunities to learn and grow in a world-class business.
We have been in business for 140 years.
During this time, we have built a deep understanding and expertise in industry-leading capabilities A consistent strategy such as sustainable development, technology and innovation, As we continue to face short-term uncertainty and pricing volatility exploration, marketing and operational excellence.
We believe these in many of our markets, our strategy remains the right one: to invest in and operate large, long-term, expandable, low-cost mines and capabilities will support us in our renewed focus on delivering greater value for our shareholders.
This strategy has served us well over many years and we have full confidence that it will continue to do so in the future.
We have world-class businesses, such as our industry-leading iron ore operations in Australia, and we are developers and owners of what will The opportunities we pursue are driven by quality and will be in the most attractive industry sectors.
We are convinced of the benefits of be a top-five copper and gold mine in the Gobi desert of Mongolia.
owning a diversified asset portfolio, provided this is achieved in a way We have pioneered several world-leading mining and processing that maximises value for our shareholders.
We look for high-quality technologies.
We are the owner of the worlds largest fleet of driverless assets in the right industry sectors that provide superior returns trucks, which are operated from a control centre some 1,500km away.
throughout the economic cycle with options for growth when the time We are using our expertise in technology and innovation to drive safety is right.
And we will realise value by divesting businesses that are no and productivity improvements across all of our businesses.
longer in line with our strategy.
Business model We create and preserve value through investing in and operating large-scale, long-term, low-cost mines and businesses.
The nature of our business means that the life of an orebody may span many decades.
Throughout the life of a business, from initial exploration to final closure and restoration, we commit to the highest standards of sustainable development Explore and evaluate Develop Mine and process Market and deliver Close down and rehabilitate 6 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Overview We also have long experience of building and maintaining relationships r Invest only in new projects that provide attractive returns, wherever we operate.
The success of our business is underpinned by doing well above cost of capital, and which compare favourably to other things the right way and by staying true to our values.
Our outstanding people uses of capital.
live these values day in and day out wherever we operate around the world.
Reducing costs and improving performance Even so, we know there is more we can do and we will be reinforcing in our businesses discipline and accountability throughout the organisation.
Simply Our immediate priority is to improve performance at our existing put, our leaders and employees will have clear targets and be held businesses by unlocking productivity improvements, aggressively accountable for their individual performance, which will be rewarded reducing operating and support costs, controlling sustaining with career growth and development opportunities.
Our people must capital spend and leveraging our expertise across all stages of run the business as owners, not managers.
We will: In parallel, we will also strengthen our management and approval r Improve our safety performance in 2013. systems bringing greater rigour to investment decisions, and r Deliver our cumulative US$5 billion cash cost-reduction target implementing effective checks and balances with clearer lines of sight by the end of 2014. to critical business issues.
r Reduce exploration and evaluation spending by US$750 million pre-tax in 2013 compared with 2012.
What you can expect from us this year Consistent execution of our strategy in every market, in all of our r Achieve targeted reductions of US$1 billion in our sustaining capital expenditure compared with 2012. businesses, is how we will deliver value this year.
In 2013, we will reduce costs, deliver our approved growth projects, reshape the portfolio, and build Delivering approved growth projects a more accountable business.
During 2013, we are committed to delivering our two significant This year, our efforts will be focused in three key areas: growth projects: in our Iron Ore business in Australia and in our copper-gold project in Mongolia in a risk-managed, value-enhancing 1.
Reinforcing capital allocation and discipline.
We will draw upon our leadership capability in stakeholder 2.
Reducing costs and improving performance at our existing operations.
engagement to help us build enduring relationships with our host 3.
Delivering our approved growth projects.
r Pilbara 290 first production accelerated to the third quarter Reinforcing capital allocation and discipline of 2013.
We will prioritise our capital expenditure on the highest-quality projects r Oyu Tolgoi scheduled for first production in 2013.
Discussions and improve the way we manage capital.
In addition, we are taking a more aggressive portfolio approach to assets that no longer fit our withtheGovernment of Mongolia regarding the continuing strategy.
We will: implementation of the Investment Agreement are ongoing.
Achievement of our strategy is measured by a mixture of financial and non-financial r Simplify and strengthen our process for allocating capital.
performance indicators, some of which we link to executive remuneration.
See page 8. r Review capital expenditure plans across all of our businesses, as we do every year.
r Streamline our portfolio through divestments targeting significant cash proceeds in 2013. and optimises the extraction of ore.
In turn, we enjoy higher production, Explore and evaluate reduced costs and value maximisation.
We use world-class technologies Our experienced, in-house exploration team has a proven track record of discovering large, long-life orebodies.
The team creates further value during mining and processing to increase our efficiency and productivity, from its identification of opportunities for the brownfield expansion and to produce material that is tailored to our customers needs.
Our orebody knowledge allows us to innovate Market and deliver value-enhancing approaches to developing, operating and expanding The majority of our customers are industrial companies that further our resources and positioning our products in the market.
process our products to supply numerous industries construction and infrastructure, automotive, industrial machinery and equipment, energy Develop and consumer goods markets.
We invest in long-term partnerships and We develop orebodies with long-term value delivery in mind.
We allocate investment only to assets that, after prudent assessment, offer attractive innovate and improve our products and services to maximise product returns that are well above our cost of capital.
During this phase, we value to customers.
We are constantly adding to our significant knowledge of our markets and value chain, allowing us to improve our plan the optimal configuration for developing the orebody and for getting investment decision-making process.
In many cases, we are responsible our products to market.
We work closely with our customers to create for delivering product to our customers.
We do this in a variety of ways, demand in the market for the grade of product that enables us to maximise the value of the orebody over its lifecycle.
Once the value but always efficiently, reliably and cost-effectively.
of the resource is confirmed, and internal and external approvals are Close down and rehabilitate received, the project moves into implementation and construction.
We integrate closure planning throughout an assets lifecycle, from the earliest stages of project development.
When a resource reaches the Mine and process end of its life, we are committed to high standards of close-down and We create value by safely and efficiently operating assets that fit with our reclamation.
This helps us to maintain a positive reputation for sustainable Group strategy.
Our global presence and management structure allow us to development and ensures we meet the expectations of our current and implement standard operating and maintenance practices across the Group.
This reduces our use of consumables, increases the life of our equipment future stakeholders.
