Capitalising on structural 4 change The next phase of growth Future plans We are well positioned to Our primary focus remains on organic growth where we are delivering incremental returns in excess of 20%.
In the US, capitalise on the markets after 30 years of underfunding infrastructure upgrade projects, many US infrastructure assets are at over-capacity and return to growth functioning beyond their originally intended lives.
Reports estimate that $2trn will be required to rebuild and refurbish the US infrastructure platform.
As a result, infrastructure issues are Our position in the cycle often addressed in reactive mode, responding to emergencies As the US market gradually returns to growth, we expect in the as failures occur in the form of levee breaches, sewer breaks, next few years to move into the strongest period of growth in road congestion, energy shortages and bridges collapsing, our business cycle.
Ahead of this, we are already seeing record generating many rental opportunities where equipment levels of fleet on rent, record Group profits and high equipment availability and rapid response are more important than price.
utilisation and rental rates driven by the structural change in We believe our focus on local markets and our ability to invest the US market.
This is despite US construction markets being to sustain a modern fleet position us well to service these needs.
According to figures from the US Department of Commerce, construction activity has fallen 40% in the last As the recovery progresses, we also plan to continue to six years and it is only in the last year that it has stabilised broaden the mix of our rental offering through development and started to show early signs of improvement.
Our record of our specialty services.
Our specialty divisions such as performance in weak construction markets is particularly Pump & Power, Scaffolding, Temperature Control and Industrial encouraging for both the short term, where we expect a Resources, are strategically important and offer a key point of continuation of the current trends, and beyond where, when differentiation from our competitors.
They also provide us with a cyclical recovery comes, we anticipate substantial growth diversification away from cyclical general construction markets in rental revenues and profitability.
to less cyclical areas of demand.
We provide a high level of technical expertise in these specialist areas and they are highly Our timely early investment in spring 2011 to rebuild our profitable businesses generating over 20% of Sunbelts 2011 12 US fleet and reduce its age, has ensured we are in the best revenue from only 14% of its fleet.
Accordingly, these businesses position to capitalise on growth opportunities as markets are inherently higher RoI businesses.
In addition these specialty improve.
We are better positioned than many of our competitors businesses expand our product offering and markets, as well as and expect to continue to make market share gains.
Our strong providing significant opportunities for cross-selling across all balance sheet and the availability of further finance will allow areas of the business.
us to continue investing in recovery as the US labour market improves.
Growth within our general tool business will come The recent acquisition of Topp expands our specialty offering predominantly from additional fleet in existing locations in temperature control heating, air conditioning and which generates the best return on investment.
Our existing dehumidification into new non-construction markets.
In time infrastructure can accommodate a fleet at least 15% larger we will look to build on this expertise to extend our coverage than our current fleet size.
from the 15 markets that Topp currently serves, to our entire national footprint.
While our focus remains on organic growth It is still difficult to say when growth will return to the UK, with to drive the business forward, we will continue to look for construction markets looking challenged this year and next.
appropriate bolt-on acquisitions which enhance our existing Accordingly, our UK focus is on improving returns in a difficult operations, particularly within the specialty business.
market through focusing on higher returning products and managing our current fleet size.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 15
