Directors 1 2 Chris Cole Geoff Drabble 3 4 5 Ian Robson Suzanne Wood Brendan Horgan 1.
Suzanne Wood Non-executive chairman Finance director designate Chris Cole has been a director since January 2002 and was Suzanne Wood will be appointed finance director on Ians appointed as non-executive chairman in March 2007.
Chris is retirement in July 2012 and has been shadowing Ian to prepare chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of the for this for the past six months.
She joined Sunbelt as its chief Finance and Administration Committee.
He is chief executive financial officer in 2003.
Suzanne is a US qualified accountant, of WSP Group plc and will become executive chairman of WSP having trained with Price Waterhouse.
Suzanne is a US citizen GENIVAR later in 2012 when GENIVAR Inc. completes its recently and lives in Charlotte, North Carolina but will also be maintaining announced recommended acquisition of WSP Group plc.
a London residence following her appointment.
Brendan Horgan Executive directors Chief executive officer, Sunbelt 2.
Geoff Drabble Brendan Horgan was appointed a director in January 2011.
Chief executive Brendan joined Sunbelt in 1996 and has held a number of senior Geoff Drabble was appointed as chief executive in January 2007, management positions including chief sales officer and chief having served as chief executive designate from October 2006 operating officer.
Brendan is a US citizen and lives in Charlotte, and as a non-executive director since April 2005.
previously an executive director of The Laird Group plc where 6.
Sat Dhaiwal he was responsible for its Building Products division.
Prior to Chief executive, A-Plant joining The Laird Group, he held a number of senior management Sat Dhaiwal has been chief executive officer of A-Plant and a positions at Black & Decker.
Geoff is chairman of the Finance director since March 2002.
Sat was managing director of A-Plant and Administration Committee and a member of the East, one of A-Plants four operational regions, from May 1998 to Nomination Committee.
Before that he was an A-Plant trading director from 3.
Ian Robson 1995 and, prior to 1995, managed one of A-Plants stores.
Finance director Ian Robson has been finance director since June 2000.
Prior to June 2000, Ian held a series of senior financial positions at Reuters Group plc for four years.
Before joining Reuters Group plc, he was a partner at Price Waterhouse now  LLP.
Ian is a member of the Finance and Administration Committee.
As previously announced, Ian Robson will be retiring on 13 July 2012.
32 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 6 7 8 Sat Dhaiwal Hugh Etheridge Michael Burrow 9 10 Bruce Edwards Ian Sutcliffe 9.
Bruce Edwards Non-executive directors Independent non-executive director 7.
Hugh Etheridge Bruce Edwards was appointed as a non-executive director in Senior independent non-executive director June 2007 and a member of the Nomination Committee and Hugh Etheridge has been a director, chairman of the Audit Remuneration Committee effective from February 2009 and Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination September 2010 respectively.
Bruce is the global chief executive Committees since January 2004.
Hugh was appointed as senior officer for Exel Supply Chain at Deutsche Post World Net, independent non-executive director in March 2007.
With effect and a member of its board of management.
He joined DPWN from June 2011, he was appointed a non-executive director of following its acquisition of Exel plc in December 2005.
Prior to William Sinclair Holdings plc.
Hugh was formerly chief financial the acquisition, he was a director of Exel plc and chief executive officer of the Waste and Resources Action Programme WRAP, of its Americas businesses.
Bruce is also a non-executive a non-profit organisation established by the UK Government to director of Greif Inc, a NYSE-listed packaging and container promote sustainable waste management.
Bruce is a US citizen and lives in Columbus, Ohio.
he was finance director of Waste Recycling Group plc and prior to that, of Matthew Clark plc.
Ian Sutcliffe Independent non-executive director 8.
Michael Burrow Ian Sutcliffe was appointed as a non-executive director and Independent non-executive director member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees Michael Burrow was appointed as a non-executive director and in September 2010.
Ian is chief executive officer of Keepmoat.
member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees Ian was formerly managing director, UK Property, at Segro plc effective from March 2007 and Chairman of the Remuneration where he had been a director since June 2008.
Prior to joining Committee in September 2010.
Michael was formerly managing Segro he held senior executive positions with Taylor Wimpey plc director of the Investment Banking Group of Lehman Brothers and Royal Dutch Shell plc.
Details of the directors contracts, emoluments and share interests can be found in the Directors remuneration report.
Key: Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Finance and Administration Committee Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 33
