Directors report The directors present their report and the audited accounts Transfer of shares for the financial year ended 30 April 2012.
Certified shares i T ransfers may be in favour of more than four joint holders, Principal activities but the directors can refuse to register such a transfer.
The principal activity of the Company is that of an investment ii The share transfer form must be delivered to the registered holding and management company.
The principal activity of the office, or any other place decided on by the directors.
The Group is the rental of equipment to industrial and commercial transfer form must be accompanied by the share certificate users mainly in the non-residential construction sectors of the relating to the shares being transferred, unless the transfer US and the UK.
is being made by a person to whom the Company was not required to, and did not send, a certificate.
The directors can Trading results and dividends also ask acting reasonably for any other evidence to show The Groups consolidated profit before taxation for the year that the person wishing to transfer the shares is entitled was 135m 2011: 2m.
A review of the Groups performance to do so.
and future development, including the principal risks and CREST shares uncertainties facing the Group, is given in the Business and i Re gistration of CREST shares can be refused in the financial review on pages 6 to 25 and in note 23 to the financial circumstances set out in the Uncertified Securities statements.
These disclosures form part of this report.
Company paid an interim dividend of 1.0p per ordinary share in February and the directors recommend the payment of a final ii Transfers cannot be in favour of more than four joint holders.
dividend of 2.5p per ordinary share, to be paid on 7 September Based on notifications received, the holdings of 3% or more 2012 to those shareholders on the register at the close of of the issued share capital of the Company as at 19 June 2012 business on 17 August 2012, making a total dividend for the the latest practicable date before approval of the financial year of 3.5p 2011: 3.0p.
statements are as follows: Share capital and major shareholders % Details of the Companys share capital are given in note 19 BlackRock, Inc. 7 to the financial statements.
Kames Capital 5 Voting rights Baillie Gifford & Co. 5 Subject to the Articles of Association, every member who is Legal & General Group PLC 4 present in person at a general meeting shall have one vote and Old Mutual Asset Managers UK Ltd 4 on a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he or she is the Details of directors interests in the Companys ordinary share holder.
The Trustees of the Employee Share Ownership Trust capital and in options over that share capital are given in the ordinarily follow the guidelines issued by the Association Directors remuneration report on pages 40 to 45.
Details of all of British Insurers and do not exercise their right to vote at shares subject to option are given in the notes to the financial general meetings.
Under the Companies Act 2006, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or any class of meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A corporate member may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting or any class of meeting as a corporate representative.
The deadline for the exercise of voting rights is as stated in the notice of the relevant meeting.
34 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Change of control provisions in loan agreements Auditor A change in control of the Company defined, inter alia, as a Deloitte LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in office person or a group of persons acting in concert gaining control and in accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, of more than 30% of the Companys voting rights leads to an a resolution concerning its reappointment and authorising the immediate event of default under the Companys asset-based directors to fix its remuneration, will be proposed at the Annual senior lending facility.
In such circumstances, the agent for the General Meeting.
lending group may, and if so directed by more than 50% of the lenders shall, declare the amounts outstanding under the facility Annual General Meeting immediately due and payable.
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 2.30pm on Tuesday, 4 September 2012.
Notice of the meeting is set out in the Such a change of control also leads to an obligation, within document accompanying this Report and Accounts.
30 days of the change in control, for the Group to make an offer to the holders of the Groups $550m senior secured notes, due In addition to the adoption of the 2011 12 Report and Accounts, 2016, to redeem them at 101% of their face value.
the declaration of a final dividend, resolutions dealing with the appointment and re-election of directors and the resolution Directors and directors insurance dealing with the approval of the Directors remuneration report, Details of the directors of the Company are given on pages 32 there are six other matters which will be considered at the and 33.
The policies related to their appointment and replacement Annual General Meeting.
These relate to the reappointment are detailed on pages 36 and 37.
Each of the directors as at the and remuneration of Deloitte LLP as auditor, the ability for the date of approval of this report confirms, as required by section directors to unconditionally allot shares up to approximately 418 of the Companies Act 2006 that to the best of their knowledge two-thirds of the Companys share capital, the disapplication and belief: of pre-emption rights in relation to the previous resolution, empowering the Company to buy back up to 15% of its issued 1 there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys share capital and the ability to call a meeting other than auditor is unaware: and a general meeting on not less than 14 days clear notice.
2 each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have These resolutions update for a further year similar resolutions taken to make himself aware of such information and to approved by shareholders in previous years.
establish that the Companys auditor is aware of it.
By order of the Board The Company has maintained insurance throughout the year to cover all directors against liabilities in relation to the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Policy on payment of suppliers Suppliers are paid in accordance with the individual payment Eric Watkins terms agreed with each of them.
The number of Group creditor Company secretary days at 30 April 2012 was 70 days 30 April 2011: 57 days which 20 June 2012 reflects the terms agreed with individual suppliers.
There were no trade creditors in the Companys balance sheet at any time during the past two years.
Political and charitable donations Charitable donations in the year amounted to 71,178 in total 2011: 50,007.
No political donations were made in either year.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 35
