Business and financial review Geoff Drabble Ian Robson Chief executive Finance director Introduction Our strategy At the core of our strategy are management of the cycle, 2011 12 has proven to be the year when we have investment in our people, differentiation of our service and fleet, been able fully to demonstrate in our profits the operational excellence and the maximising of our return on beneficial impact of our cyclical strategic planning investment.
This is underpinned by our balance sheet strength.
Our strong execution of this strategy has positioned us well in over the last few years.
We are delighted to be what is still a relatively young and competitive US market.
We reporting record profit with cyclical economic aim to differentiate both our service and fleet to offer the widest recovery in the end construction markets in the possible range of equipment to a diversified customer base.
Along with our cyclical investment strategy, this differentiation US and UK still to come.
offers us protection from the inevitable peaks and troughs of the economic cycles that affect our industry as well as making us The growth we are generating now is testament to the more competitive.
momentum we have established over recent quarters through careful financial planning and efficient operational management.
Our operating model is a further source of competitive advantage Our excellent operational delivery continues to be supported by and provides nationwide networks in both the UK and the US, our effective debt structure and the refinancing undertaken in long-term partnerships with manufacturers and clients, a focus the spring of last year which both lowered our finance cost and on excellent customer service and industry-leading technology extended our debt maturities.
The structure of our debt and our relatively low leverage provides us with greater flexibility than most other Ashtead has delivered strong top line growth and benefited from players in our industry, allowing us to flex our fleet investment the operational leverage of the business through a continued as appropriate to each stage of the economic cycle.
Over the focus on costs this year.
Whilst we are reaping the benefits of last year we have used this to our advantage to invest strongly in our cyclical planning already, we continue to expect there to be organic growth with our rental fleet Group-wide now being 12%, further significant growth to come as end construction markets at constant currency, larger and an average of seven months in the US begin their recovery from recession.
As expected, we younger than a year ago.
are also benefiting from an increased trend to rental as well as gains in market share.
Our industry is changing and we are at the forefront of that change.
The efficient execution of our cyclical fleet investment strategy as well as the operational improvements in the US and the UK, have maximised our opportunity to capitalise on both the ongoing structural shift to rental in the US and end market recovery.
6 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
