70 Governance Other statutory information Political donations The Group has entered into a series of financial instruments In line with its established policy, the Group made no political to hedge its currency, interest rate and commodity exposures.
donations pursuant to the authority granted at the 2012 AGM.
These contracts provide for termination or alteration in the event Although the Company does not make, and does not intend to make, that a change of control of the Company materially weakens the donations to political parties, within the normal meaning of that creditworthiness of the Group.
expression, the definition of political donations under the Companies Act 2006 is very broad and includes expenses Employee share plans legitimately incurred as part of the process of talking to members In the event of a change of control of the Company, the effect on the of parliament and opinion formers to ensure that the issues and employee share plans would be as follows: concerns of the Group are considered and addressed.
These activities are not intended to support any political party and the PSP awards would vest pro rata to service in the performance Groups policy is not to make any donations for political purposes period, subject to remuneration committee judgement of Group in the normally accepted sense.
performance: APRA deferred shares the shares would be released from trust A resolution will therefore be proposed at the 2013 AGM seeking immediately: shareholder approval for the directors to be given authority to make ShareSave options would become exercisable immediately.
donations and incur expenditure which might otherwise be caught The new company might offer an equivalent option in exchange by the terms of the Companies Act 2006.
The authority sought will for cancellation of the existing option: and be limited to a maximum amount of 25,000 per Group company Share Incentive Plan SIP consideration received as shares but so as not to exceed 50,000 for the entire Group in aggregate.
would be held within the SIP, if possible, otherwise the consideration would be treated as a disposal from the SIP.
During the year, the business expenses incurred by Rolls-Royce North America Inc. towards the operation of the Rolls-Royce Essential commercial relationships North America Political Action Committee RRNAPAC in the US Supply chain was US$44,161 2011: US$44,436.
PACs are a common feature Certain suppliers to the Group contribute key components or of the US political system and are governed by the Federal Election services, the loss of which could cause disruption to the Groups Campaign Act.
However, none are so vital that their loss would affect the viability of the business as a whole.
When dealing with suppliers, The PAC is independent of the Group and independent of the Group is guided by the Supply Chain Relationships in Aerospace any political party.
The PAC funds are contributed voluntarily SCRIA initiative.
It seeks the best possible terms from suppliers and by employees and the Company cannot affect how they are when entering into binding purchasing contracts, gives applied, although under US Law, the business expenses are consideration to quality, delivery, price and the terms of payment.
In the event of disputes, efforts are made to resolve them quickly.
Such contributions do not require authorisation by shareholders Customers under the Companies Act 2006 and therefore do not count The increasingly global nature of the business, balanced across towards the 25,000 and 50,000 limits for political donations the Civil aerospace, Defence aerospace, Marine and Energy and expenditure for which shareholder approval will be sought segments, ensures that the Group is not overly dependent on at the AGM.
Change of control Creditor days Contracts and joint venture agreements As the Company is a holding company and does not itself trade, There are a number of contracts and joint venture agreements it owed no amounts to trade creditors at 31 December 2012 which would allow the counterparties to terminate or alter those and therefore the number of creditor days required to be shown arrangements in the event of a change of control of the Company.
in this report to comply with the provisions of the Companies These arrangements are commercially confidential and their Act 2006 is nil.
disclosure could be seriously prejudicial to the Company.
Internal control and risk management Borrowings and other financial instruments The Boards responsibility for internal control and The Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various risk management banks.
These facilities generally include provisions which may The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal require any outstanding borrowings to be repaid or the alteration control and for maintaining and reviewing its effectiveness from or termination of the facility upon the occurrence of a change of both a financial and an operational perspective.
The system of control of the Company.
At 31 December 2012 these facilities were internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the less than 30 per cent drawn 2011 20 per cent.
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
R olls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2012 Governance 71 Governance Other statutory information The Groups approach to internal control is based on the underlying Annual report and financial statements principle of line managements accountability for control and risk Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual management.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of report and the financial statements internal control, the Board has taken account of the results of the The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and work carried out to audit and review the activities of the Group.
the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The risk management process is a key element of the Groups internal control system and there is an ongoing process to identify, Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent assess and manage risk, including those risks affecting the Groups company financial statements for each financial year.
This process is subject to continuous improvement and law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in has been in place throughout the financial year to which these accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and statements apply and up to the date of their approval.
The have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in businesses regularly review the effectiveness and consistency of risk accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK management via their assurance framework and the application of Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the risk management process is subject to review by internal audit.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial Responsibility for internal control procedures in joint ventures statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair where we do not have a control agreement lies with the managers view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of those operations.
We seek to exert influence over such ventures of their profit or loss for that period.
by board representation and regularly review the activities of these ventures.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: The Board has established a risk committee.
Every six months the risk committee reviews the key operational risks that the businesses select suitable accounting policies and then apply and functions report in accordance with our enterprise-wide risk them consistently: management policy.
The risk committee also determines material make judgements and estimates that are reasonable external and strategic risks that exist at Group level.
The principal and prudent: risks are reported, annually, to the Board and are included on pages for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been 18 and 19.
In addition, reports and presentations are made to the prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Board on certain types of specialist risks eg treasury, insurable risks, for the parent company financial statements, state whether pensions, health and safety as the risks evolve.
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Following the closure of the 2012 financial year, the audit company financial statements: and committee reported to the Board the results of a review of the risk prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis management process at all levels of the organisation prepared by unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the internal audit.
The Board confirms that ongoing processes and parent company will continue in business.
systems ensure that the Group continues to be compliant with the Turnbull guidance as contained in Internal Control: Guidance for The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Directors on the Combined Code.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent and Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any Financial reporting time the financial position of the parent company and enable them The Group has a comprehensive budgeting system with an to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies annual budget approved by the Board.
Revised forecasts for the Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as year are reported at least quarterly.
Actual results, at both a are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group business and Group level, are reported monthly against budget and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also Financial managers are required to acknowledge in writing that responsible for preparing a directors report, directors their routine financial reporting is based on reliable data and that remuneration report and corporate governance statement that results are properly stated in accordance with Group requirements.
complies with that law and those regulations.
In addition, for annual reporting, business presidents and finance The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity directors are required to acknowledge that their business has of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups complied with the Groups Finance Manual.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
R olls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2012 72 Governance Other statutory information Going concern Disclosure of information to auditors The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this affect its future development, performance and position are set out report confirms that: on pages 1 to 38 of the business review and a summary of the principal risks affecting the business are shown on pages 18 to 19. i so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, borrowing facilities and financial risks are described on pages 12 to ii t he director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken 15 and pages 37 to 38 of the business review.
as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys In addition, notes 1, 13, 15 and 17 of the consolidated financial auditor is aware of that information.
statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for financial risk management, details of its cash and cash This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, in accordance equivalents, indebtedness and borrowing facilities and its financial with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. instruments, hedging activities and its exposure to counterparty credit risk, liquidity risk, currency risk, interest rate risk and Responsibility statements commodity pricing risk.
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: As described on page 37, the Group meets its funding requirements through a mixture of shareholders funds, bank borrowings, bonds, i each of the Group and parent company financial statements, notes and finance leases.
The Group has facilities of 2.3 billion prepared in accordance with IFRS and UK Accounting Standards of which 1.3 billion was drawn at the year end.
US$230 million of respectively, gives a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, these facilities mature in 2013. financial position and profit or loss of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and The Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that ii t he directors report on pages 1 to 72 includes a fair review of the the Group has sufficient financial resources.
In the event that the development and performance of the business and the position put option on Engine Holding GmbH is exercised, estimated cost of the Company and the undertakings included in the 1.6 billion, the directors consider that the Group would be able consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the to raise additional resources in the necessary timeframe to meet principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
As a consequence, the directors have reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group are well placed By order of the Board to manage their business risks and to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, despite the current Nigel Goldsworthy uncertain global economic outlook.
Company Secretary Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis 13 February 2013 in accordance with the guidance Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 issued by the FRC in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
R olls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2012
