68 Governance Shareholders and share capital Share capital and voting rights Any C Shares retained have limited voting rights and attract a On 31 December 2012, there were 1,872,303,563 ordinary shares of dividend of 75 per cent of LIBOR on the 0.1p nominal value of each 20 pence each, 10,417,658,475 C Shares of 0.1 pence each and one share, paid on a twice-yearly basis.
The Company has the option to Special Share of 1 in issue.
The ordinary shares are listed on the redeem the C Shares compulsorily, at any time, if the aggregate London Stock Exchange.
number of C Shares in issue is less than ten per cent of the aggregate number of all C Shares issued, or on the acquisition or Payments to shareholders capital restructuring of the Company.
At the AGM on 2 May 2013, the directors will recommend an issue of 119 C Shares with a total nominal value of 11.6 pence for each On a return of capital on a winding-up, the holders of C Shares shall ordinary share.
The C Shares will be issued on 1 July 2013.
Together be entitled, in priority to any payment to the holders of ordinary with the interim issue on 2 January 2013 of 76 C Shares for each shares, to the repayment of the nominal capital paid-up or credited ordinary share with a total nominal value of 7.6 pence, this is the as paid-up on the C Shares held by them, together with a sum equal equivalent of a total annual payment to ordinary shareholders of to the outstanding preferential dividend which will have been 19.5 pence for each ordinary share.
accrued but not been paid until the date of return of capital.
The payment to shareholders will, as before, be made in the form of The holders of C Shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote at a redeemable C Shares which shareholders may either choose to general meeting only if a resolution to wind up the Company is to retain or redeem for a cash equivalent.
The Registrar, on behalf of be considered, in which case they may vote only on such resolution.
the Company, operates a C Share Reinvestment Plan CRIP and can, on behalf of shareholders, purchase ordinary shares from the market Special Share rather than delivering a cash payment.
Shareholders wishing to Certain rights attach to the special rights non-voting share Special redeem their C Shares or else redeem and participate in the CRIP Share issued to HM Government Special Shareholder.
Subject to must ensure that their instructions are lodged with the Registrar no the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Treasury Solicitor may later than 5pm on 3 June 2013. redeem the Special Share at par at any time.
The Special Share confers no rights to dividends but in the event of a winding-up it Share class rights shall be repaid at its nominal value in priority to any other shares.
The rights and obligations attaching to the different classes of shares are summarised below.
The full rights are set out in the Certain Articles in particular those relating to the foreign Companys Articles of Association, the latest copy of which can be shareholding limit, disposals and the nationality of directors that found on the Groups website at www.
relate to the rights attached to the Special Share may only be altered with the consent of the Special Shareholder.
The Special Shareholder Ordinary shares is not entitled to vote at any general meeting or any other meeting Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys of any class of shareholders.
They are also entitled: to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company: to appoint one or more proxies or, if they Restrictions on transfer of shares and limitations on holdings are corporations, corporate representatives: and to exercise voting There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding rights.
They have the right to ask questions at the AGM relating to of the ordinary shares or C Shares other than under the Articles of the business of the meeting and for these to be answered, unless Association as described here, under restrictions imposed by law such answer would interfere unduly with the business of the or regulation for example, insider trading laws or pursuant to the meeting, involve the disclosure of confidential information, if the Companys share dealing code.
The Articles of Association provide answer has already been published on the Groups website or if it is that the Company should be and remain under United Kingdom not in the interests of the Group or the good order of the meeting control.
As such, an individual foreign shareholding limit is set at that the question be answered.
Holders of ordinary shares may 15 per cent of the aggregate votes attaching to the share capital of receive a bonus issue of C Shares or a dividend and on liquidation all classes taken as a whole and capable of being cast on a poll and may share in the assets of the Company.
to all other shares that the directors determine are to be included in the calculation of such holding.
The Special Share may only be C Shares issued to, held by and transferred to the Special Shareholder or his The Company issues non-cumulative redeemable preference shares successor or nominee.
C Shares as an alternative to paying a cash dividend.
Shareholders can choose to: redeem all C Shares for cash: redeem all C Shares for cash and reinvest the proceeds in additional ordinary shares using the CRIP operated by the Registrar: or keep the C Shares.
R olls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2012 Governance 69 Governance Shareholders and share capital Shareholder agreements and consent requirements Voting rights There are no known arrangements under which financial rights Deadlines for exercising voting rights carried by any of the shares in the Company are held by a person Electronic and paper proxy appointments, and voting instructions, other than the holder of the shares and no known agreements must be received by the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours between the holders of shares with restrictions on the transfer of before a general meeting.
shares or exercise of voting rights.
No disposal may be made to a non-Group member which, alone or when aggregated with the Voting rights for employee share plan shares same or a connected transaction, constitutes a disposal of the Shares are held in various employee benefit trusts for the purpose whole or a material part of either the nuclear business or the assets of satisfying awards made under the various employee share plans.
of the Group as a whole, without consent of the Special Shareholder.
For shares held in a nominee capacity or if plan trust rules provide the participant with the right to vote in respect of specifically Authority to issue shares allocated shares, the trustee votes in line with the participants At the AGM in 2012, authority was given to the directors to allot instructions.
For shares that are not held absolutely on behalf of new ordinary shares up to a nominal value of 124,816,246, specific individuals, the general policy of the trustees, in accordance equivalent to one-third of the issued share capital of the Company.
with investor protection guidelines, is to abstain from voting in This is called the first section 551 amount.
In addition, a special respect of those shares.
resolution was passed to effect a disapplication of pre-emption rights for a maximum of five per cent of the issued share capital of Major shareholdings the Company.
These authorities are valid until the AGM in 2013, and At 8 February 2013, the following companies had notified an the directors propose to renew these authorities at that AGM.
It is interest in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company in proposed to seek a further authority, at the AGM in 2013 to allot up accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and to two thirds of the total issued share capital, but only in the case of Transparency Rules: a rights issue.
This is called the second section 551 amount.
% of issued The Board believes that this additional authority will allow the ordinary share Company Date notified capital Company to retain the maximum possible flexibility to respond AXA S. A.
11 January 2010 4.90 to circumstances and opportunities as they arise: and to allot new BlackRock Inc. 3 September 2010 5.02 C Shares up to a nominal value of 500 million as an alternative to Invesco Limited 4 February 2008 6.91 a cash dividend.
Such authority expires at the conclusion of the Legal & General Group plc 14 October 2009 3.96 AGM in 2013.
The directors propose to renew the authority to allot new C Shares at the AGM in 2013.
Authority to purchase own shares Also at the AGM in 2012, the Company was authorised by shareholders to purchase up to 187,224,369 of its own ordinary shares representing ten per cent of its issued ordinary share capital.
The Company did not make use of this authority during 2012.
The authority for the Company to purchase its own shares expires at the conclusion of the AGM in 2013 or 18 months from 2 May 2012, whichever is the earlier.
A resolution to renew it will be proposed at that meeting.
R olls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2012
