Governance 53 Governance Safety committee report This was followed by a presentation from the Director Engineering and Technology on the governance of HS&E issues in the Group.
The safety of our products The committee considered assurance, key metrics, performance, is paramount global improvement plans in course of delivery and the mechanism by which the Group learned from incidents.
The meeting also considered the Groups environmental performance including emissions levels and targets and actions to improve the in-house energy footprint.
At our meeting in December, we had a presentation from the Director Engineering and Technology supported by the Head of Product Safety Assurance who took us through the Groups product safety processes in more detail and how the engineering function asserts control over critical safety issues throughout the manufacturing process.
The meeting discussed risk management in HS&E and the Groups risk profile.
We also considered personal security arrangements for employees travelling to difficult territories or else working in high risk environments.
Sir Frank Chapman Chairman of the safety committee In November 2012, I spent a day at the Groups facilities in Derby, UK and met the engineering teams.
I was impressed by the depth The safety committee consists exclusively of independent non-executive directors.
In of knowledge and diligence demonstrated by the team members.
2012, the committee met twice and details of its membership and attendance can be During the tour, the team showed me how the Trent 1000 design found on page 44.
During the year, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Director Engineering and Technology and the General Counsel & Head of Risk were process had proactively addressed safety issues at the design stage.
also invited to attend meetings.
I also looked at the management of in-service safety issues and how safety was managed for the Royal Navys submarine reactors I am pleased to present my first report as chairman of the newly currently in service and the design-for-safety approach adopted for formed Rolls-Royce safety committee.
The committee held its first the next generation successor submarine.
My colleagues on the meeting in June 2012 having been tasked by the Board to keep committee are planning similar induction visits in the near future.
under review the scope and effectiveness of the Groups Product Safety Policies and its Health, Safety and Environment HS&E The safety committee has been in existence just eight months at Policies.
The Groups performance in HS&E is described in more the date of this report.
I feel the committee has made a good start detail in the sustainability report on page 35. but clearly there is more to do and I expect to be able to report much more progress in 2013, as the committees understanding and The safety of our products is, of course, paramount.
We supply high reporting processes mature.
value capital products to customers that are strictly regulated with regard to safety.
Civil aerospace products are required to meet Sir Frank Chapman relevant airworthiness authority standards, whilst defence Chairman of the safety committee operators define their own standards for military aerospace and naval products.
Marine classification societies prescribe standards for product designs, working within the comprehensive regulatory framework for shipping developed by the International Maritime Organisation.
Energy products, including those for the civil nuclear programme need to meet relevant standards and regulations.
The committees first priority has been to familiarise the nonexecutive committee members with the Groups detailed safety protocols and procedures.
At our first meeting, we received a presentation on product safety from the Technical and Quality Director which covered: the background to the Rolls-Royce Safety Management Process: the stringent risk levels the Group works to: the status of some key issues being managed across the Groups businesses: and safety assurance and safety in design.
R olls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2012
