Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 10 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 strategy Rotorks vision is to be the leader in our targeted segments of the global flow control market.
The targeted segments comprise of the traditional electric, fluid power and manual actuators used to control the flow of liquids, gases or powders.
These markets are addressed by our Controls, Fluid Systems and Gears divisions.
In addition, the broader instrumentation, diagnostics and feedback devices used in pressure control and measurement or flow control and measurement, form the targeted segments for Rotorks new Instruments division.
We seek to deliver a high return on capital, strong and sustainable margins and consistent year on year growth in revenues and profit which, combined with the asset-light model, deliver strong cash generation.
This cash is used to fund the growth of the business, both organic and through targeted acquisitions, and to fund sustainable and consistent growth in our core dividend.
To provide short term focus, we agree an annual set of key objectives.
At the start of 2012 our objectives included two other items: the establishment of the Instruments division and expanding our nuclear product offering, which are no longer listed specifically below.
The Instruments division is now established and its strategy understood and the acquisition of Soldo during the year was another step in its growth.
We have continued to invest in development of the nuclear product range and certification of these products.
In future, rather than consider this a separate objective, it has been included within the broader product development objective.
The other achievements for 2012 and headline objectives for 2013 are shown below: STRATEGIC PRIORITIES ACHIEvEMENTS 2012 OBjECTIvES 2013 Sales growth Grow our markets by Opened new sales offices in Brazil, Russia, Open two new regional offices in Australia increasing our international coverage, Korea and Japan, restructured the UK sales and larger premises in Mexico and Spain in broadening our end-market exposure and operation and expanded service response to particularly active markets in continuing to integrate our new capabilities in other offices.
Continue to build knowledge acquisitions.
of a number of less well developed end-markets and consider these opportunities.
Product development Introduce and There were a number of product launches A number of product launches are develop new products in each of the during the year in all divisions, with IQ3 in scheduled this year in line with the product divisions.
the Controls division being the most roadmap established for each division.
Development continues in other areas, including nuclear and within the recently acquired businesses.
Acquisitions These are a core part of Acquired Soldo in November.
We will our growth strategy.
Our criteria for continue to seek further suitable acquisitions are that they bring Rotork a opportunities in 2013. new product, a new geographical market or a new market sector.
Often the target will satisfy two or even three of these criteria.
We retain a rigorous and disciplined approach to acquisition pricing.
Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 11 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES ACHIEvEMENTS 2012 OBjECTIvES 2013 Manufacturing and facilities Rotork Completed the new Chennai factory which Complete the fit-out and move into the has invested in a number of factories and opened in June and opened five new sales new facilities in Bath and Leeds.
sales offices to develop world-class and service offices.
facilities from which to work.
Procurement Rotorks outsourced We continued to expand our sourcing Continue to look for opportunities to take manufacturing model means that material team and as a result managed to mitigate costs out of all our products through costs are the most significant component inflationary price pressures through sourcing or product development, of direct costs.
We have always sought to negotiation and finding new suppliers.
including a focus on recently-acquired control these costs and wherever possible Commodity costs were broadly neutral businesses.
Our proven sourcing leverage our global presence to source over the year.
capabilities will be supported with materials.
Rotork Site Services RSS We continue Increased the number of service engineers Continue to expand the service team and to invest in more service engineers and by 8%, new RSS Director recruited and we establish new workshops where there is facilities to ensure we provide the level of invested in the service workshops in four customer demand.
local support our customers have come to locations.
IT Rollout our global system for the sales The new system is now operational at two Continue the rollout through the sales and and service offices.
Development of the rollout template service offices and start to consider and additional functionality continued during development for smaller manufacturing sites.
Staff development Highly trained and Increasing the Global HR team to improve The creation of training plans for each motivated people are key to delivering our consistency of approach across locations.
location and online training programmes strategy.
We will invest in our people and The appointment of a Group Training covering a variety of areas are the first areas encourage internal development to support Manager during the year, a new role, will being developed.
This will include facilitate a more coordinated global recruiting increasing numbers of apprentices approach to training and the most effective and graduates around the world and use of existing resources.
identifying training needs for all employees through their annual appraisal as well as developing talented individuals.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Health and safety audit scores improved Continue to communicate best practice to Our objectives for CSR are monitored by slightly in the year and the associated KPI all locations and provide the necessary training to support local teams.
Focus on four separate committees covering health & Accident Frequency Rate was slightly safety, environment, ethics and social issues higher than the previous year.
Our carbon emissions and our targeted 1% reduction in CO which report to the CSR Committee chaired environmental KPI, waste recycling, per of revenue in 2013.
Our approach in showed a modest improvement in the year.
Encourage our employees to continue in these areas is to communicate best practice The ethics committee continued to their efforts for our global charities, throughout the Group, training those communicate the provisions of the UK WaterAid and Send a Cow, as well as other responsible and, where appropriate, Bribery Act to directors and managers local charities in 18 countries benefiting verifying adoption in each subsidiary.
worldwide and provide further training over 150 charities.
Our employees gave their time and energy to support a wide variety of good causes around the world.
