s t n e m u r t s n I k r o t Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 22 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 instruments Rotork Instruments was formed in November In November 2012, we acquired Soldo, 2011 with the purchase of Fairchild Industrial an Italian based switchbox manufacturer, Products and will ultimately contain a number adding a second high quality business to the of businesses targeted at the wider ow Instruments division.
The division will be built, at are used to indicate valve positions, least initially, via acquisitions as we look for sometimes in conjunction with a pneumatic businesses which have products that measure or hydraulic actuator, often in hazardous and control ow and pressure.
They are highly engineered may work in conjunction with actuators, be products which require certication for sold into the same end-markets as actuators, many of the applications and end-markets or utilise some of the same technology as in which they are used.
actuators but they will also take us into new end-markets.
As with our approach in This was Fairchilds first full year as part of actuators, we intend to focus on the high Rotork and, as such, we focused heavily on quality, high specication part of the integration at all levels.
During the year we instruments market where certication is often combined the Rotork and Fairchild ofces in required and margins are generally higher.
Chengdu, China, and although now sharing a common location, they will continue to be Fairchild is headquartered in Winston-Salem, run as separate businesses.
We also plan to USA, has sales ofces in China, India, Brazil relocate Soldos USA operation into the and Mexico and sells precision pneumatic Winston-Salem facilities during 2013. and electro-pneumatic control products.
A network of distributors is supported from each of these ofces, although there are a number of different routes to market and a broad range of end-markets.
In 2012 the Gulf Coast area of the USA performed particularly well, supported by an active oil & gas sector, which is the divisions largest end-market.
Despite an unfavourable economic backdrop, India and Europe were also strong.
o R D M e n i a P n a l A Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 23 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 Instruments opportunities International expansion 3.45 pm Acquisitions melle germany Revenue in the year was 16.4m, including a small contribution from Soldo, compared with 1.4m in the prior year, which represented only six weeks of Fairchilds results.
The adjusted operating margins were 31.1% for the year in total, with both businesses generating similar returns.
These businesses operate on much shorter lead times than the other Rotork divisions and an order book representing less than one months sales is typical.
The Melle factory in Germany mounted Soldo switchboxes to Rotorks GP pneumatic range of scotch yoke actuators.
The Atex certified SIF series Reve Revenu nue m e m Adjusted Operating profit m Adjusted Operating profit m Adjusted Operating margin Adjusted Operating margin % % switchboxes provide a visual and remote electrical indication of quarter-turn valve actuator position.
