s r a e G k r o t o R D M Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 20 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 gears Rotork Gears manufactures and sells manual Adjusted operating profit for the year was and motorised gearboxes and accessories.
12.1m, 17.0% higher than the prior year, The gearboxes can be used in conjunction delivering an operating margin of 22.9% with actuators and we sell to both the compared with 22.2% last year.
Restating Controls and Fluid Systems divisions, as well adjusted operating profit at last years as selling directly to third parties.
We have exchange rates and removing the effect of been working to increase the level of our the acquisition increases the operating third-party sales and in 2012 we have made profit to 12.5m and the margin to 23.7%.
further progress in this regard, with around The margin increase derives mainly from three quarters of revenue now generated higher volumes, successful sourcing from sales to third-party valve manufacturers.
initiatives and a beneficial product mix.
Whilst the sales to Rotork offices are often driven by project activity, the sales to We saw fastest growth in the Chinese and valvemakers are very different in nature.
US markets, the two territories in which we The gearbox is effectively a component of have focused our investment in recent years.
the valve and, with the majority of valves In China we continued to grow our business still being manually operated, most require with existing customers and win new a gearbox to provide the necessary accounts so that our Shanghai factory is mechanical advantage to operate the valve.
now the largest within the division.
The All valvemakers therefore need a supply of increase in Chinese output has helped to gearboxes and although some make their improve the efficiency of our facility and has own, our sales proposition is very attractive.
also increased our buying power with our We provide high quality, reliable gearboxes supply base in China.
In Houston, USA, our and, by virtue of our scale and buying customisation centre started to gain traction power through our global supply chain, we and towards the end of the year we leased can provide the valve industry with an additional space in the facility.
area, shared with Controls and Fluid Systems, has been doubled to provide a Revenue grew 13.5% in the year to 52.9m platform for further growth.
We also whilst order intake increased 18.9%, increased our sales of subsea gearboxes, resulting in a 25.2% increase in order book with our plant in Italy the driving force to 9.9m.
Each of these is a record for behind this particular market.
The Prokits acquisition in December 2011 made a full contribution in the year, nearly offsetting the currency headwind for the division, with revenue growth on an organic constant currency basis of 13.6%.
s n h o j e l t t i L d i v a D Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 21 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 3.45 pm rotterdam netherlands Gears opportunities Relocation of Leeds factory New product ranges Rotork Valvekits Amongst our other locations, development of the local supply chain in India has proved slower than hoped, which meant that, whilst revenue grew strongly, albeit from a low base, it was not at the margins anticipated.
Work on indigenisation of the supply base is an important step for the Indian factory and will also provide a source of components to export to other Gears factories.
In Russia and Japan we have begun to consolidate our relationships with local valvemakers and we are now adopting a similar approach in Spain, where we continue to make progress.
In the UK, our main Gears factory will relocate to a larger facility in Leeds during 2013 which will be far better suited to its requirements.
The pace of product development has accelerated and is one of the reasons behind our creation of a dedicated new product introduction team.
We launched two completely new manual gearbox ranges and expect further new ranges to be introduced during 2013.
The Prokits acquisition has provided fresh impetus to our UK valve adaption business and delivered good growth in the year.
EuroLoop is one of the worlds largest flow metering calibration facility for the oil & gas industry.
Revenue m Adjusted Operating profit m IQ actuators are fitted with Rotork Gears IW 13.5% 17.0% worm gearboxes for theoperation of the larger ball valves.
