Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 8 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 business model To maintain a market-leading position, we aim to provide high quality, technically advanced, innovative products coupled with a superior level of service that supports our customers activities around the world.
Business model Our global network of ofces and manufacturing sites expands each year to ensure that support is local to the customer.
The same Rotork culture is found at all of our sites and it is something we strive to bring to new ofces and acquired businesses so that customers get consistently high-quality service throughout the world.
We operate an asset-light business model, with most of our manufacturing sites purchasing components in a nished form and then assembling to order.
INDUSTRY KNOW-HOW SITE SERVICES INNOVATION QUALITY SALES PROJECT CONTROL MANAGEMENT PRODUCT SOURCING ASSEMBLY PARTNERSHIPS T H G I L - Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 9 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 8.15 pm chennai india Competitive strengths Market drivers Technological leadership Understanding our customers Many of the markets we serve are recognised as structural and the markets we serve allows us to continue to develop growth markets.
The growth may be driven by investment in new products and lead the evolution of actuator and ow new infrastructure to support urbanisation or industrialisation, control products.
automation or refurbishment of existing plants.
Population growth, the exploitation of new technologies and the desire to Global footprint Our ofces around the world allow us extract natural resources from ever more challenging locations to manage the complex global projects which account for are also drivers in some of our markets.
the majority of sales and to support our customers in the eld.
Rotork Site Services work with our customers by installing and commissioning our actuators and by meeting their service requirements.
Diverse end market exposure Wherever liquids, gases or powders are being moved and the process needs to be automated or contain failsafe controls, actuators and Infrastructure ow control products are required.
We highlight the oil & gas, power and water markets because they use actuators most intensively but we sell to many other markets.
Some of these markets span many applications and our broad Urbanisation product portfolio enables us to address them.
Asset-light business model Over 90% of our products are built using an outsourced manufacturing model, with our workforce assembling components and conguring products to match customer orders.
We have developed and call upon a Automation global network of suppliers who manufacture the components for our products to our designs and who use our tooling.
Population Growth Quality Our products are used in demanding environments where consistency of performance is often critical to a New process.
Customers expect Rotork products to be reliable Technologies and our quality control procedures, which extend to cover our supply chain, are central to delivering this.
