Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 28 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 key performance indicators Financial KPIs Growth of the business, quality of earnings and efficient use of resources are crucial target areas for Rotork and we have a number of measures of performance used throughout Rotork aimed at monitoring this.
The KPIs used to monitor the financial performance of the business are set out below.
procurement costs and pricing 85% is regarded as a base level reporting this ratio internally aspects of the income the effectiveness of our health produced which is recycled.
across the businesses on how This measure enables us to track as well as the leverage of our of achievement.
helps management at Group statement including and safety procedures.
we relate to our staff and what our overall success in specic operating assets.
It is also a Cash generation is also one of level monitor our adherence to management of the Groups we can do better.
project activity and our progress check on the quality of revenue the constituent parts of the this philosophy.
in increasing our market share growth but is heavily influenced senior management reward by products and region.
How we calculate How we calculate How we calculate How we calculate How we calculate How we calculate How we calculate How we calculate Increase in sales revenue year on Adjusted profit before tax Cash ow from operating Adjusted operating profit as a Increase in adjusted basic EPS The formula we have used for This information is collected Employees scored their year divided by the earlier year after nancing and interest activities before tax outows percentage of average capital based on adjusted profit after calculating our AFR is the through regular submissions responses directly into a sales revenue.
shown as a percentage of sales and the pension charge to cash employed.
Capital employed is tax year on year divided by the number of reportable injuries into our main UK site in Bath.
prepared survey with 1 being revenue.
adjustment as a percentage of dened as shareholders funds earlier year adjusted basic EPS.
divided by the number of hours very dissatisfied and 5 being adjusted operating profit.
less net cash held, with the worked multiplied by 100,000. very satisfied.
pension fund deficit net of related deferred tax asset added back.
The calculation is shown on page 105.
Comments on results Comments on results Comments on results Comments on results Comments on results Comments on results Comments on results Comments on results We grew revenue by 14.3% The reduction is a result of Cash generation remains above Average capital employed has Adjusted basic EPS has The investment in training to Further improvements are We had a record number of despite some markets and some lower returns on pension target and working capital as a risen by 36% because the 2011 increased ahead of profit before create a number of specialists becoming harder to achieve but respondents this year and the important geographies growing scheme assets and the faster function of sales has reduced acquisitions are now reected in tax due to a reduced effective and the improvements arising the results this year are just response rate rose to 77%.
The positive growth in the divisions with during the year from 27.0% to both the opening and closing tax rate arising from a lower tax through the audit process have ahead of the previous year.
scores relating to satisfaction impact of acquisitions was lower return on sales being 25.5%.
This KPI remains rate in the UK and the helped raise awareness of safe Focus remains on those with the bonus scheme, partially offset by a currency offset by the improvements at sector leading levels.
international mix of where our working practices.
Training will locations where recycling is yet effective supervision and headwind, organic constant made in the Fluid System and profits were generated.
continue as we aim to reduce to be as fully adopted.
feedback and that Rotork values currency growth being 12.3%.
Gears divisions return on sales.
its employees showed the greatest improvement.
Adjusted gures are before the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 29 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 key performance indicators Non-financial KPIs We monitor non-financial areas in our businesses particularly in the environmental, health and safety and quality control areas and put strong emphasis within our organisation on improving our performance here.
