s l o r t n o C k r o t o R Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 16 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 controls Botlek Tank Terminal BTT at Rotterdam relies on Rotorks The launch of the third generation of our 2012 saw contrasting activity levels in our latest electric valve actuation agship IQ actuator was the key event of end-markets.
Whilst oil & gas generally has technologies for automated flow control and vital safety 2012 for the Controls division.
The advances been active and we have seen growth, the related duties associated with in diagnostics and asset management and power market was slower.
This slowdown the import, export and improved local access to that information in in power has been most noticeable in India storage of a varied range of this latest generation of products keeps the and China, where it is our biggest sector, liquid bulk products.
IQ range at the forefront of the industry.
and has been influenced by raw material We also launched the Compact Modulating supply and governmental factors.
We Actuator CMA, a new process control anticipate this to be a relatively short term actuator range, and a larger size CVA, both effect as the longer term demand in both of which expand our already market leading these countries continues to outstrip current product portfolio.
Despite the softer power market, both India and China delivered Revenue grew by 5.5% in the year to growth as our sales forces focused on other 293.3m and, with order intake growth end-market opportunities.
In oil & gas, of 8.7%, the year end order book grew by growth came through a range of countries 12.8%.
Removing the contribution from and in different applications: for example, acquisitions and restating 2012 at 2011 the offshore sector in Norway: transmission exchange rates, revenue growth was 6.8% and storage in Russia: and unconventional and order intake growth was 9.3%.
The Australian A 7% weaker euro is the main factor behind projects represent a milestone for our the currency adjustment with the US dollar CVA range.
The products low power rate against sterling being similar for both requirements, fail-to-position capability years.
Adjusted operating profit of 94.8m and accuracy have ensured that they are was 2.9% higher than 2011 and the specified on these remote installations.
resulting margin of 32.3% compares with The increase in order book through the year the 33.1% in the prior year.
On an organic was also partially driven by these Australian constant currency basis, the increase in projects as the deliveries are phased over adjusted operating profit would have been many months.
In the Americas, our growth 5.0% and the margin 32.6%.
Whilst has been broad-based and we benefited material costs reduced slightly as a from a number of projects in Latin America, proportion of revenue due to our focus on an active valvemaker base in the US Gulf Coast region which is predominantly serving sourcing, labour and overhead cost increases were ahead of the rate of revenue export markets, and some activity in US water and oil & gas projects.
Some of the increased costs were directly related to product launches but others were due to investment in facilities and people to support growth.
D M d o o W t n a r G Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 17 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 3.45 pm rotterdam netherlands Controls opportunities Expansion of footprint Integration of Schischek New product introductions Proximity to our customers is important to Rotorks business model and we continue to look for locations where we can increase our presence.
This proximity ensures that we are able to work more closely with customers as they develop their investment plans and provide them with better after-sales service and support.
During the year we opened five new sales ofces and expanded our ofces and workshop facilities in seven others.
We also opened our new factory in Chennai, India, having completely rebuilt the facility to provide a modern factory capable of supporting our growth in this important market for many years to come.
Many of our production facilities serve more than one division, with sales forces often cross-selling products from all divisions.
We plan to open a number of new ofces in 2013, including a presence in north east Australia where the market is very active.
The launch of any new product range requires significant work not only in designing it but also then sourcing the new components.
Typically there are costs associated with introducing new products and at the point of product launch the components are also at their most expensive.
We continually review our supply base, and as volumes grow and the product matures, we have historically been able to deliver savings through improvements in sourcing.
The IQ3 has been positively received by our customers.
Initially we are manufacturing the product in Bath and we will systematically rollout production to our other electric actuator manufacturing sites during 2013.
