Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 62 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 Report of the directors The directors submit their report which incorporates the management share Capital report required under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules for listed Details of the Companys share capital including rights and companies and the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December obligations attached to each class of share and the ordinary shares 2012 as set out on pages 66 to 114.
In compiling this report, the issued during 2012 are set out in note 17 of the financial directors have consulted with the management of the Group.
5p ordinary shares represent over 99.9% of the Companys total share capital and 1 preference shares represent principal activities less than 0.1% of the Companys total share capital.
Rotork plc is a holding company.
The principal activities of the Group are the design, manufacture and support of products within The Companys Articles of Association contain customary the global flow control markets.
In particular, the Group provides a restrictions on the transfer of shares as applicable only in certain range of products, systems and services within the global flow limited circumstances e. g. in relation to transfers to a minor.
Save control markets including those for the motorisation and manual for those provisions there are no restrictions on the transfer of operation of industrial valves and dampers for isolation duty and ordinary shares in the capital of the Company other than certain process control applications and other products associated with restrictions which may be required from time to time by law, for flow and pressure control and diagnostics and gathering of example, insider trading law.
In accordance with the Model Code information.
This is managed under four divisions: Controls, Gears, which forms part of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Fluid Systems and Instruments.
Actuated valves are major control Authority as adopted by the Company certain directors and elements in refineries, pipelines, power stations, water distribution employees are required to seek the prior approval of the Company systems and effluent treatment plants and in all industries in which to deal in its shares.
liquids, gases or powders are transported through pipes.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between A summary of the principal subsidiaries of the Group are set out on shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of page 112. securities and or voting rights.
The Companys Articles of Association contain limited restrictions on the exercise of voting The Business Review of the Group is set out on pages 12 to 39. rights e. g. in relation to disenfranchised shares following the issue It provides a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the of a notice to shareholders under section 793 Companies Act development and performance of the business during the year 2006. under review and the position at the end of the year.
It includes future development of the business and information about The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by environmental matters, the Groups employees and social and special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
The review contains analysis using financial and non-financial key performance indicators.
The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to which it is party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and the of the Company following a takeover.
Groups approach to mitigating those risks are set out on pages 30 to 31. employee share schemes Shares in the Companys share schemes all contain provisions acquisitions providing voting rights to the scheme trustee.
In November 2012, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Soldo srl, a switch box manufacturer, now within our Instruments notification of major interests in shares division for 23.1m.
Since the 2011 Directors Report the Company has been notified of major interests and voting rights held directly and or indirectly by Post year end, in January 2013, the Group acquired the entire share the following: capital of the operating companies of the Schischek group of companies Schischek for 34.3m.
Schischek is a leader in the Name % of Voting Rights design, manufacture and sale of explosion-proof electric actuators, Kames Capital 3% principally for the heating, ventilation, and air conditioning HVAC market place.
Research & development dividends Total Group expenditure on Research & Development in the year The directors recommend a final dividend of 26.6p per ordinary was 7,404,000 2011: 5,823,000 further details of which are share 2011: 22.75p for the year, payable on 21 May 2013 to contained in the Business Review on page 15. shareholders on the register on 12 April 2013.
An interim dividend for 2012 of 16.4p per ordinary share 2011: 14.5p was paid on 28 donations September 2012.
During the year the Company made charitable donations of 91,420 2011: 94,000 which is part of the total Group contribution of 201,000 2011: 163,000.
There were no political donations made in the year or the prior year.
Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 63 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 directors For the Company financial statements, state whether applicable The names of the directors in office during the year and their UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any biographies and other details including the other significant material departures disclosed and explained in the Company financial statements: and commitments of the Chairman are as shown on pages 40 to 41.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the The interests of the directors in office at the end of the financial year in the shares of the Company are as shown in the Company will continue in business.
Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 61.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys RH Arnold, JM Davis, PI France and GM Ogden have service agreements and details of these are contained in the Remuneration transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that Report on page 59. its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably The Companys procedure with regard to the appointment and replacement of directors and those matters reserved for the Board open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
are described in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 44 to 52.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also At the AGM, SA James will offer herself for election, it being the responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that first opportunity since her appointment as a director on 11 May 2012.
All other directors will offer themselves for re-election.
complies with that law and those regulations.
financial instruments directors statement pursuant to the disclosure and transparency Rules An explanation of the Group policies on the use of financial instruments and financial risk management objectives are contained Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 40 and 41 confirm that, to the best of each persons in note 26 to the accounts.
knowledge and belief: statement of directors Responsibility for preparing the annual Report and the financial statements The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of the accounting standards, give a true and fair The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the auditors Statement of Auditors Responsibilities, included in the view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and Company: and audit report, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in The Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group relation to the financial statements.
and Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report & Accounts and the Group and Company financial statements in The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by Going Concern the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view In forming this view, the directors have considered trading and cash flow forecasts, financial commitments, the significant order book of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group and Company for that period.
In preparing each of the Group with customers spread across different geographic areas and industries and the significant net cash position.
and Company financial statements, the directors are required to: For further information regarding the Companys objectives, Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: For the Group financial statements, state whether they have hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk, see note 26. been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 64 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 Report of the directors continued Creditor payment policy Whilst there is no formal code or standard, it is Company and Group policy to agree payment terms with its creditors, when negotiating general contract terms for each transaction and to abide by those payment terms, provided that the supplier is also complying with its obligations under those terms.
There are no creditors subject to special arrangements outside suppliers terms and conditions.
The Company does not have any trade suppliers so that a creditor day payment period is not appropriate.
directors and officers indemnity insurance Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Companys Articles of Association provide for the directors and officers of the Company to be appropriately indemnified.
The Company purchases and maintains insurance for the directors and officers of the Company in undertaking their duties, as permitted by section 233 Companies Act 2006. disclosure of information to auditors The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
auditors Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration are to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
annual General meeting The AGM of the Company will be held at the Companys office at Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath, BA1 3JQ on Friday 26 April 2013 at 12 noon.
A separate circular containing the Notice of the Meeting is sent to shareholders with this Annual Report & Accounts.
On behalf of the Board stephen Rhys Jones Company Secretary 4 March 2013
