s m e t s y S d i u l F k r o t o Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 18 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 uid systems Rotork Fluid Systems RFS was our fastest Adjusted operating profit was a record at growing division in 2012.
The division 24.6m, 44.2% higher than the prior year, exceeded our medium term target of and would have been 25.8m at 2011 achieving an adjusted operating margin exchange rates and without the of 15% and our objective is now to sustain contribution from acquisitions.
Adjusted that performance in future years.
RFS operating margins were 15.3% and would manufactures a wide range of pneumatic have been 15.9% on an organic constant and hydraulic emergency shutdown currency basis.
actuators mainly for the oil & gas market.
Oil & gas covers a wide variety of Our target margin was achieved through applications and RFS benefited from strong growth in revenue, which has been driven demand from LNG, gas and liquids pipelines, by our recent investment in infrastructure.
gas storage and offshore projects during the This investment has enabled us to ensure year.
The integration and development of that as volumes increased, we maintained recent acquisitions also played a part in this our quality and met our customers delivery growth notably in Mexico, where we expectations.
Our factories in Leeds, UK, began to deliver actuators on the large and Rochester, USA, recorded a strong pipeline project won at the end of 2011, performance, supported by growth of our and where we also won some significant electro-hydraulic products.
Our factories in service contracts during the year.
Melle, Germany which mainly supplies the German and Russian markets Lucca, Italy, Revenue grew 21.4% to a record 160.9m, and Flowquip, based in Tulsa, USA, all with the second half contribution of 89.5m achieved record results.
Flowquip serves the being 12.5% higher than the second half liquids pipeline market, as well as operating of 2011, which had been a record.
Revenue as a Centre of Excellence CoE for that was less second half weighted this year, region in the USA.
Our CoEs buy actuators representing 56% of the annual total from our factories and add control systems compared with 60% in 2011.
Removing the in their local workshops, and these also incremental benefit of acquisitions and performed well.
Our subsidiaries in Australia restating revenue at 2011 exchange rates, and Russia made the greatest progress in revenue growth would have been 22.6% the year, with the Middle East, Norway and higher.
With two key factories based in the Mexico also growing strongly, albeit from a eurozone and euro weakness being the lower base.
During the year we opened most significant driver behind the currency CoEs in Brazil and the Middle East and headwind in 2012, RFS is the division most expanded our site in Edmonton, Canada.
affected by the currency restatement this year in percentage terms.
Order intake increased by 22.4%, 22.9% on an organic constant currency basis, and the order book rose 16.5% to 66.5m.
R D M y b s u B x e l A Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 19 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 1.45 am new south wales australia Fluid systems opportunities New Centres of Excellence Product releases Current and new markets These investments will support our growth in the coming years.
In 2013 we plan to extend four facilities and open three new ones, including a new ofce in north east Australia, from where we will be able to serve the active local market and our growing installed base of electro-hydraulic actuators.
We introduced a number of new products during 2012, the most significant of which was the launch of an updated Gas-over-Oil product range that offers a more compact design than its predecessor.
The R&D team was restructured during the year to ensure that dedicated resource is allocated to new product development and kept separate from day-to-day applications engineering.
Both parts of the team are supported by RIDEC Rotork Innovation Design and Engineering Centre in Chennai, India, which works closely with the R&D teams in our factories around the world.
Managing the cost of components, both through engineering change and sourcing initiatives, is a continual drive and we were successful in generating savings through this process during the year.
Using our factories in lower cost areas as a base for sourcing local expertise has proved beneficial and we will extend this initiative to additional product ranges in 2013.
Rotork has supplied Skilmatic Pro actuators to the Mount Thorley Warkworth MTW coal mine.
The pipework delivers water to the north and south coal processing washing plants from a Revenue m Revenue m Adjusted Operating profit m Adjusted Operating profit m new dam source.
