RPC Group Plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our strategy and business model Strategy How We Add Value One-stop shop Our strategy is to grow and develop leading Offering unparalleled choice positions in our chosen product markets and We have expertise across all three Market research geographical areas in the rigid plastic conversion processes, offering unparalleled packaging industry by establishing strong choice in both standard and customised long-term relationships with our customers products.
Therefore we can provide the Design office and by developing high quality, innovative widest range of rigid plastic packaging products that meet customer needs.
Excellence in design We achieve and maintain our leading Development centre Where possible we offer a one-stop market positions by continued innovation shop approach to design that achieves and investment, leveraging our leading productrequirements across brand technological capability and through strategic Rapid prototyping image, functionality and packaging corporate development both in our existing performance.
Our extensive facilities, core markets and new geographical regions.
including tool and mould making, mean Mould design Innovation thatwe can provide customers with a Innovate to maintain a pipeline of novel complete service from initial concept applications and solutions in all conversion to finished pack, thereby reducing the Mould shop processes to create new high return, niche packaging development lead time.
market positions that are scalable across Product innovation existing and new markets.
Project monitoring We create and grow markets for rigid Investment plastic packaging through technical Continue to invest to enhance strong market innovation, supported by the continuing Moulding positions, gain market share and maintain substitution of glass and metal for plastic barriers to entry.
We are a leader in plastic packaging innovation, developing Technological capability Decoration technically advanced production processes Leverage technologies across the business to enhance the functionality and economy using the Groups technological edge to of our products and the efficiency of our increase our exposure to, or enter, emerging Assembling operations, for the benefit of our customers, markets where there is a pull for more shareholders and the environment.
Customer service Strategic corporate development We operate through an autonomous but Consolidate and grow our core market connected business structure that meets positions, acquiring where existing thediverse needs of global and local market positions can be further enhanced customers across a wide geographical area.
and available synergies will enhance With more than 50 operations spanning shareholder value.
Expand into new 18countries, we have close proximity to geographical areas through selective our customers and access to a wide range investment to create or cement strong or ofmarkets.
We develop long and mutually differentiated positions and to participate dependent relationships with our customers inhigh growth emerging markets.
by providing excellent quality and service.
The Rigid Plastic Packaging value chain Raw Polymer Polymer Packaging End materials crackers converters buyers users Raw material Creation of raw Conversion of RPCs direct Rigid plastic providers for polymergranules raw polymer customers are packaging the crackers granules filler packers, isused by oilrefinery, into finished brand owners industry and the naptha, gas etc packaging and retailers end consumer products Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Sun-Pat Substitution Sun-Pat, the UKs leading peanut The benefits: Bringing packaging to life butter brand, has been re-launched lightweighting 90% weight reduction compared in a lightweight glass clear PET jar withprevious packaging Customer: Premier International Foods manufactured by RPC Blackburn.
Glass clear pack to show contents Brand: Sun-Pat Peanut Butter The change from the existing glass Injection Moulding Blow Moulding Thermoforming packaging reflects significant Shatterproof Product: PET jar Various sizes sustainability benefits for brand Single material for easy recycling Process: Injection Stretch ownerPremier Foods.
BlowMoulding Lower carbon footprint duringtransportation
