RPC Group Plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 A global force in rigid plastic packaging The Group has over 50 operations in 18 countries, mainly within Europe but with facilities also in North Africa and the USA.
The Groups broad geographic footprint and trading partners allow it to operate close toitscustomers and provide them withmulti-plant security of supply.
Many of the Groups high value added products can be economically transported further afield where one or more product characteristics including functionality, performance, innovation and decorative services outweigh shipping costs.
Key Countries where we manufacture Countries where we sell Key facts operations in Industry leading 50 countries 18 innovator Over Listed on the 7,300 London Stock employees Exchange 1993 Annual sales Entered the of over FTSE 250 March 1.1bn 2011 Achieving ROCE of Leading European 19.1% manufacturer utilising all 3 conversion processes Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Growth drivers The global packaging industry is predicted to grow by $150bn between 2010 and 2016 to reach almost $820bn.
Rigid plastic is forecast to be the fastest growing packaging material following from technological developments.
Drivers of packaging growth Demand in both industrial and emerging economies is driving technological developments and enhanced value adding opportunities for more sophisticated packaging with functional and barrier properties, as well as enhanced decoration.
In emerging economies, growing urbanisation, investment in housing and construction and increasing disposable incomes are driving demand for consumer products and the packaging of these goods.
Corresponding growth in healthcare, the demand for convenience foods and the need for packaging to maximise shelf-life for perishable products is driving the consumption of rigid plastic as well as other forms of consumer goods packaging.
Particularly robust growth in the demand for cosmetics, toiletries and household & personal care products is stimulating consumption of rigid plastic packaging.
Suppliers are developing profitable niche applications in Western markets as well as in the faster-growing markets in Asia, Central and Eastern Europe and South America.
