Board Responsibilities The Board has a schedule of matters that are reserved for its decision, which includes the matters summarised below.
n Determining the Groups overall strategy n The approval of policies and systems for risk management and assurance n Approving annual budgets and financial reporting including annual and half year results and interim management n The approval of overall policies and plans for human resources statements n The appointment of key advisers to the Group n The approval and recommendation of dividends n The approval of major items of capital expenditure n The approval of significant acquisitions and disposals n The settlement of major litigation.
Board Structure At the date of this report the Board comprised three Executive, four Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
There were no changes to Board membership during the year.
The Executive Directors are responsible for the day-to-day management of all the Groups business activities.
The Non-Executive Directors are, in the opinion of the Board, all independent of management and contribute independent judgement as well as extensive knowledge and experience to the proceedings of the Board.
The Chairman was independent on appointment.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for three-year terms, which may subsequently be extended.
Any term beyond six years for a Non-Executive is rigorously reviewed, taking account of the requirement to refresh the Board.
All directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The Chairman and Chief Executive have clear and distinct roles.
The key functions of the Chairman are to conduct Board meetings as well as meetings of shareholders and to ensure that all Directors are properly briefed in order to take a full and constructive part in Board discussions.
The Chief Executives role is to develop and lead business strategies and processes to enable the Groups to meet the requirements of its clients as well the needs of its employees and shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders who wish to raise concerns that cannot be resolved through the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director.
Robert Miller-Bakewell acted as the Senior Independent Director throughout the year.
The Board is assisted by the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate Governance Committees, all of which activities are described in this report.
The Chairman of each Committee provides updates as to its activities at Board meetings.
The table below shows the number of Board and Committee meetings attended by each of the Directors during the year.
Full Audit Remuneration Nomination Corporate Board Committee Committee Committee Governance Brook Land 9 1 2 Alan Hearne 9 2 Gary Young 9 Phil Williams 9 John Bennett 9 5 5 Louise Charlton 8 5 1 Robert Miller-Bakewell 9 5 Tracey Graham 8 5 5 Number of meetings held 9 5 5 1 2 Attended BNE AAP board meeting instead of one Group board meeting Board Operations The Board generally meets on a monthly basis, except during holiday periods, although additional meetings may be held should circumstances require.
The Board agenda gives significant focus to business performance and strategy.
Comprehensive papers are circulated well in advance of Board meetings.
These include general updates and briefings on significant issues from each of the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary.
These reports and other matters of immediate importance are discussed by the Board.
Presentations on the operations of particular operating companies are made from time to time.
The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in ensuring that Board procedures are followed and advises on matters of Corporate Governance.
The services of the Company Secretary are available to Directors generally.
The Executive Directors meet formally at least once a month.
The Executive Committee, which consists of the three Executive Directors supported by the Company Secretary, is responsible for all operational matters within the Group subject to those matters that remain reserved for the Board.
The minutes of Executive Committee meetings are circulated to the Non-Executive Directors for review.
