Business Review There was, however, a change in client sentiment in the second half of the year in these markets.
This resulted from a combination of lower levels of Asian demand for certain natural resources, heightened concerns over escalating project costs and a trimming of growth in the Australian economy.
We are taking steps to improve the efficiency of this business, enabling us to remain well positioned in sectors which may increase activity again during 2013 and which have excellent medium and long term prospects.
Outside the natural resources sector the Australian economy remained under pressure, as global economic concerns reduced consumer and business confidence.
As a result, conditions in the commercial development market remained subdued.
The acquisition of Manidis Roberts, completed in July, significantly strengthens our business in New South Wales, as well as increasing our penetration into parts of Australian public sector infrastructure market, including water, transport and power supply.
The integration of this business is progressing well, although the run up to the recently called national election in September is likely to cause uncertainty in its markets.
Subject to global economic progress continuing, conditions in some of our markets should improve during the course of 2013, enabling us to benefit from our strong profile.
Group Strategy and Prospects RPS remains well positioned in markets of long term importance to the global economy.
Our focus on Energy and energy infrastructure markets provides the Group with an excellent underpin to its prospects.
We continue to believe that our strategy of building multi-disciplinary businesses in each of the regions in which we operate is attractive and achievable.
We will, therefore, continue to develop our business organically, whilst seeking further acquisition opportunities.
Our balance sheet is strong and supports this strategy.
We have come through the exceptionally challenging circumstances of the last four years in a strong position.
We were able to deliver good growth in 2012, which takes us above our previous high, achieved in 2008.
Although the outlook in some of our markets is still uncertain, we remain on track to produce further growth in 2013, anticipating this is likely to be more marked in the second half.
