Introduction Strategy and Business Model RPS is an international consultancy providing independent advice upon: n the exploration and production of oil and gas and other natural resources, and n the development and management of the built and natural environment We provide a wide range of services for our clients and accordingly operate in a large number of markets both functionally and internationally.
The long term drivers of our business are: n the worlds need to secure adequate supplies of energy and other natural resources from environmentally acceptable sources n the commercial advantage resulting from the sustainable development of land and buildings n the need to provide adequate infrastructure such as airports, power stations, public transport, water treatment plants n the need to manage environmental, health and safety risks Our strategy, which is determined and monitored by the Board, is to operate in those markets that exhibit these drivers, have sound longer-term prospects and where we can potentially achieve leading positions.
Each year the Board sets a series of priorities consistent with that strategy and reviews progress against its strategy and priorities on a regular basis.
Within that context we seek to improve continuously the range and quality of the services we offer our clients and where we can best can add value to their activities.
We are aiming to build multi-disciplinary businesses in North America and Australia as we have in Europe as well as building a presence in the developing world through oil, gas and mineral exploration and production projects.
The development of our business in this way is important in attracting and retaining high quality employees.
This is achieved by providing opportunities for professional growth and advancement as well as by providing competitive remuneration and benefits packages, and striving to maintain an open, creative and positive culture.
Client retention and the maintenance of longstanding relationships with our clients are at the heart of our success.
We achieve this by seeking to deliver focussed and cost-effective advice on both well understood problems and emerging challenges.
We also maintain an international reputation for meeting the challenges posed by large complex projects and problems and conducting business in an open and responsible manner.
The increasing diversity and geographical spread of our businesses requires us to continuously monitor and seek to improve the operational efficiency of our businesses.
This entails consideration of management organisation, controls, processes, systems and support services.
Acquisitions have played an important part in our growth in the past and will continue to be a key part of our strategy.
We acquire businesses that are well managed, deliver sound results and have good reputations in their markets.
They may be in sectors where we are already operating or offer services that are closely related to our own.
We already have well established and strong businesses in a number of countries, which provide a platform for acquisitive growth there.
We are seeking to acquire high quality businesses in North America, Australia and Europe that either add depth to or complement the services we offer clients in those countries.
The Board will consider larger acquisitions as well as acquisitions in countries in which we do not currently operate that are consistent with overall strategy and provide our international clients with greater local support.
The markets in which we operate are fast moving and so our strategy also needs to be sufficiently flexible to ensure that we can respond quickly to changing conditions.
The Key Performance Indicators the Group employs are monitored monthly and provide the means by which the Board measures the success of its strategy.
Group Structure The Group consists of two primary reporting segments: Energy and Built & Natural Environment, the latter being split into two geographic sub-segments covering Europe and Australia Asia Pacific.
Energy This is a global, multi-disciplinary consultancy, providing integrated technical, commercial and project management support and training in the fields of geoscience, engineering, health, safety and environment to the energy sector.
Our aim is to help clients develop their energy resources across the complete life cycle, combining our technical and commercial skills with an extensive knowledge of rpsgroup.
