Management & Governance The Board Brook Land Dr Phil Williams John Bennett Non-Executive Chairman Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Aged 63.
Brook Land was formerly a Aged 60.
Phil Williams joined the Aged 65.
John was appointed to the senior partner of and is now a consultant Group in September 2003 through the Board in June 2006.
He is a Chartered to Nabarro.
He is a director of a number acquisition of Hydrosearch Associates Accountant with 30 years experience of private companies.
Until June 2008 Limited where he held the position in the house building industry.
He was he was Senior Independent Director of of Managing Director.
Phil joined Finance Director of Westbury plc, until Signet Group plc.
He was appointed to Hydrosearch in 1981 and was appointed it was acquired early in 2006.
He has the Board in 1997 and is also Chairman of Managing Director in 1983.
Over the wide experience of financial management, the Nomination Committee.
next 20 years he led Hydrosearch as capital and debt raising, acquisitions and the company developed into one of the investor relations and he played a leading worlds largest energy sector consulting role in the strategic development of Dr Alan Hearne groups.
Phil was appointed to the Board Westbury into a top ten volume house Chief Executive in December 2005. builder in the UK.
John is serving a third three-year term.
He is Chairman of the Aged 60.
Alan Hearne holds a degree Audit Committee and a member of the in economics and a doctorate in Robert Miller-Bakewell Remuneration Committee.
Following Independent Non-Executive Director a period of academic research into environmental planning he joined RPS in Aged 60.
Robert joined the Board in May Louise Charlton 1978, becoming a Director in 1979 and 2010, is nearing the end of an initial three Independent Non-Executive Director Chief Executive in 1981.
Alan was the year term and has agreed to serve for a plc Entrepreneur of the Year in 2001, further three years.
Louise was appointed to the was made a Companion of the Institute Director of Investment Research at Merrill Board in May 2008.
She is Group Senior of Management in 2002, a member of Lynch from 1998 to 2008 and prior to Partner of Brunswick Group LLP, the the Board of the Companions in 2007, a this worked as an investment analyst with international corporate communications fellow of Aston Business School in 2006 NatWest Markets and its predecessor group of which she was a co-founder.
and an honorary Doctor of the University companies.
Over the previous twenty years Louise is also a Director and Trustee of the of Kent in 2011. his focus was on analysing and advising Natural History Museum.
She is serving a water, waste, transport and environmental second three-year term and is a member infrastructure companies both in the UK of the Remuneration and Nomination Gary Young and internationally.
Until the end of 2012 Committees.
Finance Director he was a member of OFWATs Future Regulation Panel.
Robert is a member of Aged 53.
Gary Young graduated from Tracey Graham the Audit and Nomination Committees as Southampton University in 1982 and Independent Non-Executive Director well as being Senior Independent Director.
qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1986 with Price Waterhouse.
Tracey Graham joined the he held a number of finance director roles Board in September 2011 having been including positions within Rutland Trust Chief Executive of Talaris Limited, an plc and AT&T Capital.
He joined RPS in international cash management business, September 2000 and was appointed to the until 2010.
Tracey led the management Board in November of that year.
buy-out of Talaris from fide La Rue Plc, backed by private equity house Carlyle in 2008.
Tracey is also an independent Non-Executive Director of Dialight Plc, Albemarle and Bond Plc, and the Royal London Group.
She chairs the Remuneration Committee and is a member of the Audit Committee.
