Management & Governance Where Directors have concerns that cannot be resolved regarding the management of the Company or a proposed action, these concerns are recorded in the Board minutes.
In accordance with Company policy any concerns expressed by a Director on resignation are provided, in a written statement, to the Chairman for circulation to the Board.
No issues of this nature have arisen during the year.
The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions that allow Directors to authorise conflicts in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
These provisions enable the Directors to authorise a conflict, subject to such terms as they may think fit, which may include exclusion from voting in respect of the relevant issue and exclusion from information and discussion relating to the matter.
The procedure approved by the Board for authorising conflicts reminds directors of the need to consider their duties as directors and not grant an authorisation unless they believe, in good faith, that this would be likely to promote the success of the Company.
A potentially conflicted Director cannot vote on such an authorising resolution or be counted in a quorum for that purpose.
Any authority granted may be terminated at any time and the director is informed of his obligation to inform the Company without delay should there be any change in the nature of the conflict authorised.
In addition, the Board requires the Nomination Committee to check that any individual it nominates for appointment to the Board is free of any potential conflict of interest.
No actual or potential conflicts of interest arose during the year under review.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice and training at the Companys expense.
The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance with a current limit of indemnity of 20m.
The Groups strategy and its business model are described on page 3.
Board Performance The Board undertakes an annual appraisal of its performance.
Directors are asked to complete a detailed review relating to the general operation of the Board and its Committees as well as performance against group strategy.
The results are reviewed by the Chairman and a summary of the principal findings is presented to and discussed by the Board.
Where appropriate the Board agrees changes to process and structure that are necessary to address the issues arising.
Such a review was undertaken during 2012 and identified the need for directors to be better informed in relation to developments in the area of Corporate Governance.
Steps have been taken to address this issue through the availability of an educational and updating service available through the Companys Auditors and the inclusion of additional items within Board papers.
The Non-Executive Directors hold meetings with the Chairman without the Executives present at least twice a year.
The NonExecutives, led by the Senior Non-Executive Director, meet on an annual basis to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Executive Directors have their performance individually reviewed by the Chief Executive against annually set objectives.
The Chief Executive has his performance reviewed by the Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Boards annual appraisal process incorporates a review of the performance of Non-Executive Directors.
Directors receive an induction on appointment including considerable information on the Company as well as the Board and its procedures.
They also meet other members of the Board to be briefed on strategy, financial matters and other key issues.
Advice is available from the Companys solicitors if required.
During the year updates are provided on key technical issues as required including those relating to corporate governance and corporate social responsibility.
Non-Executive Directors undertake visits to operating companies in order to improve understanding of more operational issues.
The Chairman is mindful of the provisions of the Code providing that an externally facilitated performance review should be carried out at least once in every three years and has commissioned such a review for 2013.
This will be carried out shortly and the results reported in the 2013 Report and Accounts.
Communication The Company attaches great importance to communication with its shareholders and other stakeholders.
In addition to regular financial reporting the Group website provides up-to-date information about its organisation, the services it offers and newsworthy subjects.
The Company also responds to letters and enquiries from shareholders and others with an interest in the Group.
In addition to presentations of full and half-year results, senior executives led by the Chief Executive hold meetings with the companys principal shareholders to discuss the Companys strategy and performance.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are also available to discuss issues with major shareholders.
An investor relations report is presented at all regular Board meetings to ensure that the Board is kept aware of the views of major shareholders and the investment community generally.
The Chairman of each of the Board Committees attends the Annual General Meeting and is available to answer questions.
Audit and internal controls The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the independent auditors in connection with the accounts are explained on pages 18, 19 and 33 and the statement of the Directors in respect of going concern appears on page 18.
The Board has throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the financial statements had procedures in place as recommended in the guidance in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the supporting document issued by the Financial Reporting rpsgroup.
