Management & Governance n investment advisory, broker and dealing services n general management services Certain other services are approved up to agreed financial limits with the provision of such services beyond those limits requiring approval of the Committee.
The following fall within this category: n taxation services n advice relating to risk management and controls n transaction support including due diligence n accountancy advice and training The provision of any service at any level that does not fall within the above categories requires the approval of the Committee.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year under review appears on page 49.
Taxation services undertaken by Deloitte LLP during the year were handled by a team that was separate and independent from the external audit team and led by a different senior partner.
The Committee was satisfied that appropriate safeguards were in place and that the provision of these additional services by Deloitte LLP did not affect their independence as external auditor.
The Committee also keeps under review the means by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about financial improprieties relating to financial reporting, internal control or other matters.
The companys procedure allows for any such matters to be reported to the Company Secretary who will ensure that any such matters are properly investigated and reported to the Audit Committee and the Board.
An individual raising a concern need not disclose their identity and if such identity is disclosed it will not be passed on without the consent of that individual.
Nomination Committee The Committee meets as required, but not less than once a year, and comprises the Non-executive Chairman, Brook Land and two Independent Non-Executive Directors, Louise Charlton and Robert Miller-Bakewell.
The Committees key responsibilities include reviewing the Board structure, size and composition as well as evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience which may be required in the future and making recommendations to the Board accordingly.
It is also responsible for nominating candidates to the Board when vacancies arise, recommending Directors who are retiring to be put forward for re-election and where appropriate considering any issues relating to the continuation in office of any Director.
It has written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website and on request from the Company Secretary.
The range of skills and experience offered by the current directors is highlighted in the Chairmans Statement above and the Committee is satisfied with the balance and membership of the current Board.
The Committee does, however, remain mindful of the need to ensure its periodic refreshment.
The Committee also keeps succession planning under continuous review and has, at all times, a clear plan which is designed to ensure a smooth transition, whenever that is needed, for all posts.
Account is also taken of the need to ensure that the Non-Executive Directors continue to provide the range and balance of skills required.
The Committee and the Board recognise the importance of diversity.
One quarter of the Board as currently constituted is female which is line with Groups previously announced 25% target in this regard.
When Directors are appointed to the Board, this is through a formal, rigorous and transparent process.
No appointments were made to the Board during the year although on the last occasion that an appointment was made such a process was followed as fully detailed in last years report.
As noted above Robert Miller Bakewells initial three year term as a Non-Executive Director will expire at the forthcoming Annual General meeting and he has agreed to continue for a further three year term.
This further term was agreed after careful scrutiny, bearing in mind the need to achieve the appropriate balance between the retention of acquired experience and refreshment of the Board.
Remuneration Committee The membership and activities of the Remuneration Committee are described in the Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 32.
Takeover Directive Disclosures required under the Takeover Directive are included on page 20 and form part of the Groups Corporate Governance report.
com 25 Remuneration Report This report has been prepared in accordance with schedule 8 to the Accounting Regulations under the Companies Act 2006.
The Act requires the auditors to report to the Companys members on certain parts of the Directors Remuneration Report and to state whether in their opinion those parts of the report have been prepared in accordance with the Accounting Regulations.
This report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and non-audited information.
The Committee currently comprises Tracey Graham Chair, John Bennett, and Louise Charlton all of whom are Independent NonExecutive Directors.
There were no changes in Committee membership during the year.
The principal responsibility of the Committee is to determine the remuneration of the Executive directors including pension rights and any compensation payments.
The Committee also monitors the level and structure of remuneration for the Groups senior management.
The Committees detailed terms of reference are available on the Companys website and on request from the Company Secretary.
The Chairman of the Company and the Chief Executive have both assisted the Remuneration Committee in its deliberations on other Directors remuneration.
The Company Secretary is in attendance at the meeting to provide the Committee with any additional advice that is required.
The Committee has continued to receive wholly independent advice on executive compensation from  PwC.
PwC provide no other services to the Group.
Details of frequency and attendance at meetings of the Committee are detailed on page 22.
Unaudited Information Remuneration policy The Remuneration Committees policy for 2012 was to set the main elements of the remuneration package in order to reflect: n the performance of the Group as a whole: n the performance of the individual Executive Director both for the Group and the businesses under his control: n pay and conditions throughout the Company: n the market conditions in the sectors in which the Group operates and n the increasingly international and complex nature of the Group.
The Committee recognises that the main competitors of the Group and, therefore, comparators for their remuneration are found outside the group of companies that are listed.
In consequence, the Committee needs to reflect that in its deliberations including RPS market leading position in a number of those markets.
The Committee is, in addition, mindful of trends and best practice amongst listed companies of a similar size in the Support Services sector.
The policy is designed to attract, retain and motivate individuals by providing the opportunity to earn competitive levels of compensation provided performance is delivered, whilst remaining within the range of compensation offered by similar companies.
Directors remuneration is the subject of annual review in accordance with this policy.
Additionally, it focuses on the contribution to the continued long-term growth and success of the Company and seeks to align Directors interests with those of the Company, employees and shareholders.
The table below shows the proportion of the maximum potential compensation that is performance related for each Executive Director.
Fixed Variable % % Alan Hearne39.3 60.7 Phil Williams 41.1 58.9 Gary Young44.8 55.2 Notes: Fixed compensation comprises: Basic salary, Pension Contribution, Benefits Variable compensation comprises: Maximum contribution under the Bonus Plan Changes for 2013 The current three year bonus banking plan, the operation of which is detailed below, finished at the end of 2012.
The Remuneration Committee has consulted with its main shareholders and shareholder representative bodies ISS and ABI regarding a new bonus plan to operate from 2013 onwards.
The Committee would like to thank those who took part in the consultation and is Report and Accounts 2012 26 Management & Governance pleased that the large majority of shareholders both by number and percentage holding who were consulted were supportive of the proposed new plan.
Approval of the new plan is being sought at the Companys Annual General Meeting and full details are contained in the notice of that meeting.
Base salary and Benchmarking The Committee sets basic salaries as a part of its overall remuneration policy and therefore takes account of all of those matters listed above.
As part of this process the Committee takes account of relevant comparator data.
The principal grouping used by the Committee for benchmarking of salaries and other benefits consists of companies with the support services sector and with a range of market capitalisations such that the Company sits within the middle of that grouping.
This exercise also looked at an international sub-set of the main comparator group to reflect the international nature of the Group as well as a review of the UK Energy sector at Divisional level.
Having conducted a comprehensive review of this type during 2011 the Committee did not consider it necessary to repeat such an exercise in 2012.
The Committee has access to pay and conditions of other employees within the Group when determining remuneration for the Executive Directors and also considered the relationship between general changes to pay and conditions within the Group as a whole.
As fully disclosed and explained in last years report, with effect from 1 January 2012 the Committee increased the base salary of Alan Hearne by 5% to 446,000, the base salary of Phil Williams by 6.25% to 340,000 and that of Gary Young by 3% to 231,750.
The report was approved by shareholders at the 2012 Annual General Meeting of the Company.
With effect from 1 January 2013 the Committee increased the basic salary of all of the directors by 3%, to 459,400 for Alan Hearne, 350,200 for Phil Williams and 238,700 for Gary Young.
RPS Group Plc Bonus Banking Plan the Bonus Plan Background The Bonus Plan was introduced with effect from 1 January 2010 to cover a three year period and 2012 was therefore its third and final year of operation.
This single plan replaced the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the annual bonus plan that operated up to 31 December 2009.
The Bonus Plan, the rationale for which was set out in the 2010 report, was introduced following consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
The principal details of the Bonus Plan and its operation in 2012 are set out below.
As this was the Bonus Plans final year of operation the sums previously deferred under it will, subject to the rules of the plan, be eligible for release along with the 2012 Company contribution.
Summary of the Main Features of the current Bonus Plan The Bonus Plan is based on a percentage of the PBTA earned during a three year period which is used to create a bonus pool.
50% of the bonus pool is paid out in year 1, 50% of the cumulative balance of the bonus pool may be paid out in year 2 and the cumulative balance after payments in years 1 and 2 and contribution to the pool in respect of year 3 may be paid out as a larger final payment at the end of year 3.
The key features of the Bonus Plan are: n at the beginning of the plan period participants have a plan account to which Company bonus contributions are allocated.
There will only be value in a participants plan account if the Company makes a contribution to the Plan.
On the basis that the threshold profit is exceeded and a contribution is made into the Plan participants will be entitled to an annual payment from their plan accounts.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion when determining the level of annual payment received by the participant to take into account individual and wider Company and divisional financial and non financial performance: including the Companys sustainability, environmental and corporate governance record: rpsgroup.
com 27 n the Remuneration Committee sets the threshold profit at the beginning of each financial year: n up to 3% of the total PBTA for the financial year will be contributed to the Bonus Plan for the Executive Directors provided that the threshold profit is met or exceeded.
This is subject to an individual cap as a percentage of salary.
The Remuneration Committee considers a 3% maximum contribution to be appropriate based on the historic incentives costs of the Executive Directors of the Company and their counterparts in the other constituents of the Support Services Sector: n if the actual PBTA for the financial year is less than the threshold profit, 15% of the difference will be deducted from the bonus pool in the Plan provided that the value cannot be less than zero: n there is a maximum contribution that can be made to a participants plan account in respect of any financial year see below : n the value of deferred contributions in a participants plan account is held in shares: n participants will be eligible for a payment equal to 50% of the balance of their Plan accounts at the end of each financial year, with the final balance of the Plan account paid at the end of the third year.
Maximum Contribution 2012 Maximum Contribution under the Plan Maximum Contribution Name %age Salary for 2012 Alan Hearne 200% 200% Phil Williams 175% 175% Gary Young 150% 150% As disclosed in last years report the Committee increased the maximum contribution in respect of Phil Williams from 150% to 175% with effect from 1 January 2012.
Profit & Contribution Thresholds for 2012 Level Level 0 Level 1 Level 2 PBTA Threshold 53.5m 53.5m 62.5m this figure is net of all bonus costs including the bonus costs under the Plan for this financial year Bonus Plan Contribution Percentage 1% 3% Bonus Plan Deduction Percentage 15% Straight line between points.
The Bonus Plan PBTA for 2012 was 60.1m which generated a Total Plan Contribution of 1,482,000.
For 2012 the Committee introduced a second performance condition relating to the Groups cash collection performance.
This provided that for every percentile by which the Groups conversion of profit into cash for the year exceeded 100%, subject to an upper limit of 120% and the maximum contribution under the plan, an additional bonus equal to 1% of basic salary would be paid.
This also provided that in the event that this measure was below 80% for 2012, a deduction equal to 10% of the normal profit related bonus would be made.
The Groups conversion of profit into cash for 2012 was equal to 105% which resulted in an additional contribution of 51,000.
Participant Plan Accounts The following table sets out the details of the Plan Accounts for the Executive Directors: Alan Hearne Phil Williams Gary Young Plan Account Details 000s 000s 000s Opening Balance 334 218 234 2012 Plan Contribution 689 491 348 2012 Plan Deduction Total Payable 1,023 709 582 Shares previously deferred under the Bonus Plan together with value of dividends paid on those shares are held within the Companys employee benefit trust.
The shares held in respect of each director as at the date of this report are as follows: Alan Hearne 142,816 Phil Williams 93,544 Gary Young 100,650 Report and Accounts 2012 28 Management & Governance The opening balance shown above represents the value of these shares and related dividends based upon the companys average share price in the three months to 31 December 2012.
The plan contribution for 2012 is the final contribution to the Bonus Plan and is ascertained by application of the formula shown above.
There were no plan deductions for 2012.
The 2012 contribution will, subject to the rules of the plan, be paid in cash and is shown in the directors remuneration table on page 32.
The deferred shares and value of the related dividends will, subject to the rules of the plan, be released to participants.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP operated from 2004 until the introduction of the Bonus Banking Plan, the final award under this plan having been made in 2009.
As anticipated in last years report the performance conditions attached to this final award were not satisfied and this award lapsed on 31 March 2012.
The table below confirms the position in relation to the one award under the LTIP that was outstanding at the beginning of the year.
2009 Grant % of Salary Executive Condition Maximum Annual Grant 100 Chief Executive 100 Finance Director 80 Executive Directors 60-80 Performance Condition EPS Growth see table below Status This award lapsed on 31 March 2012 The performance conditions that attached to the release of LTIP awards related to EPS growth and were as follows: % Average Basic EPS Growth p. a. above RPI % of 3 Award Released 3 12.5 4 25 5 37.5 6 50 7 62.5 8 75 9 87.5 10 100 Straight line release applies between these points.
The Remuneration Committee determined the satisfaction of the performance conditions in respect of the LTIP.
The EPS figure used by the Committee was the audited basic EPS figure disclosed in the Companys Financial Statements.
The performance condition comparing increases in earnings per share against inflation was chosen in order to ensure that LTIP awards would only be received against a background of sustained real increase in the financial performance of the Company.
Details of the Directors individual LTIP awards are set out on page 18.
Executive Share Option Plan In years prior to 2004 when the LTIP was introduced, the Company operated an Executive Share Option Plan.
All performance conditions under this Plan were met, details of which have been set out in previous reports of the Committee.
No options were issued at a discount under this plan.
All outstanding options under this plan are set out on page 17.
Benefits The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in defined contribution pension schemes.
As fully disclosed in last years report, with effect from 1 January 2012, the employer contribution was increased from 15% to 17.5% for Phil Williams and remained at 15% for Gary Young.
As also previously disclosed the Committee agreed that with effect from 1 January 2012, a salary supplement of 25% of basic salary would be payable to Alan Hearne in lieu of pension contributions.
This payment does not rank for the purposes of calculating payments under the Bonus Banking Plan or other employee benefits linked to salary.
Executive Directors can also participate in the all-employee HMRC Share Incentive Plan SIP.
The SIP gives employees the opportunity to purchase up to 1,500 of shares a year with the Company providing one additional matching share for every employee purchased share.
In addition they receive the following benefits: rpsgroup.
com 29 n healthcare: n life assurance and dependents pensions: n disability schemes: and n company car or car allowance.
Shareholding Guideline The Committee operates a system of shareholding guidelines to encourage long-term share ownership by the Executive Directors.
The Committee believes this forms a stable platform on which to build a responsible relationship between shareholders, the Executives and the Company.
It is intended that the Executives will be able to build up their shareholding by their participation in the Companys incentive plans.
The committee considers that deferred shares held through the RPS Group Plc Bonus Banking Plan and the plan that will replace it, should count for the purposes of meeting these guidelines.
The current guidelines are as detailed below.
Recommended shareholding Name requirement as percentage of salary Alan Hearne 150% Gary Young 100% Phil Williams 100% Service contracts It remains the Companys policy that Executive Directors should have rolling service contracts terminable on no more than one years notice served by the Company or the Director.
Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are shown below.
Notice Period Name Date of Contract months Alan Hearne February 1997 12 Phil Williams November 2005 12 Gary Young September 2000 12 The only event on the occurrence of which the Company is liable to make a payment to any of the Executive Directors is cessation of employment.
The Companys policy on termination payments is not to make payments beyond its contractual obligations, including any payment in respect of notice to which a Director is entitled after mitigation is considered.
None of the Directors contracts provide for extended notice periods or compensation in the event of a change of control.
None of the Directors contracts provide for liquidated damages.
Non-Executive Directors The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board and aim to be competitive with other fully listed companies of equivalent size and complexity.
The Chairman of the Company receives a higher fee than the other Non-Executive Directors whilst Committee Chairmen and the Senior Independent Director receive an additional payment.
The fees paid to the Chairman and the NonExecutive Directors are detailed on page 32.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for three years term which may be renewed by mutual agreement.
In common with the Executive Directors all Non-Executives are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Details of the terms of appointment of the serving Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below: Unexpired term of contract as Name Initial Contract date at 31 Dec 2012 months Brook Land September 1997 Annual Review John Bennett June 2006 31 Louise Charlton May 2008 17 Robert Miller-Bakewell May 2010 5 Tracey Graham August 2011 20 Has agreed to serve a second three year term Report and Accounts 2012 30 Management & Governance Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to participate in the pension plan or the performance based pay schemes including annual bonus and share schemes.
Terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
TSR Graph The graph shows a comparison of the total shareholder return from the Companys shares for each of the last five financial years against the total shareholder return for the companies comprising the FTSE All Share and the FTSE All Share Support Services sector.
The Remuneration Committee has selected these benchmarks as they provide a good indication of the Companys general performance.
Total shareholder return from 1st January 2008 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 RPS Group - Tot Return Ind FTSE All Share - Tot Return Ind FTSE All Share Support SVS - Tot Return Ind Source: Thomson Datastream rpsgroup.
