Management & Governance n investment advisory, broker and dealing services n general management services Certain other services are approved up to agreed financial limits with the provision of such services beyond those limits requiring approval of the Committee.
The following fall within this category: n taxation services n advice relating to risk management and controls n transaction support including due diligence n accountancy advice and training The provision of any service at any level that does not fall within the above categories requires the approval of the Committee.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year under review appears on page 49.
Taxation services undertaken by Deloitte LLP during the year were handled by a team that was separate and independent from the external audit team and led by a different senior partner.
The Committee was satisfied that appropriate safeguards were in place and that the provision of these additional services by Deloitte LLP did not affect their independence as external auditor.
The Committee also keeps under review the means by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about financial improprieties relating to financial reporting, internal control or other matters.
The companys procedure allows for any such matters to be reported to the Company Secretary who will ensure that any such matters are properly investigated and reported to the Audit Committee and the Board.
An individual raising a concern need not disclose their identity and if such identity is disclosed it will not be passed on without the consent of that individual.
Nomination Committee The Committee meets as required, but not less than once a year, and comprises the Non-executive Chairman, Brook Land and two Independent Non-Executive Directors, Louise Charlton and Robert Miller-Bakewell.
The Committees key responsibilities include reviewing the Board structure, size and composition as well as evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience which may be required in the future and making recommendations to the Board accordingly.
It is also responsible for nominating candidates to the Board when vacancies arise, recommending Directors who are retiring to be put forward for re-election and where appropriate considering any issues relating to the continuation in office of any Director.
It has written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website and on request from the Company Secretary.
The range of skills and experience offered by the current directors is highlighted in the Chairmans Statement above and the Committee is satisfied with the balance and membership of the current Board.
The Committee does, however, remain mindful of the need to ensure its periodic refreshment.
The Committee also keeps succession planning under continuous review and has, at all times, a clear plan which is designed to ensure a smooth transition, whenever that is needed, for all posts.
Account is also taken of the need to ensure that the Non-Executive Directors continue to provide the range and balance of skills required.
The Committee and the Board recognise the importance of diversity.
One quarter of the Board as currently constituted is female which is line with Groups previously announced 25% target in this regard.
When Directors are appointed to the Board, this is through a formal, rigorous and transparent process.
No appointments were made to the Board during the year although on the last occasion that an appointment was made such a process was followed as fully detailed in last years report.
As noted above Robert Miller Bakewells initial three year term as a Non-Executive Director will expire at the forthcoming Annual General meeting and he has agreed to continue for a further three year term.
This further term was agreed after careful scrutiny, bearing in mind the need to achieve the appropriate balance between the retention of acquired experience and refreshment of the Board.
Remuneration Committee The membership and activities of the Remuneration Committee are described in the Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 32.
Takeover Directive Disclosures required under the Takeover Directive are included on page 20 and form part of the Groups Corporate Governance report.
