54 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Executive committee The executive committee excom is appointed by the Chief Executive.
Itcomprises the Chief Financial Officer, divisional managing directors and directors ofgroup functions.
Its purpose is to support the Chief Executive in carrying out the duties delegated to him by the board.
Inthat context, excom co-ordinates brand and operational executionand delivers strategic plans and budgets for the boards consideration.
Italso ensures that regular financial reports are presented to the board, that effective internal controls are in place andfunctioning, and that there is an effective risk management process in operation throughout the group.
Norman Adami Mark Bowman Sue Clark John Davidson Domenic fide Lorenzo BBusSc hons, MBA BCom, MBA BSc hons, MBA MA, BCL Oxon BCom hons, CA SA Chairman and Managing Managing Director, Corporate Affairs Director, General Counsel and Director, Corporate Director, SAB Ltd SABMiller Africa SABMiller plc GroupCompany Secretary, Financeand Development, SABMiller plc SABMiller plc Norman Adami was Mark Bowman was appointed Sue Clark was appointed Corporate Affairs Director, John Davidson joined the Domenic fide Lorenzo joined reappointed Chairman and Managing Director of SABMiller Managing Director of The South Africa in 2007.
He joined SABMiller plc in 2003.
Prior group as General Counsel and SABMillers corporate finance African Breweries Limited SAB SABMillers beer division in tothis, she held a number of Group Company Secretary in team in 1996 from UAL Ltd in 2008.
He first joined 1993 and has held various senior roles in UK companies, 2006.
Before joining SABMiller, Investment Bank in South SABLtd in 1979 and has held senior positions in the group.
including Director of Corporate he spent his entire legal Africa.
He became Director, These include Managing Affairs, Railtrack Group from careerat Lovells, a leading Corporate Finance and anumber of senior positions inthe group.
These include Director of SABMillers Polish 2000 to 2003 and Director of international law firm, where he Development for Europe and Regional Director, Operations subsidiary Kompania Corporate Affairs, Scottish had been a partner since 1991. the Americas in 2000 and Director, Chairman and Piwowarska S. A.
Managing Power plc from 1996 to 2000.
John was the Chairman for theDirector of the global team Managing Director, SAB Ltd, Director of Amalgamated 2010 and 2011 of the GC100 in 2010.
She will become Managing Beverage Industries Ltd ABI group the association of President and Chief Executive Director of SABMiller Europe Officer, Miller Brewing now the Soft Drinks Division general counsel and company inJune 2012.
Company and President and ofSAB Ltd and Chairman secretaries of companies in the She is a Trustee of the Clore Chief Executive Officer, ofAppletiser.
He is an independent non-executive director of Tiger Brands Limited.
independent non-executive director of Allied Electronics Corporation Limited.
Nick Fell Tony van Kralingen Karl Lippert Ari Mervis BA hons BA hons M. Eng Mechanical BCom Marketing Director, Director: Supply Chain President, Managing Director, SABMiller plc &Human Resources, SABMiller Latin America SABMiller Asia Pacific and Chief Executive Officer, SABMiller plc Karl Lippert was appointed Nick Fell was appointed Fosters Marketing Director, SABMiller Tony van Kralingen was President, SABMiller Latin plc in 2006.
Prior to this, appointed Director: Supply America in 2011.
He joined Ari Mervis was appointed heworked for Cadbury Chain & Human Resources for thegroup in 1992 and has Managing Director Asia Pacific Schweppes Plc, as President, the SABMiller group in 2008. extensive experience in the and Chief Executive Officer of Global Commercial Strategy He joined SAB Ltd in 1982 and global brewing industry.
Prior Fosters in 2011, having been and also as Director of has held a number of senior tohis appointment as President Managing Director of SABMiller Marketing, Cadbury Trebor positions in the group.
These of Bavaria S. A. in Colombia Asia since 2007.
He previously worked include Operations Director in2006, Karl was Managing SABs soft drinks division, ABI, for Diageo plc for 15 years and Marketing Director, Director of Kompania in 1989 and has held various inanumber of senior roles SABLtd, Chairman & Chief Piwowarska S. A. in Poland, senior positions in sales, marketing, finance and general including Global Brands Executive Officer, Plzensk and previously held senior Director, Johnnie Walker, Prazdroj a. s. and, most positions as Managing Director management.
He has been andGroup Marketing recently, Chairman and of Dreher in Hungary, Sales Managing Director of Director, Guinness Brewing.
Managing Director: SAB Ltd. and Distribution Director for Swaziland Bottling Company In his current role he is SABMiller Europe, and various and Appletiser as well as Managing Director of SABMiller accountable for group positions within SAB Ltd in procurement, technical and South Africa, including General operations in Russia and R&D and human resources.
