Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 55 Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting their report to shareholders, In September 2011 SABMiller Holdings Inc, a wholly owned indirect together with the audited annual financial statements for the year subsidiary of SABMiller plc, entered into a US$12,500 million ended 31 March 2012. committed syndicated facility to finance the acquisition of Fosters and related purposes.
The facility consisted of four tranches: a US$8,000 Principal activities and business review million one-year term facility with the option of two six-month SABMiller plc is a holding company which has brewing and beverage extensions: a US$2,500 million three-year term facility: a US$1,000 interests across six continents.
Our principal subsidiaries, associates million five-year term facility: and a US$1,000 million five-year revolving and joint ventures are listed in note 35 to the consolidated financial credit facility.
In December 2011 the group drew US$7,850 million statements.
Our principal activities are the manufacture, distribution under the one-year term facility: AUD2,000 million approximately and sale of beverages.
US$2,021 million and US$100 million under the three-year term facility and US$750 million under the five-year term facility.
The We are required by the Companies Act 2006 to produce a fair review undrawn balance of those facilities was cancelled and the amount of our business, including a description of the principal risks and ofthe revolving credit facility was reduced to US$500 million.
uncertainties we face, our development and performance during the year, and our position at the end of the year.
These are all covered in In October 2011 we announced our proposed agreement with the the business review on pages 1 to 44 of this annual report.
Other key Anadolu Group Anadolu Endstri Holding A. S. Yazclar Holding performance indicators and information relating to environmental A. S. and zilhan Snai Yatrm A. S., and Anadolu Efes Biraclk five Malt matters, employee matters and social and community issues required Sanayii A. S. Anadolu Efes to form a strategic alliance for Turkey, by the business review are set out in our sustainable development Russia, CIS, Central Asia and the Middle East.
The strategic alliance review and people section on pages 46 to 51 of this annual report.
completed in March 2012, under which our Russian and Ukrainian beer businesses were contributed to Anadolu Efes in exchange for Significant acquisitions, disposals, financing transactions, a 24% equity stake in the enlarged Anadolu Efes.
investments and material developments during the year In April 2011 we entered into a five-year US$2,500 million committed In November and December 2011 two of our African subsidiaries syndicated facility, with the option of two-one year extensions.
This Zambian Breweries plc in Zambia and Nile Breweries Ltd in Uganda, facility replaced our existing US$2,000 million and US$600 million launched rights issues.
On closing of the rights issue in Uganda our committed syndicated facilities, which were both voluntarily cancelled.
subsidiarys interest increased by 2.7% to 99.8% group effective economic interest increasing from 60% to 62%.
The rights issue in In May 2011 Birra Peroni agreed to sell its in-house distribution Zambia closed with our interest remaining unchanged group effective business to the Tuo Group for cash consideration.
The disposal was economic interest 54%.
With effect from 1 January 2012, together with Castel, we Also in May, SABMiller Africa BV agreed to sell its 20% shareholding implemented a number of organisational changes in our African inits associate, Kenya Breweries Limited KBL, to East African operations as part of our strategic alliance agreement.
We combined Breweries Limited EABL, subject to EABL disposing of its 20% the operational management of our Angolan businesses with the shareholding in SABMiller Africa BVs subsidiary, Tanzania Breweries Angolan businesses of our associate, Castel, with all of the Angolan Limited TBL, by way of public offer through the Dar-es-Salaam Stock businesses, in which the group retains an associate interest, being Exchange.
SABMiller International BV also agreed to terminate a managed from that date by Castel.
We acquired a 65% interest brewing and distribution agreement with KBL, with KBL ceasing to effective 33% interest in International Breweries plc in Nigeria, distribute SABMillers brands in Kenya.
Pursuant to that agreement, fromBrasseries Internationales Holding Ltd BIH, part of the Castel the group disposed of its 20% shareholding 12% effective economic group, in exchange for cash and a dilution of our effective interests interest in KBL in November 2011 for cash consideration of US$205 inour existing Nigerian businesses, Pabod Breweries Ltd and million.
SABMiller Africa BV applied for all the shares offered in TBL, VolticNigeria Ltd. but the offer was substantially oversubscribed, and after priority applications were made to applicants who were Tanzanian residents Also in January 2012, SABMiller Holdings Inc issued bonds to the or East African residents, SABMiller Africa BV was allocated shares value of US$7,000 million, in four tranches: US$1,000 million 1.85% representing an additional 4.72% of TBL, increasing its shareholding Notes due January 2015, US$2,000 million 2.45% Notes due January to 58% 36% group effective economic interest.
2017, US$2,500 million 3.75% Notes due January 2022 and US$1,500 million 4.950% Notes due January 2042, all guaranteed by SABMiller In June 2011 we announced a proposal to acquire Fosters Group plc.
The proceeds of the bonds were used to repay US$7,000 million Limited Fosters.
Agreement was reached with the Fosters board under the one-year term facility.
inSeptember 2011 for a recommended cash offer.
The acquisition, via a scheme of arrangement, was approved by the Fosters shareholders In the same month our subsidiary in Mozambique, Cervejas fide in December 2011 and subsequently implemented on 16 December Moambique SARL, launched a rights issue.
Our interest on closing 2011 with the approval of the Supreme Court of Victoria.
The cash remained unchanged at 79% group effective economic interest 49%.
consideration for the acquisition was US$10,598 million.
As part of theproposal to acquire Fosters we separately reached agreement In March 2012 SABMiller Holdings Inc repaid from existing cash with Coca-Cola Amatil Limited to acquire its 50% share of our joint resources the remaining US$850 million balance outstanding on venture, Pacific Beverages Pty Limited for cash consideration of theone-year term facility, which was then cancelled.
US$343 million, and this acquisition was completed in January 2012.
56 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Directors report continued Post balance sheet events Dividends There are no material post balance sheet events.
An interim dividend of 21.5 US cents per share was paid to shareholders on 9 December 2011, in respect of the year ended Directors 31March 2012.
Details of the final dividend proposed by the board The names and biographical details of the current directors are set forthe year ended 31 March 2012 are set out below: outon pages 52 and 53.
All the current directors served throughout the period, except Ms Knox and Ms Weir who were both appointed Amount of final dividend proposed 69.5 US cents per share tothe board on 19 May 2011 and Mr Wilson who was appointed to by the board: the board on 21 July 2011.
Mr Wyman served as a director until his Total proposed dividend for the 91 US cents per share retirement from the board on 21 July 2011.
As detailed in our corporate year ended 31 March 2012: governance report, it is intended that Mr Kahn and Mr Pieterse will If approved, the final dividend will be payable to shareholders on retire from the board at the conclusion of the 2012 annual general either section of the register on 10 August 2012 in the following way: meeting and that Dr Clark will be proposed for election as a third executive director.
Details of the interests in shares and options Dividend payable on: 17 August 2012 ofthedirectors who held office during the year and any persons Currency of payment: South African rands to connected to them are set out in the directors remuneration shareholders on the RSA reportonpages 68 to 83. section of the register, Corporate governance US dollars to shareholders The directors approach to corporate governance, and statements of shown as having an address our application of the UK Corporate Governance Code are set out in in the USA and recorded on the corporate governance report, which forms part of this directors the UK section of the register report, on pages 59 to 67 and in the directors remuneration report unless mandated otherwise, onpages 68to 83.
Pounds sterling to all other shareholders on the UK section Share capital of the register.
During the year, our issued ordinary share capital increased from 1,659,040,014 shares of 10 US cents each to 1,664,323,483 shares Ex-dividend dates: 3 August 2012 for shares of10 US cents each, as a result of the issue of 5,283,469 ordinary traded on the JSE Limited, shares to satisfy the exercise of options granted under our share South Africa.
incentive plans, details of which are shown in note 26 to the 8 August 2012 for shares consolidated financial statements.
At 31 March 2012 we held traded on the London Stock atotalof72,068,338 ordinary shares in treasury.
In addition, we have had 50,000 deferred shares of 1 each in issue The rate of exchange for conversion from US dollars will be calculated since our incorporation in 1998.
None were issued during the year.
on 25 July 2012 and published on the RNS of the LSE and the SENS of the JSE Limited on 26 July 2012.
During the year 1,406,612 ordinary shares were purchased by the Since the introduction on 1 April 2012 of a new dividend withholding trustee on behalf of the Employees Benefit Trust EBT at an average tax in South Africa dividends paid to shareholders registered on the price of 22.54 per share which amounted to 0.09% of the issued RSA section of the register will, unless a shareholder qualifies for an ordinary shares of the company, in order to ensure that the EBT exemption, be subject to a dividend withholding tax at a rate of 15%.
continued to hold sufficient ordinary shares to meet potential future The dividend withholding tax is only of direct application to shareholders obligations in respect of performance shares conditionally awarded registered on the RSA section of the register, who should direct any under the Performance Share Award Schemes.
The total questions about the application of the new dividend withholding tax to consideration paid amounted to 31,697,759.
Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited, Tel: 27 11 373-0004.
Purchase of own shares Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements discloses dividends waived.
At the last annual general meeting, shareholder authority was obtained for us to purchase our own shares up to a maximum of 10%of the number of ordinary shares in issue as at 2 June 2011.
Thisauthority is due to expire at the earlier of the next annual general meeting or 21 October 2012, and remains exercisable provided that certain conditions relating to the purchase are met.
The notice of annual general meeting proposes that shareholders approve a resolution updating and renewing the authority allowing us to purchase our own shares.
We did not repurchase any shares during the year for the purpose ofcancellation, holding in treasury or for any other purpose.
Annual general meeting Our 2012 annual general meeting will be held at Pennyhill Park Hotel, London Road, Bagshot, Surrey GU19 5EU, UK at 11.00am onThursday 26 July 2012.
Copies of the Notice of this meeting may beobtained from our website.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 57 Donations We are committed to regular communication and consultation with During the year the group contributed US$34 million to corporate our employees and we encourage employee involvement in our social investment programmes, of which US$10,367,220 represented performance.
We have global distribution of real time news through charitable donations.
Of this amount charitable donations amounting our global intranet, which is available to all of the groups businesses to US$170,561 were made by SABMiller plc and our UK subsidiary, to help inform employees about what is happening in our global Miller Brands UK Limited, both in the UK and overseas, comprising operations.
Further information is provided to employees at donations in respect of community development, health and regionaland country level by way of newsletters and electronic education, the environment and other causes.
Certain employees throughout the group are eligible to participate in the groups share incentive plans.
To support the democratic process in El Salvador, the groups subsidiary Industrias La Constancia, SA fide CV made donations The sustainable development review on pages 46 to 49 gives an totalling US$175,000, allocated across all political parties participating overview of the progress against our 10 sustainable development in the legislative elections at a national level in accordance with rules priorities and of the impact of our business on the environment.
More laid down by the electoral authorities.
In addition it donated soft drinks detailed information is provided in our sustainable development report to the value of US$35,000 to those parties for the benefit of volunteers 2012, available on our website.
Research and development It remains our policy not to make donations to political organisations To ensure improved overall operational effectiveness, we place inthe European Union.
Other political donations are only made by considerable emphasis on research and development in our global exception, and where permitted by local laws, and must be consistent technical activities.
This enables us to develop new products, with building multi-party democracy.
packaging, processes and manufacturing technologies.
Continued progress was made in our research in the key areas of raw materials, Ethical business conduct brewing, flavour stability, packaging materials and energy and water The SABMiller Code of Business Conduct and Ethics sets out the high saving.
Our total investment in research and development in the year ethical standards with which all SABMiller employees are expected under review was US$7 million 2011: US$7 million.
tocomply, and forms part of our wider programme of policies and procedures throughout the group for combatting bribery and Payment of suppliers corruption.
We are committed to conducting business in a way Our policy is to pay invoices in accordance with the terms of payment thatisfair, ethical and within the framework of applicable laws and agreed in advance.
At the year end, the amount we owed to trade regulations.
During the course of the year, we reviewed our policies creditors was equivalent to 49.4 days 2011: 48.8 days of purchases and procedures in light of the implementation of the UK Bribery Act, from suppliers.
related adequate procedures guidance, and developing corporate best practice, and made a number of enhancements, including the Overseas branches rollout of a new group-wide anti-bribery policy.
Key aspects covered SABMiller plc does not have any branches registered overseas.
by our programme include, amongst other matters, our anti-bribery policy, due diligence and other forms of assurance in relation to Going concern and audit business partners, training for our employees and monitoring Page 84 details the directors responsibilities for preparing the andreporting mechanisms.
We offer independent confidential consolidated financial statements.
As set out in that statement, whistleblower hotlines in the countries in which we operate so that thedirectors are satisfied that SABMiller plc is a going concern.
ouremployees can reportany breach of our Code, including bribery, fraud or corruption.
 LLP have expressed their willingness tocontinue in office as auditors and resolutions proposing their Employment, environmental and social policies re-appointment and authorising the board to set their remuneration Our aim is to be the employer of choice in each country in which our will be submitted to the forthcoming annual general meeting.
To achieve this, each operating company designs employment policies which attract, retain and motivate Directors indemnities thehighest quality of staff.
We are committed to an active equal The company has granted rolling indemnities to the directors, opportunities policy, from recruitment and selection, through training uncapped in amount, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which and development, appraisal and promotion to retirement.
Within they may incur in the course of acting as directors of the company or theconstraints of local law, it is our policy to ensure that everyone is of one or more of its subsidiaries.
The company secretary and deputy treated equally, regardless of gender, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, company secretary have also been granted indemnities, on similar race, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, religion or trade terms, covering their roles as company secretary and deputy company union affiliation.
We value the benefits of employing people of different secretary respectively of the company and as directors or as company races, genders, creeds and backgrounds.
If employees become secretary of one or more of the companys subsidiaries.
The board disabled, efforts are made to allow them to continue in their role, or believes that it is in the best interests of the group to attract and retain asuitable alternative role, through making reasonable adjustments.
the services of the most able and experienced directors and officers by offering competitive terms of engagement, including the granting We are committed to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global ofsuch indemnities.
Compact, which sets out universally accepted principles in the areasof human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption.
The indemnities were granted at different times according to the law Our website sets out these principles and our progress towards inforce at the time and where relevant are categorised as qualifying achieving them.
third-party indemnity provisions as defined by Section 309B of the Companies Act 1985 and Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
They will continue in force for the benefit of directors and officers for as long as they remain in their positions.
58 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Directors report continued Substantial shareholdings The company does not have any agreements with any director Details of notifications received by the company in accordance orofficer that would provide compensation for loss of office withthe Disclosure and Transparency Rules as at 8 June 2012 and oremployment resulting from a takeover.
ofpersons with significant direct or indirect holdings known to the company at the year end are set out in the ordinary shareholding Our articles of association allow directors, in their absolute discretion, analyses on page 182 of this annual report.
to refuse to register the transfer of a share in certificated form which isnot fully paid or the transfer of a share in certificated form on which Financial instruments the company has a lien.
If that share has been admitted to the Official Information on our financial risk management objectives and policies List, the board may not refuse to register the transfer if this would and details of our exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk prevent dealings in our shares from taking place on an open and andcash flow risk are contained in note 23 to the consolidated proper basis.
The board may also refuse to register a transfer of a financial statements.
share in certificated form unless the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the address at which our register is Other disclosures required by the Companies Act and the held or at such other place as the directors may appoint, and except Disclosure and Transparency Rules in the case of a transfer by a financial institution where a certificate We do not have any contractual or other arrangements that individually hasnot been issued in respect of the share is accompanied by the are essential to the business of the company or the group as a whole.
certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor The structure of our share capital, including the rights and obligations to make the transfer, is in respect of only one class of share and is attaching to each class of share and the percentage of the share infavour of not more than four transferees jointly.
capital that each class of share comprises, is set out in note 26 to theconsolidated financial statements.
There are no securities of Transfers of shares in uncertificated form must be made in thecompany that grant the holder special control rights.
accordance with, and subject to, the Uncertificated Securities Regulations the Regulations, the facilities and requirements of the At 31 March 2012 our employees benefit trusts held 5,941,686 relevant CREST system and such arrangements as the board may ordinary shares in the company.
By agreement with the company, determine in relation to the transfer of certificated shares subject voting rights attached to these shares are not exercised unless shares tothe Regulations.
are beneficially owned by a participant and that participant has instructed the underlying shareholder to vote.
As at 31 March 2012 Transfers of shares listed on the JSE in uncertificated form must be there were no beneficially held shares in our employees benefit trusts.
made in accordance with, and subject to, the Securities Services Act2004, the Rules and Directives of the JSE and STRATE Ltd.
The directors are responsible for the management of the business of Certificated shares may be transferred prior to dematerialisation, the company and may exercise all the powers of the company subject butshare certificates must be dematerialised prior to trading in to the articles of association and relevant statutes.
Powers of the theSTRATE environment.
directors relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are set out in the articles of association.
These powers are subject to renewal by Pursuant to our code for securities transactions, directors and our shareholders each year at the annual general meeting.
persons discharging managerial responsibilities require, and employees may in certain circumstances require, approval to deal Our articles of association give the board of directors power to inthe companys shares.
The articles of association may be amended byspecial resolution of the shareholders.
Directors appointed by Unless the directors otherwise determine, no shareholder is entitled in theboard are required to submit themselves for election by the respect of any share held by them to vote either personally or by proxy shareholders at the next annual general meeting.
Additionally, as at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by disclosed in the corporate governance report on pages 59 to 67, membership in relation to shareholders meetings if any call or other AltriaGroup, Inc. Altria and BevCo Ltd BevCo have power under sum presently payable by them to the company in respect of that their respective relationship agreements with the company to share remains unpaid.
In addition, no shareholder will be entitled nominate directors for appointment to the board and certain tovote if they have been served with a notice after failing to provide committees.
These relationship agreements also regulate processes the company with information concerning interests in those shares applicable in relation to the acquisition or disposal of shares by Altria required to be provided under Section 793 of the Companies Act and BevCo.
Restrictions on the rights of the holders of convertible shares and deferred shares are set out in note 26 to the consolidated We have a number of facility agreements with banks which contain financial statements although there are no convertible shares provisions giving rights to the banks upon a change of control of currently in issue.
A change of control of the company would also give TheCoca-Cola Company certain rights under its bottling agreements Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate withvarious subsidiaries of the company, and in certain limited members, by a corporate representative.
The deadline for delivering circumstances may give China Resources Enterprise, Limited the proxy forms is 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
ability to exercise certain rights under a shareholders agreement in relation to the companys associate CR Snow.
A change of control John Davidson may also give the Molson Coors Brewing Company the ability to General Counsel and Group Company Secretary exercise certain rights under the MillerCoors operating agreement, and would result in certain minority protection rights contained in our For and on behalf of the board of SABMiller plc relationship agreement with the Anadolu Group and Anadolu Efes ceasing to apply.
