52 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Board of directors Corporate accountability and risk assurance committee CARAC Executive committee Nomination committee Remuneration committee Audit committee Graham Mackay Jamie Wilson Meyer Kahn BA Law, MBA, John Manser Mark Armour Geoffrey Bible Dinyar Devitre Lesley Knox John Manzoni BSc Eng, BCom LL.
B. Hons, CA, ATII DCom hc, SOE CBE, DL, FCA MA, FCA FCA Aust, ACMA BA hons, MBA MA BEng, MEng, MBA Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Chairman Senior Independent Director Mark Armour joined the Geoffrey Bible joined the Dinyar Devitre joined the board Lesley Knox joined the board John Manzoni joined the Graham Mackay joined Jamie Wilson joined SABMiller Meyer Kahn joined the group in John Manser joined the board boardin 2010.
He is the boardin 2002 as a nominee in 2007 as a nominee of Altria in2011.
He is President TheSouth African Breweries in 2005 and was elected as 1966 and occupied executive in 2001.
He is Chairman of ChiefFinancial Officer of Reed ofAltria Group, Inc. following Group, Inc.
He is a member of Director of Centrica plc and and Chief Executive Officer of Limited SAB Ltd in 1978 and adirector and appointed as positions in a number of the Shaftesbury PLC and was Elsevier Group plc and of its completion of the Miller the board of Altria.
Between isaTrustee of the Grosvenor Talisman Energy Inc.
Prior to has held a number of senior Chief Financial Officer in 2011. groups former retail interests Chairman of Intermediate two parent companies, Reed Brewing Company transaction.
April 2002 and March 2008 he Estates and Chairman of joining Talisman in 2007 he was positions in the group, including Hehas held a number of senior before being appointed to Capital Group plc and Deputy Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier He served as Chief Executive was Senior Vice President and Grosvenor Group Limited.
She Chief Executive of Refining and Executive Chairman of the beer positions in the group, including theboard of SAB Ltd in 1981.
Chairman of Colliers CRE plc NV.
He will retire from Reed Officer of Altria Group, Inc. Chief Financial Officer of Altria originally qualified as a solicitor Marketing of BP plc.
He joined business in South Africa.
Senior Vice President, Market He was appointed Group until 2010.
He was previously Elsevier at the end of 2012. from 1994 until April 2002 and and prior to his appointment and then spent 15 years with BP in 1983 and was appointed Development and Strategy, Managing Director in 1983 and Chairman of Delancey PLC, From July 2012 he will join as Chairman of the Altria board tothis position had held a Kleinwort Benson from 1981 to to the BP plc board in 2003.
He He was appointed Group Miller Brewing Company, USA: Executive Chairman in 1990.
Hiscox Investment theboard of The Financial from January 1995 until August number of senior management 1996, first in corporate finance, is a member of the Accenture Managing Director in 1997 Managing Director, SABMiller In1997, he was seconded Management Ltd and Robert Reporting Council FRC.
He also positions within the Altria where she became a director Energy Advisory Board.
andChief Executive of South Russia: Managing Director for full-time to the South African Fleming Holdings Limited, served as Chairman of the group.
He is a director of in1986, and then as Chief African Breweries plc upon its Prior to joining Reed Elsevier SABMillers Central European Police Service as its Chief aformer member of the board of Kraft Foods Inc. from Western Union Company and Executive of the institutional listing on the London Stock in1995 he was a partner in businesses, and Finance Executive, serving for two and Presidents Committee of the March 2001 until his retirement aspecial advisor to General asset management business.
Exchange in 1999. theLondon office of Price Director for SABMiller Europe.
He was appointed British Banking Association, a in August 2002.
He was a director In 1997 she moved to the Waterhouse.
He is the Senior Independent Chairman of South African directorof the Securities and of Kraft Foods Inc. from 2002 British Linen Bank, becoming Before joining SABMiller he Non-Executive Director of From 2002 until 2004, he was Breweries plc upon its listing Investments Board between until March 2007.
He serves Governor in 1999, and was held a number of senior roles Reckitt Benckiser Group plc Chairman of The Hundred onthe London Stock Exchange 1986 and 1993 and is a past asa Trustee of the Brooklyn subsequently a founder inthe global beverage industry, and a director of Philip Morris Group of Finance Directors.
Chairman of the London Academy of Music and is director of British Linen notably Group Finance Director International Inc. Hewas a member of the Investment Banking aTrustee Emeritus of the Advisers from 1999 to 2003. and Managing Director Among other awards, he Finance and Reporting Association.
She was until April 2012 He will become Executive Operations of Highland Distillers holdsan honorary doctorate in Working Group of the UK Chairman of SABMiller plc Chairman of Alliance Trust plc plc: Executive Chairman of commerce from the University He will become Deputy Governments Company Law atthe conclusion of the 2012 and has held a variety of Maxxium: Managing Director of of Pretoria and was awarded Chairman of SABMiller plc Review Steering Group, which annual general meeting, non-executive directorships Orpar SA, the parent company The South African Police Star atthe conclusion of the 2012 reported in 2001, and a withthe intention that he will with international and British of Remy Cointreau: Strategy for Outstanding Service SOE annual general meeting.
member of the group companies, and is involved continue in that role for one Finance Director for Scottish in 2000. appointed by the FRC which year, before becoming with a number of arts and Courage Ltd: and Strategy Mr Kahn will retire at the 2012 produced the Smith Report on Non-Executive Chairman at the charitable organisations.
Project Director for Scottish annual general meeting.
It is proposed that Alan Clark will be elected as an executive director and appointed as Chief Operating Officer of SABMiller plc at the 2012 annual general meeting, with the intention thathe will succeed Graham Mackay as Chief Executive atthe 2013 annual general meeting.
Miles Morland Dambisa Moyo Carlos Alejandro Prez Rob Pieterse Cyril Ramaphosa Alejandro Santo Domingo Helen Weir Howard Willard Alan Clark BSc, MPA, MBA, Ph.
D Dvila BA, MPhil Bproc LLD hc Dvila BA CBE FCMA BA hons, MBA MA, DLitt et Phil Managing Director, Miles Morland joined the board Dambisa Moyo joined the Carlos Prez joined the board Rob Pieterse joined the Cyril Ramaphosa joined the Alejandro Santo Domingo Helen Weir joined the board Howard Willard joined the SABMiller Europe in 1999.
He is founder and board in 2009.
She is an in 2005, following completion boardin 2008.
He is chairman board of SAB Ltd in 1997 and joined the board in 2005, in2011.
She is Group Finance board in 2009 as a nominee Chairman of two companies international economist and of the Bavaria transaction.
of thesupervisory boards of was appointed to the board of following completion of the Director of the John Lewis ofAltria Group, Inc.
He is Alan Clark was appointed investing in Africa, Blakeney commentator on the global Heisa Managing Director at Mercurius Groep B. V. and South African Breweries plc Bavaria transaction.
Between 2008 Executive Vice President and Managing Director, SABMiller Management and economy and worked at Quadrant Capital Advisors, Royal Grolsch N. V. and is a upon its listing on the London Managing Director at Quadrant and 2011 she was Group Chief Financial Officer of Altria Europe in 2003.
He joined SAB Development Partners Goldman Sachs for eight years.
Inc. President of Caracol TV member of the supervisory Stock Exchange in 1999.
He Capital Advisors, Inc. and Executive Director Retail Group.
He also oversees the Ltd in 1990 as Training and International.
He is also a A Non-Executive Director S. A. and serves on the board board of CSM N. V. isthe founder and Chairman serves on the boards of atLloyds Banking Group plc, financial services business Development Manager.
He has director of various companies ofBarclays PLC and Barrick and executive committee of ofShanduka Group and Joint Valorem S. A. Comunican S. A. having originally joined Lloyds ofPhilip Morris Capital since held a number of senior He spent 25 years at the investing in the emerging world.
Gold Corporation, Dambisa Valorem S. A.
He is also a Non-Executive Chairman and Caracol Television S. A.
He as Group Finance Director in Corporation andthe Strategy positions in the group, including multinational information previously worked at the World Director of Comunican S. A. ofMondi Group.
He holds is the treasurer of Aid for AIDS 2004.
From 2000 until 2004, and Business Development Marketing Director, SAB Ltd, services company, Wolters Bank in Washington, D. C. Cine Colombia S. A. and the directorships in Macsteel Charity, a member of the board she was Group Finance organisation.
Prior to this he Managing Director, ABI and Kluwer N. V. where he was Queen Sofia Spanish Institute.
Global B. V. MTN Group Ltd, of trustees of The Metropolitan Director of Kingfisher plc, and was Executive Vice President, Chairman, Appletiser South She is a Patron for Absolute Chairman from 2000 until The Bidvest Group, Lonmin Museum of Art and is also a before that Finance Director of Strategy and Business Africa Pty Ltd. Before joining Return for Kids ARK, a hedge He was previously an 2003.
He was a Non-Executive plc, Standard Bank, Optimum member of the board of the B&Q, which she joined in 1995.
the group, he practised as a fund supported childrens investment banker at Goldman Director of Mecom Group plc Coal Holdings Limited and US-based DKMS Americas Additionally he has held various clinical psychologist and charity.
Sachs & Co. S. G. Warburg & between 2007 and 2009 and She spent her early career at Alexander Forbes.
Foundation, WNET Channel leadership positions atPhilip lectured in psychology at Co. and Violy, Byorum & has previously been a member Unilever and McKinsey & Co. Thirteen and the Wildlife Morris USA Inc. in Finance, VistaUniversity in South Africa.
of the supervisory boards of He is a former Secretary She has previously held a Conservation Society.
Sales, Information Services Connexxion Holding N. V. General of the African National number of non-executive and Corporate Responsibility.
Essent N. V and Koninlijke Congress ANC and was directorships, including Royal Before joining the Altria family Wegener N. V. From 1999 to chairman of the Constitutional Mail Holdings and the City of companies in1992 he 2011, he served on the board Assembly, which negotiated ofLondon Investment Trust.
worked at Bain & Company of VEUO, the association of South Africas first democratic She is a member of the Said and Salomon Brothers Inc. Dutch listed companies, and constitution.
Business School Advisory Hecurrently serves on the until April 2011, he served on Council, and was previously Executive Advisory Council for the board of EuropeanIssuers.
amember of the Accounting the Robins School of Business Standards Board.
She is a He will retire at the 2012 annual at the University of Richmond.
Fellow of the Chartered general meeting.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 53 Corporate accountability and risk assurance committee CARAC Executive committee Nomination committee Remuneration committee Audit committee Graham Mackay Jamie Wilson Meyer Kahn BA Law, MBA, John Manser Mark Armour Geoffrey Bible Dinyar Devitre Lesley Knox John Manzoni BSc Eng, BCom LL.
