30 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Operations review Africa Africa delivered another strong full year Africa performance with lager volume growth of 14% 13% on an organic basis, despite experiencing capacity constraints in a number of markets.
Projects are currently under way in Uganda, Tanzania, Zambia, Ghana and South Sudan to increase capacity.
Volume growth was achieved through increased investment in sales and marketing to support differentiated brand portfolios and an expansion ofour local geographic footprint, underpinned by broadly favourable economic conditions.
The Castleportfolio continues to grow strongly across the region, with volumes up 27%.
Keen focus has been given to our affordable products with the introduction of draught formats, smaller pack offerings and innovative products like Impala, a cassava-based beer.
Soft drinks volumes grew by9% 11% on an organic basis driven by good performances in Ghana, South Sudan and Zambia as well as by our associates Castel and Delta in Zimbabwe.
Safari Lager volumes grew 13% on Origin: Tanzania anorganic basis, benefiting from First brewed: 1977 Continued cost focus and www.
com good economic conditions and localagricultural programmes our investments to expand both With four Gold Monde Selection helped partly to cushion the awards, Safari Lager is the most our local sales coverage and our awarded beer in Tanzania.
It has a full impactof rising international brandportfolios.
flavour, full-bodied, rich golden colour commodity prices.
and taste and is a brand that defines real masculinity in Tanzania.
Mark Bowman Volume growth translated into EBITA growth of Managing Director, SABMiller Africa 15% 16% on an organic, constant currency basis.
Group revenue per hl benefited from strong growth Financial summary 2012 2011 % of the premium segment as well as price increases, at levels typically somewhat below inflation.
EBITA Group revenue including margin consequently improved by 30 bps despite share of associates US$m 3,686 3,254 13 the expansion of sales and marketing capability, EBITA US$m 743 647 15 rising inflation and weaker local currencies.
Margin EBITA margin % 20.2 19.9 improvement was achieved through a continued Sales volumes hl 000 cost focus and our local agricultural programmes, Lager 17,374 15,288 14 which helped to partly cushion the impact of rising Lager organic 17,033 15,016 13 international commodity prices.
Soft drinks 13,475 12,373 9 Soft drinks organic 13,039 11,785 11 Despite cycling a strong comparative, lager Other alcoholic beverages 5,330 5,080 5 volumesin Tanzania grew by 15% attributable to Other alcoholic beverages the successful mainstream brand renovations of organic 5,283 5,080 4 Safari and Kilimanjaro, as well as strong premium 1 segment growth driven by Castle Lite.
Our Mbeya In 2012 before net exceptional gains of US$185 million being profit on disposal of business of US$67 million, brewery continues to serve the incremental growth profit on disposal of investment in associate of US$103 in the south while an enhanced sales force, as well million and the groups share of the profits on transactions as increased cooler penetration, have led to market in associates of US$23 million, net of US$8 million share gains.
Grand Malt, a non-alcoholic offering, business capability programme costs 2011: US$4 million has performed particularly well.
being business capability programme costs.
In Mozambique robust mainstream growth driven Club Strategic focus areas by a packaging upgrade for 2M and the continued Origin: Ghana Drive growth in beer and soft drinks through expansion of our footprint in the north enabled by First brewed: 1992 fullbrand portfolios, wider price ranges and www.
com our Nampula Brewery helped grow lager volumes expansion into adjacent categories by 9%.
A key focus area for this year was the Club lager is Ghanas original and Step up investment behind our mainstream expansion of affordable offerings with the launch authentic beer, which celebrates brands and differentiated premium portfolio ofManica draught and the innovative cassavaGhana and the positive Ghanaian Increase share of alcohol through accessible based Impala.
It is brewed using the finest brand and package offerings malt, maize and hops, making Further develop sales and distribution to it a crisp and fresh lager.
enhance our outlet presence and extend ourgeographic coverage Mitigate high imported input costs through innovation and local supply chains Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 31 Operations review Africa continued Improved availability, a wider geographical distribution reach and healthy economic conditions enabled Zambia lager volume growth of 17% despite production capacity constraints.
Our key mainstream brands, Mosi and Castle Lager, have continued to perform well while the premium Castle Lite experienced very strong growth.
Construction of the new brewery at Ndola is well under way and commissioning is anticipated in the second half of the new financial year.
Soft drinks volumes grew by 10%.
Lager volumes in Uganda grew by 19% supported by an enhanced distribution network into western Uganda, rigorous in-trade execution and a strong mainstream and affordable portfolio.
Our mainstream brands, Nile Special and Club Pilsener, both continued to perform well.
The rate of growth slowed in the second half of the year as a result of capacity constraints, to be addressed by our new greenfield brewery located in Mbarara, western Nile Special Origin: Uganda Uganda, which is currently under construction.
com In Zambia, our key mainstream The flagship brand of Nile Breweries brands have continued to perform for over 50 years and an eight times well while the premium Castle Lite Gold award and three times Grand Gold winner at the Brussels-based experienced very strong growth.
Monde Selection International, Nile Special has been trusted over The consistent growth of Ghanas Club lager the generations for its satisfying helped drive further volume gains while soft drinks full-bodied character and consistency.
South Sudan delivered strong lager and soft drinks volume growth while the capacity expansion project announced early in 2011 is on track for completion in the first quarter of the new financial year.
Delta Corporation, our associate in Zimbabwe, experienced strong double digit growth across allbeverage categories, which was achieved by improved availability assisted by previous capacity upgrades.
Lager volumes have now exceeded the historical peak levels experienced in the 1990s.
During the year, we purchased additional shares in Delta, bringing our shareholding to 40% 25% group effective economic interest.
Capacity constraints in Uganda will be addressed by our new greenfield brewery, currently underconstruction.
With effect from 1 January 2012, together with Castel Mosi we implemented a number of organisational changes Origin: Zambia in our African operations as part of our strategic First brewed: 1975 alliance agreement.
com theNigerian business is now with SABMiller and Named after the mighty Mosi oa theAngolan businesses with Castel.
Castel acquired Tunya Victoria Falls Mosi is the Star Breweries in Madagascar in the second quarter iconic Zambian beer.
Castels full year lager volumes, over 30 years it is a clean, crisp excluding the successful management combination and refreshing lager with a pleasant bitterness and delicate hop aroma.
of our Angola businesses and their Madagascar acquisition, grew by 11% with good volume performances in Cameroon, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia and Tunisia.
