Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 35 Operations review South Africa continued Soft drinks volumes grew by 2% for the full year, South Africa: Hotels and Gaming asthe second half saw benefits from the continued execution of focused channel plans, improved Financial summary 2012 2011 % customer service and better weather conditions.
Group revenue share of Sparkling soft drinks volumes benefited from good associates US$m 487 481 1 performance of two litre PET packs and several EBITA US$m 135 137 2 growth initiatives, particularly those targeted at EBITA margin % 27.7 28.5 restoring the 1.25 litre returnable glass bottle to Revenue per available growth.
Growth in still drinks exceeded that of the room Revpar US$ 69.39 73.74 6 total soft drinks portfolio, reflecting strong gains in the Glaceau and Powerade brands.
1 In 2012 before exceptional gains of US$23 million being the groups share of profits on transactions in associates Appletiser volumes benefited from the introduction 2011: US$26 million being the groups share of the loss of new PET packs, driving strong revenue growth on the merger transaction.
and an improved EBITA performance.
Our associate Distells international and domestic SABMiller is a 39.7% shareholder in the Tsogo Sun volumes continued to exhibit good performance Group, which is listed on the Johannesburg Stock particularly from ciders and ready-to-drink brands, Exchange.
The full year results reflect our share with slower growth in the wine portfolio and spirits ofthe enlarged group following the merger with volumes remaining level.
The higher volumes Gold Reef Resorts Ltd at the end of the previous resulted in group revenue and EBITA growth and financial year.
margins expanded further as foreign currency conversion gains offset increases in certain raw Our share of Tsogo Suns reported revenue grew materials and excise duties.
by1% over the prior year, with constant currency growth of 6%.
Revenue growth was adversely impacted by a strong prior year performance, We continued to focus on boosted by the 2010 FIFA World Cup.
The operations reducing operating costs in order of Tsogo Sun remain highly geared towards the to fund increased market and South African consumer in gaming and towards thecorporate market in hotels, with both sectors consumer-facing investments.
Group revenue for our South Africa beverages The gaming industry in South Africa experienced a business grew by 9% on a constant currency basis satisfactory first half year with a more robust second with group revenue per hl up by 6% on the same half assisting full year growth of 7%.
This was as a result of price increases to gaming province, Gauteng, grew by 6% compared recover beer excise increases, as well as the strong with 2% in the prior year with the KwaZulu-Natal performance of the local premium brands.
region growing by 8% over the 5% reported in 2011.
Tsogo Sun improved market share in both Gauteng Across the business, productivity continued to and KwaZulu-Natal.
improve and we continued to focus on reducing operating costs, in order to fund increased market The South African hotel industry remained under and consumer-facing investments, as well as pressure during the early part of the year, with expanding our EBITA margin.
The soft drinks trading in the second half reflecting signs of business more than offset the effect of increasing improvement.
South African market occupancies commodity costs, specifically increases in sugar averaged 57% in the year compared with 58% for and resin prices, through productivity gains from the prior year including the impact of the FIFA World improvements in its supply chain and packaging Cup.
Group-wide occupancies ended the year at redesigns.
Reported EBITA grew by 9% and by 62% against prior year occupancy rates of 59%.
US 14%in constant currency, as EBITA margin rose dollar revenue per available room revpar declined to20.1%, an improvement of 100 bps compared by 6% and by 2% on a constant currency basis, as with the prior year.
a result of higher rates achieved during the FIFA World Cup in the prior year.
EBITA ended 2% down on the prior year but grew by 3% on a constant currency basis.
EBITA margin declined as a result of utility price increases which together with other cost increases, outstripped the rate of revenue growth.
36 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Kozel 11 This year our premium Kozel 11 brand performed strongly in bars and restaurants in the Czech Republic as a result of expanding to more outlets.
It also captured new off-trade opportunities by launching Kozel 11 in 1.25 litre PET plastic bottles tomeet the growing demand from consumers wanting to share with family and friends at home.
