34 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Operations review South Africa Our South Africa beverages business delivered South Africa: Beverages strong EBITA and EBITA margin growth as the business strategy launched in 2009 continued todeliver good results.
This was achieved despite aconsumer and economic environment which remained difficult, although the business benefited from the timing of the Easter peak trading period.
South Africa lager volumes returned to growth inthesecond half of the year, resulting in full year lager growth of 2%.
We outpaced the industry and had gained market share by the end of the year, as a result of sustained brand investment, improved retail execution and better customer service.
Our targeted brand investments included product and packaging innovations and actions to meet the demands of specific market segments.
The investment in market-facing activities was funded largely by cost efficiencies.
Lager volume growth was further supported by the expanded distribution footprint and effective supply chain management.
Carling Black Label Sustained investment in our Origin: Canada brands, combined with better First brewed in South Africa: 1966 Castle Lite strengthened www.
co. za retail execution and customer itsleadership position as service, drove growth in volumes, Carling Black Label is the best-selling thecountrys most popular beer in South Africa.
A full-flavoured EBITA and market share.
lager with low bitterness and premiumbrand.
It is Norman Adami refreshing and highly rewarding to Continued intensive through-the-line marketing Chairman and Managing Director, SAB Ltd drink, making it a champion beer investment behind the core brands drove good preferred by consumers and performance from both premium and mainstream international experts alike.
Castle Lite, the fastest growing scale brand in South Africa, strengthened its leadership Group revenue including position as the countrys most popular premium share of associates US$m 5,815 5,598 4 brand driven by the continued communication of EBITA US$m 1,168 1,067 9 itsExtra Cold proposition.
The premium category EBITA margin % 20.1 19.1 also benefited from Castle Milk Stouts good growth Sales volumes hl 000 following its repositioning as a local premium brand Lager 26,859 26,306 2 during the year.
Castle Lagers volume growth Soft drinks 17,979 17,574 2 accelerated to double digits during the second Other alcoholic beverages 1,565 1,467 7 half, propelled by the success of the It all comes together with a Castle campaign.
Carling Black 1 In 2012 before net exceptional charges of US$41 million Label further slowed its decline, with volumes level being Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment with the prior year during the second half of the scheme costs of US$29 million and business capability programme charges of US$12 million 2011: US$188 year.
The brands improved performance was million being business capability programme costs of supported by its recognition as an award-winning US$39 million and charges incurred in relation to the champion beer, drawing attention to its Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment scheme qualitycredentials.
In addition to the continued extensive social Strategic focus areas responsibility efforts, two significant new initiatives Leverage scale to drive productivity and were launched during the year.
These were the reinvest savings in market-facing activities Responsible Trader Programme where more than Engage the competition in all alcohol 16,500 traders were trained: and a programme to Castle Lite categories tackle underage drinking, called You Decide, which Origin: South Africa Ensure that key brands resonate was rolled out to almost 300 schools reaching more First brewed: 1994 Shape a culture of partnership and superior than 187,000 teenagers.
co. za service offering in all classes of trade Ensure societal leadership Castle Lite is differentiated from otherpremium beers through its low calorie content and its lower levels ofbitterness which ensure a light aftertaste and decreased levels of carbon dioxide, resulting in the drinker feeling less full.
