32 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Operations review Asia Pacific In Asia Pacific lager volumes for the full year Asia Pacific increased by 4% on an organic basis, with reported volume growth of 13% enhanced by the inclusion ofFosters and regional acquisitions in China.
Reported EBITA more than trebled and group revenue per hl grew by 53% due to the inclusion ofFosters.
EBITA increased by 30%, on an organic, constant currency basis, driven by favourable growth in both China and India.
Group revenue per hl on the same basis improved by 14% compared with the prior year, with good increases in China and India.
EBITA margin increased by 450 bps on areported basis 50 bps on an organic, constant currency basis.
In China, lager volumes grew 9% 4% on an organicbasis with acquisitions enhancing market share, as CR Snow sold in excess of 100 million hectolitres in a 12 month period for the first time.
Volumes grew in all regions with CR Snows newly acquired breweries in Jiangsu, Liaoning, Henan Victoria Bitter China and India delivered Origin: Australia andShanghai, together with new breweries good growth, although their First brewed: 1854 commissioned in the year, contributing positively www.
au contribution was overshadowed tothe reported volume growth.
in the reported numbers by Victoria Bitter VB has long been Overall CR Snow continued to expand its market Australias favourite beer, and is theinclusion of Fosters from share although organic growth was affected by specially brewed to deliver full flavour mid-December.
A gentle fruitiness in heavy and prolonged rains that affected certain the aroma complements the sweet keyprovinces.
Good market share increases malt on the mid-palate balancing Ari Mervis weredelivered in Anhui, Zhejiang, Jiangsu, Tianjin, perfectly with crisp, clean hop Managing Director, SABMiller Asia Pacific Liaoning, Guizhou, Shanghai and Heilongjiang, bitterness delivering satisfying although market share was lost in Sichuan.
Financial summary 2012 2011 % For the first time, CR Snow sold Group revenue including in excess of 100 million hectolitres share of associates and joint ventures US$m 3,510 2,026 73 in a 12 month period.
EBITA US$m 321 92 247 EBITA margin % 9.1 4.6 Group revenue per hl increased by 13%, benefiting Sales volumes hl 000 from high single digit price increases implemented Lager 58,121 51,270 13 towards the end of the previous financial year Lager organic 53,292 51,240 4 torecover cost increases, as well as significant positive brand mix.
CR Snow continued to expand 1 In 2012 before net exceptional charges of US$70 million its presence in the premium segment through the being transaction-related costs of US$109 million, expansion of Snow Draft in particular.
integration and restructuring costs of US$26 million, business capability programme costs of US$1 million Investment in brand marketing and sales capability anda gain on remeasurement of existing interest in joint together with rising costs of raw materials, higher venture on acquisition of US$66 million 2011: US$nil.
labour costs and adverse changes to consumption tax legislation have increased operating costs Strategic focus areas butEBITA margin slightly increased on an organic Integrate the Fosters acquisition and deliver basis.
Loss-making acquisitions reduced reported the commercial and operational targets EBITA margins.
Further build market leadership in China and enhance profitability Snow Brave the World Continue to drive Snow, the largest beer brand Origin: China First brewed: 2006 in China, with additional premium variants to www.
cn increase revenue Pursue market liberalisation in India and focus A bright, clean-drinking, well investment on growth and profitability in balanced beer, yellow-green in colour selected states with a white head and a lacy cling onthe glass, Snow Brave the World exemplifies the proud, adventurous spirit of modern China.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 33 Operations review Asia Pacific continued Indias lager volumes grew 3%.
Volumes declined Indias lager volumes grew in the first half of the year affected by dampened 3%and market share increases consumer demand, following substantial excise were achieved in key, highincreases in key states, and certain trading restrictions imposed in Andhra Pradesh which marginstates.
1 Inthe second half of the year volumes grew at a CUB lager volumes in Australia were 4% below the 1 more robust 16%.
Market share increases were prior year on a pro forma full year basis, reflecting achieved in the key high margin focus states of continued subdued consumer sentiment.
continued to grow its presence in the expanding NewWorld regular mainstream segment with Revenue per hl increased by 8% 13% on a constant robustgrowth of Carlton Dry and the successful currency basis, reflecting price increases and focus launch ofthe Great Northern Brewing Co brand.
on higher margin brands, packs and states as well Thetraditional regular mainstream segment, as new product launches including Miller High Life, whichincludes Victoria Bitter, declined at a higher the introduction of PET containers and additional rate than the market, however Carlton Draught variants of Fosters and Royal Challenge.
Premium volumes marketing investment increased to support these performed more strongly, with encouraging launches, EBITA more than doubled compared resultsfrom focused execution and expansion withthe prior year.
oftheowned premium portfolio including Crown Lager.
Volume improvements in the rapidly expanding craft Haywards 5000 Origin: India Lager volumes in Vietnam were below the prior segment were driven by Matilda Bay Fat Yak Pale Ale.
First brewed: 1983 year, but revenue increased reflecting a focus on www.
com higher margin brands, channels and geographies.
Group revenue per hl increased by 3% in the Gambrinus was launched as a premium brand and lastquarter on a pro forma basis, benefiting from Haywards 5000 is brewed with Peroni Nastro Azzurro as a super premium brand focused revenue management across the brand the choicest of malts and hops.
during the year in support of this strategy.
It perfectly combines strength with portfolio following a period of low price realisation.
quality, resulting in the hallmark On a pro forma basis EBITA declined due to the oforiginal and authentic strong lower volumes and increased commercial Pacific Beverages has been beerto which other Indian beer investment in the market.
Results benefited from brands aspire.
integrated into the newly acquired theearly delivery of synergies of US$6 million with Fosters business, realising an estimated annualised run-rate of US$40 million.
Overall operating profit synergies of AUD180 million immediate operating and per year are anticipated by year four.
costs over this period are expected to be below AUD220 million, ofwhich AUD150 million is In Australia Pacific Beverages delivered strong expected to impact the income statement.
volume growth in the period leading up to the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in the joint venture in January 2012.
This was achieved through greater penetration of the on-premise channel, with our key premium brand Peroni Nastro Azzurro, as well as continued growth in the off-premise channel nationally.
Following the acquisition of the remaining interest, Pacific Beverages was integrated into thenewly acquired Fosters business, realising immediate operating and commercial synergies.
As a result of the Fosters acquisition, certain licence and import arrangements with a combined annual volume base of approximately 915,000 hl were terminated towards the end of the financial year.
The loss of these rights was a known risk atthe time of the acquisition.
Fat Yak Origin: Australia First brewed: 2008 www.
com Displaying a lovely golden amber colour, the first impression is the distinctive hop-driven fruity and herbaceous aromas, giving 1 CUB Carlton and United Breweries pro forma volumes characteristic passion fruit and and financial information are based on results for CUB melon notes.
The taste is refreshingly reported under IFRS for the period from 1 April 2010 to clean on the palate which leaves you 31 March 2011 full year or 1January 2011 to 31 March looking forward to your next Fat Yak.
Adjustments have been made to reflect SABMiller group accounting policies.
CUB is the Australian beverage business of the recently acquired Fosters group.
