Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 15 Pilsner Urquell Origin: Czech Republic First brewed: 1842 www.
com The worlds first Pilsner from the Czech city of Pilsen.
Pilsner Urquell has a distinctive bitterness and full-bodied taste that delight discerning beer drinkers around the world.
The name means Pilsner from the original source.
Our business model Our strategic priorities Creating a balanced and attractive global spread of businesses Developing strong, relevant brand portfolios that win in the local market Constantly raising the profitability of local businesses, sustainably Leveraging our skills and global scale How we create value Being in the right markets Having the right brand portfolio Our geographic portfolio of businesses combines both We seek to build a portfolio of lager brands that meets the developed and emerging markets, exposing us to a diverse needs of local consumers in each market.
In selected range of profitable and high-growth countries.
Having markets where value can be created we operate a full-beverage leading positions in both, across the world, is important portfolio including carbonated soft drinks, water and nonin creating value.
What this means in practice What this means in practice We operate in a range of markets with different Price ladders characteristics In each market, we aim to offer consumers a range of beer In mature markets those generally characterised by brands with different attributes and tastes at price points from above-average profit pools our focus is on enhancing economy to premium so capturing consumers as they move value and improving margins.
both up and down the price scale.
In emerging markets with above-average growth potential Market segmentation we aim to deliver volume and value growth and to expand On a market-by-market basis, we identify different consumer the beer category.
needs and drinking occasions and define our products both alcoholic and non-alcoholic accordingly.
Long-term sustainable value creation Building the right partnerships Creating the right operating processes We recognise that our success is dependent upon a broad We believe that the focus for management in each market number of partnerships.
In each of our partnerships, we seek should be their local commercial priorities.
Our culture value-creating opportunities which benefit both parties.
and operating processes encourage shared learning within and across the businesses.
They also ensure continuous Our approach enables us to optimise all aspects of our value improvement in performance through the measurement chain from local and global suppliers to mom and pop stores, and application of SABMiller best practice.
key account customers and distributors.
It has also facilitated our global expansion and we have a number of associations What this means in practice and successful joint ventures with industry partners.
Local accountability We believe that accountability is clear and personal.
What this means in practice Fullaccountability for the commercial aspects of the business Successful partnerships resides with local management teams in each market.
We have mutually beneficial and, in some cases, longstanding relationships, typified by a high degree of trust Sharing best practice andrespect.
The SABMiller Ways are procedures and protocols designed to codify and transfer best practice across the business.
For example, we have well established partnerships with Theycover all aspects of our operations from marketing oursuppliers.
Where possible and cost effective, we choose andmanufacturing to finance and corporate affairs.
to source our brewing raw materials barley, sorghum and, Progressin the areas covered by the Ways is measured more recently, cassava from local suppliers and we work bykey performance indicators KPIs to ensure with farming communities to stimulate local economic growth .
and boost local jobs and incomes.
16 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Chief Executives review continued Of course, not all countries categorise neatly MillerCoors in the USA has shown how continued asmature or developing.
Australia is normally innovation can convincingly reinforce a brands considered a developed market but has economic existing claims and keep it fresh and interesting for and demographic growth more akin to a developing consumers.
In the case of Coors Light, the challenge market.
This fact was one of the main attractions was to consolidate the brands ownership of the when it came to acquiring the Fosters business cold refreshment concept and strengthen its inDecember 2011. emotional as well as its functional appeal.
Innovations included a more sophisticated  The Fosters acquisition has been a significant label combined with new packaging and advertising.
One of our first actions Coors Light has responded by becoming the number after taking ownership was to integrate our existing two brand in the USA and is on track for a seventh Australian business, Pacific Beverages, into CUB consecutive year of growth in both volume and Carlton and United Breweries, the Australian share.
Miller Lite is set to benefit from a new beverage business of Fosters and a key focus in positioning, packaging innovations such as a the coming year will be the integration of CUB into punch-top, taste-flow can and new advertising SABMiller.
Weve completed our detailed integration thatincludes digital programmes on Facebook, plans and have identified a range of opportunities Twitter, Google and YouTube.
toincrease CUBs revenues and reduce its costs.
These include better management of channels SAB in South Africa has also been putting energy andkey accounts and a stronger focus on CUBs and resources into its mainstream brands.
When core brands with sharper, more distinctive brand the FIFA World Cup came to the country in 2010, 100m hl positionings.
The application of SABMillers best the business used the opportunities presented by operating practices and the benefits of the groups the tournament to rejuvenate its115-year-old Castle 2011 sales volumes global scale in procurement and other areas are brand.
With Castle Lager sponsoring the national by CRSnow inChina expected to save AUD180 million per year, by football team, SAB created a campaign to rally the yearfour.
nation and position the brand as representing the best of South Africa.
This activity and the more recent campaign, It all comes together with a Im confident that the Fosters Castle, have pushed the brands growth rate acquisition will add significant intodouble-digits.
When the Poker brand in Colombia needed While current trading may be more challenging refreshing, the key was not to lose the trust of thanwe anticipated and some of the negative and thebrands low-income and relatively traditional long-standing trends affecting the Australian beer consumers by changing too much at once.
So category in general will not be reversed overnight, theprogramme began with clear messages that everything weve seen so far confirms our original theproduct would remain the trusted friend that assessment of the Fosters opportunity.
There is a consumers had known since 1929.
As bottles and lot of hard work ahead, but Im confident that the labels were updated, the friendship message acquisition will add significant value to the group.
Previously a regional brand, Poker is now a leader across Colombia and one of the Having the right brand portfolio most profitable brands in Bavarias portfolio.
Creating the right brand portfolio relates to our second strategic priority which is to win in the local In China, our CR Snow joint venture has succeeded market by offering attractive portfolios tailored to in creating the countrys first national beer brand local needs and preferences.
Within each market, byconcentrating resources behind a single name.
we aim to address a growing range of consumer From small beginnings, it decided 10 years ago to segments and drinking occasions while catering make its Snow brand the countrys number one fordifferent levels of disposable income offering brand by volume by 2006 and to achieve national consumers a price ladder from affordable to scale by 2011.
In a market ripe for consolidation, premium and seeking to capture or retain their itbegan building local strongholds into regional loyalty as they move either up or down.
It also developed brand variants to address specific occasions and price points In each country, the core of the portfolio and the andemphasised Snows cultural associations to main contributors to volume are the mainstream reinforce its national status.
Priorities here are to sharpen the by CR Snow passed 100 million hectolitres.
Today, differentiation between our various offerings and Snow is the biggest brand by volume, not just in continually to refresh and polish our brands to China, but in the world.
Recent years have seen major successes around the world.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 17 Poker Origin: Colombia First brewed: 1929 www.
com Poker is a traditionally brewed lager beer, with a smooth taste that has a touch of sweetness, making it the perfect brew to share during great moments with friends.
The trend towards premium brands continues, Tanzania Breweries Ltd also took action in the local driven in part by urbanisation and the rise of the premium segment when the merger of two rivals middle class in developing markets.
International created a powerful new competitor.
In a twopremium brands account for 7.5% of the global pronged response, it revitalised its existing, mainly beermarket while local premiums make up 11.4%.
mainstream brands and expanded its premium SABMiller is active in both segments and is seeing offering with the introduction of Castle Lite, so good results.
Revenue growth in premium brands meeting the need for a lower-calorie beer and isone of our key performance indicators against capturing new drinking occasions.
strategic priority two see page 20 and this year hasseen growth of 14%.
Local premium brands continue to stimulate innovation.
In Latin America, for instance, seasonal Our international premium portfolio comprises offerings such as the Negra, Dorada and Roja Peroni Nastro Azzurro, Miller Genuine Draft, Pilsner variations of Club Colombia and seasonal derivatives Urquell and Grolsch.
Thanks to their provenance, of Cusquea in Peru have underpinned double-digit fame and brand equity, these brands command volume growth in the premium segment.
prices at the top of the ladder in most of their markets around the world.
Another important trend is the growing interest incraft beers from consumers who value the Unlike the mass marketing appropriate to distinctive heritage and character that these brands mainstream brands, international premiums require offer.
Capitalising on the trend, we recently reached slow, deliberate seeding in each new market to agreement with the Van Steenberge brewery in maintain their exclusivity.
Following the 2008 launch Belgium to distribute its St Stefanus brand around of Grolsch in South Africa, for example, SAB has the world.
Named after the monastery to which the been recruiting small numbers of social opinion brewery is linked, St Stefanus is our first abbey beer leaders, exposing them to the Grolsch experience and an attractive offering for beer connoisseurs.
and equipping them to become word-of-mouth advocates among their peers.
Feedback from the In the USA, MillerCoors crafts and imports division, programme indicates a growing affinity for Grolsch Tenth and Blake, continues to go from strength to among target consumers and the brands share strength, delivering double-digit growth this year.
inpremium bars and restaurants has been rising.
Akey factor has been the popularity of seasonal variants of Blue Moon and Leinenkugels, In Slovakia, the challenge has been to revive an particularly the very successful Leinenkugels international premium in this case Pilsner Urquell Summer Shandy.
To expand its portfolio, Tenth in response to a steep decline in the Slovak beer andBlake has acquired The Crispin Cider Company, market and a competitor piggy-backing on Pilsner capitalising on the fact that cider is now the fastest Urquells brand heritage.
The work has involved growing category in the US beer industry.
positioning the brand as the best of the best, strengthening its association with special occasions At the base of the price ladder, were developing and offering a better experience to discerning anew generation of affordable brands to cater consumers by delivering fresh, unpasteurised forthe aspirations of low-income consumers in Pilsner Urquell direct from the brewery to opinionemerging markets.
These are typically made from leading pubs.
Two years on, the brands market locally grown raw materials and offer a safe, quality share has made significant progress.
alternative to informal and illicit beers and spirits.
The local premium segment the premium beer In 2011 our business in Mozambique launched from here trades on local provenance and pride Impala, the first-ever commercial beer made and widens the choice for consumers looking for fromcassava.
Although cassava is widely grown affordable luxury.
It offers attractive margins and inMozambique, the challenge of transporting the growth and is a segment in which SABMiller has crop and the fact that it deteriorates rapidly after particular strengths.
Again we can point to a run harvesting make it difficult for subsistence farmers ofsuccesses.
to benefit from any surplus.
This problem has now been solved by the use of a mobile unit which Our Lesotho business, Maluti Mountain Brewery, travels to the cassava growing regions and recently reinvigorated its Maluti Premium Lager to processes the root on the farm, ready for the counter new, premium competition arriving from brewing process.
As a result, some 1,500 South Africa.
Trading on the brands local heritage, smallholders will now have a market for their crop.
the business developed a pride in origins positioning With the government recognising the economic along with new packaging and a national promotion benefits and reducing the excise on Impala, more celebrating Lesothos best-known locations.
Having low-income consumers will be able to make the outstripped all volume forecasts, the product now transition from home brews to commercial beer.
has a premium market share of over 70% and is one of the most profitable brands in the brewerys portfolio.
18 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Chief Executives review continued If the key to affordability in Africa is locally-sourced Our global IS project has developed further during ingredients, our businesses in Latin America are the year.
The latest stage covering back, middle US$450m achieving the same ends and capturing more andfront-office processes was deployed in its first 2014 target net operating drinking occasions by launching different-sized market, Ecuador, in November 2011 and the next packaging.
In some cases theyve introduced full deployment will be in Poland.
benefits from our business smaller units: the 225 ml bottles for guilita and capability programme Pilsener, for example, can sell at a lower price and Net operating benefits from our business also be drunk before the beer loses its chill.
In other capabilityprogramme once again exceeded our cases, the solution is larger packaging.
For Poker, expectations, reaching US$159 million for the year.
guila and guila Light, the roll-out of 750 ml As a consequence, weve raised our 2014 target bottles designed for sharing is attracting Colombian fornet operating benefits to US$450 million per consumers looking for affordability, both in bars and yearby the end of that year.
Further details of the restaurants and when drinking at home.
benefits and the investment were making to deliverthem are set out in the Chief Financial Although we are first and foremost a beer business, Officers review on pages 37 to 44. we have opportunities to expand into adjacent categories such as malt and other non-alcoholic Weve been further capitalising on our scale drinks.
Our water and malt drink businesses in withprogrammes designed to codify, share and Africa continue to grow and we recently launched enhance our business capabilities.
In recent years two new malt drinks, Maltizz in Colombia and weve been working on a series of eight SABMiller ActiMalta in Honduras and El Salvador.
Ways procedures and protocols for transferring best practice across the business and covering Creating the right operating processes allaspects of our operations from marketing and Our geographic footprint and strong brands will manufacturing to finance and corporate affairs.
onlybenefit the business if we have the systems Wenow have ongoing programmes to build specific and skills to extract value from them.
In creating skills in line with the Ways, with particular emphasis theright operating process, were guided by our this year on commercial and marketing capabilities at belief that beer is an inherently local product the local level.
To ensure continuous improvement, andthat SABMillers success depends on local weve introduced key performance indicators to management being able to pursue their own measure our progress in the main areas covered by commercial priorities.
the Ways and results are reviewed everyquarter.
Building the right partnerships Its important to remove nonMore than most other industries, the beer business is commercial activities from each about being rooted in the community and connected business so that local managers to a wide variety of partners and stakeholders.
Partnerships are crucial to our success.
We devote can focus on their customers, great care and effort to building alliances throughout consumers and communities.
our value chain and believe that SABMiller is unusual in the industry in its partnership skills.
We constantly seek to improve our local sales execution and levels of customer service.
At industry partner level we have successful and TheOperations review on pages 25 to 35 gives long-standing alliances with businesses such as examples of our progress in these areas across Castel in Africa, CRE in China and Molson Coors thebusiness during the year.
inthe USA, all characterised by mutual respect anda willingness to work together for mutual value.
As competition intensifies and regulatory and other Thisyear weve joined forces with Anadolu Efes and pressures increase, winning in the local market is have further strengthened our alliance with Castel.
Its therefore important to remove non-commercial activities from each business Other partnerships are aimed at achieving so that local managers can focus without distraction inclusivegrowth in local communities.
By this we on their customers, consumers and communities.
mean building value chains that stimulate economic development and cultivate the entrepreneurial skills To this end, were implementing a comprehensive of local partners so that they can contribute to our business capability programme not just to ease business and we can help them develop theirs.
the load on local teams but also to boost efficiency, raise standards, capitalise on our scale and create An example of this approach is our Farming Better amore connected organisation.
Futures programme, under which were seeking toincrease the local sourcing of agricultural raw The past year has seen continued progress.
materials in Africa, India and Latin America.
Three Ourglobal procurement organisation, Trinity, has years ago, all the barley we used in Zambia had contributed significant savings and were extending tobe imported.
Today, Zambia is growing enough its remit to cover more of our purchasing than barley not only to meet its own needs but also to simply brewing materials.
Further benefits have become a net exporter and the new barley industry come from regional programmes such as the has created employment for over 4,000 rural consolidation of our manufacturing and supply workers.
In Africa as a whole, were committed chain in Europe and the introduction of new sales toincreasing the local sourcing of raw materials to and distribution systems in Latin America.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information S SA AB BM Mi il ll le er r p pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 12 2 1 19 9 Castle Milk Stout Origin: South Africa First brewed: 1935 www.
co. za Castle Milk Stout is brewed as a lager, unlike most stout.
The milk refers to lactose sugars added during the brewing process.
It has a thick texture, strong flavour and full, satisfying taste with a hint of caramel.
Roasted dark malt provides its distinctive colouring, and the creamy-smooth head comes from special yeast.
50% in the next two years a move that will raise Addressing risks the number of farming jobs directly supported by We recognise that running a global business our operations from 100,000 to an estimated presents complex risks.
In India, we aim to source all our barley theopportunities and minimise the threats that any locally within the next five years.
given risk presents so as to generate the greatest return for our shareholders.
To this end we have a Building local supply chains in this way requires well-developed risk-management process detailed close collaboration with farmers and others and on pages 65 to 67 for identifying, monitoring and helps to create jobs and prosperity for local managing the principal risks we face these are communities.
For every person we employ in listed on pages 22 and 23.
Uganda, for instance, we generate over 200 jobs inthe supply chain and the broader economy.
The latest annual review of our principal risks has resulted in two changes to the list.
The economic environment is no longer presented as a separate risk We devote great care and as we feel that the challenges of the global economy effort to building alliances and since the global financial crisis of 2008 have become partnerships throughout our a normal part of operating a global business and should be met through our strategic planning and value chain.
We have also removed volatility in the price of raw materials from our list of principal Downstream from our breweries, we seek valuerisks as this is now the focus of the Trinity enhancing partnerships across the spectrum from procurement organisation.
large, sophisticated supermarket chains and major distributors to neighbourhood stores, bar and Looking ahead tavern proprietors and owner-drivers.
In many While its difficult to predict the impact of the markets, such alliances help further in stimulating uncertain economic environment on consumer enterprise and boosting employment.
We also sentiment, the beer sector has, in the past, proved contribute through corporate social investment itself resilient in difficult times.
which this year totalled US$34 million, a significant portion of which is focused on supporting local Our underlying financial position remains strong, entrepreneurs, particularly in Colombia and asdoes our medium-term outlook for growth in SouthAfrica.
As I said last year, I believe we have the skills, resources and Recognising that our business is not separate from capabilities to continue generating value for our society but embedded within it, we play our part in shareholders and other stakeholders.
tackling shared challenges such as water, energy and food security.
Our first responsibility is to run Graham Mackay our own operations as resource-efficiently as Chief Executive possible and here again were making progress.
Inthe past year, our water consumption per hectolitre of lager produced was 4.0 hectolitres, a5% reduction on the previous 12 months.
Over thesame period, our fossil fuel emissions totalled 12.4kgCO e per hectolitre of lager produced, 2 ayear-on-year drop of 10%.
Looking beyond our own operations, we know wecan only find long-term solutions to issues such aswater scarcity in partnership with governments, NGOs, civil society and others.
A case in point is our global Water Futures partnership with WWF andthe German development agency, GIZ, nowengaged in watershed protection schemes around the world.
Other partnerships including programmes with police forces and public health bodies are making us more effective in addressing alcohol abuse.
In summary, the year has seen solid progress with the key components of our business model being in the right markets, having the right brand portfolio, creating the right operating processes and building the right partnerships.
Our work in these four areas has continued to generate long-term value for our shareholders.
