Global Western Europe North America Middle East, North Africa Latin America Eastern Europe Australasia Asia Africa 12 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Global beer market trends Growing importance of brand development, innovation and partnerships Growth and development trends in the global beer market were generally unchanged in 2011.
Emerging markets were still the principal source of volume growth while developed markets faced weak consumer demand as a result of difficulteconomic conditions and shifting consumer trends.
The better performing markets, regardless of their sizeable growth opportunities for beer from adjacent stage of development, continued to be those in which categories.
Latin America as awhole continues to industry leaders used brand development, innovation offer excellent growth and profitability opportunities and partnerships to capture latent opportunities and from an already strong and profitable base.
stay ahead of changing consumer trends.
In Australia we expect to see The biggest beer market, China, accounted for renewed focus on innovation and 43%of the worlds volume growth.
Chinas top the development of mainstream, fivebrewers accounted for 63% of total industry volumes.
However, beer pricing remains low in premium and import brands.
Chinaand profit margins are thin.
Consolidation of the fragmented Chinese beer industry remains an In South Africa, brand development work among important long-term trend and one that will lead mainstream and premium brands solidified the eventually to greater industry profitability.
Elsewhere in Africa, the ability to form effective partnerships continues to be an important component of growth for some China beer market growth hl 000s companies and the opportunity to formalise China total industry volumes 2006-11 informal beverages is a major factor in markets 487,299 where affordability is critical.
Industry leaders 464,124 437,978 408,943 SABMiller, Castel and The Coca-Cola Company 386,890 346,365 remain aligned in their pursuit of the opportunities provided by beverage volume growth in these low-scale markets.
In the USA, volumes declined 0.6% in 2011 as unemployment remained high, particularly among 06 07 08 09 10 11 young, legal drinking age men.
Newer craft beers andsome imports continued to thrive at the upper end of the price spectrum at the expense of more Beer growth trends by volume % sessionable and longer-established light beer brands.
Forecast five-year compound annual growth rate CAGR by region 2012-16 Australia has new opportunities following SABMillers 4.6 acquisition of Fosters.
We expect to see renewed 3.8 focus on innovation and the development of 3.5 mainstream, premium and import brands.
2.9 2.4 2.0 European consumer trends remain challenging.
Difficult long-term demographic trends, a shift to 0.0 -0.6 -0.5 home consumption in markets such as the UK and near-term austerity measures all combine to limit growth.
Mergers and acquisitions remain a factor in the Czech Republic while partnerships have played a role in markets such as Russia where premium brands remain promising.
Source: Canadean Capturing the opportunity in both developed and In contrast to Chinas high growth in volumes emerging markets requires three key skills brand butlow profitability, South America, impressively, development, innovation and the ability to forge saw growth in both volumes and profitability.
In successful partnerships in markets where joint thecontinents biggest market, Brazil, beer sales ventures are necessary.
Very few brewers excel were resilient in the face of softer consumer trends atall three.
Investors looking for long-term returns and the development of premium brands remains inthe beer industry need to be able to distinguish an opportunity as it also does in Argentina.
In those firms that are truly ahead of the field in these Peru and Colombia, where the premium segment intangible, elusive and sophisticated disciplines.
isbetter established, brewers continue to attract young adult consumers and to raise the image of Independent industry consultant the beer category as a whole.
A trend from informal May 2012 spirits to beer was evident in Peru which still offers Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 13 Coors Light The premium light, frost-brewed Coors Light is the worlds most refreshing beer.
This years growth has been supported by the new super-cold indicator bar on the  label along with innovative, aluminium pint packaging.
Coors Light is now the number two brand in the USA.
