2 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Five minute read Our business in brief SABMiller is one of the worlds leading brewers with morethan 200 beer brands and some 70,000 employees in over 75 countries.
We also have growing businesses in soft drinksand we are one of the worlds largest bottlers ofCoca-Cola products.
Our strategic direction Our vision To be the most admired company in the global beer industry Our mission To own and nurture local and international brands that are thefirstchoice of the consumer Our values Our people are our enduring advantage Accountability is clear and personal We work and win in teams We understand and respect our customers and consumers Our reputation is indivisible SABMiller has become a global leader by Our strategic priorities doing business locally, pursuing operational Creating a balanced and attractive global spread of businesses excellence and offering high-quality products Developing strong, relevant brand portfolios that win in the backed by innovation and a commitment local market Constantly raising the profitability of local businesses, sustainably to sustainability.
Leveraging our skills and global scale Our success is built on a clear strategic direction, a shared vision For more information on our strategic priorities and how and mission and a common set of values.
we measure against them, see pages 20 and 21.
Our brands and business Local brands Typically brewed and consumed in the same community, beer is an inherently local business.
At SABMiller we respect and nurture the history and heritage of local brands and give our businesses considerable freedom to meet local needs.
Were also innovators be it new, affordable brands made from locally grown ingredients, craft beers for the aficionado or the concept of the local premium forconsumers aspiring to affordable luxury.
Global brands Our four global brands have their own distinct provenance and characteristics.
They comprise the stylishly Italian Peroni Nastro Azzurro: the worlds original golden beer, the Czech-brewed Pilsner Urquell: the Northern European Grolsch: and the embodiment At the heart of our business is a passion of American urban cool, Miller Genuine Draft.
In creating and building our brands, we draw on deep For more information on the performance of our brands, insights into local culture and consumers seepages 25 to 35. and seek to win with products that tap into local preferences.
Our focus on local businesses with tailored brand portfolios makes us, we believe, the most local of the global brewers.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 3 guila Light Origin: Colombia First brewed: 2002 www.
com A lighter version of guila, the classic Colombian beer, guila Light is a popular option for the consumer looking toexperience a lighter taste and a beer that is very easilydrinkable.
Our performance in 2012 Operational highlights Reported EBITA grew 12%, with organic, constant currency EBITAgrowth of 8%: 1 Latin America EBITA grew by 14% as a result of volume growth, pricing and mix 1 Europe EBITA declined by 9% due to lower volumes, adversemix and increased raw material costs Strong pricing and favourable mix increased North America 1 EBITA by 2% despite lower volumes 1 Volume growth, strong pricing and mix drove Africas EBITA growth of 16% 1 Asia Pacific EBITA increased by 30% with good growth in both China and India 1 South Africa: Beverages EBITA grew 14% due to price We delivered another year of strong financial andmixbenefits and focus on cost productivity results.
Successful development of our brand EBITA margin increased by 10 basis points bps to 17.9% portfolios and intensified sales execution, Fosters contributes to results from mid-December 2011: together with rising consumer spending,  well drove strong performance in most of our For more information on our financial performance, developing markets.
Total beverage volumes grew 6% totalling 286 million hectolitres, with our lager volumes up 5% and soft drinks volumes up 8%.
1 EBITA growth is shown on an organic, constant currency basis.
Reported group revenue rose by 11%.
How we create value The strategy in action Building value depends on being in the right markets, both high-growth, emerging economies and profitable, mature markets.
It means having the right brand portfolio one that spans a range of consumer segments, drinking occasions and price points.
It also calls for value-creating partnerships and an operating process that supports local accountability and facilitates the sharing of best practice.
For more information on our strategy and how we create value, see pages 14 to 20.
Inclusive growth We believe we create best value for our shareholders by also bringing value to the communities in which we operate.
Because our business We create long-term value by establishing is not separate from society but embedded within it, the success leading positions in key markets: by investing of SABMiller is inextricably linked to the wellbeing of the wider in, and building, attractive brands and brand community.
So along with creating jobs and paying taxes, we seek portfolios: and by taking a local approach to to stimulate local enterprise, to support economic development, to collaborate with governments and others on shared challenges and running our businesses, based on effective to help tackle the effects of alcohol abuse all essential underpinnings operating processes.
of our ongoing licence to trade.
We concentrate on building brands and businesses and make For more information on our approach to sustainable acquisitions only where they have the potential to add value.
