Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 27 Operations review Europe In Europe, full year lager volumes declined by Europe 1%onboth a reported and an organic basis.
Volumes in our businesses in Poland and Romania fell by 4%and 8% respectively, although other markets generally saw improved volume trends.
Beer markets continued to be affected by consumer downtrading and industry focus on economy brands and packs, together with growth in modern trade and discounter channels, and declining on-premise channels.
In the second half, planned destocking of wholesaler inventories was carried out in Poland and Romania, impacting our lager volume performance.
Organic information includes 11 months of trading for Russia and Ukraine prior tothe conclusion of the transaction with Anadolu Efes and excludes our share of the enlarged Anadolu Efes group for the period since the transaction.
Reported results include our share ofMarch trading for Anadolu Efes.
Reported EBITA declined by 6% overall with EBITA Grolsch Poland and Romania had a Origin: Netherlands down in Poland and Romania.
Profitability across challenging year, but our other First brewed: 1615 theregion was impacted by significant increases www.
com markets in Europe generally inraw material costs and negative brand mix, with reductions in group revenue per hl in Poland and delivered stronger financial Grolsch has a distinctive, bold Romania mainly due to adverse sales mix.
Overall and hoppy taste developed through performance.
Europes group revenue per hl grew 1% on both a almost four centuries of crafted brewing tradition.
It owes its superb reported and an organic, constant currency basis, Alan Clark quality to the selection of the reflecting selective price increases and against a Managing Director, SABMiller Europe finest ingredients and its unique backdrop of structural shifts to the economy double fermentation brewing process.
segment and the modern trade channel in certain markets.
Operational cost efficiencies including Financial summary 2012 2011 % thosefrom our global procurement and regional Group revenue including manufacturing projects continued to deliver benefits.
share of associates US$m 5,482 5,394 2 Marketing expenditure was marginally below the EBITA US$m 836 887 6 prioryear which included the 2010 FIFA World EBITA margin % 15.3 16.4 Cupactivations.
Reported EBITA was helped by Sales volumes hl 000 theweakening of the US dollar against central and Lager 43,951 44,193 1 eastern European currencies compared with the Lager organic 43,157 43,519 1 prior year.
On an organic, constant currency basis Soft drinks 533 82 549 EBITA was down 9% with a margin decline of160 bps.
Soft drinks organic 97 81 19 Beer markets continued to be 1 In 2012 before net exceptional gains of US$1,135 million being net profit on disposal of businesses of US$1,181 affected by consumer downtrading million, a refund of a previous anti-trust fine of US$42 and an industry focus on economy million and business capability programme costs of US$88 million 2011: exceptional charges of US$261 brands and packs.
million being impairments of US$98 million, integration and restructuring costs of US$52 million and business In Poland lager volumes were down 4% impacted capability programme costs of US$111 million.
by competitor price reductions and promotional activities along with planned destocking of Strategic focus areas wholesaler inventories.
The beer market has been Drive superior organic revenue growth and increasingly characterised by downtrading together margin expansion through growing perceived with continued development of the modern trade, Kozel 10 category benefits and value per serving especially discounters, resulting in growth of Origin: Czech Republic Structure and shape the category by driving theeconomy segment.
In this environment our First brewed: 1870 our full brand portfolios in growth segments economy brand Wojak has performed well and www.
cz inkey markets through innovative 360 degree gained market share however key mainstream marketing programmes First brewed in Central Bohemia, brands and the premium segment have been Velkopopovick Kozel is a traditional Continue to drive differentiation through negatively affected.
Group revenue per hl lager with a well-balanced, smooth innovating in product, packaging and declinedby 1% on a constant currency basis taste brewed with the exactly right dispense systems which, combined with the adverse volume ratio of caramel malt and Zatec Design for scale, cost advantage and focus performance, resulted in a decline in EBITA.
The craftsmanship of Kozel brewmasters is enjoyed throughout the world.
28 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Operations review Europe continued In the Czech Republic lager volumes were level In Ukraine lager volumes grew 42% on an with the prior year despite ongoing weakness in organicbasis, as a result of the continued good theon-premise channel and a drop in consumer performance of the core brand Sarmat, Zolotaya sentiment during the year.
Our super premium Bochka and the introduction of mainstream andpremium segments have performed well with brandAmsterdam.
Pilsner Urquell growing despite its on-premise bias, benefiting from strengthening brand equity, Domestic lager volumes were level with the prior successful trade activities and expanded tank year in Italy despite the impact of a deteriorating beerdistribution.
Premium segment performance economic outlook.
Declines in the first half of the was boosted by Kozel 11, with particularly strong year were recovered in a stronger second half performance in the on-premise channel as a supported by increased promotional activity.
While the mainstream Peronigrew ahead of the prior year benefiting from segment remains under pressure, the introduction expansion of draught volumes.
EBITA benefited of PET packaging for key brands has enabled from fixed cost efficiencies.
On 13 June 2011 animprovement in the segments trends.
Group wedisposed of our Italian distribution operation.
revenue per hl was in line with the prior year on aconstant currency basis due to the strong In the United Kingdom, the performance of super premium and premium continued expansion of Peroni brands, despite ongoing price pressure and a Nastro Azzurro resulted in lager channel mix shift in favour of off-premise.
EBITA ona constant currency basis was in line with the St Stefanus volume growth of 8%.
Origin: Belgium prior year as raw material cost increases were First brewed: 1295 offsetby operational cost efficiencies.
In the United Kingdom the continued growth of www.
be Peroni Nastro Azzurro through expansion in the In Romania lager volumes declined by 8% in a on-premise channel has resulted in lager volume St Stefanus, a Belgian abbey market in which consumers have downtraded.
This was achieved despite a decline speciality beer, matures in the bottle, emphasis on the economy segment and bulk packs developing a fuller flavour over time, in the beer market and lower MGD volumes as enabling consumers to keep the beer has involved heavy discounting and led to adverse distribution was refocused on key regions.
EBITA to suit their taste.
It is a 100% natural, brand and pack mix.
Our performance was also grew strongly supported by good revenue per hl unpasteurised and unfiltered beer impacted by planned wholesaler destocking in the growth in the on-premise channel.
that is carefully brewed with devotion second half of the year.
Our mainstream brand and craftsmanship.
Timisoreana has been most significantly impacted In the Netherlands domestic lager volumes were Original Augustijn abbeybeer in this environment, although the rate of decline level with the prior year in a competitive environment slowed in the second half supported by effective characterised by discounting and promotional promotional activity.
The premium segment has activity in the highly consolidated off-premise alsobeen affected by competitor activities.
Our channel and reflecting the impact of economic economy brand Ciucas has grown slightly with uncertainty on consumer confidence.
EBITA was strong performance of the recently launched 2.5L ahead of the prior year, benefiting from PET pack.
Group revenue per hl declined by 3% restructuring, despite a slight decline in group ona constant currency basis which together with revenue per hl.
the volume decline resulted in lower EBITA.
In Hungary, lager volumes were up 5% boosted bystrong promotional support due to the Arany Our economy brands in Hungary szok Golden Friday on-premise activation.
Our took advantage of downtrading economy brands took advantage of downtrading trends while our super premium trends, while our super premium brands performed brands performed well.
well, led by Pilsner Urquell.
In the Canaries, the trading environment remained challenging with Lager volumes were up 2% in Russia on an organic improved performance during the summer in the basis, with growth in the super premium segment tourist areas leading to total volume growth of as Essa performed particularly well benefiting from 1%.
Lager volumes in Slovakia grew by 2% a successful can launch.
In the premium segment supported by particularly strong performance in our local brand Zolotaya Bochka remained under themodern trade channel and in the super premium pressure, however Kozel continued to grow despite segment with a number of successful promotions Arany szok strong competition in the Czech beer segment.
Origin: Hungary Local economy brands performed ahead of the First brewed: 1989 market driving overall growth of our economy www.
hu segment, and we successfully launched a new Arany szok, one of the most popular mainstream offering, Zwei Meister.
Organic, brands in Hungary, is characterised by constant currency group revenue per hl grew a gentle, delicious, full taste created by6%which, along with volume performance, with the right balance of hops, high resulted in EBITA ahead of the prior year, quality pilsner malt, maize grits, yeast despiteincreased raw material costs.
and crystal clear spring water, giving a richer than average flavour.
