Directors report The directors present their report together with the audited consolidated Going concern financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2012.
The following statement has been included in accordance with the Listing Rules: Based on normal business planning and control procedures, the Principal activities directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have The Sage Group plc is a leading global provider of business management adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable software to small and medium sized companies.
Sage has over six million future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis customers and more than 13,500 employees in 24 countries covering the in preparing the accounts.
UK & Ireland, mainland Europe, North America, South Africa, Australia, Asia and Brazil.
Research and development During the year, the Group invested 159.4m 2011: 151.9m in research Business review and development.
The Group achieved a profit before income tax of 334.3m on revenue from continuing operations of 1,340.2m.
Charitable contributions and political donations During the year, charitable contributions totalling 0.4m were made.
The Companies Act 2006 requires us to present a fair review of the business No political donations were made in the year.
of the Group during the year to 30 September 2012 and of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year and a description of the principal risks Directors and their interests and uncertainties facing the Group.
The information that fulfils the Companies Act requirements can be found in the business review which is incorporated A list of directors, their interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company, by reference.
The business review can be found on pages IFC to 48. their interest in its long-term performance share plan and details of their options over the ordinary share capital of the Company are given in the The business review does not contain any information about persons with Remuneration report on pages 64 to 73.
No director had a material interest in whom the Company has contractual or other arrangements, which are any significant contract, other than a service contract or contract for services, essential to the business of the Company, as in the directors view, there are with the Company or any of its subsidiaries at any time during the year.
As at the date of this report, indemnities which are qualifying third-party Disclaimer indemnity provisions under the Companies Act 2006 are in place under which The purpose of this Annual Report is to provide information to the members the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors of the Company and the of the Company.
This Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for, the former directors of the Company who held office during the year ended members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
The Company, 30 September 2012, to the extent permitted by law and by the Companys its directors and employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume articles of association, in respect of all liabilities incurred in connection with responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into the performance of their duties as a director of the Company or its subsidiaries.
whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is Copies of these indemnities are available for review at the registered office of expresslydisclaimed.
The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect Employment policy to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
By The Group continues to give full and fair consideration to applications for their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their respective circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from aptitudes and abilities.
The policy includes, where practicable, the continued those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and employment of those who may become disabled during their employment and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the provision of training and career development and promotion, where the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking appropriate.
The Group has continued its policy of employee involvement by statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a making information available to employees on matters of concern to them.
Many employees are stakeholders in the business through participation in share option schemes and a long-term performance share plan.
Further details Results and dividends of employment policies are given on pages 42 to 44.
The results for the year are set out on page 70.
Dividends paid and proposed are set out on page 87.
The Board proposes a final dividend of 6.67p per share Creditor payment policy 2011: 7.07p per share taking the proposed full year dividend to 10.15p per Given the international nature of its operations, the Group does not operate a share 2011: 9.75p per share.
standard code in respect of payments to suppliers.
Subsidiary operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code business transactions with their suppliers are conducted, including the terms and Corporate Governance Statement of payment.
It is the Groups policy to ensure that suppliers are aware of those The Company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in the terms and that payments to suppliers are made promptly in accordance with UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year.
The Code is publicly those terms.
Creditor days for the Group have been calculated at 44 days available at the website of the FRC, www.
the requirements of the Corporate Governance Statement can be found in the Corporate governance report on pages 49 to 58 and is incorporated into The Company has no trade creditors 2011: nil.
this Directors report by reference.
60 Liquidation Substantial shareholdings If the Company is in liquidation, the liquidator may, with the authority of a At 29 November 2012, the Company had been notified, in accordance with the special resolution of the Company and any other authority required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the ordinary Statutes as defined in the Articles : share capital of the Company: Indirect divide among the members in specie the whole or any part of the assets Name Direct shares % shares % Total shares % of the Company: or BlackRock, Inc. 75,700,610 5.74 75,700,610 5.74 vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such trusts for the Aviva plc 66,981,616 5.07 66,981,616 5.07 benefit of members as the liquidator, with the like authority, shall think fit.
Lloyds Banking Group plc 61,336,505 5.00 61,336,505 5.00 Transfer of shares Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his or her Future developments certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other The Groups future developments are described in the business review on form which the Board may approve.
The Board may, in its absolute discretion, pages IFC to 48. decline to register any instrument of transfer of a certificated share which is not a fully paid share although not so as to prevent dealings in shares taking place Share capital on an open and proper basis or on which the Company has a lien.
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a certificated share unless shares of 1p each.
the instrument of transfer is: i left at the office, or at such other place as the Board may decide, for registration: and ii accompanied by the certificate for Rights and obligations attaching to shares the shares to be transferred and such other evidence if any as the Board may Voting reasonably require to prove the title of the intending transferor or his or her right In a general meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of the Articles to transfer the shares.
and to any special rights or restrictions as to voting attached to any class of The Board may permit any class of shares in the Company to be held in shares in the Company of which there are none : uncertificated form and, subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated shares to on a show of hands, a qualifying person being an individual who is a be transferred by means of a relevant system and may revoke any such member of the Company, a person authorised to act as the representative permission.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused of a corporation or a person appointed as a proxy of a member shall have where permitted by the Statutes as defined in the Articles.
one vote, except that a proxy has one vote for and one vote against a resolution if the proxy has been appointed by more than one member and Repurchase of shares has been given conflicting voting instructions by those members, or has The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last Annual General been given discretion as to how to vote: and Meeting held on 29 February 2012 to buy back up to 131,353,609 ordinary shares, which remains outstanding until the conclusion of the next Annual on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have General Meeting on 1 March 2013. one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder.
The minimum price which must be paid for such shares is 1p and the maximum No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in price payable is the higher of 5% above the average of the mid-market price respect of any shares held by him or her if any call or other sum then payable of the ordinary shares of the Company as derived from the London Stock by him or her in respect of that share remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately before the shares are fully paid.
purchase is made and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Deadlines for voting rights Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each case exclusive of expenses.
Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the On 30 September 2012 the Group appointed Deutsche Bank AG to manage an resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 1 irrevocable buyback programme during the close period which commenced on March 2013 will be set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
1 October 2012 and will run up to 5 December 2012.
From 1 October 2012 to Dividends and distributions 29 November 2012, the latest practical date prior to publication of the Annual Report & Accounts, 17,925,641 ordinary shares of 1p each were repurchased Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may, by through Deutsche Bank AG at a weighted average price of 308.89p per share.
ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the members, but no The highest and lowest prices paid for these shares were 322.00p per share dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The purchased shares have not been The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, cancelled and are held as treasury shares.
The total number of ordinary shares whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, in issue excluding shares held as treasury shares at 29 November 2012 is justifies its payment.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid pro-rata 1,210,714,269. according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
Amendment of the Companys articles of association Any amendments to the Companys articles of association may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of specialresolution.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 61 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Directors report continued change of control which is not less than 30 days or more than 60 days after Appointment and replacement of directors the date of the notice of prepayments.
Where a holder of notes accepts the Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 15 in number.
Directors offer to prepay, the prepayment shall be 100% of the principal amount of the may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A notes together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon and shall be made director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next Annual General on the proposed prepayment date.
No prepayment under a change of control Meeting and is then eligible for election by the shareholders.
The Board may shall include any premium of any kind.
from time to time appoint one or more directors to hold employment or executive office for such period subject to the Companies Act 2006 and on such terms as Under the terms of both agreements, a change of control occurs if any they may determine and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of the Company.
Under the Articles, at every Annual General Meeting of the Company, every Statement of directors responsibilities director shall retire from office but shall be eligible for election or re-election The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the by the shareholders.
The Company may by special resolution or by ordinary Remuneration report and the Group and parent Company financial statements resolution of which special notice has been given remove and the Board by in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
unanimous decision may remove any director before the expiration of his or her term of office.
The office of director shall be vacated if: i he or she resigns: Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each ii he or she has become physically or mentally incapable of acting as a financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group financial director and may remain so for more than three months, or by reason of his statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards or her mental health a court has made an order that prevents the director from IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and the parent Company acting and, in either case, the Board resolves that his or her office is vacated: financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted iii he or she is absent without permission of the Board from meetings of the Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable Board for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his or her office law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial is vacated: iv he or she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the creditors generally: v he or she is prohibited by law from being a director: or state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the vi he or she is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
In preparing these financial statements the directors are required to: Powers of the directors The business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the Companys make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and any ordinary resolution of the Company.
state whether IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures Shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Company financial The trustee of The Sage Group plc Employee Benefit Trust EBT has agreed statements respectively: and not to vote any shares held in the EBT at any general meeting.
If any offer is prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is made to shareholders to acquire their shares the trustee will not be obliged to inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares which are at that time subject to subsisting awards, but will have regard to the interests of the award holders The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that and will have power to consult them to obtain their views on the offer.
Subject to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the the above the trustee may take the action with respect to the offer it thinksfair.
Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Significant agreements Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the of control of the Company: prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under a dual tranche US$271,000,000 and 214,000,000 five year multiEach of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Board of currency revolving credit facility agreement dated 24 August 2010 between, directors on pages 50 and 51, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: amongst others, the Company and Lloyds Banking Group plc as facility the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance agent, on a change of control, if any individual lender so requires and after with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, having consulted with the Company in good faith for not less than 30 days liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and following the change of control, the facility agent shall, by not less than 10 business days notice to the Company, cancel the commitment of that lender the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and and declare the participation of that lender in all outstanding loans, together performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued under the finance a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
documents, immediately due and payable, whereupon the commitment of that Each of the persons who is a director at the time of this report confirms that: lender will be cancelled and all such outstanding amounts will become immediately due and payable.
so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Under a note purchase agreement dated 11 March 2010 relating to US$200,000,000 senior notes, Series A, due 11 March 2015, US$50,000,000 the director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken senior notes, Series B, due 11 March 2016 and US$50,000,000 senior notes, as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit Series C, due 11 March 2017 between the Company and the note holders, on information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that a change of control, the Company will not take any action that consummates information.
or finalises a change of control unless at least 15 business days prior to such This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the action it shall have given to each holder of notes written notice containing and provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. constituting an offer to prepay all notes on a date specified in such offer which shall be a business day occurring subsequent to the effective date of the 62 The Groups US Dollar denominated borrowings are designated as a hedge Financial risk management of the net investment in its subsidiaries in the US.
The foreign exchange The Groups exposure to and management of capital, liquidity, credit, interest movements on translation of the borrowings into Sterling have been rate and foreign currency risk are summarised below.
Further detail can be recognised in the translation reserve.
found in note 13.2 of the accounts.
The Groups other currency exposures comprise only those exposures that Capital risk give rise to net currency gains and losses to be recognised in the income The Groups objectives when managing capital defined as net debt plus statement.
Such exposures reflect the monetary assets and liabilities of the equity are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in Group that are not denominated in the operating or functional currency of order to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, the entity involved.
At 30 September 2011 and 30 September 2012, these while optimising return to shareholders through an appropriate balance of debt exposures were immaterial to the Group.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes By Order of the Board adjustments to it with respect to changes in economic conditions and the strategic objectives of the Group.
The Group have set a minimum leverage target of one times net debt to EBITDA and are working towards achieving this.
Further detail is provided in the Financial review on pages 28 and 30.
Liquidity risk M J Robinson, Secretary The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by reviewing the cash 5 December 2012 resources required to meet its business objectives through both short and long-term cash flow forecasts.
The Group has committed facilities which are available to be drawn for general corporate purposes including working capital.
The Groups Treasury function has a policy of optimising the level of cash in the businesses in order to minimise external borrowings.
Credit risk The Groups credit risk primarily arises from trade and other receivables.
The Group has a very low operational credit risk due to the transactions being principally of a high volume, low value and short maturity.
The Group has no significant concentration of operational credit risk, with the exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
Continued strong credit control ensured that in the year ended 30 September 2012 the Group did not see deterioration in days sales outstanding.
The credit risk on liquid funds is considered to be low, as the Audit Committee approved Group Treasury Policy limits the value that can be invested with each approved counterparty to minimise the risk of loss.
All counterparties must meet minimum credit rating requirements.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on floating rate deposits and borrowings.
The US private placement loan notes, which comprise 93% of borrowings, are at fixed interest rates and bank debt, which comprises 7% of borrowings, are at floating interest rates.
At 30 September 2012, the Group had 61.6m of cash and cash equivalents.
The Group regularly reviews forecast debt, cash and cash equivalents and interest rates to monitor this risk.
Interest rates on debt and deposits are fixed when management decides this is appropriate.
At 30 September 2012, the Groups principal borrowings comprised US private placement loan notes of 185.8m 2011: 192.6m, which have an average fixed interest rate of 4.58% and bank debt of 15.0m 2011: nil, which has an average floating interest rate of 1.73%.
Foreign currency risk Although a substantial proportion of the Groups revenue and profit is earned outside the UK, subsidiaries generally only trade in their own currency.
The Group is therefore not subject to any significant foreign exchange transactional exposure within these subsidiaries.
The Groups principal exposure to foreign currency, therefore, lies in the translation of overseas profits into Sterling.
This exposure is partly hedged to the extent that these profits are offset by interest charges in the same currency arising from the financing of the investment cost of overseas acquisitions by borrowings in the same currency.
The Group is also exposed to a foreign exchange transaction exposure from the conversion of surplus cash generated by its principal overseas subsidiaries, which would be hedged where appropriate.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 63 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview
