34 Sage Pay Housebites Making it safe and easy for our customers to pay us is essential to the survival of our business Simon Procktor, Housebites Housebites was created by a team of passionate foodies with Sage Pay key facts busy lives.
Not content with the current order-in options in terms Sage Pay is the UK & Irelands leading independent payment of both quality and service they decided to come up with a service provider PSP.
They created a service that allows customers to order Every year Sage Pay processes billions of pounds worth of food from top chefs in their neighbourhood and have it delivered secure payments for its customers and makes the process to their door.
of accepting payments online, over the phone, or in person Originally working with another payment gateway, Housebites were simpler, faster, safer and more profitable for businesses of looking to revolutionise their customer experience.
found that Sage Pays Token product and service were ahead of its Our payment services range from the simple to sophisticated competitors.
We felt that Sage Pay offered the best system at the tailored solutions and because they are easy to integrate and best price, says Simon.
manage, our customers have more time to spend on growing Security and fraud are always a worry for any online business and their businesses.
keeping up with security rules and regulations can be a full-time Sage Pay recently entered the German market focused job in itself.
The Token system is a fully PCI compliant process that on driving e-commerce growth for small and medium negates the need for Housebites to hold or store any card data sized businesses.
so customers can be sure that their details are completely secure.
40,000 Sage Pay customers in the UK & Ireland Scan this code to view the video on a mobile device or visit www.
com 2012annualreport The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 35 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Sage One Garbeau made-to-measure shirts I was using Excel to start with for managing my finances for the business but, as the business has grown, it just wasnt working Jessica McLean, Garbeau Garbeau is a made-to-measure shirt tailoring company set up Sage One key facts by Jessica McLean.
Jessica researched and developed her Sage One was developed with customers at its heart.
Sole idea for the business during her final year at university studying traders, small business owners and accountants have all been FashionMarketing.
involved from the beginning in shaping the feature set, design and language.
Garbeau has been trading for nearly five years now and has supplied shirts to over 600 customers, many of whom place Sage One is one of the industrys best value for money repeat orders.
The company targets sports organisations as accounting software packages: no upfront costs, no installation well as business people and wedding parties.
charges, no maintenance or support fees and free, automatic upgrades.
The Sage One pricing model is well suited to Sage One user Jessica said: I was using Excel to start with for business owners who want to spread costs and manage managing my finances for the business but, as the business has their cash flow.
grown, it just wasnt working.
Sage One is really efficient, really easy to use: especially for people like me who arent good with Sage One has been built from scratch, using Sages deep numbers and finances.
expertise and the latest web technologies to address specific customer pain points.
Sage One has a simple, flexible architecture with an appealing look and feel, developed using Ruby on Rails.
It is designed to support both Mac and PC and features highly customisableoptions.
24 7 Free 24 hour support by phone, email or on the web.
Scan this code to view the video on a mobile device or visit www.
com 2012annualreport 36 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 37 38 Sage ERP X3 Marussia F1 Team Sage ERP X3 will enable us to automate complex business processes and dramatically increase operational efficiencies Kevin Lee, Marussia F1 Team The Marussia F1 Team is a young and ambitious Anglo-Russian Sage ERP X3 key facts challenger, competing in the FIA Formula One World 3,700 customers representing 195,000 users worldwide chose Championship.
Headquartered at the new Marussia Technical Sage ERP X3 because it is easy to use, fast to deploy and Centre in Banbury, UK, the team is majority-owned by the costeffective.
Russian supercar marque, Marussia, based in Moscow.
Sage ERP X3 is a proven and comprehensive ERP solution, With just two seasons of F1 competition under its belt, the team addressing mid-market companies specific requirements and has enjoyed an extraordinary journey.
It was founded in 2009, challenges in various industries from manufacturing services under the Resource Restriction Agreement that has redefined the to distribution and many more.
sports commercial landscape, paving the way for exciting new Sage ERP X3 is present in 58 countries and counts a network entrants to challenge tradition and expectation.
of more than 2,000 Sage professionals and 260 partners in Kevin Lee, Operations Manager at Marussia F1 Team, explained: its ecosystem.
Before investing in Sage ERP X3, we, like many businesses, Good momentum in the international roll-out of Sage ERP X3 were operating a number of disparate IT systems and needed a during the year.
centralised ERP solution that could look after the entire lifecycle of the products and thousands of parts that we deal with.
Offering a complete end-to-end business management system that can scale seamlessly to break down departmental and geographical silos, Sage ERP X3 will enable us to automate complex business processes and dramatically increase operational efficiencies.
260 Sage ERP X3 partners worldwide Scan this code to view the video on a mobile device or visit www.
com 2012annualreport The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 39 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview
