Our strategy A vehicle for growth Accelerating growth is our key priority and we remain focused on disciplined execution At our Investor Day in July 2012, we set out our ambition to double our long-term average organic revenue growth rate within the next three years, together with a targeted EBITA margin increase of 1 to 2 percentage points over the same period.
Our three growth cornerstones are set out below with more detail on how we are delivering.
Focusing our business Potential 1 value creation Reviewing the segments we serve We have undertaken a systematic assessment of the segments Degree of overlap in: that we serve in order to ensure that our portfolio of businesses has the best possible fit with our strategic and financial objectives.
Target customers Closeness Capabilities or technology This assessment starts with a definition of core business.
to Sages core Channel partners Our core business lies in providing accounting, ERP, payroll, business Potential to share costs accountancy and related software and services to small and medium sized businesses.
We will add value to our core business by targeting adjacent opportunities that are closely linked to the core and offer Reallocating resources to our biggest opportunities genuine synergies.
These might include new market segments, We have completed a comprehensive review of our core new functionalities and new geographies.
Typically, this occurs product portfolio and are reallocating key resources to our where technology is highly integrated: for example payments biggest opportunities.
All products within our core businesses have been categorised As we assess existing and potential new businesses we as Invest, Harvest or Sunset: evaluate how close they are to our core business as well as the potential for value creation.
Our core businesses have a high Invest products have the highest growth potential and will receive degree of commonality in the type of customer they serve: they additional investment to secure their future and lead Group leverage our capabilities and technology in the provision of organic revenue growth.
accounting, payroll and related software and services: and they Harvest products are high margin, established products.
Many are able to take advantage of our network of resellers and other will continue to receive current levels of investment: others will partners, particularly accountants.
In addition, they have the receive lower investment than in the past, as they have moved ability to sharecosts.
into a lower revenue growth phase.
These criteria guide our management of our portfolio of Sunset products have lower growth potential and, in the large businesses: both additions and disposals.
Through these majority, the needs they serve are better met by a more capable criteria we ensure the Group has the optimum portfolio of product within our core portfolio.
These products will begin a businesses, with the maximum possible strategic synergies, sunset process and the associated investment will be redirected the biggest chance of success and the highest possible to the Invest portfolio.
EBITA is defined as earnings before interest, tax, amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition-related items and is after neutralising the impact of foreign exchange movements.
20 The actions taken to streamline the portfolio will result in a Hybrid Cloud Solutions reallocation of key resources towards the areas with highest Our partnership with Microsoft, announced in May 2012, is potential that will support a significant improvement in growth.
designed to deliver this vision to the market.
Building on the Azure Our sales and marketing will become sharper: our portfolio less platform allows us to speed up development of customer solutions, fragmented, offering a clearer choice to prospective and current accelerate time to market and reduce duplication.
customers: and we will leverage our considerable R&D resources The focus of development started in Europe with Sage 200 more effectively as we innovate and transition to the next Hybrid in the UK and Sage Murano in Spain.
The solutions will generation of products and technologies.
also be interoperable with Office 365, creating a single integrated Leveraging our global scale and assets on-demand business platform.
The solutions are in development now and will be released to market in 2013.
The delivery of this strategy will see us leveraging our global assets and skills far more effectively, ensuring that we set global priorities Sage ERP X3 the focus of our investment and execute on them in a global manner.
for the mid-market A single, consistent global brand is a critical pillar of this strategy.
Sage ERP X3 is our global offering in the mid-market segment We have launched a new powerful global brand proposition that and is designed to address the sophisticated needs of a large sits at the heart of our business, guides our activities and ensures enterprise but the limited resources of an SMB.
our relevance to all of our stakeholders.
We have 3,700 customers in 58 countries and 260 implementation partners.
A subscription service was launched in the US in August Capturing the 2012 and more countries will have a subscription offer in the coming months.
technology opportunity 2 New product architecture We dont just make software products: we use technology to Our product architecture is continuing to evolve and represents support the success of millions of small and medium sized a significant catalyst for growth in relation to both new and businesses around the world, aiming to deliver an extraordinary existingcustomers.
Our approach to technology is guided by Mobility the current and future needs of our customers and the unrivalled position Sage enjoys to lead small and medium sized companies We see the revolution in mobility as a particularly compelling to apply technology to best effect.
opportunity to develop more active relationships with our customers and to expand the number of our paying customers.
Technology is also providing the opportunity to expand our addressable market, by attracting a new generation of Expanding the product architecture will grow the addressable Sage customers, also supporting a step change in growth market by significantly expanding the number of users who and performance.
Today, Sage reaches a narrow band of principal business users which only represents about 20% of We are delivering the benefits of the web to our three core the addressable user base within a company.
The existence of a marketsegments: pervasive ecosystem for connected apps will allow us to extend Sage One the focus of our online investment for the start-up the Sage experience to new roles in management, sales and to and small business segment.
Hybrid cloud solutions the focus of our online investment Connected apps can also act as an entry point into a paying Sage for the SMB market.
A good example is the free Sage Record Keeper app in the UK co-developed with HMRC that feeds into Sage 50 Sage ERP X3 the focus of our investment for the mid-market.
We are also developing new product architecture, including Payments services product innovation to embrace mobile technology.
The importance of connected and payment services is very significant as a catalyst Our current activity in payments is in three distinct areas: for growth.
merchant acquiring in North America SPS : e-commerce and card holder present payments by customers in Europe Sage Pay : Sage One and NetCash in South Africa.
Sage One is a simple and efficient online bookkeeping and business The unique proposition that we offer is the capability to integrate management application, designed to address the needs of all payment transactions with the customers broader financial and entrepreneurs and very small businesses.
This integration capability offers our customers the compelling proposition of time savings and To date, we have rolled out Sage One in the UK, Ireland, and increased accuracy.
We are satisfied with the momentum of Sage One in the UK & Ireland, with over 6,100 paying customers at the On payments integration, we have services live and available.
For example, in the US we currently have over 9,700 paying customers.
We connect various payment and vendor applications We will enter more countries with Sage One in FY13 and will target to the accounting environment and further to payment networks a broader reach with a more advanced service, targeting larger and fraud protection.
customers with more sophisticated requirements.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 21 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Our strategy continued The subscription model 3 We are designing new pricing models to capture the value of the active customer relationships.
For many of our reseller partners evolving relationship we have with our customers.
Subscription is the move to subscription will be a big change.
Where we are about serving our customers better through establishing an active, introducing subscription we will work with our partners to ensure broad based relationship with them and capturing the commercial they are appropriately incentivised under this new model.
For value of that opportunity.
example, where we have introduced subscription in North America we are able to offer our partners alternative commission structures.
We have moved with our customers, over time, from licence sales of the core application to basic maintenance to premium support Ultimately, for our partners and for Sage, subscription will lead to and now to subscription.
This is also the transition from a perpetual higher, more sustainable revenues over time, with stronger, more licence to a monthly subscription.
predictable relationships with our customers.
Our customers are attracted to subscription because it is affordable, In the short-term, we will progressively introduce subscription flexible and is an easier, lower risk decision.
Both new and existing options for more products which will be offered alongside perpetual customers will also get the best possible match between what they options.
In the medium-term, we will accelerate the subscription pay for and the benefits they receive.
Subscription therefore allows rollout and make subscription the default option for key products.
us to address a wider range of customer needs.
In the long-term, the perpetual option will be phased out entirely.
The move to subscription provides the opportunity for our partners to differentiate themselves as well as help them to develop more Subscription is the latest phase of the natural evolution of our customer relationships Subscription Connected Support Premium services support Basic maintenance Connected Connected applications features Core Core Core Core application application application application Perpetual licence service fee Monthly subscription 22 s e c i v r e s d e t c e n n o C The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 23
