Executive Committee Moving Sage forward Our goals are shared collectively and individually by our Executive Committee and senior management as a whole 18 The Executive Committee oversees the sound running of all Sage Pascal Houillon operations.
It comprises nine internationally diverse senior leaders Chief Executive Officer, North America from across the business.
The role of the Committee is to assist the Pascal became CEO of Sage North America in April 2011.
He Chief Executive in the performance of his duties, including: was CEO of Sage France from 1997 and in 2005 also took on the development and implementation of strategy, operational responsibility for Sage in Belgium, Brazil, Switzerland and plans, policies, procedures and budgets: Morocco.
He started his career as a systems analyst for UAP Insurance and in 1987 Pascal co-founded Sinequanon, a company the monitoring of operational and financial performance: that provided business management solutions to SMEs.
He joined the assessment and control of risk: Sage in 1989 in sales and held a number of management positions the prioritisation and allocation of resources: and as a Regional Director and Sales Director before leading the Sybel monitoring competitive forces in each area of operation.
business when it was acquired by Sage in 1995.
For nine years Pascal was Vice President of Syntec, the French software and Guy Berruyer ITassociation.
Chief Executive Officer Amanda Jobbins Guy joined Sage in 1997 to run the France, Spain and Portugal Group Chief Marketing Officer operations.
He was appointed to the Board in January 2000 as CEO for its Mainland Europe business and in 2005 also took Following the year end, Amanda was appointed to the newly charge of its Asian operations.
Prior to joining Sage he was Country created position of Group CMO.
She joined Sage on 5 November Manager and then European Managing Director for Intuit, the US 2012 from Cisco where, after leading European Marketing for all software company.
Previously he worked at the French hardware Ciscos technologies, she was promoted to Global Vice President company, Groupe Bull, where he was a Director of Marketing, and of Partner Marketing, based in San Francisco.
Amanda was Claris, as Southern European General Manager.
On 2 October responsible for driving the global channel and strategic partner 2012, Guy became a non-executive director of Meggitt PLC, a business across the enterprise, commercial and small business leading international company specialising in high performance markets.
Before Cisco she worked in senior marketing leadership components and sub-systems for the aerospace, defence and roles for major technology companies in both the USA and Europe, energy markets.
Ivan Epstein lvaro Ramrez Chief Executive Officer, AAMEA Chief Executive Officer, Europe After training at Price Waterhouse Ivan co-founded Softline in 1988. lvaro became CEO of Sage Europe in January 2011.
He joined In 1997 Softline was listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange Sage as CEO of Sage Spain in 2003 after the acquisition of with operations in South Africa, Australia, the USA and Canada.
Grupo SP, which he co-founded in 1989. lvaro grew Grupo SP Softline was delisted in 2003 upon its acquisition by Sage.
Ivan to become the leader in Spain for entry-level business management continued as CEO of Sage Southern Hemisphere.
His role was software, with subsidiaries in Portugal and across Central and expanded to include the Middle East and Asia in October 2010.
Since joining Sage, lvaro has grown the Spanish Ivan has been recognised for his entrepreneurial contribution and business, both organically and through acquisition, transforming it in 1999 2000 was the recipient of South Africas Best Entrepreneur into a market leading software company.
He studied in France and Award, awarded by Ernst & Young, of which he continues as Spain, and holds an M. Sc.
Ivan was further recognised in South Africa for his Michael Robinson contribution within the IT industry by receiving the Computer Societys IT personality of the year award 2009.
Company Secretary and Group Legal Director Michael was born and educated in the North East of England Karen Geary before leaving to study law at Oxford University.
After qualifying Group Human Resources Director as a solicitor, Michael spent 15 years at one of the largest law Karen has more than 25 years of international HR experience firms in the UK, becoming a partner and specialising in a range across a variety of industries where she has helped organisations of corporate finance work, including flotations, mergers and through periods of large scale change and integration.
In 2002 he joined Sage as Group Legal Director career was spent at Monsanto Inc. and Electrocomponents plc.
She spent six years at Stena Line, the Swedish transport and Klaus-Michael Vogelberg leisure operator, ultimately as HR Director for UK, France and Ireland.
She has been in her current role at Sage for nine years, Group Chief Technology Officer following five years as HR Director for Sage in the UK.
Klaus-Michael was R&D Director and a partner in the German KHK Software group, acquired by Sage in 1997.
In 2000 he joined the Paul Harrison Group team to assist Sage operating companies and the Board Chief Financial Officer with software architecture and technology strategy.
Between 2004 A chartered accountant, Paul joined Sage in 1997 from Price and 2007 Klaus-Michael acted as R&D Director for Sage UK and Waterhouse to become Group Financial Controller.
He joined Ireland, before taking up his current post of Group Chief the Board in April 2000 as Chief Financial Officer.
acquisition of Folhamatic, Paul was given additional responsibility for the Brazil operation.
In May 2007, Paul was appointed to the Board of Hays plc as a non-executive director and, in November 2011, became its Senior Independent non-executive director.
The Executive Committee members pictured are: standing from left to right: lvaro Ramrez, Klaus-Michael Vogelberg, Paul Harrison, Pascal Houillon, Amanda Jobbins Seated from left to right: Ivan Epstein, Karen Geary, Guy Berruyer, Michael Robinson The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 19 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview
