O u r s o f t w e l a p r o e e & p s r u u p O p o r t Our business model We deliver value through a model built on our core strengths Our customers and markets Our people We have a strong business model Our customers range from owners, to book Our people have the confidence to respond offering significant growth potential, keepers, to finance directors, in businesses intuitively and with agility to enhance the together with high levels of ranging from start-up to mid-market Sage customer experience.
We encourage companies, as well as accountants.
our people to innovate constantly and profitability and cash generation.
challenge themselves to fulfil Sages true Whilst each of our customers is unique they potential, for the mutual benefit of all.
Our all share common challenges.
Helping them people know whats right for our brand, our to solve problems and run efficient businesses customers and our colleagues due to the remains at the centre of what we do.
training we undertake and the tools we provide to do the job.
Our guiding principles of Innovation, Integrity, Simplicity, Trust and Agility drive everything we do: how we think, plan and make decisions to deliver operational excellence and best serve our customers.
Our software and support Our ecosystem Our approach to technology is guided by the We work with over 28,000 business partners current and future needs of our customers and 40,000 accountants who recommend and the unrivalled position Sage enjoys to and market Sage products worldwide.
lead small and medium sized companies Business partners are key not only in to apply technology to best effect.
promoting our software and services, but We recognise that requirements differ by also in providing local expertise to customers customer, by segment and by market and who demand increasing levels of tailored that technology provides a catalyst for Sage software and specialised services.
to develop a more active relationship with Accountants make up a key customer these customers, both existing and new.
segment for Sage as well as being We view technology as an enabler to give recommenders of our products.
customers control of their business, to work smartly and efficiently, to achieve success and grow.
10 s t e k r a m O & u s r r e e c m o o s t s y s u t c e r m u O The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 11 12
