Understanding the What do you do as Regional Geoscience Director?
regional geology I am responsible for all technical work undertaken by the geologists, geophysicists and petrophysicists within The ultimate role the organisation.
This covers 66 of the G&G team in As a rock-led company everything from regional a small independent E&P evaluations, business company such as Salamander Salamander places great development work and Energy is to acquire exploration and development emphasis on its understanding exploration licences, create activities across the region.
a portfolio of prospects of the sub-surface.
and leads and to deliver What is the main role of the drilling opportunities.
Shaun Richardson, Regional Shaun Richardson Much of what the Company Regional Geoscience Director Geoscience Director, talks does is underpinned by the work of technical staff who specialise about the role of Salamanders in geology and geophysics G&G.
The ultimate role of technical team.
the G&G team in a small independent E&P company such as Salamander Energy is to acquire exploration licences, create a portfolio of prospects and leads and to deliver drilling opportunities.
In the event of a discovery, the G&G team will work with engineers to optimise development options through to planning and delivering production wells.
How does Salamanders approach differ from other companies?
I have worked across the sector for both majors and independents and where I think Salamander differentiates itself is: U ii} vV the company to build up a real expertise for the basins and plays in S. E. Asia U, i iii ii active and drill a large number of wells both exploration and development each year U i}i i i i able to make decisions quickly which can be an advantage when pursuing new business opportunitites What is the background of most of the team members?
We employ around 40 geoscientists spread across our ofces in Bangkok, Jakarta and Singapore.
They all have slightly different backgrounds, with a mixture of experience spanning the Majors, Independents and National Oil Companies, as well as some graduates.
The majority have prior working knowledge of S. E. Asian basins.
8 Overview Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2012 Describe the internal process Do specic members of the from a G&G perspective from team focus on certain basins or a licence round evaluation do people work across the through prospect maturation whole portfolio?
to the point where you are The Company has two main ready to drill?
vVViq `i ` It is a natural workow from `q `iLi maturing an opportunity from development projects its earliest conception through throughout S. E. Asia.
The to the point when a company is organisation of the G&G prepared to spend millions of function reects this with a dollars to drill a well, based on dedicated G&G team based in the technical work presented Indonesia and also in Thailand to its executive management.
and managed locally by an Exploration Manager.
The In simple terms, the following country G&G teams undertake internal process is applied in all BD evaluations, exploration Salamander Energy from a and development work within G&G perspective: their licensed blocks and ViVi` surrounding basins, leveraging their existing local knowledge The G&G team evaluate and expertise.
The Singapore 1 available data and hopefully G&G team tend to comprise identify prospects and leads experienced staff with wide within the area of interest.
If global experience, so they full ii ` Vi a roving BD role looking at and the economics are positive new countries in the region but then we would present the Angklung-1 will also help the local teams technical work for peer review during peak workloads.
and technical scrutiny and then South Kecapi-1 decide whether to bid.
The 2013 exploration ii i programme is clearly a very active one how do you Bedug-1 The G&G team will work in envisage things shaping up small teams of geologists and in 2014?
geophysicists to plan, acquire, process and interpret the 2013 is probably a unique seismic data, conduct year in terms of the South Bedug Prospect geological studies to fide-risk unprecedented level of drilling the play parameters and activity across all three core calculate resource volumes and areas which has resulted in risks during the prospect high levels of G&G effort.
We evaluation stage based on will have tested new plays and seismic mapping studies.
A a range of prospects by the Saron Leads number of technical reviews end of 2013 and in the event 2 are conducted at key of success, an appraisal decision-making stages during programme will be conducted this process, in order to ensure to better define the discoveries quality control and also to and reduce the uncertainty prioritise effort where it can on reserves, leading to make the most impact.
submission of development Typically, additional prospect plans and an expansion of the reviews are conducted to G&G function.
high-grade and select the most appropriate drilling candidates based on the technical work and supported by robust 3 economics.
ii 1 Parichat Wainuson, Geologist, Thailand, On completion of wells we analysing seismic in complete a post-mortem Greater Bualuang area analysis to check the results against pre-well expectations 2 A FAR-RMS Amplitude and see where we got things Extraction of the gas sand }}] V fairway in Bontang PSC there are for other future wells 3 Hartoyo Sudiro, Geologist, in the vicinity and how we need Thailand, geomodelling to alter the geological model.
T2 reservoir in the Bualuang eld 9 Overview Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2012
