Section 2 | Our business Our business model At the heart of our business model is a set of key strengths, which enable us to compete effectively and create value for our shareholders and other stakeholders.
These competitive advantages derive from our broad contract portfolio, our devolved structure and robust management system, our people and values, and our focus on delivering the best for our customers.
Our strategy see page 14 builds on and reinforces these strengths, enabling us to deliver growth and value creation into the future.
Broad portfolio Our uniquely broad portfolio is diversied by market and geography.
This allows us to pick the best opportunities, in whichever market or country they occur.
Our breadth also allows us to transfer skills honed in one market to other markets around the world, opening up new opportunities.
And we can bring together unique combinations of skills from across the Group, for example by joining our frontline services with our BPO capabilities.
Broad portfolio Customer focus Devolved structure Delivering excellent service for By devolving responsibility and our customers and the public decision making to the contract is at the heart of our approach.
level, we empower our people It enables us to build long-term to deliver excellent service.
relationships, which help us to The Serco Management grow our contracts and retain System provides a robust them at rebid.
It also contributes Value system of control, to ensure Customer Devolved to our reputation, helping us to these decisions are also in focus structure creation win new work and enter new Sercos best interests.
We use our 50 years experience to bring fresh Devolving responsibility also perspectives to customers makes our business scalable, problems, for example by allowing us to successfully creating new contracting manage our growing People or partnership models.
and values People and values Serco is a people-based business, so we employ and develop excellent people with a strong service ethos.
We also have a deeply ingrained set of values, which are encapsulated in our Governing Principles and our approach to CR.
Our people embody those values, ensuring they are reected in every decision we take.
These values help us to act in the right way, so we protect the interests of our stakeholders and Serco.
Our competitive environment Our business breadth means we have a large number of competitors for Our business model makes us a strong competitor in our chosen markets.
both public and private sector contracts.
These competitors are primarily companies but for government contracts they can include public sector Competition is necessary for our markets to operate, as it encourages and voluntary bodies.
As we enter new markets, we meet competitors customers to put services out to tender, provides a benchmark to ensure who specialise in those areas.
While we see effective competitors in they are getting best value and drives innovation.
every market, no organisation competes with us in all of them and only a few operate in more than one.
12 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012
