Section 1 | Overview Who we are Serco makes a difference to the lives of millions of people around the world.
Our customers are national and local governments and leading companies.
We have more than 50 years experience of helping them to achieve their goals.
By focusing on the needs of the people they serve, we enable our customers to deliver better outcomes.
Our frontline delivery involves us in vital areas of public life, including providing safe transport, nding sustainable Mobs for the long-term unemployed, helping patients recover more quickly, improving the local environment, rehabilitating offenders, protecting borders and supporting the armed forces.
We also manage crucial business processes for both public and private sector organisations.
This frees them to focus on their core operations, while delivering tangible benets to their customers from faster mortgage approvals to better online shopping.
The long-term drivers of our markets include public service reform, developing economies investment in services and infrastructure, and our customers need to deliver the best end-user experience.
They want a partner who gives them confidence through consistent delivery, who can anticipate and adapt to change, and who can understand what they want to achieve across their organisation.
They value our fresh thinking and the collaborative and imaginative way we work.
We also look for opportunities to leverage our scale to our customers advantage.
Serco is a values-led company and our culture and ethos are at the heart of everything we do.
We give our people responsibility, so they can put their ideas into practice and make a real difference.
Our approach has made us one of the worlds leading service companies and our vision is to be the worlds greatest.
Our service ethos means that our customers come back to us again and again.
These long-term relationships help us to meet their changing needs and to do what we do best... bringing service to life Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 01 Our performance Financial Governance Our business Overview statements
