Our business The following pages describe our operations around the world.
In January 2012, we announced a new divisional structure, which created our Global Services division and amalgamated our UK and European operations into a single division.
More information on the reorganisation can be found on pages 23 and 24.
Revenue by division 2012 ongoing activities Revenue by division 2011 ongoing activities 11% 15% 15% 18% 51% 55% 19% 16% UK & Europe UK & E rope UK & Europe UK & E ope Americas Americas AMEAA AMEAA Global Services Global Services Revenue by geography 2012 ongoing activities Revenue by geography 2011 ongoing activities 26% 30% 56% 56% 18% 14% United Kingdom United Kingdom United Kingdom United Kingdom United States United States Other countries Other countries For more on the services provided by each of our divisions is included in the Operating Review, which begins on page 40 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 03 Our performance Financial Governance Our business Overview statements Section 1 | Overview Home Affairs Serco is a leading custodial accommodation provider, operating five adult prisons in England UK & Europe and Scotland.
These include HMP & YOI Doncaster, which is piloting Payment by Results, a key component of the Governments strategy to reduce re-offending, and HMP Thameside, one of the worlds most technologically advanced prisons.
We also run a young offender 2012 revenue ongoing activities institution and a secure training centre.
We provide prisoner escort and custody services, and electronically monitor defendants 2,494m and offenders subMect to home curfew.
In partnership with the London Probation Trust, we deliver Community Payback, which requires offenders to do unpaid work for the community.
On behalf of the Home Ofce we run two immigration removal centres and 2% provide technology services for border control and security.
We also provide accommodation 2011: 2,434m and transport services for asylum applicants in the North West of England, Scotland and Northern Ireland.
UK & Europe provides frontline On the Work Programme, Serco and its partners are placing thousands of Mobseekers into sustainable employment.
A Serco-led consortium operates the National Citizen Service, services in Home Affairs, enabling 16 and 17-year-olds to develop skills through proMects that contribute to society.
Health, Transport & Local Direct Services, and Defence Health Serco delivers GP out-of-hours services in Cornwall, and provides a comprehensive range and Science.
of clinical services at Braintree Community Hospital and in the community in Suffolk.
We are one of the UKs leading suppliers of occupational health services and the largest independent provider of custodial health services.
We are also a maMor supplier of support services to a number of UK hospitals.
Our GSTS Pathology Moint venture is the UKs leading independent pathology services provider.
Transport & Local Direct Services We are a key provider of transport services in the UK.
With our partner Abellio, we operate both Northern Rail, the UKs largest train franchise, and Merseyrail, the UKs most punctual train operator.
In London, we run the Docklands Light Railway, the Barclays Cycle Hire scheme and trafc management operations, supporting growth in regular Mourneys as well as maMor events such as the London Marathon, the Diamondubilee and the 2012 Olympic Games.
We also provide lifeline freight and passenger ferry services to the Northern Isles in Scotland.
Serco provides environmental services and manages leisure facilities for local councils, community leisure trusts and universities across Britain.
Our environmental services include refuse collection, recycling, street cleansing and grounds maintenance.
Our leisure business provides a comprehensive range of health, leisure, tness, well-being and community focused services.
Defence & Science Serco provides training, engineering and operational support to the Royal Air Force, the Army Air Corps and the Royal Navys Fleet Air Arm.
We also support the Royal Navys three main UK bases and operate and maintain strategic assets such as secure satellite communications, the Defence Academy of the United Kingdom, the Emergency Planning College and the UKs ballistic missile early warning system.
We provide systems engineering, safety assurance and risk management services, and support the essential research carried out at the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory Dstl.
Our Moint venture with Lockheed Martin andacobs Engineering For more information on our UK & manages the Atomic Weapons Establishment, which provides the warheads for the Europe division, see pages 40 to 45 UKs nuclear deterrent.
04 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 05 Our performance Financial Governance Our business Overview statements Section 1 | Overview We have a 16-year track record as the largest Network and Information Technology IT design, engineering and installation contractor and one of the largest systems engineering Americas and technical assistance contractors for the US Air Force Space Command, supporting a wide range of military satellite systems, missile defence systems, command and control systems, and mission essential networks and IT systems worldwide.
We install and test 2012 revenue communications and data networking systems for shore, ship and submarine installations for the US Navy and provide logistics support for the Navys anti-submarine and undersea warfare capabilities.
Through advanced economic cost analysis, we are helping the Navy to 753m reduce procurement costs.
We assist a maMor intelligence agency to acquire next generation IT systems.
We are managing base closures for US forces in Afghanistan and upgrading communications systems for the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles, which protect -13% soldiers from improvised explosive devices.
We designed and installed nuclear materials 2011: 868m detection systems at over 70 locations in 18 countries as part of the United States second line of defence.
Our Americas business provides Serco has helped more than two million Veterans to start or advance their civilian careers through career counselling, employment workshops and Mob fairs.
We provided personnel professional, technology and and family support services to over two million military personnel and their families, and management services focused designed the software and operate the systems, data centres and call centres used by primarily on the US Federal over four million federal employees to manage their retirement savings plans.
Government, including every In 2012, Serco processed 32 million visa transactions for the Department of State and branch of the military, key managed more than eight million application case les for the Department of Homeland civilian agencies and the Security.
We have helped speed the review of patent applications by automating the intelligence community.
pre-classication of nearly two million US patents over the past six years.
Serco manages air trafc control services at 64 towers across the US, ensuring the safe transport of nearly nine million commercial aircraft passengers a year, and in 2012 received an award for reducing aircraft delays by 98%.
In Canada, we provide driver examination For more information on our Americas services at approximately 100 locations across Ontario, and deliver facilities management division, see pages 46 to 49 services at the Canadian Armed Forces Base in Goose Bay.
06 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 In Australia, Serco is an intelligent integrator of people, processes, equipment and technology for the Australian Defence Force.
We recently strengthened our offering by AMEAA acquiring the remaining 50% of DMS Maritime, one of the largest marine services providers in Australia.
Our work in Mustice and corrections, focused on reducing reoffending, has been recognised by numerous industry and government awards.
In health, we draw on Sercos 2012 revenue global and regional expertise in providing quality clinical and non-clinical services.
We are responsible for integrating facilities management and support services for Western Australias agship Fiona Stanley Hospital, which will open in 2014.
We work with the Australian 883m Department of Immigration and Citizenship to run its national network of immigration centres and have helped to transform its services.
In transport, we offer every facet, from operating customer services and processing information to developing and maintaining infrastructure.
31% Serco also owns Great Southern Rail, which operates Australias iconic trains, the Indian 2011: 672m Pacic and the Ghan.
In New Zealand, we manage Mt Eden Corrections Facility, which is currently the countrys AMEAA consists of Australasia, only privately operated prison, and are part of the consortium chosen to build and operate a new prison at Wiri, South Auckland, under a public-private partnership.
the Middle East, Asia and Africa, where we provide services In Hong Kong, we are a market leader in managing, operating and maintaining road including transport, Mustice, tunnels and related tollways infrastructure.
The Hong Kong Institute of Facility Management gave us an award for excellence for our operation of EcoPark, Hong Kongs first recycling immigration, health, defence industrial park.
and other direct services such as facilities management.
The Middle East is home to some of Sercos longest standing aviation contracts.
We are also the regions largest international player in surface transport.
Most notably, we operate the Dubai Metro, the worlds longest and most-advanced driverless light rail system.
Our technology business serves the telecommunications, marine and biomedical sectors, and we provide integrated facilities management to the education and commercial sectors.
For more information on our AMEAA In India, Serco has signed its first frontline service contract to operate and maintain the division see pages 50 to 53 new Bus Rapid Transit System, in the city of Indore in the state of Madhya Pradesh.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 07 Our performance Financial Governance Our business Overview statements Section 1 | Overview Serco Global Services operates in more than 100 locations across 13 countries, and employs 60,000 people.
We conduct more than 90 million multi-channel interactions Serco Global in 20 languages around the globe every year, as well as 600 million calls and 60 million back ofce transactions.
Our widespread presence allows our customers to choose the onshore, nearshore or offshore delivery location that best matches their skill and Services cost requirements.
2012 revenue ongoing activities We offer three lines of service BPO, consulting and technology services.
Our specialist teams address customers needs across functions including HR, finance and accounting, procurement, customer services and consulting.
We provide advisory, design and delivery expertise in the areas of operations strategy, transformation, programme delivery, 702m outsourcing, people performance and selection, change management and research.
We are also experts in handling large workforce transfers and managing condential data.
41% Our solutions are industry-specic, for customers in Banking & Financial Services, 2011: 497m Insurance, Retail, Travel, Telecoms, Utilities, Healthcare and the public sector.
We build customised solutions assisted by industry experts, whether our customer is a bank looking to improve the quality of its mortgage portfolio, a city council with a need to Serco Global Services brings together transform its local services or an airline wanting to reduce its costs.
our customer contact, middle and back ofce skills, allowing us to provide broad end-to-end business process outsourcing BPO services to public and private sector customers.
We are among the worlds leading global BPO businesses, and the combination of our BPO expertise and frontline services For more information on our Global sets us apart from other providers.
Services division, see pages 54 to 57 08 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 09 Our performance Financial Governance Our business Overview statements
