Section 3 | Our performance Chairmans Statement It was, I suggest, impossible to experience the atmosphere in the Olympic stadium on 11 August 2012, up on ones feet applauding Mo Farahs amazing 5,000 metre gold medal, and not be proud to be British.
It was eTually impossible not to be proud to be Chairman of Serco given the awless performance of our Docklands Light Railway and Barclays Cycle Hire contracts during the period of the Olympic Games.
All across the Group in our Board, executive, management and operations we felt the weight of the responsibility for not only transporting a significant proportion of the spectators to Britains most important sporting showcase, but for ensuring our other London-based contracts, such as Court Escorting, continued to work as expected during this most unusual period.
That everything functioned exactly as planned is testament to the foresight, capability, commitment and ingenuity of all those involved.
In all parts of Serco, when I visit our contracts I meet people who have business into a shape to be able to better support our customers and the same commitment to service, to making a difference through helping deliver our strategy over the next five or so years.
Serco now has three those with whom they work while at the same time delivering against distinct areas of regional focus: UK & Europe: Americas: and AMEAA: our promises.
I have witnessed this ability to reconcile efficiency and and one area of sector specialism our Global Services BPO division.
humanity in such diverse areas as the way our electronic monitoring This reorganisation equips Serco to increase our exposure to international teams deal with new offenders: the way our staff supporting the US growth markets: builds a significant private, alongside our majority public Veterans Agency interact with returning war-ghters: and the way our sector customer base: creates an ability to bring together expertise teams in Australia handle those seeking immigrant entry to the country.
across back and middle ofce, and our historic strength in frontline This ethos is deeply ingrained in Serco and is enshrined in our Governing services: and slims us down to a much tighter concentration of functions Principles, which set out clearly and succinctly the behaviours by which at the centre.
Accompanying this restructuring is the proactive management of our Our desire to look beyond the confines of the contract and to put portfolio by assessing the strategic t of particular operations, together something back into the communities in which we work, is amply with their expected future levels of performance and returns.
As a evidenced by the amount raised each year by our people for a wide consequence we disposed of four operations during the year.
At the same variety of charitable causes.
In recognition, the Board has decided that time we took advantage of opportunities to add further scale and depth the most appropriate way to mark Sercos 25th year as a publicly traded of capability to Global Services through the acquisition of the UK public company is to establish, with an endowment of 5m, an independent sector BPO operations of Vertex: and strengthened our position as charitable foundation with the mission of helping charities be even more a leading defence services provider, as well as increasing our exposure effective through the application of Sercos people, skills and capabilities.
to the growing marine services market in Australia, by acquiring the remaining 50% of DMS Maritime.
Another of Sercos four Governing Principles is to foster an entrepreneurial culture, in particular, to embrace change and, by taking measured risks, The benefit of this portfolio shift is already starting to evidence itself.
The management team has successfully Over the last two years the proportion of our turnover derived from implemented significant change during the past year, restructuring the outside the UK has increased to 44%, while the value of our BPO 18 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012
