Section 2 | Our business Our strategy Setting our strategic direction We regularly review our strategy to ensure it remains appropriate and The starting point for setting our strategy is our corporate plan, which reects the opportunities we see ahead of us.
This led us to refresh our defines the Groups medium-term direction and outlines the opportunities strategy in 2012, resulting in a strategic approach that remains centred and challenges we face in getting there.
Our divisions then create on organic growth while also emphasising the factors that will support strategies that enable us to achieve this plan, by taking the actions that growth service quality, efficiency, people development and our necessary to succeed in their markets.
The divisional strategies are systems and infrastructure.
then aggregated to produce the strategy for the Group as a whole.
Our Group strategy Sercos Group strategy has three parts: Strategy Description Building a We aim to have a strong and diverse contract portfolio that is balanced appropriately balanced between public and private sector customers, frontline and BPO services, and developed and developing economies.
portfolio This reduces our exposure to market uctuations, enables us to select the best opportunities wherever they arise, and allows us to transfer expertise from one market to another.
We focus on services and markets where we can develop deep expertise, underpinning our growth and allowing us to offer the same services to customers around the world.
This approach will increasingly enable us to apply common processes and drive economies of scale.
To support our organic growth, we make acquisitions that enhance our existing business or enable us to enter new markets or geographies.
Our proactive portfolio management also involves ongoing assessment of our contracts for their strategic t, together with their expected performance and returns.
Driving As Serco grows, we look for opportunities to transfer our capabilities around the world, so that all of our capabilities are available to all improved of our customers.
With this increasing scale comes the chance to service drive economies, through shared services and common processes.
and margin We therefore look to share global best practices and maximise the efficiency of our operations.
Enhancing To support our growth, it is essential that we have the right people, in the right place, at the right time.
Our people strategy aims to develop our people the leadership we will need, to have integrated and engaged people and enabling who bring service to life, and to make it easier to manage our people strategies by continually enhancing our systems and processes.
We also look to have the right information technology to support our business, and to actively manage our brand and reputation, which is increasingly important as we enter new markets.
14 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 A responsible business Serco is a values-led organisation and corporate responsibility is reduce our energy and resource use, which at the same time mitigates a consistent theme running through our strategy.
Acting responsibly our environmental impact.
We also look to engage with our communities, enables us to be a better, more efficient business and a good corporate which helps our customers achieve their aims and makes us a welcome citizen that benets society in numerous ways.
partner in tackling community problems.
This directly contributes to our ability to win and retain contracts, while striving to contribute positively Our approach to responsible business inuences everything from the to the communities in which we work.
markets we choose to the way we manage and develop our people.
It helps us to deliver excellent service by ensuring we keep our people For more information on our approach to corporate responsibility safe and secure, and improves our efficiency by encouraging us to and our performance, see pages 66 to 77 Key achievements in 2012 Delivered revenue growth of 6% Nearly half of Group revenue now generated outside the UK and 15% from BPO Continued to win a wide range of contracts in new and existing markets, including entering new countries in the Middle East, frontline services in India, and new service lines such as community healthcare Concluded a reorganisation that created our first global business, Serco Global Services, and a single UK & Europe division Acquired Vertexs UK public sector BPO operations and the outstanding 50% of DMS Maritime in Australia Disposed of a number of businesses that were non-core to the Groups development.
These were our UK nuclear technical consulting services, education software and UK data hosting operations, and the majority of our mainly defence-related operations in Germany Continued to deliver high quality services to customers.
Of particular note was the performance of our contracts supporting the London Olympic Games and major new contracts which started during the year Achieved an Adjusted operating profit margin of 6.4%, up from 6.2% in 2011 Completed a reorganisation which is delivering efficiencies, such as our internal shared service centre now operated by Serco Global Services Evaluated our leaders to ensure the composition of our top 500 leaders now properly reects the international nature of our business Worked to better understand the link between customer advocacy and employee engagement Undertook our annual global employee survey, giving us important insights into how we can improve the working experience at Serco Completed Sercos first ever global software implementation, providing a range of self-service HR tools for both managers and employees Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 15 Our performance Financial Governance Our business statements
