Section 4 | Governance Directors Report Annual Report and Accounts The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Annual Report and Accounts of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Comparative gures used in this report are for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 85 to 91 forms part of the Statutory Directors Report.
Activities Serco Group plc is a holding company which operates via its subsidiaries and its joint ventures to improve services by managing people, processes, technology and assets more effectively.
Serco supports governments, agencies and companies who seek a trusted partner with a solid track record of providing assured service excellence.
Our people offer operational, management and consulting expertise in the aviation, BPO, defence, education, environmental services, facilities management, health, home affairs, information and communications technology, knowledge services, local government, science and nuclear, transport, welfare to work and commercial sectors.
The Chairmans Statement and the remainder of the Our performance section on pages 18 to 84 report on the activities during the year, post balance sheet events, and likely future developments.
The information in these reports which is required to full the requirements of the Business Review is incorporated in this Directors Report by reference.
Share capital The issued share capital of the Company, together with the details of shares issued during the year is shown in note 32 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The powers of the Directors to issue or buy back shares are restricted to those approved at the Companys annual general meeting.
The rules relating to the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
Dividends An interim dividend of 2.65p 2011: 2.50p per ordinary share was paid on 19 October 2012.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 7.45p 2011: 5.90p per ordinary share which, if approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 22 May 2013 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 15 March 2013.
Interests in voting rights As at 4 March 2013 the Company had been notied under Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares: Number of shares millions % held Invesco Limited 60.1 12.05 Capital Research and Management Company 30.3 6.07 UBS Investment Bank 29.1 5.90 Morstan Nominees Limited 25.1 5.11 AXA S. A.
24.4 4.95 Fidelity International Limited 23.9 4.93 Baillie Gifford & Co 24.0 4.92 Newton Investment Management Limited 23.6 4.85 BlackRock Inc 21.8 4.42 HBOS plc 20.5 4.22 The Directors are unaware of any restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company or on voting rights.
There are also no known agreements between holders of the Companys securities which may result in such restrictions.
92 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Directors The current members of the Board together with biographical details of each Director are set out on pages 96 and 97.
On 6 December 2012, the Company announced the appointment of Malcolm Wyman as a Non-Executive Director of the Company with effect from 1 January 2013.
Malcolm will stand for election at the Companys AGM on 15 May 2013.
At the conclusion of the Companys 2013 AGM David Richardson will retire as a Non-Executive Director of the Company and, accordingly, will not be standing for re-election.
Malcolm Wyman will take over as Audit Committee Chairman and Senior Independent Director on Davids retirement.
All other Directors will stand for re-election at the AGM.
Directors interests With the exception of the Executive Directors service contracts and the Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment, there are no contracts in which any Director has an interest.
Certain change in control conditions are included in the service contracts of Directors which provide compensation or reduction of notice periods in the event of a change in control of the Company.
Details of the Directors interests in the ordinary shares and options over the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 98 to 114.
Annual general meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the ofces of Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ on 15 May 2013 at 11.00am.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting together with explanatory notes is sent to shareholders with this Annual Report.
Financial risk policies A summary of the Groups treasury policies and objectives relating to financial risk management, including exposure to associated risks, is on pages 153 to 158.
Employment policies The Board is committed to maintaining a working environment where staff are individually valued and recognised.
Group companies and divisions operate within a framework of human resources policies, practices and regulations appropriate to their own market sector and country of operation, whilst subject to Group-wide principles.
The Group is committed to ensuring equal opportunity, honouring the rights of the individual, and fostering partnership and trust in every working relationship.
Policies and procedures for recruitment, training and career development promote equality of opportunity regardless of gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability, race, religion or other beliefs and ethnic or national origin.
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment, career development and promotion received from the disabled and offers employment when suitable opportunities arise.
If employees become disabled during their service with the Group arrangements are made wherever practicable to continue their employment and training.
The Group remains proud of its record of managing employee relations and continues to believe that the structure of individual and collective consultation and negotiation is best developed at a local level.
Over the years, the Group has demonstrated that working with trade unions and creating effective partnerships allows improvements to be delivered in business performance as well as in terms and conditions of employment.
Where employees choose not to belong to a trade union, employee communication forums such as works councils exist to ensure involvement of staff within the business.
Participation by staff in the success of the Group is encouraged by the availability of sharesave schemes, a share option scheme, and long term incentive arrangements for senior management, which effectively align their interests with those of shareholders by requiring that performance criteria are achieved prior to exercise.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 93 Financial Governance statements Section 4 | Governance Directors Report Corporate responsibility The Group maintains a focus on corporate responsibility through a model that is applied across the business focusing on our people, safety, the environment and the communities we serve.
This model forms an integral part of our Management System and is supported by dened policies in all of the areas it covers.
These are applied within the context of our policies on Business Conduct and Ethics.
Activities are reported quarterly as part of our internal assurance reporting process.
Further information on our approach to corporate responsibility and how we have delivered against our commitments is contained in the Corporate Responsibility Report which is available online at www.
This site also provides an overview of our approach to corporate responsibility, our management system and our policies.
Creditor payment policies The Group requires each of its business units to negotiate and agree terms and conditions for payment for the supply of capital and revenue items just as keenly as they negotiate prices and other commercial matters.
Suppliers are made aware of the terms and the way in which disputes are to be settled.
Payment is then made in accordance with those terms.
The Groups average creditor payment terms in 2012 were 26 days 2011: 32 days.
Donations The Group continues to encourage all staff to participate in their local communities and has a process to assess both the value and type of investment on a worldwide basis.
This measure is based upon the Business in the Community BiTC reporting format.
The value of this investment in 2012 at 2,560,084 2011: 2,532,175 represents 1.02% of the Groups pre-tax profit before exceptional items.
During the year neither the Company nor the Group made political donations and they intend to continue with this policy.
Within the US business there exists a Political Action Committee PAC, which is funded entirely by employees and their spouses.
The Serco PAC and its contributions are administered in strict accordance with regulatory requirements.
Employee contributions are entirely voluntary and no pressure is placed on employees to participate.
Under US law, an employee-funded PAC must bear the name of the employing company.
As announced on 20 December 2012, Serco has set out plans to establish the Serco Foundation as an independent charitable foundation to mark 2013 as Sercos 25th year as a publicly traded company dedicated to service excellence.
Serco has made a one-off endowment of 5m to the Foundation and will provide ongoing support for its mission to help charities through the application of Sercos people, skills and capabilities.
The Foundation will be independent of Serco and will operate on a not-for-profit basis.
Financial statements At the date of this report, as far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in ofce as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: John Hickey Secretary 4 March 2013 As at 25 March 2013 the Company had not been notied of any changes or additions to these interests.
94 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012
