Section 3 | Our performance Our strategy in action We have a clear strategy for achieving our vision.
The case studies on the following pages show just some of the ways that we put that strategy into action during 2012.
The case studies illustrate a number of the key themes for our business new markets, new ideas, outcomes for citizens and integrating with our communities.
Each of these is important for the continued development of our business.
Entering new markets helps us to build a balanced portfolio, with our unique breadth and depth positioning us to take advantage of attractive growth opportunities.
Our customers increasingly want new ideas, which are rooted in our world-class expertise and can drive improvements in the quality and efficiency of their services.
Local and national governments face demands from citizens for more and better services within constrained budgets, or need to deliver new services to citizens in countries where the size and wealth of the population is growing.
And the communities around our contracts play a vital role.
Our people live and work in those communities and we often deliver services directly to local people.
Helping our communities tackle their pressing issues is therefore part of the way we work.
Many of the case studies here illustrate more than one of these themes.
New New markets ideas Outcomes Integrating forcitizens with our communities More information on our strategy and our achievements during the year can be found on pages 14 and 15 26 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Providing high-value BPOservices to Orbitz New New Outcomes Integrating with markets ideas for citizens our communities The acquisition of Intelenet took Serco into new markets around the world.
In the US, we entered the travel, transportation and hospitality sector for the first time, serving major private-sector customers.
Orbitz Worldwide is a leading global online travel company that uses innovative technology to enable leisure and business travellers to research, plan and book a broad range of travel products.
It has more than eight million unique visitors each month and has also become a major player in corporate travel.
We provide a range of sophisticated customer service and back-ofce functions, which have helped Orbitz improve productivity and sales performance since 2002.
Our people help Orbitzs customers to make and manage their bookings.
We also give consultative support, so they get the best deal on their transactions.
Back-ofce work includes ticketing, processing exchanges and researching issues for travellers.
We also provide Orbitz with exclusive support to its corporate travel programme, working with Fortune 500 organisations to deliver everything from general to executive travel.
Our at-home agent model allows us to recruit anywhere in the US, nding people with the specic skills and experience we need.
The average agent for Orbitz has more than ten years in the industry, including former airline and travel agency employees.
We also provide substantial training, typically running for eight weeks or more.
We now have the opportunity to apply these high-value services to other customers, within the travel sector and beyond.
We do this by sharing best practices around our global business, working collaboratively to spread our capabilities and make them available to all of our customers.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 27 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Our strategy in action T ransforming the back ofce for the Ministry of Defence New New Outcomes Integrating with markets ideas for citizens our communities In March 2012, Serco began to operate the Defence Business Services DBS contract for the UK Ministry of Defence MoD.
DBS plays a vital role in the MoDs administration, including paying the salaries of all of the MoDs 74,000 civil servants, settling four million invoices totalling 26bn each year, and carrying out all the vetting for the MoD and its contractors.
DBS is our first pure back-ofce contract in the UK public sector Since we began to operate the service, DBS has produced and has some particularly innovative features.
We have met all of the performance measures outsourcing arrangement, all the staff and assets transfer to in the contract, while delivering first-year savings of around us for the life of the contract.
At DBS, we provide the leadership 20% to the MoD and coping with a 35% reduction in workforce team while the staff and assets remain with the customer.
We see significant potential for Our team delivers management expertise to DBS through further back-ofce work in the UK public sector, with DBS the roles of chief executive: chief operating, information and demonstrating the benets customers can receive.
people ofcers: and transformation director.
This model, known as management insertion, allows for faster procurement and gives the customer a broader range of options when the initial contract comes to an end.
In addition, our remuneration is based 100% on the results we achieve a new approach for a UK government contract.
28 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 29 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Our strategy in action A new approach to community healthcare New New Outcomes Integrating with markets ideas for citizens our communities Sercos contract with 1HS Suffolk is our first to provide community health services.
It covers community nursing, specialist nursing, community hospitals, speech and language therapy, community dentistry, community equipment and specialist childrens services.
At the heart of our approach is our unique partnership with kind in the NHS.
The centre, which has just completed a pilot South Essex Partnership University NHS Foundation Trust, phase, is based in Ipswich and employs local people.
It gives which is a leading provider of community and mental health patients, carers and doctors a central point of contact for all services, and Community Dental Services CIC, a staff-owned enquiries, reducing the administrative burden on clinical staff.
This gives us a powerful combination of expertise from the private, public and not-for-profit sectors.
In total, we aim to increase the time clinical staff can spend with patients by more than one quarter, giving patients the support The contract serves over 700,000 Suffolk residents.
To ensure they need to manage their conditions more effectively and live we took account of their views, we undertook a substantial happily and independently in their own homes.
engagement exercise, involving nearly 80 meetings with key stakeholders including patients, the public and local doctors.
Benets of the service include extending times for routine appointments from 8 hours to 12 hours a day, a named care lead for each patient, new mobile technology for frontline clinical staff and a centralised administration centre the first of its 30 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 31 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Our strategy in action Transporting the public to the London Olympics New New Outcomes Integrating with markets ideas for citizens our communities The Docklands Light Railway DLR is the UKs busiest light railway.
Serco has operated and maintained it since 1997, on behalf of Transport for London TfL.
2012 saw the DLR face one of its biggest challenges, as a We created ten bespoke timetables to run during the Games, key transport link for the London Olympics the largest ever with three-car trains on all routes.
Plans were developed to peacetime event in the UK.
We began our preparations in spring enable 25 stations to be manned around the clock, with staff 2011, more than a year before the Games.
Our programme plan welfare centres strategically located throughout the system.
included 11 workstreams with more than 3,500 activities.
New passenger information systems were introduced and a 24 7 team set up to deal with any operational issues that arose.
We were at the centre of the Games, servicing the Olympic and Paralympic venues at the Olympic Park in Stratford, Greenwich The outcome was a great success.
The DLR carried 7.2 million Park and the Royal Artillery Barracks in Woolwich, as well as passengers during the Olympics more than double the normal being the only direct transport provider to the ExCel Centre level with trains running at an average of 99% for departures in Custom House.
The enhancements we delivered have since enabled us to improve our ongoing service to the DLRs regular In total, our support to the Olympics required temporary stafng users, and to sign an extended contract with TfL to operate arrangements consisting of over 900 extra temporary workers.
and maintain DLR for another 18 months.
Over 45,000 extra staff hours coverage were required through Olympic rosters for full time staff.
32 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 33 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Our strategy in action Building links in a remote community New New Outcomes Integrating with markets ideas for citizens our communities Scherger Immigration Detention Centre SIDC is in a remote part of Queensland, Australia.
When the centre opened, local residents were concerned that its employees would put pressure on health services and leave less room on ights to the region.
In addition, negative media coverage of immigration raised fears about SIDCs clients.
As SIDCs operator, we recognised the need to build stronger providing somewhere for clients to go during excursions from community relationships.
The centre is based on indigenous the centre.
In addition, we built relationships with Rio Tinto land and the area has a much higher proportion of indigenous the major local employer through charity events and people than the national average.
Along with the Department community projects.
of Aboriginal & Torres Strait Multicultural Affairs, we therefore created an action plan to demonstrate our commitment to The outcome has been a significant increase in SIDCs standing supporting the needs of Aboriginal people.
with local people, helping us to attract new employees and improving our ability to care for our clients by opening up local Other initiatives included arranging for a team of SIDCs clients amenities to them.
to compete in a local cricket tournament.
The team was so popular that ABC News covered the final match.
SIDC clients have since helped to renovate the clubhouse and worked on other community projects.
We also renovated a local park, 34 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 35 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Our strategy in action Improving lifeline ferry services in Scotland New New Outcomes Integrating with markets ideas for citizens our communities Serco operates NorthLink Ferries on behalf of Transport Scotland, carrying passengers and freight between the Shetland and Orkney archipelagos and the Scottish mainland.
We took over the contract in July 2012 and by the end of the year, the ferries had carried over 160,000 passengers and more than 33,000 cars, as well as 130,000 sheep, 30,000 cattle and 60,000 tonnes of sh food.
The ferries play a vital part in everyday lives, so community and a visual identity with a local avour that users can identify engagement is key.
During the bidding process, we talked with.
Islanders can also use a resident card to pre-book seats to local residents and service users to learn what they needed at no cost and receive a 20% discount on many onboard and how we might shape an enhanced service.
to engage, by offering passengers the chance to give feedback to customer service teams on board, through Facebook and Our approach also supports Transport Scotlands priorities.
Twitter, and at the ferry terminals.
We also attend ZetTrans, After a short handover, we moved quickly from transition to a forum and alliance of key stakeholders, which looks to ensure transformation and delivered refurbishment and restructuring the transport network is sustainable.
We have introduced variable passenger capacity and made timetabling and staff rostering more efficient, all while Our engagement has informed the changes we have made.
achieving savings for our customer.
These include a 1m shipboard refurbishment programme, which increased the number of reclining seats and introduced premium services.
We have initiated marketing campaigns on a new website that offers a wide range of news, timetables, special offers and opportunities for interaction and feedback, 36 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 37 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Our strategy in action Pr otecting the eyesight ofvulnerable people New New Outcomes Integrating with markets ideas for citizens our communities Serco-run Acacia prison in Australia has a restorative justice strategy that enables prisoners to give back to society, while learning skills they can use on release.
The programme has been running for several years and prisoners are now suggesting their own projects.
One of these was Clear Vision.
With the support of the Optometrist Association and Vision West, it allows prisoners to refurbish spectacles, which are distributed to underprivileged people in Perth and developing countries.
This can be life changing for the recipients, often helping them to see clearly for the first time in years.
Acacia found workshop space for the prisoners to use and the first delivery of spectacles to the prison contained 30,000 pairs all of which were saved from landll.
As more prisoners have become involved, it has helped them to build confidence and boosted their communication and people skills.
Clear Vision now has the chance to make an even greater difference.
It is collecting and restoring sunglasses, to distribute in countries where sun-related eye damage is an immense challenge.
Large companies have also expressed an interest in collecting glasses and Acacia is looking to fund a full workshop.
The prison has received approximately A$25,000 worth of donated ophthalmic equipment for this project, along with the services of a professional optometrist to set up the workshop and train prisoners to use it.
38 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Changing lives through welfare to work New New Outcomes Integrating with markets ideas for citizens our communities Unemployment can ruin lives but our contracts under the UK governments Work Programme for long-term unemployed people and Job Deal for ex-offenders help to turn lives around.
Our model for getting people back into work brings together a network of partners to deliver all frontline services, drawing on the best national providers from the private, public and voluntary sectors, and integrating them with smaller and community-based organisations.
In total, we have helped more than 41,000 people into work a rate of over 1,000 each month.
Some nd employment, while others are supported with starting a business.
As a single mother, she found it hard to balance work and childcare and had been unemployed for two years.
After she joined the Work Programme, she was referred to one of our partners, which provides professional and practical business support services to entrepreneurs.
Anna immediately embraced the opportunity.
Her adviser helped her with the legalities of self employment and helped her to create cash-ow and profit forecasts, based on market research data.
Anna was able to turn her artistic skills into a business by transforming old furniture into attractive one-offs.
She now has a unit where she sells her work and her adviser provides ongoing support, helping Anna with any concerns.
Our contracts deliver successes each day but we are always looking for new ideas.
For example, we are planning to work with the government to apply behavioural science to inform the behaviour of long-term unemployed people, to improve the number starting and sustaining employment.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 39 Our performance Financial Governance statements
