Section 4 | Governance Directors proles Alastair Lyons CBE 59 Role: Chairman Appointment: Alastair was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Serco Group plc in March 2010, becoming Chairman at the conclusion of the Companys AGM in May 2010.
Responsibilities: Alastair is responsible for the effective operation of the Board and oversight of corporate governance.
He is Chair of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Experience: In his executive career Alastair was Group Finance Director and subsequently Chief Executive of the National & Provincial Building Society.
When the society was acquired in 1996 by Abbey National he joined the Abbey National main Board as Managing Director of its Insurance Division.
In 1997 he became Chief Executive of the pensions specialist NPI where he led its demutualisation and acquisition by AMP, subsequent to which he joined NatWest in 1999 as Director of Corporate Projects.
A chartered accountant with an MA in economics from Trinity College Cambridge, Alastair has been a non-executive director of, successively, the Department for Work & Pensions and the Department for Transport.
External appointments: Alastair has been Chairman of Admiral Group plc, the direct motor insurer since 2000.
In 2008 he was appointed deputy Chairman of Bovis Homes Group PLC, one of the UKs leading quoted house-builders and in March 2010 he was appointed Senior Independent Director and Audit Chair of Phoenix Group Holdings the UKs largest closed life and pension fund consolidator.
In February 2011 he was appointed Chairman of the Towergate Insurance Group.
He was awarded the CBE in the 2001 Queens Birthday Honours for services to social security.
Christopher Rajendran Hyman CBE 49 Role: Chief Executive Appointment: Chris was appointed Chief Executive of Serco Group plc in 2002.
Responsibilities: Chris is responsible for the formation and implementation of the Groups global strategy, as well as the day to day management of the business operations and our relationship with the City and key stakeholders.
He provides leadership and representation of the Group with major customers, shareholders and industry organisations.
Chris is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Experience: Chris graduated from Natal University in Durban, South Africa and qualied as a chartered accountant, serving with Arthur Andersen and Ernst & Young before joining Serco in 1994 as the European Finance Director.
He was appointed Group Company Secretary in 1996, Corporate Finance Director in 1997 and Group Finance Director in April 1999.
External appointments: Chris is chairman of HRH The Prince of Wales charity In Kind Direct, and a Trustee of the Africa Foundation.
Chris is a Trustee Director of the Board for Business in the Community and is Chairman of The Princes Seeing is Believing Programme.
In the 2010 Queens Birthday Honours Chris was awarded the CBE for services to business and charity.
Andrew Mark Jenner 44 Role: Finance Director Appointment: Andrew was appointed Group Finance Director in May 2002.
Responsibilities: Andrew is responsible for the Groups financial strategy and management including treasury, tax, reporting and control.
He also has responsibility for our risk management and assurance framework.
He shares responsibility with the Chief Executive for our relationship with shareholders and the City.
Experience: Andrew, a chartered accountant, joined Serco in 1996 as Group Financial Controller, having previously worked for Unilever and Deloitte & Touche LLP.
He became Corporate Finance Director with additional responsibility for treasury activities in 1999 before joining the Board in 2002.
External appointments: Andrew is a non-executive director of Galliford Try plc, one of the UKs leading construction and house-building groups and is Chairman of its Audit Committee.
96 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Ralph D. Crosby Jr 65 Role: Non-Executive Director Appointment: Ralph joined Serco as a Non-Executive Director in June 2011.
Experience: Ralph was Chairman of EADS North America until his retirement from that position at the end of December 2011.
He joined EADS in 2002 as Chairman and Chief Executive officer of EADS North America and also served as a member of the EADS global Executive Committee until 2010.
Previously, Ralph has held numerous positions with Northrop Grumman Corporation, concluding over 20 years of service as President of their Integrated Systems Sector.
Prior to his industry career, Ralph served as an officer in the US Army.
Ralph has an MA in Public Administration from Harvard, an MA in International Relations from the Graduate Institute of International Studies, Switzerland, and a BSc from the United States Military Academy at West Point, NY.
External appointments: Ralph is a non-executive director of American Electric Power Co Inc. and Ducommun Inc. in the United States.
David Richardson 61 Role: Senior Independent Director Appointment: David joined Serco as a Non-Executive Director in June 2003.
Responsibilities: David is Chair of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Experience: David, a Chartered Accountant, has previously held the position of Finance Director of Whitbread, where his roles in a 22 year career have included eight years as Strategy Director.
David was instrumental in transforming Whitbread from a brewing and pub company into a market leader in hotels, restaurants and leisure clubs.
David has been Chairman of fide Vere Group plc, Forth Ports plc and a non-executive director of Tomkins plc, Dairy Crest Group plc and The Restaurant Group plc.
External Appointments: David is Chairman of BBGI sicav SA and Four Pillars Hotels Ltd.
He is also a director of Assura Group Ltd and a member of the Supervisory Board of World Hotels AG.
Angie Risley 54 Role: Non-Executive Director Appointment: Angie joined Serco as a Non-Executive Director in April 2011.
Responsibilities: Angie is Chair of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Experience: As Group Human Resources Director of J Sainsbury plc, Angie serves on Sainsburys Operating Board and has responsibility for corporate, retail and logistics HR for 150,000 colleagues.
Previously, Angie was Group Human Resources Director of Lloyds Banking Group plc, serving as a member of the Lloyds Banking Group Executive Committee with responsibility for developing group-wide people practices.
Until May 2007, she was an executive director of Whitbread PLC, having joined the Whitbread Group in 1989.
She has also been a member of the Low Pay Commission, and a non-executive director of Biffa plc and Arriva plc.
External appointments: Angie is Group Human Resources Director of J Sainsbury plc.
Malcolm Wyman 66 Role: Non-Executive Director Appointment: Malcolm joined Serco as a Non-Executive Director in January 2013.
Responsibilities: Malcolm is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Experience: Malcolm was previously an executive director and the Chief Financial officer of SABMiller plc, until his retirement in July 2011.
Malcolm joined SAB in 1986 and joined the board as Group Corporate Finance Director in 1990.
He was appointed to the board of SABMiller upon its listing on the London Stock Exchange in 1999.
He was Chief Financial officer from 2001 until his retirement in July 2011.
External appointments: Malcolm, a chartered accountant, is a non-executive director and Audit Committee Chairman of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC, and a non-executive director of Tsogo Sun Holdings Limited and Senior Independent Director and Audit Committee Chairman of Nedbank Group Limited in South Africa.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 97 Financial Governance statements
