Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 44 Governance Executive Committee The Chief Executive is supported in his role by the executive During the year, the Executive Committee met to consider management team and together they comprise the Executive strategy, business management, policy and planning, and Committee.
During the year, the Executive Committee operational performance.
comprised the executive directors and senior executive Members of the Executive Committee are delegated managers responsible for key operational and central functions.
responsibility to sit on steering groups that oversee the Photographs of the members of the committee, together with deliveryof our strategy and business management.
During their biographies are set out below.
theyear, steering groups were set up to oversee areas such The Executive Committee oversees the development and asthe integrated delivery of our year end results and Ofwat execution of the Severn Trent strategy.
It also has accountability AnnualReturn.
The terms of reference of the Executive Committee are available on the companys website www.
com or from the Company Secretary.
Michael McKeon BSc Hons MA Econ PhD 47 BSc Hons 49 MA Hons 40 MA CA 55 Director, Strategy and Regulation Director of Human Resources Customer Relations Director Finance Director Please see full biography on page 42.
Joined Severn Trent in November Joined Severn Trent in May 2012.
Please see full biography on page 42.
Evelyn has wide HR experience Angela commenced her career with 2.
Simon Cocks leading design and delivery of major IBM during its transformation from 9.
Alec Richmond change programmes, business manufacturing to services business.
BA Hons 46 BSc Econ FCA FIIA 54 restructuring, employee relations, She has since held senior operational Waste Water Services Director Director of Internal Audit resourcing, organisational capability leadership positions for Barclays, Joined Severn Trent in July 2009.
Joined Severn Trent in June 2007. and performance management Hiscox and Vodafone, delivering Simon is an electrical engineer by Prior to that, he worked for Cadbury initiatives.
Before joining Severn customer services across B2B, B2C, training and began his career in Schweppes Plc, leading the Trent Evelyn worked in HR domestic, international, indirect and military communications working for companys global internal audit consultancy and as HR Director HR regulated markets.
In addition to Plessey and then GEC.
Before Operations for Boots the Chemists.
leading her own award winning worked for London Electricity joining Severn Trent, he worked for customer operations, she has invarious operational and RSM Robson Rhodes as a director 4.
Myron Hrycyk consulted widely in the area of management roles and, more anda member of the management customer service in multiple sectors.
MBA 55 recently, for National Grid where board responsible for Risk Assurance Chief Information officer hewas Head of UK Operations Services.
Martin Kane Performance and Planning, then Joined Severn Trent in April 2008.
Institute of Chartered Accountants in BSc CEng CEnv MICE MIWEM FIW 59 Commercial Director for the gas and Myron has held senior IT posts England and Wales and the Institute Chief Executive officer, electricity business in the UK and formajor organisations across a of Internal Auditors.
Severn Trent Services Europe and more recently held the range of business sectors, Financial 10.
Andy Smith position of Chief Procurement officer Services, Publishing, Automotive Please see full biography on page 43. before joining Severn Trent.
Simon is andLogistics Supply Chain.
Bronagh Kennedy a board member of UK Water delivered strategic IT and business Director of Water Services Industry Research.
transformation programmes, BA Hons 48 Please see full biography on page 43. restructured corporate IT units General Counsel and Company anddeployed high performance IT Secretary 11.
Myron also has executive Joined Severn Trent in June 2011.
BSc Hons 50 responsibility for Supply Chain & Bronagh is a Solicitor and was Chief Executive Procurement and our Business previously Group Company Secretary Improvement Team of programme Please see full biography on page 43. and General Counsel at Mitchells & managers and Safer, Better, Faster Butlers, where she worked for 15 continuous improvement years.
Prior to that, she was a Senior practitioners.
