Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 8 Severn Trent Water Group at a glance Severn Trent Water provides high quality water and sewerage services to over 4.2 million households and businesses inthe Midlands and mid-Wales.
We want to be the best water and waste water company in the UK, by providing the highest standards andlowest possible charges, through our great people.
Key strengths Where we operate The industry Our region stretches across the heart of the The water industry in England and Wales We are committed to long UK, from the Bristol Channel to the Humber, invests more than 3 billion a year and term sustainability, keeping in and from mid-Wales to the East Midlands.
There are balance the needs of our currently 10 water and sewerage companies in England and Wales.
Our sector is customers, the environment facingsignicant long term challenges.
Theprivatisation of the industry in 1989 led toimprovements in services to customers, Our high standards and betterquality drinking water and higher efficiencies keep our costs low environmental standards.
Our proposals for and generate progressive, changes in our industry are helping us to play a role in shaping the debate.
sustainable returns for our shareholders.
Our business Our bills for water and Severn Trent Water is a regulated business.
We work within five year planning cycles, with sewerage combined are the Key facts the prices we charge our customers set at the lowest on average in England beginning of each cycle by our economic and Wales.
These five year cycles are 1.8bn litres known as Asset Management Plan AMP We have one of the lowest per periods.
We have just reached the end of the Drinking water supplied per day capita consumption rates in second year of AMP5.
How we measure success We continually work to 1.4bn litres Water companies are required to publish performance against a set of indicators.
improve our performance and Waste water collected per day Theseindicators provide Ofwat with an deliver cost and operational overallpicture of company performance efficiencies against Key against the commitments made as part of the AMP5 price review.
Performance Indicators KPIs, 5,294 As well as being regulated by Ofwat, our each of which is aligned to our Employees performance is also monitored by: long term strategy.
as at 31 March 2012 the Drinking Water Inspectorate, which is We have a clear business plan responsible for making sure we comply with and a strong management drinking water quality regulations: and Turnover team.
the Environment Agency, which controls water abstraction, river pollution and 1,457.5m ooding.
2011: 1,389.8m We also work with the UK Government including the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and the Welsh profit Assembly Government and other agencies such as the Consumer Council for Water, 500.0m Natural England and Countryside Council for Wales to make sure we meet the highest 2011: 503.7m customer service and environmental Before interest, tax and exceptional items.
standards, while offering our customers the lowest prices.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9 Severn Trent Water Group at a glance Key strategic intentions...... delivered through our areas of focus Our strategy is based on eight Key Strategic We focus on four key areas customers, people, Intentions KSIs which reect what matters to process and finance to deliver the highest our customers and wider stakeholder groups.
We standards and lowest charges to our customers, measure our performance within each KSI against through a highly skilled and committed workforce: our 20 Key Performance Indicators KPIs : Customers 1.
Providing a continuous Our household customers have on average, the supply of quality water lowest bills in England and Wales.
But keeping customers satisfied is not just about low charges 2.
Dealing effectively with waste water and value for money.
We also need to deliver reliability, reect their needs and priorities in our 3.
Responding to customers needs plans, communicate clearly, keep our promises andput things right if they go wrong.
Minimising our carbon footprint More on customers on page 12 5.
Having the lowest possible charges People 6.
Having the right skills to deliver Our people are the cornerstone of our success.
Westrive to recruit, train and retain the best people, 7.
Maintaining investor confidence underpinned by great workplaces and a strong culture of safety and personal responsibility.
Promoting an effective regulatory regime More on people on page 16 Process Our drive to work safer, better and faster is the foundation of our approach to continuous improvement.
Makingsure we have the right processes and systems in place is a fundamental part of our drivefor operational excellence.
More on process on page 17 Finance The higher our standards the more effectively and efficiently we work.
In turn this improves our ability to keep our costs low and generate progressive, sustainable returns which earns the trust of our investors and shareholders.
We always look to finance the company in an efficient, sustainable way and maintain an investment grade credit rating.
More on finance on page 19 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 10 Our business model Water is essential to life and to the communities in which we live and work.
Severn Trent Water is intrinsically linked to the life cycle ofwater.
Thecustomer is at the heart of our continuous drive to improve ouroperations and services across collection, delivery andcleaningofwater.
Severn Trent Water is a regulated business.
The role of Severn Trent Water We work within five year planning cycles, with customer prices setby our economic regulator, Ofwat, toallow us to fund our investment programme and cover an efficient level of operating costs.
We are alsosubject toregulation by two quality 1 regulators the DWI and the EA details 2 ofthese regulators are provided below.
Our prices and asset base are adjusted by Water is collected Water is cleaned RPI ination each year.
In certain Our 126 waterworks clean abstraction circumstances we can ask for prices to be raw water to the highest reviewed within the five year period due to We pay the Environment standards making it safe costs associated with notied items Agency for the water we to drink.
collect from reservoirs, rivers Customer bad debt and the adoption of and underground aquifers across our region.
private drains and sewers are included inthese categories for the current five yearperiod.
The company earns a return on our asset base.
We can generate additional returns if we outperform Ofwats assumptions by becoming more efficient in the delivery of our capital programme, managing our operational costs more effectively, and by nancing our business at a lower cost.
Our operating performance is assessed and benchmarked against the sector by Ofwat.
Regulatory framework At the next price review there is scope to earn additional income, or suffer penalties, Natural environment Drinking Water Inspectorate based on our performance.
Environment Agency Regulatory framework Risks where these are currently considered Principal Risks, further details provided on pages 3740 Consumer Council forWater Consumer Council for Water is an independent body We may be unable to collect and Failure of key assets or processes designed to protect the rights ofconsumers.
store sufficient water to meet may result in a decline in water www.
quality, disruption in our supply Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI tocustomers or failure to meet Failure of key assets may result The Drinking Water Inspectorate makes sure regulatory targets.
indamage to property, injury to companies supply water that is safe to drink and people and or disruption to our Hazardous processes or chemicals complies with all national and European standards.
ability to supply our customers.
may result in people being injured.
uk Principal Risk Ref 4 and 6 Principal Risk Ref 4 Environment Agency EA The Environment Agency is a public body set up to protect and improve the environment.
uk Health and Safety Executive The Health and Safety Executive is the enforcing 7 authority on health and safety law.
uk Natural environment We are an investment led Networks invested Such as Countryside Councilfor Wales and industry, and our capital NaturalEngland.
and maintained programme this year was 474million, or 112 per Ofwat connected property reecting The economic regulator forthe water and sewerage increased investment year on industry.
It makes sure that water companies use yearin our water and sewerage customers money efficiently and effectively and setsour price limits.
uk Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11 Risks We operate within a complex legal and regulatory environment as a water and sewerage service provider in England and Wales.
As a result we face a number of risks including those associated with possible non-compliance with our legal and regulatory framework and failure to meet the terms of our regulatory contract as set out in our agreed business plan for 2010 2015.
We also face risks associated with possible future changes in legislation which may result in our business plans becoming unsustainable.
Principal Risk Ref 1, 7 and 8 on pages 3840 3 4 5 6 Waste water Clean water Customers Waste water is treated isdistributed enjoy our services is collected Waste water is carefully screened, A 46,000 km network of pipes We bill 4.2 million businesses Our c. 92,000 km of sewers ltered and treated in our and enclosed storage and households a year.
collect waste water from 1,026 works to meet stringent reservoirs bring a continuous Inreturn, we provide a safe, homes and businesses, and environmental standards.
supply of clean water right to reliable supply of water and surface water fromoutside Wepay the Environment our customers taps.
the collection of waste water properties and drains.
Agency an annual consent 24 hours a day, 365 days feeto return the now treated ayear.
water to the water system.
Ofwat Ofwat Ofwat Natural environment Health and Safety Executive Consumer Council for Water Environment Agency Environment Agency Drinking Water Inspectorate Drinking Water Inspectorate The performance of our We may be unable to sufciently We may be unable effectively to We may suffer operational distribution network may fall improve our performance in integrate management of new failurein our waste water below the standards expected by relation to customer service assets taken on as a result of operations which results in DWI or Ofwat, resulting in poor inorder to deliver what our adoption of private drains and damage to the local environment.
service to our customers and customers tell us they want.
sewers resulting in deterioration in Principal Risk Ref 3 increased leakage from our Principal Risk Ref 2 customer service and or increased network.
Principal Risk Ref 5 operational costs.
Failure of one of our key assets Failure to deal with customer could result in disruption to waste effectively may lead supplyto customers.
Principal Risk Ref 6 Principal Risk Ref5 networks, including nding and network to reduce incidents of This capital investment is added The returns that we generate xing more leaks and reducing the sewerooding.
We fund this onto our asset base, called the forshareholders on that asset number ofsupply interruptions, investment programme from regulated capital value or RCV.
base are set by our regulator, improvements to our water theprots we generate, but also Our asset base also rises in line Ofwat, over five year planning andsewage treatment plants by borrowing money from the with ination each year.
We can increase these andupgrades to our sewer capital markets.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 12 Performance As we explain on page 9, Severn A continuous supply of quality water Trent Water strives for high We aim to deliver water thats good to drink, meaning that its safe, tastes and standards and focuses on four key looks good, and is always available.
areas customers, people, process and finance.
Having the right people Although the last 18 months were the with the right skills, using the right driest ever recorded, we avoided any hosepipe bans or other limits on our processes, enables us to offer high customers water use.
We did this by quality, low cost services to our reacting quickly to conditions and by customers.
This in turn drives our effective, forward and proactive planning.
Customer complaints per 1,000 properties financial results.
We draw our water from reservoirs, rivers 2012 2011 The following pages describe what and underground aquifers.
By making we delivered for our customers sure we always used the most 4.88 5.72 during the year, along with the appropriate source, even if it was not development of our people and always the most cost effective, we preserved water in areas where levels processes.
Severn Trent Waters Properties at risk of low pressure per 1,000 properties were lower.
We improved our networks, financial performance is explained 2012 2011 so we could move water around more in the financial review, on page 33. effectively, and invested in additional 0.06 0.07 equipment atour water treatment Customers works, so we could get water to the right We want to deliver the highest standards place at theright time.
First time call resolution % and lowest possible prices for our Our water quality remained high and 2012 2011 customers.
Our water and sewerage bills once again we achieved 99.97% are the lowest on average in England compliance with the Drinking Water and Wales, at 311.
We continued prices slower than most other to deliver water at the right pressure and companies.
In 2012 13, the industry signicantly reduced supply interruptions.
average price increase will be 5.7%, However, interruptions are still higher compared to 5.0% for our customers.
than we would like and we expect to reduce them further in the coming year.
To do this, were investing in training, Average water and sewage bill better incident management and furtherimproving our network.
We continue to invest to ensure we 311 provide the best water quality.
Thisincludes improvements to our Average customer cost per day biggest water treatment works at Frankley, West Birmingham and a majorinvestment programme at 85p Bamford, Derbyshire.
Were also progressing with our catchment management programme, as a key part of our water supply strategy.
Were encouraging farmers and other large land users to change the way they work, so they reduce their impact on water resources.
For example, weve developed an online nutrient budget calculator for farmers, which allows them to make quick and easy savings through efficient fertiliser use.
If we can help farmers to apply fertiliser more efficiently, it saves them money and reduces the water treatment we need todo.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Customer experience Managing debt We recognise that most of our We aim to keep bad debts down, while customers dont have a choice about helping people who want to pay but are who supplies them.
That doesnt mean struggling to do so.
Despite the weak they are not our first priority.
We economy and rising unemployment, recognise that we will not be in business wewere able to limit bad debts to 2.2% if they are not satisfied with the service of sales, a similar level to last year.
We have several tariffs and schemes to Ofwats Service Incentive Mechanism help people pay.
During the year we SIM measures our customers piloted the Together Scheme for experience of dealing with us and helps peoplewith debt problems, whereby us to track our performance.
Our SIM wematch the customers payments.
score is based on the number of times TheWaterSure tariff caps bills for people customers have to contact us and with low incomes, who use large thequality of service we deliver when amounts of water because of a medical they do.
condition or because they have a big family.
We also have a scheme called While were much better than average Water Direct, which allows customers for the number of contacts, the quality of tomake payments directly from their our service has not been as good as it benets.
During the year, we helped should be.
Weve done a lot of work over 139people through the Together the last year to put this right.
Areas weve Scheme, 6,347 through WaterSure focused on include: Making the Right Choices andover 42,000 through Water Direct.
xing problems before customers have During 2012, Severn Trent Water The Severn Trent Trust Fund distributes to contact us: will be consulting with customers money to people who are nding it resolving problems first time, when and stakeholders on our difficult to pay their bills.
We donated they do have to contact us: and investment plans for 20152020.
Were providing more ways to keep in touch We have published a consultation alsolooking at ways to help vulnerable with customers, for example by document, Making the Right customers more broadly, by working Choices which can be making better use of web channels withthe Citizens Advice Bureau to advise downloaded from our website.
and using text messages to confirm Stakeholder workshops will be people about managing their money and appointments.
held throughout the summer, give them a sustainable solution to their Weve also improved our bills.
Theyre supported by customer research debt issues.
now simpler to understand and we can and a wider programme of add targeted messages for customers, customer awareness and Engaging with customers letting them know about different ways engagement.
As we approach the next price review in to pay or tips for saving water.
2014 PR14, well be working closely Its also important to get direct feedback with customers and other stakeholders about how were doing.
Were now to nd out what they want from us and surveying many customers at the end of what theyre willing to pay for.
Their input their calls, asking whether their problem will be a key part of the plan we put was solved, how helpful our agent was forward to Ofwat.
and for their general views of our service.
As part of this, weve created the Severn This process will be fully rolled out by the Trent Water Forum with representatives middle of 2012 and will inform us how to from a wide range of stakeholders.
TheForum will engage with us to help We are starting to see the benets of our usdevelop our plan to ensure we take actions with a continuous increase in account of their views.
We will be holding SIMqualitative scores through the first workshops on issues such as climate half of 2012 and an improvement in change and how we manage waste performance relative to other water water.
Weve also published a document companies in the final quarter of called Making the Right Choices, theyear.
whichexplains our challenges, the choices we have to make and asks We have reduced the number of written forour stakeholders input.
complaints by 14%, which brings us to arecord low number of complaints.
Thiswas helped by the actions weve taken and the milder winter.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 14 Its nice to be able to speak tosomeone who understands your situation andwill do everything they can to help.
Theservices theyoffer, such asthe large print bills, are gratefully received and verymuch appreciated.
Miss B Elwell, Stourbridge customer Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15 Meeting leakage targets We have achieved our lowest levels of leakage ever, and have Keeping beaten our Ofwat target of 474Ml d by 10 Ml d 2%.
Thiswas achieved through improvements to targeting areas for leak detection, increases in Lowest customers efficiency in leakage nd, levels of leakage improved work scheduling and achieved.
Maintaining security happy We avoided the need for usage 18 months restrictions hosepipe bans of the driest despite the driest 18 months on weatherdidnt record in the Midlands.
This was Our customers continue to benefit affect water usage.
achieved using our strategic grid to move water from the wetter from high quality drinking water, areas in our North and West regions to the drier areas, by a good service and value for money.
installation of additional pipelines and by operating our existing assets even more exibly.
Reducing interruptions We have reduced interruptions 10,000 over 12 hours by over 10,000 fewer properties properties to 5,223.
This was affected by achieved through a focused interruptions Always On programme which has delivered people, process andtechnical improvements during the year.
Reducing complaints We have shown significant 34% reductions this year including reduction in water areduction in Water Service service complaints complaints of around 34%.
Theoverall complaint reduction of 14% is against the backdrop ofgreatly increased sewerage jobs and contacts since the transfer of private drains and sewers to us in October 2011.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 16 Weve also worked closely with our People supply chain partners to make sure Our aim is to have people with the right weboth prioritise health and safety skills and the right approach to work, performance.
This includes ensuring personal development and customer wehave the same vision and values focus.
To encourage the behaviours we focused on health and safety, the right think are important, we launched a new systems and training, and share lessons Code of Conduct in September 2011 about safe working.
across Severn Trent, called Doing the Support for WaterAid While we are rightly focused on safety, Right Thing, the Severn Trent Way.
we also want to support our employees Severn Trent Water has Thissets out our approach to corporate health.
More than 600 people attended continued to support WaterAid responsibility issues ranging from health as its partner charity.
In March our wellbeing days, which included blood and safety, to ethics and honesty, to 2012, a team of nine from Severn pressure, cholesterol and diabetes delivering excellent customer service.
Trent Water travelled to Tanzania checks.
We also piloted a back pain clinic Doing the Right Thing, the Severn Trent to climb Mount Kilimanjaro and launched a physiotherapy helpline.
Way is supported by 15 group policies raising over 30,000 for and their supporting standards and WaterAid.
The team also visited Engaging our people guidance notes.
projects run by WaterAid in rural Our annual employee survey once again areas in the country.
The team showed that our people are positive A safe and healthy workforce came back challenged and about working for us.
Our overall Protecting the health and safety of our inspired by the experience: Engagement Index revealed 75% of our people and contractors is our number The whole trip was amazing.
We were pleased to have Climbing Kilimanjaro was reduced the number of lost time injuries Some notable results included: fantastically rewarding.
We were and can report that Severn Trent Waters fortunate to see first hand the 92% saying they took responsibility overall performance remains in the ways in which WaterAid spends forDoing the Right Thing, the Severn this money.
We visited a village industrys upper quartile.
Trent Way: that now has easy access to Our employee survey shows that we 87% being happy to go the extra safedrinking water and a have a strong safety culture.
This year, mileat work: and schoolthat now benets from 95% of our people said they were clear simpleyet effective sanitation.
85% understanding how their role about their role and their responsibility The difference relatively small contributes to customers experience.
for doing their job safely, while 89% said sums of money can make to The survey also highlighted areas where that we provided the right support for peoples lives is amazing.
For example, only them to do their job safely.
Andrew Fairburn 39% said that the changes we have One example of the actions we are UK Government&Stakeholder made over the last 12 months were well taking was the launch of the Waste Engagement Manager implemented.
Our people also wanted Water Services Safety Improvement visibility of the Severn Trent Executive Strategy, with the aim of eliminating all Committee and to see that it is leading accidents in the workplace.
This involves the business effectively.
12 safety improvement workstreams, We know that our employees often which are being developed through havent had the chance to discuss with teams of employees, and five safety the Executive Committee face to face improvement projects.
By the end of what were doing and why, and that thenancial year, we had completed these conversations can really help veof the workstreams, including site people to connect their role to the aims standards and leadership behaviour, and of the business.
As a result, we have set two of the projects occupational road up a rolling 12 month programme of risk and managing contractors.
The aim is for members of We focused on health and safety training the Executive Committee to meet and education during the year.
This around 1,500 people from all parts of the included piloting the MindSafety business in small groups, in their behavioural training programme.
The conversations are open teaches people about different states of ended, so employees can ask whatever awareness, so they understand why we they want and share their view of the want them to work in certain ways and challenges and opportunities we face.
As they can take responsibility for their own we cant meet all of our people, were safety.
Attendees found the programme encouraging the invitees to talk to their changed their behaviour and made them colleagues before and after the meetings think more positively about health so everyone gains from the process.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 Improving our organisation Diversity We continue to review the structure and Having the right people means having organisation of our teams to deliver asuitably diverse workforce.
This year, improved efficiency and effectiveness.
we focused on understanding gender For example, in November 2011 we issues and conducted gender diversity changed our operating model in Waste research with women employed by Water.
This involved moving around 750 Severn Trent Water to understand more people into new teams.
Each team about the perceptions and experiences covers a smaller geographic area but of women employees.
This focused now has more responsibility for customer particularly on issues relating to job service and repairing assets.
In the run progression and the achievement of up to the change we trained our people senior positions.
The insights from the so they could work on any of our assets research will help us to improve our in their area.
The model gives us a policies and practices in developing platform on which to build service women in our organisation.
use the same methodology to explore ethnic diversity in the near future, so we Following our successful move to can gain more insights into this aspect of Coventry, we refurbished our Shrewsbury our workforce composition.
and Derby ofces and adopted the same tools and ways of working, such as Process collaborative workspaces.
This ongoing New Shrewsbury ofce To deliver great service to our customers programme is giving our people a building improves we are continuously improving our modern and effective working effectiveness processes and technology, whether its environment.
for treating water, monitoring our In January 2012, more than 200 Developing our people of our employees moved into our network, or scheduling our staff.
We invest heavily in training and new 29,000 sq ft ofce building At our Minworth Sewage Treatment inShrewsbury.
This year involved Works in Birmingham, were using an a significant amount of technical training, The layout of the innovative anaerobic ammonium oxidation as well as leadership development.
building was designed in treatment process, which is new to the Wecontinued to encourage our people conjunction with key managers UK.
Its a more efficient biological to enable the optimal use of to use our Safer Better Faster approach treatment process for waste water, ofce areas and collaborative tocontinuous improvement and we which allows us to reduce the energy work spaces: the best mix of refocused our line manager training to and chemicals we use.
purpose-built facilities as well as help them manage and engage their an effective common space at Another UK first is an activated sludge teams more effectively.
the heart of the building to process known as HYBACS, which were The talent review process is ongoing and encourage teams to meet and installing at Ashbourne, Derbyshire.
we have assessed over 600 managers share ideas.
The result is an Thistechnique is used extensively in engaging environment that has and potential leaders this year.
theFar East and allows us to process dramatically improved Wereincreasingly creating individual higher volumes, with much lower energy employees working experience development plans and moving people use and on a much smaller footprint.
and created an opportunity for on our talent list around the company We continued to add sensors to our them to work at their best tobroaden their experience.
telemetry system, which monitors the Our apprenticeship programme health and performance of our network, continues to grow, helping young people checking, for example, the pressure and into work and giving us the skills well ow of water, water quality and reservoir need in the future.
This gives us an early warning of 81apprentices in customer relations, problems, so we can proactively x them water and waste water.
One of our with minimum disruption for customers.
apprentices Michael Williams won the national EEF Outstanding Achievement by a Final Year Apprentice Award, for introducing process changes that saved money for the company by improving efficiency and reliability.
We plan torecruit another 20 apprentices during2012.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 18 We also invested to exploit new and The transfer of private drains and sewers Managing waste water existing features in our SAP and to us on 1 October 2011 went smoothly, The driest 18 months on record telemetry systems to deliver a better adding 37,000 km to our existing contributed to a deterioration in our service to our customers.
So far, weve had performance in the first six months last supports all our key processes and todo less repair work than we expected year.
Pollution incidents rose and we holdsour operational data allowing and customer feedback has been good.
suffered a higher level of sewage ustomake better operational and Weve cleared around 12,000 sewer treatment works breaches of consent.
We have an blockages on the transferred assets, We responded by increasing our asset ongoing programme of improvement which was 41% of the total blockages maintenance activities, inspection toincreasingly exploit SAPs and other cleared since the transfer on 1 October regimes and installed more remote systems functionality to drive 2011.
Were now seeing fewer blockages monitoring on our assets to help performance.
and better management of pollution pre-empt potential failures.
This has incidents on these assets.
Tohelp the We have invested in giving our customers improved our performance from the transfer, we reorganised our supply chain access to data from our telemetry and summer onwards.
We also continued so we have fewer contractor companies SAP systems through our website, ourpolicy of self reporting to the looking after our assets.
Ourremaining helping our customers nd out if there is Environment Agency, to raise our contractors have scaled up their work going on in their area and what the standards and highlight areas where we operations so they can handle the latest status is.
Even so, for the year as greater workload.
a whole our performance fell short of the Weve also introduced a shared support organisation.
This brings together people standards we aim for.
There were 445 Deploying water resources wisely reported pollution incidents 2011: 353, from operations and information Severn Trent is the only company to systems, who between them understand 14 serious pollution incidents 2011: 4 havetargeted a significant reduction and our sewage treatment works failing how our employees, technology and inleakage during AMP5.
Their goal is to consent limit was 2.54% 2011: 1.69%.
pleased to improve our performance Our maintenance and inspection continuously improve, optimise and again during the year.
We cut leakage to exploit SAP and other systems.
Were programme should deliver further 464megalitres per day Ml d, compared improvements in the coming year.
now seeing step changes in our use of to 497 Ml d last year and our target of the system.
For example, weve reSuccessful delivery of our investment 474Ml d. engineered our process for handling programme is very important in The investment weve made in SAP and bursts on private properties, so we can delivering good service to our customers.
in our Safer Better Faster approach has offer quicker service.
Weve invested in major schemes, helped us to improve our repair particularly in Gloucester and New processes have also been added to processes, so we can x leaks more Leamington Spa, which have improved automate operational eldwork crews.
Were also benefiting from our our network reliability and have removed SAP holds data on the skills of all our investment in a system to help us the risk of sewer ooding one of the operational employees.
When a job is improve detection of leaks.
worst service failures that can happen to raised, the system automatically Customers also have an important part a customer for around 150 properties, schedules a nearby work crew with the to play and our water efficiency gardens and other areas.
Weve also tried right skills to go and x the problem.
It programme helps them to reduce their to minimise disruption to our customers also provides them with the information usage.
For example, customers can use while we carried out this work, for they need, such as plans and maps, and our website to view their water usage example by working with other utility records the time and materials used.
and understand where they can make companies to reduce road closures.
We also offer water saving Environment Inaddition, we have a programme to devices such as aerated taps and shower Delivering our environmental obligations refurbish some of our largest sewage timers.
In addition, we work with schools is central to the way we work and has a treatment works, which will make them and colleges to help them view and real impact on our customers and the more resilient and improve river quality.
reduce their water usage, and with communities in which they live and work.
socialhousing providers to t water The case studies on pages 20 and 21 efficient devices.
provide details of our investment in renewable energy.
This work ensures our customers continue to have among the lowest water usage in the UK.
During the year, our customers used an average of 125litres per person each day, compared to the national average of 148 litres.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19 Cutting our carbon footprint Finance Weve been investing in renewable Our business is funded by receipts from energy for nearly a decade.
Renewables customer bills, by raising money debt provided 23.7% of the electricity we on the capital markets, and by needed during the year and were on shareholders retaining equity in the track to meet our target of generating business.
We aim to finance the 30% of our electricity by 2014 15. company in an efficient and sustainable way.
By keeping nancing costs low we The energy crop anaerobic digestion plant next to the Stoke Bardolph Sewage can keep customer bills low.
We currently have an investment grade credit rating, Treatment Works in Nottinghamshire is the UKs first on an industrial scale.
In January we successfully issued a 250 million, converts crops into electricity, using crops grown on land unsuitable for food 30year bond, with an interest rate of 4.875%, the lowest rate we have seen production, and has been so successful that its received three awards.
given us valuable experience that is Outlook helping us to improve the performance We continue to deliver on our of our sludge anaerobic digestion plants.
programmes to raise standards and drive In 2013, our first large wind turbine will efficiency improvements.
We are start generating electricity on land next committed to enhancing our capital to our Wanlip Sewage Treatment Works investment programme and delivering in Leicestershire, with another at improved customer service and network Newthorpe in Nottinghamshire due to performance.
Whilst we are seeing signs come on stream soon after.
These, and of improvement in our SIM performance, four others currently in planning, could industry benchmarks have moved generate 6% of our electricity needs.
In terms of Were also pursuing a gas-to-grid project, prospects for regulatory and industry which will allow us to provide cleaned up change, Severn Trent remains at the sewage gas to the national grid, and we forefront of industry thinking and we are looking at several hydroelectric were pleased to see some of our ideas projects.
reected in consultations from both our regulator and the UK Government.
Protecting biodiversity Wewill continue to make a positive Severn Trent has a role in protecting and contribution to the debate.
Throughout enhancing biodiversity at our sites or sites our operations, our goal continues to be affected by our activities.
We own or to deliver long term sustainable growth.
partly manage 37 sites of special The energy crop anaerobic This strategy, underpinned by a clear scientific interest and work in partnership digestion plant at Stoke Bardolph focus on customers, people, with our tenants and other partners to Sewage Treatment Works.
environmental performance and safeguard them.
We have 21 rangers shareholder value will continue.
who manage our 12 public access sites working with volunteers and organisations like the RSPB and Wildlife Trusts.
The sites provide the opportunity to engage with customers whilst enhancing and protecting the sites for nationally and internationally important species such as butteries, water voles and tree sparrows.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 20 Water efficiency We are working closely with the 10,000 Environment Agency, social properties were housing providers, Global Action installed with water Plan and South Staffordshire efficiency measures Water on a joint programme, Plug-In.
The aim of this programme is to encourage water and energy efficiency.
Through it we are educating consumers and installing water efficiency measures including tap and shower ow regulators, dual ush systems and shower heads in 10,000 properties.
Renewables Weve been investing in 212 GWh renewable energy for nearly of electricity was adecade.
This year, we have generated from continued the growth, generating renewable sources 212 GWh of electricity from renewable sources.
This equates to 23.7% of the electricity that Severn Trent Water needs to provide its water and waste water services and represents another significant step towards our target of 30% by 2014 15.
In2013, our first large wind turbine will start generating electricity on land next to our Wanlip Sewage Treatment Works in Leicestershire, with another at Newthorpe in Nottinghamshire due to come on stream soon after.
These, and four others currently in planning, could produce 6% of our electricity needs.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 Always innovating Innovation is driving operational performance across all of our operations.
The Renewable Heat Incentive schemeaims to stimulate investment inthe supply of renewable heat andtheinjection of renewable gas bio-methane into the gas grid.
Wecanbenet from this scheme by diverting gas away from electricity generation and into the gas grid.
This is an emerging eld with no commercial installations in operation yet which means an inevitable variety of technical and regulatory challenges that have to be negotiated for the first time.
But we are making good progress and hope to be injecting gas in 2013.
