Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 42 Governance Board of directors Dr Tony Ballance Dr Bernard Bulkin Richard Davey BSc Hons MA Econ PhD 47 BS PhD FRSC FRSA FIE 70 BA 63 Director, Strategy and Regulation Independent non-executive director Senior independent non-executive director Appointed to the board on 2 October 2007 Appointed to the board on 1 January 2006 Appointed to the board on 1 January 2006 Tonys extensive experience in utility policy Bernard has been involved in a range of scientific, Richard has an investment banking background and regulation leaves him ideally placed to lead technology and engineering businesses, including and was formerly Head of Investment Banking at the companys strategic and regulatory work.
holding the position of Chief Scientist of BP Plc.
With extensive experience He has previously held the posts of Chief Hisinvolvement in both innovation and policy on of the financial services sector, having run Economist for Ofwat, economic consultant, climate change and renewable energy, together Rothschilds Financial Services Group and working director of London Economics and a director with an understanding of how to guide improved with a number of high street banks and insurers, of Stone and Webster Consultants.
performance on safety and environmental Richard brings valuable financial expertise to the operational issues, enables him to contribute board, the Audit Committee and as chair of the signicantly to the board.
Previously he held External appointments non-executive roles at Yorkshire Building Society, Member of Water UK Council where he was Vice Chairman, Freeserve Plc and External appointments Scottish Widows Fund and Life Assurance Society.
Chairman of Chemrec AB Sweden Committee membership Non-executive director of Ze-gen Corporation USA Executive Committee Non-executive director, Chairman of the Remuneration External appointments Committee and member of the Audit Committee of Non-executive Chairman of London Capital Group Pursuit Dynamics plc Holdings Plc Chair of the Ofce of Renewable Energy Deployment Non-executive Chairman of Amlin Plc atthe UK Department of Energy and Climate Change Committee membership Committee membership Audit Committee Audit Committee Nominations Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Chairman Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Martin Lamb Michael McKeon Baroness Noakes BSc MBA 52 MA CA 55 DBE LLB FCA 62 Independent non-executive director Finance Director Independent non-executive director Appointed to the board on 29 February 2008 Appointed to the board on 13 December 2005 Appointed to the board on 29 February 2008 Martin has extensive experience of managing Michael brings significant financial and commercial Sheila is an experienced director on UK listed and developing large engineering businesses in expertise to the board.
Prior to joining Severn Trent company boards and an experienced audit all parts of the world.
Martin has worked for IMI he was Finance Director of Novar Plc and before committee chairman.
A qualied chartered for over 25 years where he has held a number of that held various senior roles with Rolls-Royce Plc, accountant, she previously headed KPMGs senior management roles.
His strong commercial including Finance Director of Aerospace Group.
European and International Government practices acumen, experience of managing complex Hehas extensive international business experience and has been President of the Institute of Chartered projects, and familiarity with current market having worked overseas for CarnaudMetalbox, Accountants in England and Wales.
Sheila was pressures as a serving Chief Executive leave him ElfAtochem and Price Waterhouse.
Michael is a appointed to the House of Lords in 2000 and has well placed to add value to the Severn Trent Chartered Accountant and a Member of the served on the Conservative front bench in various business.
Previously Martin was a non-executive Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
roles including as shadow treasury minister director of Spectris plc.
Previously she held non-executive roles on the Court of the Bank of External appointments England, Hanson Plc, ICI Plc, John Laing and SThree.
External appointments Non-executive director and Chairman of the AuditCommittee of The Merchants Trust Plc Chief Executive of IMI plc External appointments Member of the Advisory Board of AEA Investors UK Limited Non-executive director, member of the Group Audit, Committee membership Group Nominations and Board Risk Committees of Executive Committee TheRoyal Bank of Scotland Group Plc Committee membership Deputy Chairman, senior independent director and Nominations Committee Chairman of the Audit and Nominations Committees Remuneration Committee of Carpetright Plc Trustee of the Thomson Reuters Founders Share Company Committee membership Audit Committee Chairman Nominations Committee Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43 Governance Board of directors Andrew Duff Gordon Fryett Martin Kane BSc FEI 53 58 BSc CEng CEnv MICE MIWEM FIW 59 Non-executive Chairman Independent non-executive director Chief Executive officer, Severn Trent Services Appointed to the board on 10 May 2010 and Appointed to the board on 1 July 2009 Appointed to the board on 2 October 2007 Chairman on 20 July 2010 Gordons extensive experience working in Martin joined Severn Trent Water in 1975 and has Andrews extensive knowledge of international and with international businesses, accountability held various senior posts giving him an extensive business, strategic management, customer service for managing large areas of capital expenditure understanding of the design, construction and and regulated business make him the right Chairman and a broad range of executive and operational operation of water and waste water treatment to lead the group.
Andrew spent 16years at BP in experience in a highly customer facing plants, water distribution networks and sewerage marketing, strategy and oil trading.
He joined environment, enables him to bring substantial systems.
Martin held the role of Director of National Power in 1998 and the board of its daughter experience and expertise to the board.
He is Customer Relations, Severn Trent Water, from company Innogy plc upon its demerger from currently Tesco Group Property Director and CEO of May 2006 until January 2012, at which point he National Power in 2000.
He led the restructuring Central Europe, having previously held a number of was appointed Chief Executive officer of Severn and subsequent sale of Innogy to RWE in 2003. senior positions within the Tesco Group including Trent Services.
Hebecame CEO of the successor company, CEO Republic of Ireland and Director of npower, and a member of the RWE Group Executive International Support.
He was non-executive Chairman of Member of the boards of Utilities and Service RWE npower until his retirement in December 2010.
External appointments Industries Training Limited and National Association of Water Companies US.
CEO of Tesco Europe Trustee of International Society for Trenchless External appointments Alumnus of INSEAD Technology Senior independent director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, member of the Audit Committee membership Committee and Nominations Committee of Wolseley Plc Committee membership Corporate Responsibility Committee Member of the CBI Presidents Committee Executive Committee Nominations Committee Trustee of Macmillan Cancer Support and Earth Trust Fellow of the Energy Institute Committee membership Corporate Responsibility Committee Nominations Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Andy Smith Tony Wray BTech Hons 51 BSc Hons 50 Director of Water Services Chief Executive Appointed to the board on 2 October 2007 Appointed to the board on 7 March 2005 Andy brings a broad range of executive and Tony became Chief Executive on 2 October 2007. operational expertise gained from different sectors His extensive experience in a wide range of to the board.
Andy has significant experience operational and strategic leadership roles in the having worked in the UK and overseas with BP, Energy, Telecoms, Water and Waste industries Mars and Pepsi, in engineering and operational enables him to bring a multi disciplined approach management roles.
Previously he was Group HR to the board.
Tony brings to his position an in-depth Director and a member of the board at Boots operational knowledge of Severn Trent and Group Plc.
strategic vision for the group.
Previously he was director of Networks at Eircom, the Republic of Irelands telephone operation and has held director Committee membership roles within Transco and National Grid Transco.
Executive Committee External appointments Non-executive director and member of the Audit Committee of Grainger plc Member of Business Advisory Board for Living with Environmental Change Member of Water UK Board Committee membership Corporate Responsibility Committee Executive Committee Chairman Nominations Committee
