Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31 Looking forward Severn Trent is committed to helping The challenges for the next 20 years shape the future of the water The challenge of the last 20 years was ensuring higher quality.
The challenges industry so it is better able to meet for the next 20 will be no less demanding, future challenges.
with climate change putting resilience In 2010 we published the first of our and security of supply at the top of Changing Course documents setting out theagenda.
our contribution to the debate on the Water for Life emphasises the need future of the industry.
We have been formaking the true social, economic encouraged by how many of these ideas andenvironmental cost of water visible.
were reected in recent UK Government Wethink thats right.
The UK has a and Ofwat publications.
growing water scarcity problem, In December 2011, the UK Government particularly in thesouth and east, published Water for Life, its Water White whichwill affect everyone over the Paper setting out its strategic vision for nexttwo decades.
Weall have a part the water industry.
We welcome the toplay in maintaining supplies and objectives and strategic direction of delivering high standards.
We are particularly Were particularly pleased that the White encouraged by the White Papers support In April 2010 we published Paper supports more focus on network for water trading, upstream competition Changing Course, a report setting interconnection and water trading, with and catchment management.
We also out six proposals to secure a the Environment Agency challenging welcome the UK Governments strong sustainable future for the water companies Water Resource Management and explicit acknowledgement of the industry.
Since then, the report Plans where alternative water sources need to maintain the confidence of has contributed to a wideare available.
Applied effectively, this will investors.
ranging policy and regulatory help to correct the UKs supply-demand debate, and our proposals for Earlier in May, Ofwat published Future imbalance and increase water trading.
water trading were taken forward price limits statement of principles in the UK Governments Water Moving water across areas should be setting out how it proposes to regulate White Paper, Water for Life.
cheaper and have less environmental the industry in the future.
Wewelcome impact than current practices, which this document and look forward to increase carbon emissions and capital working with Ofwat and others to intensive local investment.
achieve the best possible outcomes Were also pleased to see support for forour stakeholders.
In terms of general principles set out Change in this significant area needs inFuture price limits, we particularly fullconsultation, so the UK Governments support: timetable is sensible, with the new Ofwats overall objectives of creating regime expected to start in the mid amore targeted, proportionate and tolate 2020s.
appropriate regulatory framework The encouragement to reduce pollution which focuses on the most important through catchment management, outcomes: instead of expensive end of pipe the aim of reducing the regulatory solutions, is also welcome.
Were keen burden and a move to a more toshare our experience of this over the targeted, risk based approach for the last few years.
next price review: and Taken together, these initiatives should more involvement from customer improve the UKs resilience to drought groups in the price setting process.
and water scarcity, while reducing We were also pleased to see the strong carbonemissions.
There are also possible encouragement by Ofwat for water incentives for water companies to reduce trading, building on the policy direction consumption and for the sustainable set by ministers in the White Paper.
economic level of leakage calculation tobe revisited.
We will continue to work constructively with the UK Government, our regulators and others to help shape the water industry so it can meet future challenges.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 32 Looking forward Scrapping the cost principle could Up to now most of the additional finance The customers role promote competition but it needs to be that has been needed to fund their Customers have a key role in reducing replaced with something more sensible.
growing asset base has been raised by water use.
The industry needs to change We would like to see Ofwat working with borrowing and many companies have the way that customers think about and the Ofce of Fair Trading to design a even reduced their equity nancing.
value water, and encourage them to better access price system, and not Wethink that this nancing model useless.
rushing to a conclusion that risks cannot be relied on indefinitely.
Were pleased that the White Paper rules passingthe cost to domestic customers.
There are risks in highly geared financial out universal metering.
Metering must This may mean waiting to abolish the structures and there may be limits to the make sense in the context of an areas cost principle from law and not leaving capacity of the debt market to continue supply and demand balance, and our the industry in limbo.
Changes to the to provide low cost finance.
In addition, experience shows that its more effective Water Services licence to introduce one company getting into financial alongside behavioural change.
upstream competition should also be difficulties could have long term impacts Affordability is also a key theme and treated with caution, in case its seen on the financial markets confidence in theres no doubt that customers want asweakening the fundamental the regulatory framework and its value for money.
Bills could be lower if businessmodel.
assessment of risk in the utility sectors.
the industry were to tackle bad debts The financial and banking crisis in 2008, and follow the White Papers principles, The case for change has been made the credit crunch that followed, and which emphasise catchment In summary, the case for change has more recently the sovereign debt crisis management and smarter been made and the direction is set.
and associated turmoil in financial environmental solutions.
Water for Life is the start of a process of markets all underline that there may be breaking down the sectors rigidity, by Still more work to do benets from a lower risk approach to creating space for competition and There are aspects of Water for Life that nancing in the sector, in which not all allowing more exibility, so we can meet future finance is raised from borrowing.
we like but that need further work, to the challenges of climate change, keep regulation clear and predictable.
Severn Trent has worked with National affordability and carbon reduction.
As an Grid to examine how to make the Theres no doubt that the sector will industry, we should get behind it and need to invest significant sums and will nancing of the utility sector more work out the best outcomes.
sustainable in the longer term.
We think rely on the capital markets for nancing.
Sustainable nancing The UK Government recognises the need that action needs to be taken to The water industry has been investing encourage additional equity nancing, to reassure investors and has said that heavily to renew ageing infrastructure, reforms will be evolutionary, rather than rather than waiting for problems to tomeet growing demand and to deliver develop.
We will shortly be publishing a revolutionary.
It has also avoided environmental improvements.
Much has fundamental structural change, such as report proposing modest but important been achieved, but significant further evolutionary change.
legally separating companies retail investment is needed.
Even so, there are areas where we need to move cautiously and At the same time, public sector nances in full consultation with all stakeholders.
are stretched and there is growing One of the key talking points is the shift competition for limited private sector funds that can be used to invest in towards more competition.
While the UKGovernment has ruled out retail infrastructure.
competition for domestic customers, it Against this backdrop it is essential will take long overdue steps to improve thatthe financial structure of the retail competition for business companies in the sectors enables customers.
We have positioned Severn nancefor the future investment Trent Services for new opportunities in programme to be raised, when this market and expect that competition required, and at reasonable cost.
will be largely around service innovation and not just price.
