Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 22 Group at a glance Severn Trent Services is one of the worlds leading suppliers of waterand waste water treatment solutions.
We are known for innovation, reliability, quality services and leadership in ourchosenmarkets.
Key strengths Where we operate The industry Our activities are focused in four regions The market for water and waste water Our business has a clear theAmericas, Europe, Middle East and North products and services is large with substantial strategy for growth, which Africa MENA and Asia Pacic.
Operating prospects for growth in the areas we serve.
focuses on the growing Services operates in the US, UK, Ireland and That is because the drivers of the water and Italy.
Water Purication operates in all four waste water business: water scarcity: globaldemand for clean water regions and Analytical Services operates in population growth: climate change: and and safe, efficient waste water theUK.
We provide operating services Our business to an increasing number of Severn Trent Services provides water and utilities, municipalities and waste water treatment products and operating services to utilities, municipalities commercial customers in and commercial customers in selected key targeted countries.
We focus on the high growth markets and geographies where We are a leader in the design, our specic products and services meet the production and sale of water significant needs of our customers.
purication products in high Key facts We have three principal business streams: growth markets such as Water Purication Products is one of the disinfection, ltration, leading global providers of advanced 56.5m adsorption and marine technologies products and integrated order book solutions for water and waste water offshore waste water disinfection, ltration, adsorption and treatments.
marine offshore waste water treatment.
Operating Services provides contract 2,933 operating services to manage and maintain Employees water and waste water plants and networks as at 31 March 2012 in selected countries worldwide.
We are a leading provider in the United States and United Kingdom, one of the few integrated Turnover water operators in Italy and are building a strong presence in Ireland.
332.3m Analytical Services operates in the UK environmental water and contaminated 2011: 336.1m land testing services.
profit 18.0m 2011: 25.7m Before interest, tax and exceptional items.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23 Key strategic intentions...... delivered through our areas of focus Eight Key Strategic Intentions define our Severn Trent Services is one of the leading water strategyand set out how we intend to achieve and waste water businesses in the world.
ourobjectives: Toachieve our strategy we focus on: 1.
Deliver what customers value Water Purication Products 2.
Establish long term contracts and Municipal, commercial, industrial and marine applications require water strong sales channel relationships treatment technologies to meet their 3.
Expand our global technology disinfection, ltration and process needs.
The Water Purication groups portfolio of programme water products are used around the 4.
Continuously improve quality, world in support of these applications.
health, safety and environmental More on Water Purication on page 26 performance Operating Services 5.
Invest in strategic partnerships to Operating Services delivers safe supplement organic growth drinkingwater and waste water 6.
Optimise processes and treatment services.
It is responsible for the operation of more than 900 organisational capabilities treatment facilities in the United States, 7.
Continue to build a strong, United Kingdom, Ireland and Italy.
coherent and respected brand More on Operating Services on page 29 8.
Increase employee engagement Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 24 Severn Trent Services Our business model Our core customers are municipal utilities Providing Operating Services looking to sustain high quality standards and Water Purication Products to: and to nd cost efficiencies through publicprivate partnerships.
The market for water and waste water products and services is significant, withgood prospects for long term sales and profit growth due to fundamental 1 drivers: water scarcity, population growth, climate change and more stringent regulatory requirements.
Municipal Water Our strategy is to introduce new Treatment technologies into existing markets, Severn Trent Services provides a multiple barrier suchas our BALPURE ballast water treatment approach incorporating ltration, treatment technology, as well as disinfection and process solution technologies for growingour Operating Services business various municipal water treatment applications.
in the US and Europe where we operate more than 900 facilities and have In addition, we provide contract operations for 205million revenue.
municipal water treatment facilities in the US, UK, Ireland and Italy.
We target a return on capital in excess of the regulated water business, commonly above 10%.
Key to our services Filtration Areas where STS offers ltration products services for all or part of the process cycle Disinfection Areas where STS offers disinfection products services for all or part of the Disinfection process cycle Product: Advance, AQUAWARD, Capital Controls, Chlor-a-Vac, Operating Services Chloromatic, ClorTec, MicroDynamics Areas of the process cycle where STS offers contract operations Filtration Product: Our websites Bayoxide E33, Omni-SORB, SORB 07 09 33, TETRA DeepBed, TETRApHix, UAT www.
com Seawater and Separation www.
com Product:, , Bayoxide E33, Capital Controls ClorTec Higgins Loop, MicroDynamics Omni-Flow, Omni-SORB, SORB 33, SORB 07, , TETRA FlumeFlow TETRA LPBlocks, TETRApHix UAT Services: Water Facility Operations & Maintenance O&M, Water System Treatment & Distribution, Asset & Capital Management, Design&Build, Integrated Water Services Management, Leakage Detection & Reduction, Legionella Control, Meter Installation, Repair&Maintenance, Network Repair, Maintenance & Renewal, Project Finance Arrangements, Water Quality Sampling, Assessment&rectification, Water Regulations Compliance, WaterSampling & Analysis Risks We may be unable to collect and store sufficient water to meet customer demand.
Hazardous processes may result in our people being injured.
Principal Risk Ref 4 Regulatory or political change may lead to decreased demand for our services.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25 Severn Trent Services Our business model 2 3 4 Municipal Waste Industrial Marine Severn Trent Services offers a range Severn Trent Services offers a range Water Treatment of disinfection, ltration and process of disinfection, ltration and process Severn Trent Services provides a multiple barrier solutions for a suite of industrial solutions for marine and offshore treatment approach incorporating ltration, water and waste water applications.
water and waste water applications.
disinfection and process solution technologies In addition, we provide design, build forvarious municipal waste water treatment and contract operations for water applications.
and waste water treatment facilities for a variety of industrial segments In addition, we provide contract operations for in the US, UK, Ireland and Italy.
municipal waste water treatment facilities in the US, UK, Ireland and Italy.
Primary Treatment Process Water Electrochlorination Product: Product: Capital Controls, ClorTec, EST, ClorTec, SANILEC, SEACLOR Secondary Biological Treatment MicroDynamics, TETRA DeepBed, TETRA Product: Higgins Loop, UAT, UltraDynamics TETRA SAF, Amphidrome, TETRA ColOX Desalination Product: Cooling Water SANILEC, SEACLOR, UAT, UltraDynamics Tertiary Advanced Treatment Product: Capital Controls, ClorTec, EST, Marine Sewerage Product: MicroDynamics, SANILEC, SEACLOR, TETRA DeepBed, TETRA definite, TETRA NSAF, TETRA Product: TETRA DeepBed, TETRA HigginsLoop, Shortcut-NRT, TETRA SNAP-T MARINER OMIPURE SeriesM55, OMNIPURE & UAT, UltraDynamics OMNIPURE Series 55, SANILEC, SEACLOR, UAT, UltraDynamics Final Treatment UV Chlor Disinfection Services: Product: Severn Trent Services provides a full range of Ballast Water Treatment Capital Controls, ClorTec, MicroDynamics expertise from the individual aspects of water waste water utility management to the Product: provision of integrated water waste water BALPURE Services: services for a variety of clients, including: Utilities Waste Water Facility Operations & Maintenance O&M, Waste Water System Treatment & Collection, Asset & Capital Management, Design Public Sector & Build, Industrial Pre-treatment, Network Repair, Maintenance & Estates and Facilities Management Renewal, Project Finance Arrangements, Sludge Treatment & Disposal, UK MoD Waste Water Sampling & Analysis Developers Domestic Customers Risks Risks Risks Failure of treatment processes may result in environmental Failure of products or treatment processes The Intellectual Property in our key damage and regulatory non-compliance.
may result in injury to people, products may be used by competitors.
environmental damage and regulatory Regulatory or political change may lead to decreased demand Regulatory change may lead to non-compliance.
Principal Risk Ref 4 for our services.
decreased demand for our products.
and8 Hazardous processes may result in our people being injured.
Competitors may enter the market Disruption in the global supply chain may Principal Risk Ref 4 leading to decreased demand for our impact our ability to meet customer products and services.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 26 Severn Trent Services Performance Severn Trent Services had a challenging As we explain on pages 22 and 23, In Disinfection, which accounts for 68% start to the year, with economic and of Products turnover, activity in the Gulf Severn Trent Services focuses on operating conditions in many of our of Mexico increased due to the lifting of Water Purication Products and markets impacting negatively on both the drilling ban and strong oil prices.
Operating Services to provide water turnover and profit.
The second half saw Thisin turn increased demand for our and waste water treatment an improved performance and while sewage treatment and disinfection products as well as providing markets remain challenging, the products in that segment.
In MENA contract operations such as business is well positioned to take andAsia Pacic, investment in power managing water treatment plants advantage of longer term growth drivers.
andwater projects contributed to on behalf of our customers and In 2011 12 revenue was 332.3 million, growthindemand for our ClorTec environmental testing services.
growth of 0.6%, on a constant currency electrochlorination product.
Welook to enhance our products basis, driven by increased Operating Egyptremains a key target market and contract operations to improve Services sales in UK andIreland markets.
forindustrial water treatment products, 1 PBIT protbefore interest and tax but political uncertainties and civil our effectiveness and efficiency: was18.0 million, a decline of unresthave delayed investment and develop and launch new 25.6%onaconstant currency basis, thus dampened demand.
technologies: movenew and dueto investments in business Savings in the supply chain helped existing products into new development, achange in product reduce costs and assisted in combating territories: and expand the scope mixinour Water Purication division competitive pricing pressures.
In the marine market, we received Type Thefollowing pages describe how At the end of the year we made two Approval for our full line of BALPURE we performed during the year, significant management changes with ballast water treatment products in along with details of our approach the appointment of Martin Kane as October 2011.
Interest in this product to continuous improvement.
ChiefExecutive officer, taking over from line was greater than expected Len Graziano who retired, and he was withrecorded orders of 5 million.
joined by ournew Chief Financial officer, Orderswere received from various StephaneBouvier.
shipyards and shipowners, including Greenway Shipping and Sasaki Water Purication Shipbuilding.
We have a pipeline of Products projects that supports our ambitious growth targets.
To sustain this growth, Economic conditions in our markets were during the year we invested in establishing mixed during the year.
In Filtration, which a dedicated BALPURE sales organisation.
accounts for 32% of Products turnover, We will continue to develop our channels the US saw limited investment by local to market, with additional investment municipalities due to their weaker anticipated for thecoming year.
The main driver of demand is the ongoing regulation of environmental and quality standards.
So, many municipalities struggling with financial pressures have chosen to delay making upgrades and improvements not critical to achieving these standards.
In the industrial market, sales grew year on year due to higher demand from the steel industry.
Emerging markets such as Asia Pacic and the Middle East and North Africa MENA grew, and in the UK the second year of the regulatory cycle saw water companies capital investment programmes ramp up, meaning demand for our ltration products was robust.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27 Greenway Shipping chose the BALPURE system because of its technical features and Severn Trent fide Noras long history of water treatment in the marine industry.
We strongly believe Severn Trent fide Nora will support us throughout the barges expected lifespan of 30 years.
Trym Gade Lintoft Greenway Shipping Expanding our markets We are successfully introducing our products into a number of key markets in Asia, China and Europe.
BALPURE The BALPURE system has gained headway globally among larger vessels requiring a reliable ballast water treatment solution.
Sinceits initial Type Approval inJuly 2011, BALPURE was 50,000 ships selected for use across different vessel types, attesting to its requiring ballast water treatment exibility and suitability for the diverse and demanding marine systems market.
TheBALPURE system is chosen over competing vendors due to its robust and proven electrolytic disinfection technology perfected by 21.3 billion SevernTrent fide Nora over estimated market 35years in the marine and value to 2020 offshore industries.
BALPURE hasbeen chosen by ship operators and yards for its treatment approach, low power consumption and low maintenance requirements.
Iqbal Hossain, BALPURE Service Engineer Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 28 Project Aquatrine Severn Trent Services business Developing with Costain, C2C, has been working with the Ministry of Defence MoD under Project Aquatrine since 2005, providing a relationships fully managed service to operate, 11 years ahead maintain and improve nearly C2C achieved the UK 5,000 water and waste water Severn Trent Services business with Governments MoD assets across 1,300 sites in target tocut water England.
C2C has built a strong Costain, C2C Coast to Coast Water and consumption by relationship with the MoD C2C Services, is delivering operations 25% by the year establishing a safe, efficient, and 2020 in 2009, responsive service across this and maintenance for the UK MoDs 11years early wide geography.
C2Cmanages water and waste water assets as part over 7,100 megalitres of water, takes around 69,000 water of a 25 year, 1 billion contract.
samples and processes over 17,000 bills ayear.
This year it To date, C2C has exceeded leakage reduction hasreduced average monthly targets, upheld environmental performance, leakage across the MoD estate byover 250 megalitres, which is andinvested in assets and crown re standards.
equivalent to over 100 Olympic Behind these headlines are hard working swimming pools, and with the teamsmanaging the day to day operation and installation of a highly accurate maintenance of the MoD assets, providing a 24-7 metering system with telemetry to C2C headquarters, both parties service.
They continually ensure that the contract can check progress in an instant.
requirements are met, and customers receive the Thanks to the success of appropriate level of service.
Aquatrine, the MoD and its contractors now appoint C2C to Defence Infrastructure Organisation DIO, Aquatrine, UK MoD carry out water and waste water services workoutside of the contract, where MoD Value for Money tests have been proved.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29 Severn Trent Services Operating Services Analytical Services Operating Services This has been a very challenging year for Operating Services OS revenues were Analytical Services.
The Drinking Water 204.5 million, growth of 3% on a Inspectorate published its report on the constant currency basis, compared to results of its investigation into aspects of the previous year.
The calendar year the services provided at our Bridgend 2011 was challenging for our US region Laboratory.
No financial penalty was which accounts for 51% of OS revenues.
imposed and as a result of this report no Thelagging effects of the recession further liability has arisen.
Low levels of resulted in constrained municipal activity inthe UK economy led to a budgets and the loss of some small lowerlevel of soil analysis work for contracts taken back in house by theconstruction market, while the municipalities, although the total WaterFramework Directive contributed number of contracts remained broadly to higher volumes for analysis.
The US market was at overall, Weimproved our operational efficiency although we maintained our market during the year through investment in share.
We have focused our business instruments and an improved project development efforts accordingly, but we management process.
Towards the end do not expect market conditions to of the year and early in the new financial change signicantly in 2012.
All of the year we have been informed that certain basic market drivers for public-private contracts from utilities companies will partnerships remain strong regulatory not be renewed and will be taken back in compliance, cost control necessitated by house.
This will signicantly reduce the shrinking municipal budgets, human size of this business in the future with a resources management, infrastructure greater balance of commercial versus investment requirements, need for utility work.
technical resources, transfer of risk, andsafety concerns.
Our investment in Continuous improvement business development began to pay Environment offin the second half of the year, as we We understand the need to nd won several projects in new states innovative ways to reduce our suchas Georgia and improved our environmental impact and to help our opportunity pipeline.
We do this by As noted in the half year results, political carefully managing our resources, waste and economic uncertainty impacted our water discharges and treatment sites, Italian business which represents 16% and by developing new technologies.
While the business is Several of our businesses are certied profitable and cash generative, the under ISO 14001:2004, the international impact of the economic crisis in Italy standard for environmental inthe autumn of 2011 hampered management systems, which we theefforts of all partners to agree a usetomanage and minimise our renancing package for part of our environmental impact.
This led us to take a provision year in a row, our US Operating Services against our economic exposure in this business completed site energy associate company.
The political management plans for three major situation also stalled the move of any plants.
These help us to determine further regional water companies, themost energy efficient treatment knownas ATOs, from the public to the processes.
Many of our products and services However, project growth in the UK and helpour customers to improve Ireland exceeded our expectations, theirenvironmental performance driven by new contracts wins, including andtooperate more efficiently.
ave year contract to design, build and TheEnvironmental Business Journal operate waste water treatment for a recognised us for the range of new major European food manufacturer technologies we have introduced over worth 2.0 million, and a four year water the past year, including inorganics hygiene contract worth 2.0 million with removal systems, BALPURE, and a alarge London borough council.
system to control chemical feed in waterand waste water applications.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 30 Severn Trent Services people People, health and safety Outlook Severn Trent Services ended the financial The medium term outlook for Severn year with a loss time injury LTI accident Trent Services is positive, driven by the frequency rate LTI per 100,000 hours fundamentals of population growth, worked up 9% on the previous year, water scarcity, and regulation, although although an improvement in there remain short term challenges.
performance was seen during the OurWater Purication business will second half of the year.
target growth in emerging markets, although European and US markets We need to recruit and develop a willremain challenging.
In Operating talented and motivated workforce and Services, although the US utility provide them with a safe and rewarding outsourcing market remains at we are place to work.
We were therefore in a favourable position on several new delighted that our employee projects, and we are investing to extend engagement survey showed that the our geographic reach and support our majority of our employees 69% longer term growth.
In the UK and areproud to work for us, and that we Ireland we aim to capture additional outperformed many other industry opportunities in both contract operations andcountry benchmarks.
and the design, build and operate DBO Given our strategy to embed health, markets.
Overall weexpect additional wellbeing and safety in all areas of our costs of around 2million in 2012 13 business, we were pleased that our C2C from ongoing investment in new and Metering Services businesses in the business opportunities across Severn UK once again received Gold Awards Trent Services to position ourselves for from the Royal Society for the Prevention future growth.
These awards recognise effective health and safety management systems.
The continuous improvement of our management systems is paying off, with our UK, Ireland and Italian Operating Services businesses working through the year with no lost time injuries.
Overall Severn Trent Services ended the financial year with an LTI accident frequency rate of 0.36.
Were also sharing lessons and best practice with Severn Trent Water.
For example, were introducing the MindSafety behavioural training programme which Severn Trent Water introduced this year.
Get the World Moving We were also pleased with the results of our commitment to improve health through the Global Corporate Challenge, a16week virtual walking journey around the world.
Afterwards, 89% said it improved their health and 82% thought itincreased ofce morale.
Wealso gave 735 children the chance to participate in the Global Childrens Challenge.
