Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 69 Governance Directors report The directors present their report, together with the audited The group actively encourages employee involvement and financial statements of the group, for the year ended consultation and places emphasis on keeping its employees 31March2012.
informed of its activity and financial performance by way of briengs and publication to staff of all relevant information Principal activity andcorporate announcements.
To help develop employees The principal activity of the group is to provide and treat water interest in the companys performance, Severn Trent offers two and remove waste water in the UK and internationally.
The Severn Trent Sharesave Scheme, an HM Revenue and Customs approved SAYE plan, is offered to UK Details of the principal joint ventures, associated and subsidiary employees on an annual basis.
The Severn Trent Share Incentive undertakings of the group at 31 March 2012 appear in notes Plan, approved by HM Revenue and Customs, makes an annual 19,20 and 40 to the financial statements on pages 99 and 127. award of shares to Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent Water Business review Limited employees, based on performance against the KPIs.
The Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the Research and development report and performance reviews for the groups main Expenditure on research and development is set out in note 7 businesses and the Financial review on pages 2 to 36 provide tothe accounts on page 91. detailed information relating to the group, its business models and strategy, the operation of its businesses and the results and Treasury management financial position for the year ended 31 March 2012.
The disclosures required under the EU Fair Value Directive in Details of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group relation to the use of financial instruments by the company are set out in the risk management section on pages 37 to 40. areset out in note 32 to the accounts on pages 108 to 118.
All of the above are incorporated by reference in and are Further details on our treasury policy and management are deemed to form part of this report.
setout in the Financial review on page 35.
Directors and their interests Post balance sheet events Biographies of the directors currently serving on the board Details of post balance sheet events are set out in note 38 to areset out on pages 42 and 43. the group financial statements on page 126.
All of the directors will be offering themselves for reappointment Dividends at the Annual General Meeting AGM, assetoutin the An interim dividend of 28.04 pence per ordinary share was paid Chairmans letter on pages 45 to 49. on 13 January 2012.
The directors recommend a final dividend Details of directors service agreements are set out in the of 42.06 pence per ordinary share to be paid on 27 July 2012 to Directors remuneration report on page 55.
The interests of shareholders on the register on 22 June 2012.
This would bring thedirectors in the shares of the company are shown on the total dividend for 2011 12 to 70.10 pence per ordinary pages65 to 68 of that report.
The payment of the final dividend is subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
Insurance and indemnities The Company maintains Directors and Ofcers Liability In addition to the recommended final dividend, the directors Insurance in respect of legal action that might be brought against recommend a special dividend of 63.0 pence per ordinary share its directors and ofcers.
In accordance with the companys to be paid on 27 July 2012 to shareholders on the register on articles of association, and to the extent permitted by law, in 22June 2012.
The payment of the final dividend is subject to November 2011 the company indemnified each of itsdirectors shareholder approval at the AGM.
and other ofcers of the group against certain liabilities that Capital structure may be incurred as a result of their positions withthe group.
Details of the companys issued share capital and of the Severn Trent does not have in place any indemnities for the movements during the year are shown in note 29 to the benefit of the auditors.
The company has one class ofordinary shares which carries no right to xed income.
Employees Eachshare carries the right to one vote at general meetings of The average number of employees within the group is shown the company.
The issued nominal value of the ordinary shares is innote 9 to the financial statements on page 92.
100% of the total issued nominal value of all share capital.
Severn Trent believes that a diverse and inclusive culture is a key There are no specic restrictions on the size of a holding nor on factor in being a successful business.
Apart from ensuring an the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general individual has the ability to do the job we do not discriminate provisions of the articles of association and prevailing legislation.
inany way and make every effort to ensure that those with The directors are not aware of any agreements between disabilities are able to be employed by us.
We endeavour to holders of the companys shares that may result in restrictions retain employees in the workforce if they become disabled, we on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
make all reasonable adjustments to their role and, if necessary, look for redeployment opportunities to support them in seeking Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 33 to the an alternative role within Severn Trent.
We ensure that training, financial statements on pages 119 to 123.
For shares held by career development and promotion opportunities are available the Severn Trent Employee Share Ownership Trust, the trustee for all our employees irrespective of their gender, race, age abstains from voting.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 70 Governance Directors report No person has any special rights of control over the companys know the terms on which payment will take place when share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Details of supplier payment policies can be obtained from the individual companies at the addresses With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, shown in note 40 to the financial statements on page 127. the company is governed by its articles of association, the Tradecreditors for the group at the year end are estimated as Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related representing 21.2 days purchases 2011: 24.4 days purchases.
The articles maybeamended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Thepowers of directors are described in the Contributions for political and charitable purposes Board Governancedocument, the articles and the Chairmans Donations to charitable organisations during the year letteron pages 45 to 49. amounted to 107,325 2011: 181,843.
Donations are given Under its articles of association, the directors have authority to to charities whose projects align closely with our aim to allot ordinary shares, subject to the aggregate nominal amount promote the responsible use of water resources and waste limit set at the 2011 AGM.
water services which provide the opportunity for longer term There are a number of agreements that take effect after, or partnerships.
Inaddition we provide donations to employee terminate upon, a change of control of the company, such as nominated charities through a matched funding scheme and commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease health and safety reward schemes.
We are also committed to arrangements and employee share plans.
None of these is supporting WaterAid, the UKs only major charity dedicated to considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on improving access to safe water, hygiene and sanitation in the thebusiness of the group as a whole.
There are no agreements worlds poorest countries.
between the company and its directors or employees that Severn Trents policy is not to make any donations for political provide for compensation for loss of ofce or employment that purposes in the UK, or to donate to EU political parties or incur occurs because of a takeover bid.
Accordingly neither Severn Trent Plc nor its subsidiaries made any political donations or incurred political Substantial shareholdings expenditure in the financial year under review.
As at 31 March 2012 the company had been notied in Under the provisions of the Political Parties Elections and accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Referendums Act 2000 the relevant provisions of which Rules of the following major shareholdings: arenow contained in Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006, No.
of ordinary Percentage of voting shareholder authority is required for political donations to be shares of rights and issued 17 Name of holder 97 19p each share capital made or political expenditure to be incurred by the company or any of its subsidiaries in the EU and disclose any such payments Blackrock Inc 26,001,134 10.94% in the annual report.
The legislation gives a wide denition of Newton Investment what constitutes political donations and political expenditure Management Ltd 12,087,473 5.09% including sponsorship, subscriptions, payment of expenses, Legal & General GroupPlc 9,403,273 3.97% paidleave for employees fullling public duties and support for Percentages rounded to two decimal places.
bodies representing the business community in policy review or As at 29 May 2012, the company had been notied of the reform.
The company has therefore obtained limited authority from shareholders as a precautionary measure to allow the following holdings of voting rights in the ordinary share capitalofthe company: Blackrock Inc 23,457,458 9.87% : company to continue supporting the community and such organisations without inadvertently breaching the legislation.
Newton Investment Management Ltd 12,087,473 5.09% andLegal & General Group Plc 9,403,273 3.97%.
At the 2011 AGM, shareholders gave the company authorities to make political donations or to incur political expenditure in Authority to purchase shares the EU which would not ordinarily be regarded as political The company was given authority at its AGM in 2011 to make donations up to an aggregate annual limit of 50,000 for the market purchases of ordinary shares up to a maximum number company and its subsidiaries.
Pursuant to those authorities, of 23,748,497 shares.
Similar authority will again be sought from during the year ended 31 March 2012 the group incurred costs shareholders at this years AGM.
No market purchases were of nil 2011: nil.
Those authorities will expire at the 2012 AGM made by the company during the year ended 31 March 2012. and, in line with market practice to renew the authorities on an annual basis, the board has decided to put forward a resolution Supplier payment policy to this years AGM to renew the authorities to make donations Individual operating companies within the group are to political organisations and to incur political expenditure up to responsible for establishing appropriate policies with regard to a maximum of 50,000 per annum.
As permitted under the the payment of their suppliers.
The companies agree terms and Companies Act 2006, this resolution also covers any political conditions under which business transactions with suppliers donations made or political expenditure incurred, by any areconducted.
It is group policy that provided a supplier is subsidiaries of the company.
complying with the relevant terms and conditions, including theprompt and complete submission of all specified documentation, payment will be made in accordance with agreed terms.
It is also group policy to ensure that suppliers Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 71 Governance Directors report Analysis of shareholdings at 31 March 2012 Number of % of Number of Category shareholders shareholders shares % of shares Individual and joint accounts 64,900 91.91 25,499,121 11.07 Other 5,709 8.09212,108,990 88.93 Total 70,609 100.00 237,608,111 100.00 Includes insurance companies, nominee companies, banks, pension funds, other corporate bodies, limited and public limited companies.
The board reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control, including the formulation and communication of group accounting financial, operational and compliance and risk management, policies which are regularly updated for developments in IFRS atleast annually in accordance with the requirements of the and other reporting requirements: Governance Code.
The internal control system can provide specication of a set of financial controls that all of the onlyreasonable and not absolute assurance against material groups operating businesses are required to implement as a misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than minimum: eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
deployment of a group wide consolidation system with The Audit Committee reviews the groups risk management controls to restrict access and maintain integrity of data: process and the effectiveness of the system of internal control recruitment, training and development of appropriately on behalf of the board and keeps under review ways in which qualied and experienced financial reporting personnel: and toenhance the control and audit arrangements.
The Audit monthly reviews by STEC of financial reports from the groups Committee receives reports every six months from the Chief operating businesses.
Executive detailing the significant risks and uncertainties faced by the group, an assessment of the effectiveness of controls Relevant Audit Information over each of those risks and an action plan to improve controls In the case of each of the persons who were directors of the where this has been assessed as necessary.
During the course company at the date when this report was approved: of its review of the system of internal control in 2011 12, the so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant Audit Committee has not identied nor been advised of any audit information of which the companys auditors are failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
unaware: and Therefore a conrmation in respect of necessary actions has not been considered appropriate.
each of the directors has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself The Internal Audit department provides objective assurance aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that and advice on risk management and control.
The external the companys auditors are aware of that information.
auditors also report on significant financial control issues to the Audit Committee.
This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies An independent reporter Atkins provides objective assurancein Act 2006. relation to the Severn Trent Water Limited Ofwat Annual Return.
The board confirms that procedures providing an ongoing External Auditors process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal The Audit Committee has recommended to the board the risks and uncertainties faced by the group have been in place for reappointment of Deloitte LLP and a resolution to that effect will the year to 31 March 2012 and up to the date of approval of the be on the agenda at the AGM.
Deloitte LLP have indicated their annual report, which is in accordance with the revised guidance willingness to continue as auditors.
The Audit Committee will on internal control published in October 2005 the Turnbull also be responsible for determining the audit fee on behalf of Guidance.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 72 Governance Directors report Accounts of Severn Trent Water Limited Annual general meeting Regulatory accounts for Severn Trent Water Limited are The AGM of the company will be held at the International prepared and sent to Ofwat.
A copy of these accounts will be Convention Centre, Broad Street, Birmingham B1 2EA at 11am available from the website of Severn Trent Water Limited on Wednesday 18 July 2012.
The notice convening the www.
co. uk or on written request to the Company meeting, together with details of the business to be considered Secretary at the address given on the back cover.
There is no and explanatory notes for each resolution, is distributed charge for this publication.
It is also available on the companys website www.
Going concern By order of the board The groups business activities, together with the factors likely toaffect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chief Executives review on pages 4 to 7 and the business reviews of Severn Trent Water and Severn Trent Bronagh Kennedy Services on pages 8 to 30.
The financial position of the group, General Counsel and Company Secretary itscash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 29 May 2012 described in the Financial review on pages 33 to 36.
The groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital and its financial risk management objectives are described in the Financial review, the risk management report and the Governance report on pages 37 to 73.
Details of the groups financial instruments, hedging activities and exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk are described in note 32 to the group financial statements.
The groups principal operating subsidiary, Severn Trent Water, isa regulated long term business characterised by multi year investment programmes.
The groups strategic funding objectives reect this.
The group therefore seeks to attain a balance of long term funding or commitment of funds across arange of funding at the best possible economic cost.
Average debt maturity is 16 years and the effective average interest cost before exceptional finance costs during the year was 6.4%.
Thegroup is in a strong liquidity position and had 295.1 million in cash and liquid reserves and 600.0 million of undrawn committed bank facilities at 31 March 2012, which are expected to be sufficient to fund its investment and cash ow needs until at least December 2013 in the normal course of business.
Severn Trent Water operates in an industry that is currently subject to economic regulation rather than market competition.
Ofwat, the economic regulator, has a statutory obligation to set price limits that it believes will enable the water companies to finance their activities.
As a consequence the directors believe that the group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt thegoing concern basis in preparing the annual report andaccounts.
