Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 8QGHUVWDQGLQJ RXU VWUDWHJ DQG PDUNHWV Our business model how we make money As one of the leading providers of sustainable waste management solutions, we generate revenue from the gate fees which customers pay us for handling their waste and the sale of outputs from processing this waste, including recyclates and energy.
The success of our business model is driven by a combination of external and internal factors, which are set out below.
0DUNHW IRUFHV 5HF FODWH SULFHV DWH IHHV &RVW HQYLURQPHQW The fees which customers The external operational The market value of pay us for handling their costs of running our recovered materials, waste.
including paper, metals, wood, glass and rubble.
9ROXPHV The amount of waste handled.
0DVV EDODQFH 6DOH RI RXU SURGXFWV 'LVSRVDO FRVWV UHF FODWHV DQG HQHUJ The price Shanks pays to dispose of residue Income generated from the sale of products waste after reprocessing.
from the processing of waste including greenelectricity, recovered fuel, recycled commodities, fertiliser, soil and aggregates.
0DQDJHPHQW DFWLRQV &RVW VDYLQJV, QYHVWPHQW 3URGXFWLYLW SURJUDPPH Management actions to We are focused on running reduce our operational costs.
Our investment programme our plants as efficiently as insustainable opportunities possible.
that build on our capabilities and generate superior returns.
Internal drivers External drivers 8QGHUVWDQGLQJ RXU VWUDWHJ DQG PDUNHWV Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 As explained in the previous section, gate fees, cost ination, recyclate prices and volumes are largely driven by external factors, including regulation and macro-economic conditions.
These external drivers are inter-related, which means they cannot be considered in isolation.
Read more The key relationships between these drivers are set out below: about our marketplace on page 22 DWH IHHV DQG FRVW LQIODWLRQ DWH IHHV DQG UHF FODWH SULFHV DWH IHHV DQG GLVSRVDO FRVW VDYLQJV 5HF FODWH 'LVSRVDO DWH IHHV &RVW LQIODWLRQ DWH IHHV DWH IHHV SULFHV FRVW VDYLQJV In normal times gate fee increases If recyclate prices increase there will Our disposal costs are someone offset cost ination.
This is not the be pressure on us to reduce the gate elses gate fee so when gate fees case during a recession.
Similarly if recyclate prices fall we arefalling we expect to make have more opportunity to increase savings on disposal costs.
We manage the business within the context of these external drivers to maximise profitable growth inthe areas we operate in.
We actively pursue a policy of maintaining customers and their volumes.
We focus on producing higher value products, including energy and optimisingthe outputs from our facilities by reducing disposal costs.
Wecallthis optimising the mass balance.
Our success in this area is driven by a combination of internal factors, includingour use of technology, and external factors, including macro-economic conditions.
We take action to review the efficiency and cost of all support functions and to deliver our growth strategy by investing in sustainable waste management infrastructure together with efficient running ofour existing UK PFI PPP projects.
Read more on our strategy &RVW VDYLQJV, QYHVWPHQW LQ QHZ VXVWDLQDEOH 3URGXFWLYLW onpage 3 RWKHU WKDQ GLVSRVDO FRVWV RSSRUWXQLWLHV The core principles of lean Management actions which focus Our investment criteria is to achieve manufacturingcan be applied onsupport function efficiency are an overall post-tax return of 12% to toourindustry.
We have started continually taken to lower the cost 15% once the assets are fully todevelop animproved set of base of the business.
Savings are operational which is usually two to dailymanagement tools to measure targeted across a number of areas, three years after commissioning.
The and increase the operational including procurement.
first phase 100m of our investment performance of our facilities.
programme has reached the end of its investment cycle and target rates are being achieved.
Wehave developed project management capabilities and operational metrics toensure both operational and nancialdelivery.
The second programme 150m is well underway.
