RYHUQDQFH Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report 2006 and is incorporated by reference into, and is deemed to 'LUHFWRUV form part of, this Report together with the other information The composition of the Board of Directors at the date of this referred to in this Directors Report.
Report, together with their biographical details, is shown on pages 66 and 67.
Adrian Auer, Eric van Amerongen, Peter Johnson, Stephen Riley and Chris Surch all served on the Board $FTXLVLWLRQV DQG 'LVSRVDOV throughout the financial year under review.
Peter Dilnot was During the year acquisitions have been made for an initial cash appointed as Group Chief Executive with effect from 1 February consideration of 3.4m 2011: 6.9m.
On 1 March 2012 the 2012 following Tom Drurys resignation on 30 September 2011.
Group acquired the assets of Van Tuijl Glasrecycling BV for a Adrian Auer, Eric van Amerongen, Peter Johnson, Stephen Riley cash consideration of 3.4m with contingent consideration of and Jacques Petry will be offering themselves for annual 1.7m.
Further details are set out in note 17 of the financial re-election at the Companys AGM to be held on 19 July 2012 statements.
in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association whilst Peter Dilnot will be seeking his first election by shareholders.
Chris Surch is also standing, it being three years since his last 5HVHDUFK DQG 'HYHORSPHQW re-election.
The Board commends to shareholders the The Group spent 55,000 2011: 274,000 on research re-election and election of these directors, all of whom continue and development during the year ended 31 March 2012. to demonstrate commitment to their respective roles and all This expenditure related to the Groups participation in a four of whose individual performance continues to be effective.
year project by a consortium of universities, research centres and commercial companies in Belgium aimed at developing Subsequent to the year-end the Company announced that technologies for mapping landfill sites, optimising waste Chris Surch would be stepping down from the Board with effect from 31 August 2012 to take up a new appointment decomposition processes and the recovery of energy and materials through excavation techniques and waste as0020Group Finance Director of FirstGroup plc.
4XDOLI LQJ 7KLUG 3DUW, QGHPQLWLHV 5HVXOWV DQG 'LYLGHQGV As at the date of this Report, the Company has granted The Groups Consolidated Income Statement appears on page indemnities in favour of its directors to the extent permitted by 88 and note 3 to the financial statements shows the contribution law, in respect of certain liabilities incurred as a result of carrying to revenue and profits made by the different segments of the out the role as a director of the Company.
The indemnities are Groups business.
The Groups profit for the year amounted qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
In respect of those liabilities for which to 26.8m 2011: 21.9m.
the directors may not be indemnified, the Company maintained The directors recommend a final dividend of 2.35p 2011: 2.25p a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy throughout per share be paid on 1 August 2012 to ordinary shareholders the0020financial year and has renewed that policy.
on the register of members at close of business on 6 July 2012.
This dividend, if approved by shareholders, together with the interim dividend of 1.1p 2011: 1.0p per share already paid on 3ULQFLSDO $FWLYLWLHV DQG %XVLQHVV 5HYLHZ 13 January 2012, will make a total dividend for the year of 3.45p Shanks Group plc is one of Europes leading waste per share 2011: 3.25p.
management businesses, with operations in the Netherlands, Belgium, the UK and Canada providing a range of recycling and energy recovery solutions and technologies to customers 6WDWHPHQW RI RLQJ &RQFHUQ in the public and private sectors.
The Group has more than After making enquiries, the directors have formed the view, a hundred facilities handling more than seven million tonnes at the time of approving the financial statements, that the of waste a year, of which some 78% is recycled or recovered.
Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue Group activities range from mechanical biological treatment in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that and anaerobic digestion to recycling and waste collection the Groups business is a going concern.
For this reason the operations.
directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Preceding sections of this Annual Report include: About Shanks, Understanding our strategy and markets, Managing a sustainable business, Risks and uncertainties and Our performance.
These refer to the objectives and strategy of the Group, its competition and the markets in which it operates, the principal risks and uncertainties it faces, a review of the development and performance of the business for the year ended 31 March 2012, the Groups financial position, key performance indicators and likely future developments of the business.
Together with the Governance section, the information referred to above fulfils the requirements of the business review provisions in section 417 of the Companies Act Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 RYHUQDQFH Directors Report that right.
In the case of joint holders of an ordinary share, 1RWLILDEOH, QWHUHVWV the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, shall be accepted As at 31 March 2012 the Company had been notified of the to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
following direct and indirect interests in voting rights equal to Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of or exceeding 3% of the ordinary share capital of the Company, the joint holders appear in the Companys register of members there being no further notified changes up to 17 May 2012: in respect of the joint holding.
The deadline for appointing proxies to exercise voting rights at any general meeting is Number of shares Percentage set out in the notice convening the relevant meeting.
The Schroders plc 59,005,397 14.87 Company is not aware of any agreements between holders Artemis Investment of its shares that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Management LLP 29,110,210 7.34 Return of capital in the event of the liquidation of the Royal London Asset Company, after payment of all liabilities and deductions taking Management 19,850,423 5.00 priority, the balance of assets available for distribution will be Norges Bank 16,312,838 4.11 distributed among the holders of ordinary shares according to the amounts paid up on the shares held by them.
Legal & General Group plc 13,377,640 3.37 A liquidator may, with the sanction of a special resolution of the shareholders and any other sanction required by law, divide among the shareholders in kind the whole or any part of 6KDUH &DSLWDO the Companys assets or vest the Companys assets, in whole The Companys share capital comprises ordinary shares of or in part, in trustees such trust for the benefit of shareholders, 10 pence each par value.
As at 31 March 2012 and as at the but no shareholder may be compelled to accept any assets date of this Report there were 396,857,212 ordinary shares in upon which there is any liability.
During the year ended 31 March 2012 no ordinary shares were issued other than in respect of the exercise of options or awards under the Companys share schemes, details of which 5HVWULFWLRQV RQ WKH ROGLQJ RU 7UDQVIHU RI 6KDUHV are given in note 7 to the financial statements.
The principal There are no restrictions under the Companys Memorandum rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares are or Articles of Association that restrict the rights of members to as follows: hold or transfer the Companys shares.
Certain restrictions may however from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations Dividend rights holders of the Companys ordinary shares for example insider trading laws.
The Company is not aware may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends but may not of any agreements between holders of its shares that may result declare dividends in excess of the amount recommended by in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
The directors may also pay interim dividends.
No dividend may be paid other than out of profits available for distribution.
Payment or satisfaction of a dividend may &RQWURO 5LJKWV 8QGHU PSOR HH 6KDUH 6FKHPHV be made wholly or partly by distribution of assets, including The Company operates a number of employee share schemes.
fully paid shares or debentures of any other company.
Under one of those schemes, ordinary shares may be held by The directors may deduct from any dividend payable to a trustees on behalf of employees.
Employees are not entitled member all sums of money if any payable by such member to exercise directly any voting or other control rights in respect to the Company in respect of their ordinary shares.
of any shares held by such trustees and the trustees have full Voting rights voting at any general meeting is by a show of discretion to vote or abstain from voting at general meetings hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
Voting at this years of the Company in respect of such shares.
On a show of hands, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy or 5HWDLO %RQG represented by a corporate representative has one vote regardless of the number of shares held by the shareholder.
As at 31 March 2012 and as at the date of this Report the On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by Company had in issue a retail bond comprising 100 million proxy or represented by a corporate representative has one 5% guaranteed notes due 22 October 2015.
There are no vote for every share held by that shareholder.
A poll may be restrictions under the instrument governing the guaranteed demanded by any of the following: a the chairman of the notes that restrict the rights of investors to hold or transfer meeting: b at least five shareholders entitled to vote and the guaranteed notes.
The Company is not aware of any present in person or by proxy or represented by corporate agreements between the holders of guaranteed notes that may representatives at the meeting: c any shareholder s present result in restrictions on the transfer of guaranteed notes.
in person or by proxy or represented by corporate representatives and representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the meeting: or d any shareholder s present in person or by proxy or represented by corporate representatives and holding shares conferring a right to attend and vote at the meeting on which there have been paid up sums in the aggregate equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring RYHUQDQFH Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 nominal amount of 1,984,230.
This authority lasts until the $SSRLQWPHQW DQG 5HSODFHPHQW RI 'LUHFWRUV earlier of the Companys AGM in 2012 or 30 September 2012.
The Company shall appoint not less than two directors disregarding alternate directors.
The appointment and Repurchase of shares subject to authorisation by replacement of directors may be made as follows: shareholder resolution, the Company may purchase all or any of its own shares in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 The Companys members may, by ordinary resolution, and the Listing Rules.
Any shares which have been bought appoint any person who is willing to act to be a director.
back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, The Board may appoint any person who is willing to act to be thereby reducing the amount of the Companys issued share a director.
Any director so appointed shall hold office only until capital.
The Company received authority at the last AGM to the next AGM and shall then be eligible for election.
purchase up to 39,684,602 ordinary shares.
This authority Each executive director shall retire from office no later than lasts until the earlier of the Companys AGM in 2012 or at the third AGM after the AGM at which he or she was last 30 September 2012. elected but he or she may be re-appointed by ordinary resolution if eligible and willing.
Borrowing powers the directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to Each non-executive director shall retire from office at every mortgage or charge all or any part of the Companys assets, AGM but he or she may be re-appointed by ordinary provided that the aggregate amount of borrowings of the resolution if eligible and willing.
Group outstanding at any time does not exceed the limit set out in the Companys Articles of Association, unless The Company may, by special resolution, remove any sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of the Companys director before the expiry of his or her period of office or may, shareholders.
by ordinary resolution, remove a director where special notice has been given and the necessary statutory procedures are complied with.
$PHQGPHQW WR &RPSDQ V $UWLFOHV A director must vacate his or her office if any of the The Company may alter its Articles of Association by special circumstances in Article 100 of the Articles of Association resolution passed at a general meeting.
&RUSRUDWH RYHUQDQFH 3RZHUV RI 'LUHFWRUV The Board is fully committed to high standards of corporate The Articles of Association of the Company provide that the governance.
Details relating to the Companys compliance with business of the Company shall be managed by the Board which the UK Corporate Governance Code for the financial year are may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to given in the Corporate Governance and Remuneration Reports the management of the business of the Company or not.
This on pages 68 to 80. power is subject to any limitations imposed on the Company by legislation.
It is also limited by the provisions of the Articles of &RUSRUDWH 5HVSRQVLELOLW Association and by any directions given by special resolution of the members of the Company which are applicable on the date Information on Corporate Responsibility matters including the that any power is exercised.
Specific provisions relevant to the environment, employment policies, health and safety and exercise of powers by the directors include the following: community relations are set out on pages 34 to 41.
The Group Corporate Responsibility Policy is available on the Group Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares while holders website as is the 2012 Group Corporate Responsibility Report.
of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under the Articles of Association, the ability of the directors to cause the Company to issue shares, securities convertible into &KDULWDEOH DQG 3ROLWLFDO 'RQDWLRQV shares or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an During the financial year donations made by the Group for employees share scheme, is restricted.
Under the Companies charitable purposes amounted to 17,000 2011: 19,000, Act 2006, the directors of a company are, with certain inclusive of 15,000 to the UK youth charity, the Princes Trust.
exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without express authorisation, which may be contained in a Also, in the UK, through the Landfill Communities Fund, the companys articles of association or given by its shareholders Group has applied 754,000 2011: 546,000 via not-for-profit in general meeting, but which in either event cannot last for organisations to undertake projects such as disused land more than five years.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the restoration, public park maintenance and habitat conservation.
Company may also not allot shares for cash otherwise than In addition, staff at individual Group businesses have organised pursuant to an employees share scheme without first making various fund raising events to support local and national charities.
an offer to existing shareholders to allot such shares to them No donations were made by the Group for political purposes on the same or more favourable terms in proportion to their during the financial year 2011: nil.
respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
The Company received authority at the last AGM to allot shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to a maximum Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 RYHUQDQFH Directors Report 3D PHQW RI 6XSSOLHUV 3HUVRQV ZLWK :KRP WKH URXS KDV VVHQWLDO &RQWUDFWXDO DQG 2WKHU $UUDQJHPHQWV The Company does not currently subscribe to any code or standard on payment practice.
It is the Companys policy, The Groups largest customers for its products and services however, to settle terms of payment with suppliers when include local authorities and municipalities.
In the UK these agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that suppliers include, notably, long-term integrated waste management are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the contracts with the East London Waste Authority, Dumfries terms of payment.
The amount owed to trade creditors at the and Galloway, Argyll & Bute, Cumbria, Derbyshire, Barnsley, year end in proportion to the amounts invoiced by suppliers Doncaster and Rotherham Councils.
Under these contracts, during the year, expressed as a number of days, was 58 days the Group is responsible for managing the municipal wastes 2011: 67 days for the Group and was 38 days 2011: 35 days and recyclables collected by the local authority or their for the Company.
In the Netherlands, the Groups hazardous waste business has long-term contracts with the oil and gas industry and is a major supplier of cleaning services to the &KDQJH RI &RQWURO 6LJQLILFDQW $JUHHPHQWV petrochemical industry.
The Netherlands business also has The Groups principal financing instrument at 31 March 2012, a number of long-term source segregated organic contracts a 200m term loan and multicurrency revolving credit facility with municipalities and provinces.
In Belgium there are a with six major banks, contains an option for those banks to number of municipal waste collection contracts, the largest declare by notice that all sums outstanding under that being for the city of Liege.
In Canada there are long-term agreement are repayable immediately in the event of a change contracts with the London and Ottawa municipalities.
of control of the Company.
Any such notice may take effect no earlier than 30 days from the change of control and, if exercised $QQXDO HQHUDO 0HHWLQJ at 31 March 2012, would have required the repayment of 84.6m in principal and interest.
Notice of the AGM of the Company to be held at the offices of the Royal Bank of Scotland, 250 Bishopsgate, London The Groups five year Retail Bond issued in October 2010 EC2M 4AA on Thursday 19, July 2012 at 11.00am will be made requires notice to be given to bondholders within seven available to shareholders, together with a form of proxy, and will business days of a change of control following which the also be available on the Group website at www.
holders have an option to seek repayment at a 1% premium, The directors consider that all the resolutions to be proposed within 60 days of that notice.
Such repayment must be made at the AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its within 10 business days of the expiry of the option period.
shareholders as a whole and they recommend unanimously If exercised at 31 March 2012, repayment of 86.0m that all shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as they in principal and interest would have been required.
intend to do in respect of their own shareholdings.
The notes issued under the Groups 24 March 2011 private placement contain an option for the noteholders to enforce 'LUHFWRUV 5HVSRQVLELOLWLHV 6WDWHPHQW prepayment between 30 and 60 days from a change of control of outstanding principal and interest which would have The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, amounted in total at 31 March 2012 to 49.2m.
In addition, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements a make-whole payment amounting to 9.2m which is not in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
provided for in these financial statements would be payable Company law requires the directors to prepare financial to private placement noteholders based on treasury yields statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors at 31 March 2012. have prepared the Group and Parent Company financial In addition, the rules of the Companys employee share plans statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting provide that awards and options may vest and become Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
exercisable on a change of control of the Company.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
RYHUQDQFH Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 66 and 67 of the Annual Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: the Directors Report contained on pages 81 to 85 of the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces: there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the Board 3KLOLS ULIILQ 6PLWK Company Secretary 17 May 2012 Shanks Group plc Registered in Scotland no.
