Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 2XU SHUIRUPDQFH Belgium Brussels Hainaut p Brussels-Brabant b 1Vlaanderen 3KLOLSSH 0DUFX] Lige-Luxembourg Managing Director IForonex ShanksBelgium 2XU PDLQ DFWLYLWLHV 5HYHQXH DQG WUDGLQJ SURILW Revenue Trading profit Collection 2012 2011 Variance 2012 2011 Variance Sorting and reprocessing m m m % m m m % Recovered fuel Solid Waste 148 148 9.1 7.2 1.9 27 Wood trading and Hazardous Waste 55 59 4 7 3.3 4.1 0.8 21 biomassproduction Landll and Power 12 12 2 6.3 5.7 0.6 11 Industrial cleaning Sand Quarry 3 3 7 0.7 0.8 0.1 18 Waste water treatment Country central services 19 20 1 5 6.6 5.1 1.5 30 Total m 199 202 3 2 12.8 12.7 0.1 Power generation Total m at average FXrates 172 172 11.0 10.8 0.2 1 2WKHU SHUIRUPDQFH PHWULFV 2012 2011 Trading margin 6.4% 6.3% Return on operating assets 20% 18% Recycling and recovery rate 74% 74% RIDDOR rate 5,100 6,100 2XU SHUIRUPDQFH Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 5HQHZDEOH HQHUJ JHQHUDWLRQ LQ :DOORQLD Generation of renewable electricity provides a major source of income fromour landll operation.
2XU DFWLYLWLHV 0DUNHW RYHUYLHZ &RUH 6ROLG The activities in Belgium are broken down into In Belgium, environmental responsibility is :DVWH Solid Waste, Hazardous Waste, Landll and devolved to the three regions, namely Flanders, EXVLQHVVHV Power and a Sand Quarry.
Flemish environmental legislation and landll tax levels are very similar The Solid Waste business is similar to that in the KDYH to those in the Netherlands resulting in similar Netherlands, however the division is less reliant SHUIRUPHG market characteristics with high levels of on the Construction and Demolition C&D recycling, a reliance on incineration for final sector and also includes the operation of ZHOO ZLWK, & disposal and very little landll.
In Wallonia landll municipal waste collection contracts including YROXPHV DW has historically been more prominent, however the City of Liege and an intermunicipality landll tax rose signicantly in 2010 to an effective partnership in the Hainaut region of Wallonia.
WKH VRUWLQJ rate of 90 per tonne as an incentive to promote Solid Waste also includes Foronex.
This FHQWUHV XS increased recycling and other forms of energy business, which was acquired in 2008, is recovery.
In addition, the region adopted a principally focused on the growing wood strictinterpretation of the Landll Directive biomass market with a subsidiary wood requirement for the pre-treatment of organic tradingactivity.
waste and residual waste from household The Hazardous Waste division comprises collection.
The Brussels region has limited industrial cleaning activities, hazardous and landll capacity and has its own incinerator medical waste collection.
The industrial cleaning butbeyond that depends on the two other businesses service the steel, cement, chemical regions for final disposal.
and other large industries across Belgium and Exports of waste from Belgium are only allowed also in northern France.
The main treatment in accordance with strict pre-treatment criteria facility at Roeselare in West Flanders specialises which in practice limit the extent of such in the preparation of waste derived fuels and movements of waste and encourage the minerals for the cement industry.
Like the ATM treatment of waste using local capacity.
facility in the Netherlands, the facility also treats contaminated waste water streams using The Belgian waste market is still highly physio-chemical and biological processes.
fragmented with the largest five players Green electricity certicates are received accounting for circa 40% of the total market fortheelectricity and heat produced during value.
Overall Shanks is the fourth largest player theprocesses.
in the Belgian market with Sita being the market leader.
Collection services remain increasingly The Landll and Power operations are situated important in view of EU recycling and sorting in the Walloon region where we have one of the requirements and the market can be split largest landlls in the area.
Landll activity has between Industrial and Commercial I&C which now stabilised following changes to taxation accounts for more than 60% of the total waste rates and types of waste that can be landlled revenues and is based on short-term contracts inthe last few years.
A major source of income and municipal which is based on longer remains the generation of renewable electricity contracts.
As in the Netherlands, volumes of from the methane produced as the waste have started to decline with pricing biodegradable waste decays.
In addition we operate a Sand Quarry which Power generation from waste biogas continues isadjacent to the landll in Wallonia.
This to benefit from environmental subsidies, remains a small but profitable activity.
although power prices are volatile from period toperiod.
Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 2XU SHUIRUPDQFH Belgium 6WUDWHJLF GULYHUV In Belgium the strategy is to grow the Solid Waste businesses by ensuring competitive advantage through lower average processing and disposal costs and the production of high quality Solid Recovered Fuel SRF and biomass products.
As in the Netherlands the key drivers are the amount of waste available and the competitive pressure on prices.
The increase in landll taxes has offset this impact to an extent with reduced levels of waste going into landll and increased waste sent to incinerators and sustainable recycling facilities.
Our focus remains on treating waste in innovative ways and maximising the volume of products such as SRF produced by our facilities as an alternative to sending the waste to landll and incinerators.
2SHUDWLRQDO UHYLHZ Overall the result for the year shows a small decline in revenue with trading profit remaining unchanged year on year.
The core Solid Waste businesses have performed well with I&C volumes at the sorting centres up 5%, although levels declined in the latter months of the year.
Overall price was 2% down on the prior year.
The result has been adversely affected by a 0.7m year on year reduction in the return from our investment 5RHVHODUH :HVW ODQGHUV  incinerator.
This facility specialises in the The Foronex business is included within preparation of wastederived fuels.
Green electricity certicates are SolidWaste and as communicated in earlier received for the electricity and heat statements, a number of changes were made to produced during the processes.
This has had a beneficial impact on trading with an overall 2m improvement to profits year on year.
As reported at the half year, there had been delays in the commissioning of the combined heat and power plant in our joint venture arrangement with Enviva formerly known as Intrinergy.
It became apparent that significant further investment would be required to get the plant operational albeit at a lower level of profitability.
As a consequence of the joint venture company being in breach of its banking covenants, we no longer have control and accordingly have written off our investment inthis venture.
Thishas resulted in an overall charge of 2m which has been treated as a non-trading exceptional item.
2XU SHUIRUPDQFH Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 %UDEDQW :DOORQLD Our principal sorting centre inWallonia.
%LRPDVV SURGXFWLRQ IDFLOLW LQ ODQGHUV 100,000 tonnes per annum facility producing wood biomass for the electricity industry.
Overall profits from the Hazardous Waste 2XWORRN DQG IRFXV IRU businesses were down signicantly year on year.
Like the Netherlands market, the Belgian market Biogas production at the green energy plant in is expected to remain challenging for the short Flanders was down in the first half but following to medium term.
However, we plan to build on efficiency improvements this has now been the improvements made in Foronex and other addressed and has returned to more normal cost savings to offset the impact of the market levels.
profits have been affected by lower power conditions.
prices which are expected to increase in the medium term.
Pricing in the electricity market continues to be difficult and this has resulted in lower Power revenues year on year.
As part of the Group-wide Action on Safety initiative, significant effort has been spent on safety audits and this has resulted in a 16% reduction to the RIDDOR rate in the year.
7XUQDURXQG DW RURQH[ RYHUDOO P LPSURYHPHQW WR SURILWV Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 2XU SHUIRUPDQFH UK Edinburgh Glasgow London 1Recycling centre, DQ RRGIHOORZ PFI Managing Director bOrganics ShanksUK 2XU PDLQ DFWLYLWLHV 5HYHQXH DQG WUDGLQJ SURILW Revenue Trading profit Collection 2012 2011 Variance 2012 2011 Variance Sorting and reprocessing m m m % m m m % Recycling Solid Waste 65 66 1 2 4.2 4.1 0.1 1 Recovered fuel Hazardous Waste 8 15 7 42 1.9 2.9 1.0 33 MBT treatment Organics 1 2 1 70 0.5 0.1 0.6 100 Municipal PFI 107 87 20 23 10.8 5.6 5.2 92 Anaerobic digestion Landll and Power 5 6 1 5 0.3 0.3 0.6 100 Country central services 7.7 5.4 2.3 40 UK Operations 186 176 10 6 8.4 7.6 0.8 10 PFI Bid Team 1.5 2.6 1.1 44 Total 186 176 10 6 6.9 5.0 1.9 39 2WKHU SHUIRUPDQFH PHWULFV 2012 2011 Trading margin before bid costs 4.5% 4.3% Return on operating assets 20% 10% Recycling and recovery rate 47% 43% RIDDOR rate 2,100 2,200 2XU SHUIRUPDQFH Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 %ORFKDLUQ ODVJRZ New MRF designed to achieve a 95% recovery rate from non-segregated general waste.
2XU DFWLYLWLHV 0DUNHW RYHUYLHZ The UK business principally comprises solid The UKs historical heavy reliance on landll waste collection and recycling, municipal means that the imposition of the European PFI PPP contracts and organics processing Landll Directive is having a major impact.
Implementation of the Directive requires waste disposal authorities to develop new strategies The Solid Waste collection and recycling toreduce the amount of biodegradable business, which has both Industrial and municipal waste BMW that they send to landll.
Commercial I&C and Construction and Based on 1995 levels, the Directive requires a Demolition C&D customers is focused in 25% reduction in BMW landlled by 2010, 50% Scotland, East Midlands and the Northern by 2013 and 65% by 2020.
As part of this the Home Counties.
Currently we process 47% UK Government has strengthened the existing ofthe waste collected through our recycling drivers for diverting I&C waste from landll and facilities.
The plan is to increase this signicantly provided further financial support for alternative with the investment in new recycling and ways to deal with waste including reuse, organics facilities as we strive to divert more recycling, energy from waste and anaerobic waste away from final disposal to landll.
The key element of this was the The Organics processing activity is principally agreement to increase the standard rate of ina joint partnership in a 60,000 tonne per landll tax by 8 per tonne on 1 April each year annum Anaerobic Digestion AD plant in to 80 per tonne by 1 April 2014.
Glasgow which utilises Orgaworld AD In our regional I&C and C&D markets we are technology to process a range of organic strong with our main competitors being Veolia, materials including supermarket waste, Biffa, Viridor and large regional and local players.
household and commercial kitchen waste, foodprocessing waste and organic materials The long-term municipal market is accelerating resulting in the generation of biogas and high in an attempt to full landll diversion targets quality compost.
asset out in the European Landll Directive andis currently at circa 17m tonnes per annum.
The 25 year municipal PFI PPP contracts Shanks remains a key player in this sector include providing waste disposal services withVeolia as the market leader.
We have forlocal authorities in East London, Dumfries detected early signs of a more difficult funding andGalloway, Argyll & Bute and Cumbria.
environment, together with local authorities TheBarnsley, Doncaster and Rotherham BDR planning for shorter term contracts and less contract has recently reached financial close capital intensive facilities.
and the delivery of waste management services will only commence when the treatment facilities The potential food waste market for AD and have been built in 2015.
We have preferred composting solutions is currently estimated at bidder status for two other contracts Derby circa 5.9m tonnes per annum.
This market is still andWakeeld and remain active in bidding emerging in the UK, with a number of AD plants forfurther contracts where we have a clear having become operational in the last year.
Itremainsour intention, Shanks continues to invest in this sector, where appropriate, to limit our equity wherethere is no clear market leader.
contribution into PFI PPP whilst retaining the long-term operating contracts.
In addition we have a share in landll operationsthrough a joint venture partnership.
5HF FOLQJ DQG The contaminated land services business whichorganised the treatment and disposal for UHFRYHU UDWH clean-up projects is no longer a principal activity.
XS WR 47% Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 2XU SHUIRUPDQFH UK 6WUDWHJLF GULYHUV In the UK, the aim is to extract the maximum value from the products we produce with a geographically integrated infrastructure across municipal, organic and recycling facilities and an expansion of our energy generation capability.
Legislative and regulatory drivers remain key together with the availability of waste volumes asfeedstock for our facilities.
2SHUDWLRQDO UHYLHZ Revenue and trading profit before PFI bid team costs rose by 6% and 10% respectively.
The structural decline in volumes in the UK Solid Waste market has continued with our overall volumes in the collections business down 9%.
The profit effect of these volume shortfalls has been compensated by a number of decisive management actions, including improvements inprocessing leading to greater diversion fromlandll and price increases of circa 2%.
Overall recyclate prices were still favourable year on year despite the decline in paper pricing in the last quarter.
Thecommissioning of the Glasgow recycling facility was extended, as the plant was developed to handle a wider range of waste, inresponse to increasing price competition in obtaining recyclate materials.
The Edinburgh facility was redeveloped ahead of time, facilitating the two plants to be run together, with both seeing a significant ramping up of output in the last couple of months of the year.
Thenew recycling facility at Kettering was commissioned ahead of time in the last quarter and will be fullyoperational in the new financial year.
The final commissioning of the Organics AD plant in Glasgow, a joint venture partnership inEnergen Biogas, was delayed and this 6RUWLQJ FDELQ together with operational issues resulted in Final quality control on processed losses inthe year.
Gate fees and availability materials.
ofwaste volumes have been under pressure asother infrastructures have come on stream.
Electricityis being generated and delivered tothe grid and outputs will increase in the new financial year.
The development of the other AD plants inthe UK remains on track.
The profitability of the existing PFI PPP portfolio has continued to improve in line with our plans with further operational enhancements being delivered and a full twelve months benefit from the management of the Derby waste collection service.
Margins in theportfolio were 10% in the year, up from 6.4% last year.
We expect these to be in the 8% to 10% range going forward.
The first of the two Mechanical Biological Treatment MBT facilities for the Cumbriacontract was delivered ahead of schedule and within budget 2XU SHUIRUPDQFH Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 The decrease in Hazardous Waste profits in December 2011.
The second facility is also 'HFLVLYH related to a major one-off contract in the ontrack to be completed early.
PDQDJHPHQW We continue to invest in the PFI market albeit Reduced volumes and pricing pressures ata lower level of activity as indicated by the DFWLRQV haveresulted in a lower performance at our reduction in bid costs expensed of 1.5m in the LQFOXGLQJ Landll and Power joint venture.
TheBarnsley, Doncaster and Rotherham associated with this asset has been written off contract, a majority owned joint venture with RSHUDWLRQDO during the year.
SSE, reached financial close on 30 March 2012 HQKDQFHPHQWV and work has commenced on the delivery of As anticipated, there has been an increase theinfrastructure which is scheduled to be LQ 3, 333 incentral overhead costs as the organisation completed in 2015.
The Bolton Road facility has been strengthened to support the growth FRQWUDFWV willbe one of the first where Shanks delivers and development of the business with a aMBT plant and an AD plant on the same site.
UHVXOWHG LQ proportion of this resource redeployed from Itwill treat up to 265,000 tonnes per year of PFIbidding.
PDUJLQV DW leftover household waste and a small amount The significant increase in the return on ofcommercial waste from the three councils.
operating assets from 10% to 20% came Aspart of this contract we signed anagreement asaresult of the increased profits and lower with SSE for the supply of Solid Recovered Fuel operating assets, following the full year effect 10 % SRF toa new multi-fuel plant for the generation ofthe September 2010 disposal of the equity of electricity at Ferrybridge.
interest in the ELWA and D&G PFI contracts, We remain preferred bidder for the Wakeeld which removed approximately 20m from the and the Derby contracts.
It is anticipated that operating asset base.
theWakeeld contract will reach financial close The recycling and recovery rate has continued by September 2012.
The Derby contract is to increase year on year as the new recycling subject to a planning appeal which will facilities start to come on line.
determine the long-term location of the combined MBT and gasication infrastructure.
2XWORRN DQG IRFXV IRU This appeal is scheduled to be held in June 2012 and the outcome will determine the timing Legislative support for landll diversion of financial close of this contract.
strategycontinues to strengthen in the UK.
Thecontinued improvements from the recent We have once again prepared a Directors investments in recycling and organics facilities valuation of our PFI PPP interests to assist the should continue to compensate for any further market in valuing these stakes.
Using the cash decline in volumes.
ows ofthe remaining nancing vehicles and theoperating contracts discounted at circa 8%, theDirectors estimate the value of the existing PFI PPP contracts to be circa 80m which is unchanged from last year end.
0XQLFLSDO &XPEULD The MBT plant at Hespin Wood in Cumbria, which opened in December 2011, will reduce the volume of waste sent tolandll by circa 80%.
