8QGHUVWDQGLQJ RXU VWUDWHJ DQG PDUNHWV Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Products and technology 3URGXFWV 3URGXFWV Shanks operations sustainably recycle and reprocess waste into valuable products.
We get 3URGXFW QG XVH DSSOLFDWLRQV FRQRPLF GULYHUV value from the products we make, but also have Electricity for national Electricity price UHHQ HQHUJ to pay to dispose of any non-recycled incoming grid or local industry Green certicates waste.
Our recycling rate is therefore the critical plus heat for municipal operational metric both for our economics services andour sustainable strategy.
Going forwards, we are reorienting the Group to be more product-focused.
This includes significant effort on driving productivity and on delivering outstanding operational performance.
The key products we produce throughout Fossil fuel substitute Coal and oil price 5HFRYHUHG theGroup are shown opposite.
forrange of industrial linkage IXHO applications 7HFKQRORJ e. g. cementkilns Shanks has proven capability and technological expertise and is a market-leader in implementing such technologies as Anaerobic Digestion AD, Mechanical Biological Treatment MBT and the production of high caloric value fuel from waste.
Our enhanced central framework is Substitutes for virgin Global recyclate 5HF FOHG leading to greater co-ordination in this area as materials in paper card, prices FRPPRGLWLHV expertise in technologies is shared throughout plastic, metals and the Group.
non-ferrous production The key types of technology we use throughout the Group are shown on page 26.
QYHVWPHQW SURJUDPPH The programme of significant strategic Range of agricultural, Local fertiliser HUWLOLVHU investments is key for the future development commercial and demand VRLO DQG ofthe Group.
Our programme is broadly industrial applications Soil aggregate DJJUHJDWHV balanced with no single project over 20m, prices butit is focused on the higher growth territories of the UK and Canada and focused on recycling and organics facilities.
Given our strong balance sheet and cash ow we are confident that this programme can be funded and gearing kept within our target of 2.5 times EBITDA.
Our investment criteria is to achieve an overall post tax return of 12% to 15% once the assets have reached normal operating capacity which is usually achieved in less than three years.
The first phase of our investment programme has reached the end of its investment cycle.
Theannualised post-tax return for the year to March 2012 for those projects fully operational was 12.2% and 6.7% for those still ramping up.
We continue to make good progress with the second 150m phase of which circa 65m ofprojects are underway.
Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 8QGHUVWDQGLQJ RXU VWUDWHJ DQG PDUNHWV Products and technology 7KH NH W SHV RI WHFKQRORJ ZH XVH WKURXJKRXW WKH URXS 7HFKQRORJ 'HVFULSWLRQ Sorting centres use rudimentary techniques to separate I&C and C&D waste into different 6RUWLQJ fractions for onward transfer to more specialised processing centres such as Materials FHQWUH Recycling Facilities MRFs.
MRFs use a combination of advanced optical, mechanical and manual sorting to separate 0DWHULDO co-mingled waste streams by shape, dimension, colour and material type to separate 5HF FOLQJ I&C C&D municipal recyclates into various materials to feed established recycling markets.
DFLOLW 05 Shanks operate a large number of MRFs across the Group.
MBTs use a combination of mechanical and biological treatment to dry, stabilise and sort 0HFKDQLFDO Municipal Solid Waste MSW into various materials to feed recycling markets and Solid %LRORJLFDO Recovered Fuel SRF for energy generation as a replacement for fossil fuel.
Shanks works 7UHDWPHQW in partnership with Sistema Ecodeco to deliver MBTs in the UK.
The process uses naturally 0%7 generated heat from the degradation of the organic fraction within the MSW prior to mechanical sorting into various recyclates and SRF.
Shanks is the sole waste management provider able to use Ecodeco technology in the UK.
AD enhances the natural breakdown in the absence of air of organic material from I&C and 2UJDQLFV municipal sources to generate biogas for conversion into renewable energy and digestate $QDHURELF for use as a nutrient rich soil conditioner.
'LJHVWLRQ Our Organics business, Orgaworld, has significant experience in the design, build and $' operation of installations and offers a wide scope of processing techniques for the total range of organic waste focusing on traceability and sustainability.
Composting enhances the natural breakdown in the presence of air of organic material 2UJDQLFV from I&C and municipal sources to generate a quality pathogen free soil enhancer &RPSRVWLQJ conditioner for use in landscaping and or agriculture.
This is a key technology in the growing Canadian market where there is limited competition.
There are three principal processes at the ATM plant in the Netherlands: D]DUGRXV Thermal treatment of contaminated soils :DVWH Biological and physio-chemical treatment of waste water VSHFLDOLVHG Pyrolysis of paint waste WUHDWPHQW ATM is one of the worlds largest single site hazardous waste facilities.
In addition, the SURFHVVHV Group operates industrial cleaning services to the oil and gas, petrochemical and other large industries.
Together, these businesses can offer the proposition of total care services for hazardous waste offering cleaning, logistics, handling, management and waste treatment solutions.
8QGHUVWDQGLQJ RXU VWUDWHJ DQG PDUNHWV Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 $Q H[DPSOH RI D VROLG ZDVWH 0DWHULDOV 5HF FOLQJ DFLOLW 05 DQG 6ROLG 5HFRYHUHG XHO 65 IDFLOLW Commerical waste inputs are processed using a combination of optical, mechanical and manualsorting to separate co-mingled waste streams.
The diagram shows the different types andpercentages of products recovered from the processes.
05 65 IDFLOLW 65 LJK FDORULILF &RDUVH 65 %ULFNV VDQG 2WKHU UHF FODWH DQGILOO LQFLQHUDWLRQ 49% 11% 23% 10% 7% Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 8QGHUVWDQGLQJ RXU VWUDWHJ DQG PDUNHWV Products and technology V Video online: www.
com theshanksgroup $Q H[DPSOH RI $QDHURELF 'LJHVWLRQ $' WHFKQRORJ AD is the process where, through biological activity, mixed organics and residual waste are converted into useful products.
The biogas generated isconverted into clean renewable energy and the residual material isrich in nutrients andcan be used as fertiliser.
6XSHUPDUNHW ZDVWH, QGXVWULDO DQG 0XQLFLSDO ZDVWH 6HSDUDWLRQ GHSDFNDJLQJ LTXLG SUHSDUDWLRQ %OHQGLQJ DQG NLOOLQJ SDWKRJHQV $' SURFHVV 3URGXFWV Biogas Plastics Heat Compost Bio Bio stimulators fertilisers Output Treatment Input 8QGHUVWDQGLQJ RXU VWUDWHJ DQG PDUNHWV Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 External drivers There are a number of external factors that influence the success 5HJXODWRU DQG OHJLVODWLYH of our business and future earnings growth.
These drivers are set Waste management is an essential service.
Inthe countries out and discussed below.
where the Group operates, there is a high level of regulation andenforcement and increasingly it is becoming asophisticated 6RFLDO DQG EXVLQHVV DWWLWXGHV industry using advanced technologies.
It is recognised that more sustainable forms of waste management The specic legislative drivers, both regulation and environmental have a role to play in accelerating the move to a low carbon taxation, are: economy.
In short we have to make more from the waste we create.
DQGILOO WD[ 0DFUR PDUNHW GULYHUV This is the key measure that is driving change in the industry.
Thistax is used by many European states to divert waste from The driving forces behind our industry are climate change, landll to more environmentally acceptable options such as greenhouse gas emissions, fossil fuel dependency and societys recycling and energy recovery.
The UK Government has need to manage waste without damaging the environment.
announced that landll tax rates will increase by 8 per tonne Biodegradable waste in landll is a major source of methane perannum to 80 per tonne by 2014 15, and moving towards emissions to the atmosphere.
Methane is a potent greenhouse rates in the Benelux of circa 90 per tonne.
The level in the UK gas with 21 times the impact of a carbon dioxide emission of from 1 April 2012 was 64 per tonne.
UHHQ HOHFWULFLW FHUWLILFDWHV Governments globally are responding with legislation and scal The dynamics of the energy markets has led to increased incentives to drive change.
pressure to nd alternative fuels and waste is one solution.
Manywaste based electricity generation projects qualify for renewable electricity subsidies and credits, available in various forms across Europe.
This is because a major component of waste derived fuels comprises renewable short carbon cycle materials, for example: wood, paper, and other vegetable matter.
6WURQJ JURZWK GULYHUV 6RFLDO DQG EXVLQHVV 0DFUR PDUNHW GULYHUV 5HJXODWRU DQG OHJLVODWLYH DWWLWXGHV Reduce greenhouse Landll tax gasemissions Preserve natural resources Green electricity certicates, QFUHDVLQJ QHHG IRU FRVW HIIHFWLYH VXVWDLQDEOH ZDVWH PDQDJHPHQW VROXWLRQV Limit fossil fuel dependency Carbon credits Protect local environments EU, national and localincentives FRQRPLF SUHVVXUHV DQG OLPLWHG FDSLWDO Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 8QGHUVWDQGLQJ RXU VWUDWHJ DQG PDUNHWV External drivers &DUERQ FUHGLWV FRQRPLF SUHVVXUHV Further to the increased cost of fossil fuels and DQG OLPLWHG FDSLWDO the need to limit our dependency, waste derived Underpinning these key legislative drivers is the fuels can be exempt from carbon emissions level of industrial activity.
Approximately 79% of calculations, thereby increasing the level of the Groups activities are derived from industrial interest in this alternative source.
and commercial I&C and construction and XURSHDQ 8QLRQ 8 QDWLRQDO DQG demolition C&D activities.
There is a relationship between the level of industrial activity and the ORFDO LQFHQWLYHV amount of waste generated.
In the EU, the level of environmental regulation is high, however unlike trade regulations there are Historically the drivers of waste volumes were no common standards for waste management.
well identied and volumes tracked industrial EU legislation sets minimum standards which output and consumption or population growth.
Each member state More recently however, there has been a is, however, free to exceed these standards fide-coupling of this linkage.
There are several inorder to follow their own political and reasons for this: environmental agendas.
Potential lag effect as certain sectors rebound 7KHUH DUH VWLOO The revised European Waste Framework at different rates.
VWURQJ JURZWK Directive published in November 2008 sets Acceleration in waste prevention in certain minimum energy recovery criteria and RSSRUWXQLWLHV sectors, for example in the UK.
introduces statutory recycling targets for Cost cutting initiatives in many companies IRU WKRVH member states to achieve by 2020 both asaresult of the economic crisis.
formunicipal waste, 50%, and construction FRPSDQLHV anddemolition waste, 70%.
Consequently underlying waste volumes are WKDW SRVLWLRQ becoming less directly linked to GDP growth Biodegradable waste, a key component of and industrial activity.
Despite this, there are municipal waste, is a major source of methane WKHPVHOYHV ZLWK stillstrong growth opportunities for those emissions from landll and a key objective of VXVWDLQDEOH companies that position themselves with theEuropean Landll Directive is to signicantly sustainable technologies that process the reduce the land-lling of biodegradable waste.
WHFKQRORJLHV wastethat is very rapidly being diverted away Based on 1995 levels, the Directive requires a from landll.
The Directive also aims to substantially The C&D market has a long cycle, resulting restrict other types of polluting waste that may inatime lag between movements in GDP be landlled.
C&D activity throughout the Group mirrors the cyclical The Canadian market is evolving rapidly and natureof these underlying markets.
The recent enforcing an increasing level of regulation.
As in pronouncements from Euroconstruct in Europe there is a drive for sustainable solutions November 2011 stated that the European and there is an increasing focus on organics as construction market will continue to register a technology.
negative growth in 2012 with a slow return to Restrictions on the export of waste from Canada growth in 2013 and 2014. to the United States and provincial legislation such as the Waste Diversion Act and Green Energy Act in Ontario are providing a similar framework for stimulating the movement of biodegradable waste out of landll to .
Open 8QGHUVWDQGLQJ RXU VWUDWHJ DQG PDUNHWV Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 In addition to volumes of waste available, macro-economics also affects pricing of waste inputs and the market value of recovered materials recyclates.
Income generated fromthe sale of recyclates represents circa 8% to 10% of the Groups solid waste revenue.
Thekey recovered materials include paper, metals, wood, glass and rubble.
When end market prices for these commodities are high, the gate fees for receipt of waste from customers will be lower as the customer isaware of the value of the materials in the wastedelivered and vice versa.
Limited capital resources means that governments and councils are currently looking for partners to work with them to provide solutions to their waste requirements.
In the UK Municipal market we are detecting early signs of a more difficult funding environment, together with local authorities planning for shorter term contracts and less capital intensive facilities.
The inter relationship between these drivers is explained further in our business model on the following pages.
$XWRPDWLF ZDVWH VHSDUDWLRQ Separating material by size and weight.
