Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 RYHUQDQFH Board of Directors $GULDQ $XHU BA, MBA, ACT Group Chairman Appointed: May 2005 and appointed Chairman in July 2006.
Chairmanof the Nomination Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee.
Skills and Experience: Adrian has held the position of Finance Director in a number of major companies, notably in the building materials and construction sectors, as well as senior finance positions with BP and ICI.
He is Chairman of Addaction, Britains largest specialist drug and alcohol treatment charity.
Adrian is considered by the Board to be independent.
Other Appointments: Chairman of Readymix plc, a non-executive director of Electrocomponents plc and AZ Electronic Materials S. A and the Senior Independent Director of Umeco plc.
3HWHU 'LOQRW B. Eng Group Chief Executive Appointed: February 2012.
Skills and Experience: Peter was appointed to the Board in February 2012.
Having graduated from the Royal Military Academy at Sandhurst, Peter spent nine years as an officer in the British Armed Forces.
Heoriginally trained as an Army helicopter pilot and subsequently saw active service with both NATO and the UN.
Peter then spent seven years at the Boston Consulting Group working in London and Chicago across arange of industries where he was a leader in its global Industrial and Sales & Marketing Practices.
In 2005, he joined Danaher Corporation where he was appointed Group President, Emerging Markets, of its Gilbarco Veeder-Root subsidiary and President of Danaher Middle East.
&KULV 6XUFK B. Com Acc, ACA Group Finance Director Appointed: May 2009.
Skills and Experience: Chris was appointed to the Board in May2009as Group Finance Director.
Following an early career with  he joined TI Group plc in 1995 holding a number of audit and finance roles.
Following the merger of TI Group withSmiths Group plc in December 2000 he went on to hold further senior finance roles, most recently as Finance Director of their SpecialtyEngineering division.
In the interregnum between Tom Drurys departure and PeterDilnots appointment, Chris performed the role of Acting Chief Executive in addition to the duties of Group Finance Director.
Chris will be stepping down from the Board and leaving the Company with effect from 31 August 2012 to join FirstGroup plc as Group FinanceDirector.
ULF YDQ $PHURQJHQ Senior Independent Director Appointed: February 2007 and as Senior Independent Director inJuly 2007.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee andmember of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Skills and Experience: Until January 2008 Eric was a non-executive director of Corus Group plc, a position he held for seven years.
Erichaswide ranging European business experience including thetelecoms, defence and publishing sectors.
He holds a number ofnon-executive and advisory positions.
Eric is considered by the Boardto be independent.
Other Appointments: Chairman of the Supervisory Boards of BTNederland BV and Thales Nederlands BV and also Supervisory Board Member of ANWB BV, HTT NV, Imtech NV, Royal Wegener NV and Essent NV.
RYHUQDQFH Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 3HWHURKQVRQ BA, ACA Non-executive Director Appointed: May 2005.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and amember of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Skills and Experience: Peter is a chartered accountant and was Finance Director of Taylor Wimpey plc from 2002 until October 2008.
Previously he has held a number of senior positions in the Financial Services sector including those of Group Finance Director of Henderson plc, Chief Financial officer for Pearl Assurance and Finance Director of Norwich Union Life.
He was until December 2010 a non-executive director of Oriel Securities Limited.
Peter is considered by the Board tobeindependent.
6WHSKHQ 5LOH B. Eng, PhD Non-executive Director Appointed: March 2007.
A member of the Audit, Remuneration andNomination Committees.
Skills and Experience: Stephen is currently the CEO and President, UK-Europe with International Power plc.
He has responsibility for European plant operations, finance, energy trading and business development.
He is a chartered engineer and joined International Power in 1985, holding senior positions in two UK power stations before being appointed Managing Director of their Australian operations in 2000.
FromJanuary 2004 to February 2011 he was a director of International Power plc, resigning from that Board following the amalgamation ofInternational Power and GDF SUEZ Energy International.
Stephenisconsidered by the Board to be independent.
-DFTXHV 3HWU MBA Non-executive Director Appointed: September 2010.
Skills and Experience: Jacques is currently Chairman and CEO of energy provider, Schilienne Sidec.
He was Chairman and Chief Executive of SITA and its parent company Suez Environnement.
In 2005 he was appointed Chief Executive of Sodexo Continental Europe and S. America.
Since 2007 he has advised corporate and financial sponsors, specialising in Infrastructure and Environmental Services investments worldwide.
Hehas extensive international non-executive andexecutive experience.
Jacques is considered by the Board to be independent.
Other Appointments: In September 2011 Jacques was appointed asShanks nominated director on the board of Hygea SCRL.
