Directors report and in the Financial review.
The financial position of the Group, its The Directors present their annual report on the cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described affairs of the Group together with the audited in the Liquidity and capital resources section of the Financial review.
The Financial review also includes information concerning consolidated financial statements for the year the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing ended December 31, 2012.
The Corporate capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its governance report set out on pages 38 to 47 hedging activity: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Details of the Groups financial instruments are disclosed in Note 20 forms part of this report.
to the consolidated financial statements.
Principal activities Shires balance sheet includes $1,482.2 million of cash and cash Shire plc the Company and its subsidiaries collectively referred equivalents at December 31, 2012.
Substantially all of Shires debt to as the Group or Shire is a leading specialty relates to its $1,100 million 2.75% convertible bonds which mature biopharmaceutical company that focuses on meeting the needs of in 2014.
In addition Shire has committed multicurrency revolving the specialist physician.
and swingline facilities of $1,200 million which mature in 2015 and are currently undrawn, the RCF.
Shire develops and provides healthcare in the areas of: The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has Q Behavioral Health and Gastro Intestinal conditions: adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Q Rare Genetic Diseases: and foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Q Regenerative Medicine: Purchase of own shares as well as other symptomatic conditions treated by specialist Shire has a strong balance sheet and continued robust cash physicians.
To serve different patient groups, Shire operates in generation, and considers efficient use of capital on behalf of three distinct business units: Specialty Pharmaceuticals, Human shareholders an important objective.
Therefore, during the year the Genetic Therapies and Regenerative Medicine.
Company commenced a share buy-back program, for the purpose The subsidiaries and equity method investees principally affecting of returning funds to shareholders, of up to $500 million through the profits and or net assets of Shire in 2012 are listed in Note 29 to both direct purchases of ordinary shares and through the purchase the consolidated financial statements, including their country of of Ordinary Shares underlying American Depositary Receipts incorporation.
The purchases have been made through an independent third party who makes its trading decisions independently of, and Business review uninuenced by the Company.
The independence of the third party Shire seeks to set out in this report a fair review of the business of enables the Company to continue to purchase ordinary shares the Group during the financial year to December 31, 2012, the including Ordinary Shares underlying ADRs during close periods position of the Group at the end of that financial year, and a and other prohibited periods, should they arise.
The shares description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the purchased to date are held as treasury shares.
The information that fullls the requirements of the Business review can be found in the Chairmans review on pages 2 to 3, the During the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company made Chief Executive Ofcers review on pages 4 to 5 and the Financial on-market repurchases totaling 3,631,571 Ordinary Shares at a review on pages 24 to 35, which are all incorporated in this report cost of $106.4 million excluding transaction costs.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group 0.65% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the year as well as the Groups risk management objectives and policies end.
Ordinary Shares purchased can be canceled or held as can be found on pages 18 to 23. treasury shares, in accordance with the authority renewed by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM There were no significant events subsequent to the balance sheet on April 24, 2012, when the Company was authorized to make date.
market purchases of up to 56,253,208 of its own Ordinary Shares.
Results and dividends That authority will expire at the 2013 AGM and in accordance with The income before income taxes, and equity in earnings of usual practice a resolution to renew it for another year will be equity method investees for the year to December 31, 2012 was proposed.
The net assets of Shire at Directors interests in material contracts December 31, 2012 were $3,809.2 million 2011: $3,185.0 million.
Other than the insurance indemnity provisions disclosed under In respect of the six months to December 31, 2012 the Board Directors liability insurance and indemnification below, none of resolved to pay a second interim dividend of 14.60 US cents 2011: the Directors had a material interest in any contract of signicance 12.59 US cents per Ordinary Share.
Together with the first interim to which the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was a payment of 2.73 US cents 2011: 2.48 US cents per Ordinary party during the period under review.
Share, this represents total dividends of 17.33 US cents 2011: Related party transactions 15.07 US cents per Ordinary Share.
There were no related party transactions in the year to Share capital December 31, 2012.
At December 31, 2012, the Companys issued share capital Directors comprised 562,546,335 Ordinary Shares.
Further details of Biographical details of Directors who have served on the Board the authorized and called up capital of the Company as at during the year appear on pages 36 and 37.
December 31, 2012 are set out in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
Details of the current Directors interests in the share capital of the Company, together with details of the share awards granted to Liquidity, cash ow and going concern Executive Directors, are disclosed in the Directors remuneration The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to report on page 67. affect its future development, performance and financial position are set out in the Chairmans and Chief Executive Ofcers reviews 68 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Directors liability insurance and indemnification Our people In the year under review, the Group maintained an insurance policy As of December 31, 2012, Shire employed over 5,300 people with for its Directors and Ofcers in respect of liabilities arising out of any operations in 29 countries.
act, error or omission whilst acting in their capacity as Directors or Ofcers.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions were also in 1 Employment by country place during the year under review for the benefit of Directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may potentially 1 US 67% incur to third parties in the course of their duties.
These remain in 2 UK 10% 5 force at the date of this report.
3 Switzerland 4% 4 4 Ireland 2% Research and development 3 5 All Other Geographies 17% Shire has incurred, under its research and development program, 1 costs of $965.5 million in the financial year to December 31, 2012 2 2011: $770.7 million.
These costs have been charged to the consolidated income statement in accordance with Shires accounting policy.
Substantial shareholdings As at the date of this report, the Company had been notied of the Diversity and inclusion following holdings in voting rights of 3% or more in the issued Our success continues to be delivered by our diverse employee Ordinary Share capital of the Company: talent around the world.
We value both genders, all ages, cultures, Number of % of issued experiences and backgrounds as we build and grow our global 1 ordinary shares share capital organization.
Shire is an Equal Opportunity employer and strives to ensure that there is no discrimination against anyone applying for a BlackRock Inc. 56,533,559 10.14% job or in employment for reasons related to race, religion, national FMR LLC 27,861,459 5.00% origin, disability or on any other personal characteristics.
Legal and General Group plc 22,269,735 4.00% We do not have diversity targets or quotas or focus exclusively on 1 Excludes treasury shares.
one group of employees over and above any other.
What we do Charitable and political donations focus on is fostering our brave culture, which aims to provide all our During the year donations to charities including matching of funds employees with a supportive environment that values diverse raised by employees, not-for-profit organizations and entities opinions and experiences and enables individual, group and supporting medical education amounting to $4.9 million were organizational success.
In 2012 we focused on leveraging our made of which $0.3 million were made in the UK.
Shire did not diversity to drive our vision to imagine and lead the future of make any donations to political parties during the year ended healthcare.
We developed a diversity and inclusion philosophy December 31, 2012 2011: $nil.
statement that will be broadly communicated in 2013.
It sets forth our belief in the power of our collective differences in which all Shires approach to responsibility people are valued, everyones voice is heard, and as a result, Corporate responsibility is embedded at Shire and is a clear innovation thrives.
Individual performance reviews include an evaluation of how goals were achieved, not just that they In all hiring and employment practices, Shire is committed to were achieved.
This commitment to responsibility is supported by ensuring that it does not discriminate against qualied individuals our Board of Directors, championed by the Chief Executive and who have a disability.
The Company further asserts its commitment driven forward by Shires senior leaders.
to fair treatment and reasonable accommodation of applicants or employees disabilities in accordance with all applicable laws in the For further information, please refer to pages 16 to 17 and Shires respective locations of all Shire facilities.
This includes, but is not website at www.
com cr limited to discrimination with respect to hiring, promotion, performance management, discharge, compensation, benets, training, and all other aspects of employment.
The Company protects its employees who believe they are victims of discrimination.
Each Shire subsidiary has a formal process designed to stop any such behavior and to deal appropriately with the offender.
All matters related to discrimination are treated with discretion and diligence and in accordance with established procedure and applicable laws.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 69 Directors report 1 Gender breakdown Leadership and development Part of our people strategy is to create a sustainable pipeline of Overall internal talent that will deliver on our Companys vision.
We do this Shire through the training and development of our workforce, and the Board of nurturing of top talent within the organization.
This helps ensure Directors that we retain important knowledge and experience, as well as Leadership Team provide employees with opportunities to realize their full potential.
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Our goal is to have possible successors in place for all of our leaders, therefore, succession plans for our Leadership Team are Female Male reviewed by our Board of Directors once a year, and this process is 1 Data as at December 31, 2012. replicated by management throughout the organization at all levels.
This helps Shire ensure that our high performing employees are We are currently able to track and report ethnic diversity in the US fully prepared for opportunities as they become available.
We have and we do this by using the US Equal Employment Opportunity formal development plans in place for each of the Leadership Team Commission denition.
Ethnic minorities accounted for 21% of our successors to round out their experience and skills and provide US employee population in 2012. them every possible chance of progressing in their careers at Shire.
Employee engagement The development of our future leaders is crucial to our success.
In We believe that an engaged workforce results in greater employee line with this, 21% of our advertised roles were lled by internal loyalty, better ideas, and stronger commitment, and ultimately, candidates in 2012.
Last year, we began to assess leaders against helps us to continuously improve as a company.
Research has a set of capabilities which we believe are required to deliver on our shown that the most important factor contributing to employee vision.
The assessment included both the hiring of new leaders, engagement is an employees relationship with his or her manager.
and the development of existing ones.
Our plans are to more Thats why we have established considerable resources to help our broadly communicate Shires leadership capabilities across the managers be the best they can.
This includes an online resource organization, and further incorporate them into our talent center.
Our pay for performance philosophy provides managers development practices in 2013. with a variety of programs to recognize and reward employee contributions and our employee equity plans enables employees to Health and safety have a vested interest in the success of the business.
Creating a safe and pleasant work environment for our employees is a high priority.
For Shire, this incorporates not just the physical Engagement happens at every level of the business, from the aspects of our employees work environment, but also the one-on-one goal setting and performance discussions between promotion of healthy lifestyles and behaviors and the prevention of managers and employees, to the all-employee meetings held at injury and accidents.
We have high standards in this area, and a many of our major sites.
Shire communicates with all employees strong track record of achievement, because we believe that strong via an active internal communications program which includes a occupational health and safety performance is a key component in worldwide intranet, all-employee emails from the CEO, our own employee performance and engagement, making Shire a worldsocial networking platform, and a quarterly, global employee class organization.
In addition to high expectations within our own magazine which was taken online in 2012 to promote greater organization, we evaluate the health and safety performance of our engagement and dialog, and enable more effective and efficient partners and suppliers as well, and their performance is taken into two-way communication.
In addition, our CEO communicates with consideration when choosing new partners and suppliers.
Shire employees around the world online and in real time via a quarterly question and answer session.
Within each business and Code of Ethics function, the respective leaders develop their own internal The Group is committed to the maintenance of high ethical communications strategies and plans to ensure that employees are standards.
The Groups Code of Ethics applies to all Directors and kept aware of organizational developments and priorities and have employees.
An expanded version of The Code of Ethics was the opportunity to exchange views.
reviewed and approved by Shires Board in February 2013 and is available for review on Shires website.
To help us measure how well we are doing in engaging our workforce, since 2008 we have conducted a global, biennial Payment of creditors employee engagement survey.
It is Shires policy to agree payment terms with all its suppliers, making sure the supplier is aware of those terms, and abides by them.
As at December 31, 2012 the Group trade creditors days outstanding based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year were 17 days 2011: 29 days.
70 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Financial instruments Additional information for shareholders Details of Shires use of financial instruments can be found in Note Rights and obligations attaching to shares 20 to the consolidated financial statements.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Ordinary Shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles.
The Audit information Articles may only be changed by special resolution of the members Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this of the Company.
report confirms that: Issue of shares Q so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Subject to applicable statutes and subject to and without prejudice information of which the Groups auditor is unaware: and to any rights attached to existing shares, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by special Q the Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken resolution decide or, if no such resolution has been passed or so as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any far as the resolution does not make specic provision, as the Board relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups may decide.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Jersey Law auditor is aware of that information.
1991, as amended the Companies Act and other shareholders significant agreements rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the Voting counterparties to exercise the following rights in the event of a It is the Companys practice to hold a poll on every resolution at change of control of the Company: general meetings.
Every member present in person or by proxy Q under the $1,100 million 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014 has, upon a poll, one vote for every share held by him.
In the case issued by the Company pursuant to a trust deed dated May 9, of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, 2007 and a supplemental trust deed dated April 15, 2008, upon whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion a change of control bondholders will, for 60 days after receiving of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority notice of the change of control, be able to exercise their right to shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the convert their bonds into Ordinary Shares in the Company at a register of members in respect of the joint holding.
more advantageous price than normal, as specified in the terms As at December 31, 2012 the Shire Employee benefit Trust held and conditions of the bonds, unless the change of control is 1.24% of the issued share capital of the Company on trust for the effected by a Scheme of Arrangement which results in the benefit of participants in the Companys employee share plans.
interposition of a new holding company between the Companys The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the shareholders and the Company, and certain other conditions are Trustee.
The Trustee may vote or abstain from voting in any way met an Exempt Scheme.
With respect to an offer or a scheme it thinks t and in doing so may take into account both financial to acquire all or most of the Ordinary Shares in the Company, and non financial interests of the beneciaries of the Trust or their further requirements are also imposed on the Company, dependants.
Historically the Trustee has not exercised its right including a requirement to notify bondholders of the offer or to vote.
scheme and to use reasonable endeavors to procure the making of an equivalent offer to bondholders, unless the scheme is an Restrictions on voting Exempt Scheme.
For these purposes, a change of control is No member shall, unless the Board otherwise decides, be entitled dened as the acquisition, pursuant to an offer or a scheme, by a to attend or vote at any general or class meeting in respect of any party of the ability to control more than half the votes at a general shares held if any call or other sum payable by him remains unpaid.
meeting of the Company: and Also, a member may not be entitled to attend or vote if served with a restriction notice as dened in the Articles.
Q under the $1,200 million credit facility agreement dated November 23, 2010 between, amongst others, the Company The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of and a number of its subsidiaries, Barclays Bank plc as the facility securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
agent and the banks and financial institutions named therein as lenders, upon a change of control any lender may, following not The Company maintains an American Depositary Receipt ADR less than 30 days notice, cancel its commitments and require program in the US.
Each American Depositary Share ADS prepayment of its participation in any outstanding loans.
For represents three Ordinary Shares.
An ADS is evidenced by an these purposes, a change of control occurs if any person or ADR issued by Citibank, N. A. as depositary, and is listed on the group of persons acting in concert gains the ability to control NASDAQ Global Select Market.
Each ADS holder is entitled to more than half the votes at a general meeting of the Company the financial rights attaching to such shares although the ADR or holds more than half the equity share capital of the Company.
depositary is the registered holder of the shares.
A waiver of the mandatory prepayment provision would require the consent of each lender under the agreement.
As at February 25, 2013, no amounts are outstanding under the credit facility agreement.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 71 Directors report Dividends and distributions Powers of the Directors Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company may Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Articles and by ordinary resolution from time to time, declare dividends not directions given by the Company in general meeting by special exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
Subject to the resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board Companies Act, the Board may pay interim dividends, and also any which may exercise all the powers of the Company whether relating xed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of the Company, to the management of the business of the Company or not.
In in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge all or any part of the The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends undertaking, property and assets present and future and uncalled or other monies payable in respect of the shares from a person capital of the Company and, subject to the Companies Act, to with a 0.25% interest as dened in the Articles if such person has issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or as been served with a restriction notice as dened in the Articles after collateral security, for a debt, liability or obligation of the Company failure to provide the Company with information concerning or of a third party.
interests in those shares required to be provided under the Articles.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Shire has put in place income access share arrangements which Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution enable shareholders to elect to receive their dividends from a Shire or by the Board.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed ordinarily Group company resident for tax purposes in the UK.
A shareholder for a term of two years, subject to shareholder approval.
Rewho holds 25,000 or fewer shares at the first dividend record date appointment of Non-Executive Directors following the expiry of their after first becoming a shareholder will be deemed to have made an term of appointment is subject to Board approval.
The Board may Income Access Share IAS Election such that dividends will be from time to time appoint one or more Directors to hold any paid from a UK tax resident company, unless the shareholder executive ofce for such period and on such terms as it may noties the Company in writing to the contrary.
Pursuant to the determine and may also revoke or terminate any such appointment.
Articles, where any dividend is paid by the Company, an amount is paid to the IAS Trustee representing the dividend entitlement of The Articles provide that at each AGM all those Directors who have persons who have elected to receive dividends from a UK resident been appointed by the Board since the last AGM, or who held company and such amount is paid by the IAS Trustee to ofce at the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire shareholders who have made or are deemed to have made an IAS at either of them, or who has held ofce with the Company, other Election.
The dividend which would otherwise be payable by Shire than executive ofce, for a continuous period of nine years or more to such shareholders will be reduced by an amount equal to the at the date of the meeting, shall retire from ofce and may offer amount paid to such shareholders by the IAS Trustee.
If the himself for re-election by the members.
dividend paid on the IAS and on-paid by the IAS Trustee to Notwithstanding the provisions in the Articles, in accordance with shareholders is less than the total amount of the dividend the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will be subject to announced or declared by Shire on its Ordinary Shares, Shire will annual re-election.
be obliged to pay a dividend on its Ordinary Shares equivalent to the amount of the shortfall.
The income access share arrangements may be suspended or terminated at any time and for On behalf of the Board any reason by the Company, without financial recompense to shareholders.
Variation of rights Subject to the Companies Act, rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with written consent of the holders of not less Tatjana May than two thirds in nominal value of the issued shares of that class Company Secretary calculated excluding any shares held as treasury stock or with the February 25, 2013 sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of those shares.
At each such separate general meeting, except an adjourned meeting, the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy not less than one third in nominal value of the issued shares of that class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury stock.
Restrictions on transfer of shares There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company, except: i that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws : and ii pursuant to the Listing Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys Ordinary Shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
