Responsibility Living up to our responsibilities.
We know that putting patients at the heart of Focusing our responsibilities on everything we do in order to enable them to delivering the greatest value lead better lives creates big responsibilities for We focus on responsibility in all aspects of our business.
Talking with stakeholders to nd out what really mattered to them, we us.
Many of the people who use our treatments identied two areas of responsibility that are of greatest importance depend on us not just occasionally or short to patients, physicians, policy makers and payors: access to medicines and disease awareness.
term but for much of the rest of their lives.
We want to live up to our responsibilities by delivering Access to medicines People rely on our treatments to help them to lead better lives, so significant and lasting value to patients, the world overcoming some of the barriers to accessing these treatments is of healthcare and society as a whole.
It involves not just access to existing treatments but also creating and making available new treatments that currently For us, responsibility is about creating a sustainable business with dont exist for life-altering conditions around the world.
It also covers a vibrant, inventive and ethical culture that will help people lead making treatments physically available for patients.
And of course better, fuller lives today, tomorrow and well into the future.
helping patients with affordability issues is another key aspect.
Responsibility runs throughout every aspect of our business and is Our HGT business established a new global access program to distilled to a simple question we ask ourselves day in day out as we support patients suffering from rare diseases around the world.
work to help patients to lead better lives: What is the right thing to do?
This is part of our ongoing commitment to expand humanitarian access to our medicinal products and broaden our philanthropic efforts.
We plan to have a program fully in place in 2013 which will Prioritising Access provide a valuable resource to patients and their families, patient to medicines and advocacy groups, and physicians around the world now and into the future.
Disease awareness Society Being responsible runs through every aspect off our business.
For us, it means acting wiith integrity and courage.
It boils dow wn to answering one simple yet fun ndamental question throughout our business: What is the right thing to do?
Overview This Global Charitable Access Initiative includes partnering with Fullling all our responsibilities international humanitarian aid organizations, such as AmeriCares, While we began to give additional attention to access to medicines to deliver donated medicines, building local medical capacity and disease awareness in 2012, we also continued to focus on and through clinical training, and supporting awareness and advocacy fulll our other core responsibilities.
This was led by our sponsors efforts.
Independent Medical Expert Committees MECs are who focus on a dozen areas, including the environment, our people being established to review all requests for charitable access.
The sponsors are senior leaders in Shire with MEC structure is an important part of our commitment to provide cross-business understanding who maintain high standards and charitable access as fairly as possible for patients in need around ensure progress across their particular area of responsibility.
Staying close to our stakeholders Disease awareness We recognise the importance of seeking external input from Disease awareness is about helping to make sure the conditions key stakeholders such as patients, physicians and other key our products treat are properly understood.
For many people, stakeholders to understand what is most important to them, particularly those with rare conditions or a condition like ADHD and regularly consult and engage with them on these important which is often misunderstood, creating fact-based and evidenceareas.
During the year we engaged with investors, patient based understanding and awareness is key to enabling proper groups and policy makers on a range of issues including our diagnosis and treatment.
We aim to share our expertise and environmental approaches and disclosures, philanthropy and provide balanced, reliable and scientically sound information to access to medicines as well as our approach to marketing and help improve understanding and appreciation of difficult and disease awareness.
We do this in a variety of ways, for example Recognised for our responsibility by sponsoring new research and conducting educational work with We were pleased to be recognised and included again in the doctors, patients and policy makers.
FTSE4Good, scoring 91 out of 100 in their EGS ratings, improving Our RM business has set up Heal2gether a free community on our 2011 rating.
We also received further recognition from the health education program dedicated to raising awareness in the US United States Green Building Council and the Leadership in Energy of the importance of proactively treating diabetic foot ulcers and Environmental Design for 200 Shire Way, our new state-of-theDFUs.
If left untreated, DFUs, which affect about 25% of people art lab facility in Lexington, Massachusetts.
with diabetes, may not heal and may lead to serious complications.
Sharing and improving As a result, it is critical for anyone with a DFU to seek treatment We communicate widely and regularly on responsibility with all our immediately from a wound care specialist.
The goal of Heal2gether stakeholders through our bi-annual publication, our intranet, our is to provide patients and healthcare providers with the resources newsletter, and on our website, www.
Were always they need to understand what DFUs are, why patients need to take interested to hear feedback and suggestions on how we can be an special care of their feet, how to identify early warning signs, and even more responsible organisation.
how to prevent them in the future.
Our SP business has launched the ADHD Shared Focus program to provide non-prescribing behavioral health professionals with insights and materials to improve their own psychology and counseling practices and help the patients and families they see.
The program provides educational resources that focus on the needs of different patients, bearing in mind the various literacy skills of the children, teens, adults and caregivers who are affected by ADHD.
From our HGT business, we are providing financial and logistical support to Positive Exposure, an organization set up to support and promote human dignity through a photographic data bank and video interviews of people living with genetic conditions.
Our support is helping Positive Exposure to create Hunter in Focus a non-branded global disease awareness program that captures on camera the beauty of people with Hunter syndrome.
Organizing for greatest effect M Mor ore online at: e online at: We have more than a dozen sponsors in focus areas such as the www www.
shir shire e. com cr com cr environment, our people and the community.
The sponsors are responsible for setting goals which support our overall strategy, ensuring progress and maintaining high standards.
They include senior representatives from legal, R&D, human resources, environment, health & safety, compliance and risk management, facilities, corporate communications, and community relations.
In 2012 we created two working groups for each of our two key areas of focus, made up of senior people from across all three of our businesses.
We also established a new Responsibility Steering and Communications Group RCSG which facilitates the working groups, sponsors and communications.
Our approach is championed by our CEO, supported by the Leadership Team and endorsed by our Board.
