Board of Directors Matthew Emmens 61 Graham Hetherington 54 Chairman Chief Financial officer Matthew was appointed Chairman on June 18, 2008 and has been a Graham has been the Chief Financial officer and a member of the Board member of the Board since March 12, 2003.
He is also a member of the since July 1, 2008.
He is also a member of the Leadership Team.
He was the Companys Chief Executive officer Graham brings to his position a broad range of international finance from March 2003 to June 2008.
Matthew brings to the Board his management and planning, audit, risk management and M&A experience.
operational knowledge of Shire and his wealth of international sales, He was Chief Financial officer of Bacardi in 2007 and Chief Financial marketing, integration and operational experience in the pharmaceutical officer of Allied Domecq plc from 1999 to 2005.
Graham is a Fellow of sector.
Matthew is a Director of Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc.
He served as the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Chairman, CEO and President of Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. from 2009 until early 2012 and is a former Director of Incyte Corporation.
Matthew began his career in international pharmaceuticals with Merck & Co, Inc. in 1974, where he held a wide range of sales, marketing and David Kappler 65 administrative positions.
In 1992, he helped to establish Astra Merck Inc. a Deputy Chairman and Senior joint venture between Merck and Astra AB of Sweden, becoming President Independent Non-Executive Director and Chief Executive officer.
In 1999, he joined Merck KGaA and established EMD Pharmaceuticals, the companys US prescription pharmaceutical business.
He later served as President of Merck KGaAs David has been a member of the Board since April 5, 2004.
He was global prescription pharmaceuticals business in Germany.
Matthew appointed Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in July 2007 and holds a degree in Business Management.
He is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee and of the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee.
David brings to the Board his extensive knowledge and experience in financial reporting, risk management and internal financial controls.
He is a Non-Executive Director of InterContinental Hotels Group plc.
Angus Russell 57 He was Chairman of Premier Foods plc until September 2010 and held Chief Executive officer directorships at Camelot Group plc and HMV Group plc.
David retired from Cadbury Schweppes plc in April 2004 after serving as Chief Financial officer since 1995.
He worked for the Cadbury Schweppes Group between Angus was appointed Chief Executive officer on June 18, 2008 and has 1965 and 1984 and rejoined the company in 1989 following its acquisition of been a member of the Board since December 13, 1999.
He is also the Trebor Group, where he was Financial Director.
David is a Fellow of the Chairman of the Companys Leadership Team and was the Companys Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Chief Financial officer from December 1999 to June 2008.
Angus brings to his position his operational knowledge of Shire and his extensive finance, risk management, strategic and operational experience in the pharmaceutical sector.
He is a Non-Executive Director of InterMune, Inc. and is a former Non-Executive Director of the City of London William Burns 65 Investment Trust plc.
Between 1980 and 1999, he held a number of Non-Executive Director positions of increasing responsibility at ICI, Zeneca and AstraZeneca PLC, including Vice President, Corporate Finance at AstraZeneca and Group William was appointed to the Board on March 15, 2010 and is a member of Treasurer at Zeneca.
Angus is a Chartered Accountant and is a Fellow the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee and of the of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
William brings to the Board extensive experience in international sales, marketing, integration and operational experience in the pharmaceutical sector.
He is a Director of Biotie Therapies Corp. Roche Holdings Ltd, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd and Genentech, Inc. and is a former Dr. Flemming Ornskov 55 Director of Crucell N. V. Chief Executive officer Designate William worked for many years for Roche, holding the position of CEO of their pharmaceuticals division from 2005 to 2009 and was a member of the Flemming was appointed Chief Executive officer Designate and a member Roche Group Corporate Executive Committee.
He is also a member of the Companys Leadership Team and will assume the role of Chief Executive officer from April 30, 2013.
Flemming brings to his position his operational and medical knowledge and his extensive international, strategic and operational experience in the pharmaceutical sector.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of Evotec AG and is a former Non-Executive Director of PCI Biotech Holding ASA.
Flemming held the position of Chief Marketing officer and Global Head, Strategic Marketing for General and Specialty Medicine at Bayer from 2010 to 2012.
Prior to joining Bayer, Flemming served as Global President, Pharmaceuticals and OTC at Bausch & Lomb, Inc. from 2008 to 2010.
He also served as Chairman and later as President and Chief Executive officer of Life-Cycle Pharma A S from 2006 to 2008, and President and Chief Executive officer of Ikaria, Inc. from 2005 to 2006.
Earlier in his pharmaceutical career he had roles of increasing responsibility at Merck & Co. Inc. and Novartis AG, following a distinguished period in hospital and academic medicine.
Flemming received his MD from the University of Copenhagen, MBA from INSEAD, and Master of Public Health from Harvard University.
36 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Dr. Steven Gillis 49 Anne Minto OBE 59 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Steven was appointed to the Board on October 1, 2012 and is a member of Anne was appointed to the Board on June 16, 2010 and is Chairman of the the Science & Technology Committee and of the Remuneration Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
Anne brings to the Board her extensive legal, commercial and He brings to the Board his extensive technical and scientific knowledge remuneration experience.
She is a Non-Executive Director of Tate & Lyle and commercial experience.
Steven is currently a Managing Director at PLC and is a former Director of Northumbrian Water plc and SITA UK.
ARCH Venture Partners, a provider of venture capital for technology rms, Anne held the position of Group Director, Human Resources at Centrica where he is focused on the evaluation of new life science technologies and plc from October 2002 to 30 June 2011 and was a member of the Centrica the development and growth of ARCHs biotechnology portfolio Executive Committee.
Her extensive business career includes senior companies.
Prior to this, Steven was a founder and director of Corixa management roles at Shell UK, the position of Deputy Director-General of Corporation, acquired by GlaxoSmithKline in 2005.
Prior to starting Corixa, the Engineering Employers Federation and the position of Group Director he was a founder and director of Immunex Corporation.
Human Resources at Smiths Group plc.
Following her law degree at An immunologist by training, Steven has authored more than 300 Aberdeen University and a postgraduate diploma in Human Resources peer-reviewed publications in the areas of molecular and tumor she qualied as a lawyer.
Anne is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of immunology.
He is credited as being a pioneer in the eld of cytokines and Personnel & Development, the Royal Society of Arts and the London City cytokine receptors, directing the development of multiple marketed and Guilds and a Member of Law Society of Scotland.
She is a trustee of products including Leukine, GM-CSF, Prokine IL-2 and Enbrel soluble the University of Aberdeen Development Trust and is Patron of the TNF receptor-Fc fusion protein as well as the regulatory approval of Bexxar University of Aberdeen Alumni Fund.
radiolabeled anti-CD20 and the novel vaccine adjuvant, MPL.
Steven received his BA from Williams College and his Ph.
David Stout 58 Non-Executive Director David was appointed to the Board on October 31, 2009 and is a member Dr. David Ginsburg 60 of the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee and of the Remuneration Non-Executive Director Committee.
David was appointed to the Board on June 16, 2010 and is a member of David brings to the Board extensive international sales, marketing, the Science & Technology Committee.
operational and supply chain experience gained in the pharmaceutical sector.
He is a Director of Jabil Circuit, Inc. and Airgas Inc. and is a former David brings to the Board his clinical medical background in Internal Director of Allos Therapeutics, Inc. Medicine, Hematology-Oncology, and Medical Genetics, as well as his extensive basic biomedical laboratory research expertise.
He is currently David was President, Pharmaceutical Operations at GlaxoSmithKline, James V. Neel Distinguished University Professor of Internal Medicine where he was responsible for the companys global pharmaceutical Human Genetics, and Pediatrics at the University of Michigan and a operations, from January 2003 to February 2008.
Prior to that, he was Howard Hughes Medical Institute Investigator.
David obtained his BA at President of GlaxoSmithKlines US Pharmaceuticals Business and before Yale University, MD at Duke University and completed his medical and that SmithKline Beechams North American Pharmaceuticals Business.
research training at Harvard Medical School, before joining the faculty Before joining SmithKline Beecham, David worked for many years at at the University of Michigan.
David is the recipient of numerous honors Schering-Plough.
David holds a BA in biology.
and awards, including election to membership in the National Academy of Sciences, the Institute of Medicine and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Former Non-Executive Director Dr. Jeffrey Leiden 57 Vice Chairman and Non-Executive Director Jeffrey was a member of the Board from January 2007 to January 2012, Susan Kilsby 54 and was Vice Chairman from April 2009 to January 2012.
He was also a Non-Executive Director member of the Remuneration Committee and of the Nomination Committee and Chairman of the Science & Technology Committee until January 2012.
Susan was appointed to the Board on September 1, 2011 and is a member of the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee.
Jeffrey brought to the Board his extensive operational experience in pharmaceutical companies and his operational and scientific experience Susan brings to the Board extensive M&A and finance experience.
in clinical research, development and registration.
Jeffrey is Chairman, She is a Non-Executive Director of BBA Aviation plc and was a Director President and Chief Executive officer of Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. of Hong Kong listed global skin care company, LOccitane International S. A until December 2012.
Susan has had a distinguished global career Jeffrey was a Managing Director at Clarus Ventures LLC and held board in investment banking having held senior positions with The First Boston positions at a number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.
Corporation, Bankers Trust, Barclays fide Zoete Wedd and most recently He was President and Chief Operating officer, Pharmaceutical Products Credit Suisse where she was Chairman of the EMEA Mergers & Group and Chief scientific officer at Abbott Laboratories from 2001 to Acquisitions team until 2009 and continues in a part-time senior 2006: during this time he held directorships at Abbott and TAP advisory capacity.
Susan holds a BA in Economics and a MBA.
Prior to joining Abbott, Jeffrey held several academic appointments.
Jeffrey holds a medical degree, a PhD, and an honorary MA from Harvard University.
