Directors report | Governance | Board of directors 36 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 13 24 1 Charles Sinclair 3 John Bason Chairman age 64 Finance Director age 55 Charles was appointed a non-executive director in October 2008 and as John was appointed as Finance Director in May 1999.
He was previously Chairman in April 2009.
With wide business experience of both the UK and the finance director of Bunzl plc and is a member of the Institute of overseas, his executive career was latterly with Daily Mail and General Chartered Accountants for England and Wales.
Trust plc, where he was chief executive from 1989 until he retired from Other appointments: He is a non-executive director of Compass Group that role and the board in September 2008.
PLC, a trustee of Voluntary Service Overseas and deputy chairman of the Other appointments: He is a non-executive director of SVG Capital plc.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration committees.
4 Peter Smith Independent non-executive director age 66 2 George G Weston Peter was appointed a director in February 2007 and brings extensive Chief Executive age 48 experience of international financial matters.
Formerly, he was senior George was appointed to the board in 1999 and took up his current partner at  PwC in the UK.
He served for two appointment as Chief Executive in April 2005.
In his former roles at ABF, years as chairman of Coopers & Lybrand International and as a member he was Managing Director of Westmill Foods, Allied Bakeries and George of the global leadership team of PwC.
He was also chairman of RAC plc Weston Foods Ltd Australia.
and a non-executive director of Safeway plc.
Other appointments: He is a non-executive director of Wittington Other appointments: He is chairman of Savills plc and Templeton Emerging Investments Limited and a trustee of the Gareld Weston Foundation.
Markets Investment Trust plc, and a member of the supervisory board of Paris Orlans SCA.
He is also chairman of the Land Restoration Trust.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Audit committee and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration committees.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Governance | Board of directors 37 57 68 5 Lord Jay of Ewelme GCMG 7 Javier Ferrn Independent non-executive director age 66 Independent non-executive director age 56 Lord Jay was appointed a director in November 2006 and has broad Javier was appointed a director in November 2006.
He spent the earlier experience of government and international business.
During his career part of his career with Bacardi Group, where latterly he served as president in public service he was British Ambassador to France from 1996 to 2001 and chief executive officer.
He has extensive experience of consumer and Permanent Under Secretary at the Foreign & Commonwealth Ofce brands on an international basis and in international nancing.
Other appointments: He is currently a partner at Lion Capital LLP, Other appointments: He is a non-executive director of Candover a London-based private equity rm.
Investments plc, Valeo the French-based automobile parts company and Committee membership: Member of the Nomination and Remuneration committees.
He has been an independent member of the House of Lords since 2006 and is chairman of the House of Lords Appointments 8 Emma Adamo Commission.
He also chairs the Trustees of the international medical aid Non-executive director age 49 charity Merlin, and is a member of the British Library Advisory Council.
Emma was appointed as a director in December 2011.
She was educated at Stanford University and INSEAD in France.
Committee membership: Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration committees.
Other appointments: She is a director of Wittington Investments Limited.
6 Timothy Clarke Independent non-executive director age 55 Tim was appointed a director in November 2004 and has been Senior Independent Director since December 2007.
Tim has extensive experience of retailing.
Until 2009, he was chief executive of Mitchells & Butlers plc, following its demerger from Six Continents PLC where he also held the position of chief executive.
Previously he had been a partner of Panmure Gordon & Co before joining Bass PLC in 1990.
Other appointments: He is a non-executive director of two pub and brewing companies, Hall & Woodhouse Limited, and Timothy Taylor & Company Limited, and also Triple Point VCT 2011 PLC.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012
