Directors report | Governance | Other disclosures 59 OTHER DISCLOSURES Business review Charitable and political donations The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to set out in the Contributions to charitable organisations by the group during the Directors report a fair review of the business of the Company during year totalled 3.4m 2011 2.7m.
No political donations were the financial year ended 15 September 2012 including an analysis of made during the year.
the position of the business at the end of the financial year and a Financial instruments description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Details of the groups use of financial instruments, together with Company the Business review.
The purpose of the Business information on our risk objectives and policies and our exposure to review is to enable shareholders to assess how the directors have price, credit, liquidity, cash flow and interest rate risks, can be found performed their duties under section 172 of the Companies Act in note 24 on pages 96 to 107.
2006, being the duty to promote the success of the Company.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Payments to suppliers review can be found in the following sections of this report: The Company has no material trade creditors but has a group policy on payment of suppliers set out in its business principles t Chairmans statement on pages 14 and 15: which states that the group settles its bills promptly, being a t Our group at a glance on pages 12 and 13: signatory to the Prompt Payment Code.
The suppliers are made aware of the terms of this policy.
Further information concerning t Operating review on pages 16 to 29, which includes a review of the Prompt Payment Code, and copies of it, can be found at the external environment, key strategic aims and performance www.
measures: Employees t Financial review on pages 30 and 31: Employees are the groups most important resource, and it therefore t Corporate responsibility on pages 32 to 35: abides by the following principles: t Principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 48 to 51: t equal opportunities it is committed to offering equal opportunities in recruitment, training, career development and t details of the principal operating subsidiaries are set out on promotion to all people, including those with disabilities, having page 109: and regard for their particular aptitudes and abilities.
As a matter t information on essential contracts or arrangements on page 61. of policy, full and fair consideration is given to applicants with disabilities and every effort is made to give employees who Principal activities become disabled whilst employed by the group an opportunity The activities of the group principally concern the processing and for retraining and for continuation in employment.
It is group manufacture of food worldwide and textile retailing in the UK and policy that the training, career development and promotion of continental Europe.
Comments on the development of the business disabled persons should, as far as possible, be the same as during the period under review and on the future outlook are that of other employees: contained within the Chairmans statement on pages 14 and 15 and the Operating review on pages 16 to 29. t health and safety health and safety are considered as equal in importance to that of any other function of the group and The Company is the holding company for the Associated British its business objectives.
The policy and a full global report is Foods plc group the group.
Details of the principal operating available on the Companys website at www.
co. uk: subsidiaries are set out on page 109. t harassment the group will not tolerate sexual, mental or physical The audited financial statements of the group and Company appear harassment in the workplace.
It expects incidents of harassment on pages 64 to 115. to be reported to the appropriate human resources director: Results and dividends t human rights managers must take account of the core The consolidated income statement is on page 64.
Profit for International Labour Organization labour conventions and strive the financial year attributable to equity shareholders amounted to observe the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, by to 555m.
respecting the dignity and human rights of its employees and in The directors recommend a final dividend of 20.0p per ordinary particular as stated below: share, to be paid, if approved, on 11 January 2013 which, together Universal respect for an observance of human rights and with the interim dividend of 8.5p per share paid in July, amounts to fundamental freedoms for all without discrimination as to race, 28.5p for the year.
Dividends are detailed on page 80. sex, language or religion.
Research and development It remunerates fairly with respect to skills, performance, its peers Innovative use of existing and emerging technologies will continue and local conditions.
to be crucial to the successful development of new products and processes for the group.
t communication the group will brief and consult employees and their representatives on all relevant matters on a regular The Company has a major technical centre in the UK at the Allied basis in order to take their views into account with regard to Technical Centre.
Facilities also exist at ACH Food Companies in the decision-making and to achieve a common awareness of all the US, Weston Technologies and AB Mauri in Australia and the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Netherlands, and AB Enzymes in Germany.
Information relevant to the employees will be provided the technical resources of the trading divisions in the search for new systematically to employees: and technology and in monitoring and maintaining high standards of quality and food safety.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Governance | Other disclosures 60 OTHER DISCLOSURES CONTINUED t security the security of our staff and customers is paramount The Articles also require directors to retire and submit themselves and the group will at all times take the necessary steps to for election at the first annual general meeting following appointment minimise risks to their safety.
and all directors who held office at the time of the two preceding annual general meetings, and in any event not less than one third Property, plant and equipment of the relevant directors excluding those directors who retire other The groups property, plant and equipment are included in the than by rotation, to submit themselves for re-election.
In any event, financial statements at depreciated historic cost.
The properties are the board has decided that all directors will stand for election or employed in the business and many of them were acquired when re-election at the AGM this year in compliance with the UK market values were substantially lower than at present.
The directors Corporate Governance Code.
consider that a surplus over book value exists, but have not quantified the excess.
Power of the directors The directors are responsible for managing the business of the Substantial shareholding and controlling interest Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject Details of a controlling interest in the shares of the Company are to the provisions of relevant statutes, to any directions given by given in note 28 on page 109. special resolution and to the Companys Articles.
The Articles, for As at 31 October 2012, the Company had received formal example, contain specific provisions and restrictions concerning the notification, under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the Companys power to borrow money.
As indicated above, powers following material interest in its shares: relating to the issuing of shares are also included in the Articles and such authorities are renewed by shareholders at the annual general Number % Date of meeting each year.
of ordinary of issued notification Shareholder shares share capital of interest Articles of Association The Capital Group 4 September The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of Companies, Inc. 24,295,000 3.0688 2012 the shareholders.
Power to issue shares Directors indemnities At the last annual general meeting, held on 9 December 2011, authority Three directors of operating subsidiaries benefited from qualifying was given to the directors to allot unissued relevant securities in the third-party indemnity provisions provided by the Companys wholly Company up to a maximum of an amount equivalent to two thirds of owned subsidiary, ABF Investments plc, during the financial year the shares in issue of which one third must be offered by way of rights and at the date of this report.
This authority expires on the date of the annual general meeting significant agreements to be held on 7 December 2012.
No such shares have been issued.
The group has contractual arrangements with many parties including The directors propose to renew this authority at the annual general directors, employees, customers, suppliers and banking groups.
The meeting to be held on 7 December 2012 for the following year.
following arrangements are considered to be significant in terms of A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted authority their potential impact on the business of the group as a whole: to the directors to allot equity securities in the Company for cash, t the group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act various banking groups.
This authority also expires on the date of the 2012 annual include change of control provisions which, in the event of a general meeting and the directors will seek to renew this authority change in ownership of the Company, could result in their for the following year.
The most significant agreements Power to purchase own shares are the 1.15bn syndicated loan facility which was signed on The Companies Act 2006 empowers the Company to purchase its 13July 2010 and under which there were no drawdowns at the own shares subject to the necessary shareholder approval.
The year end and the 120m loan from the European Investment Company has no existing authority to purchase its own shares.
Bank which was signed on 5 December 2007 and under which 120m was drawn down at the year end: Directors The names of the persons who were directors of the Company t in addition to these bank facilities, in March 2009 the Company during the financial year and as at 6 November 2012 appear on pages issued US$610m of private placement notes to institutional 36 and 37 with the exception of Galen Weston who resigned as a investors and, in December 2011 and March 2012, the non-executive director of the Company with effect from the close of Company issued a further US$626m of private placement the last AGM held on 9 December 2011.
All the current directors are notes.
In accordance with the scheduled maturities, no standing for election or re-election at this years AGM inDecember.
repayment of these notes had taken place by the year end.
In the event of a change in ownership of the Company, the Appointment of directors Company is obliged to make an offer of immediate repayment The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the to the note holders: and directors power to appoint and replace directors.
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination committee, any appointment must t in September 2010, the group entered into contracts for be recommended by the Nomination committee for approval by the supply to the UK business of electricity and gas.
A person who is not recommended by the These agreements include provisions which, in the event of a directors may only be appointed as a director where details of change of control of the Company, could result in the agreement that director have been provided at least seven and not more being altered or terminated.
than 35 days prior to the relevant meeting by at least two members of the Company.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Governance | Other disclosures 61 Essential contracts or arrangements Directors responsibility statement Individual companies in the group have contractual and other t the financial statements, prepared in accordance with arrangements with many third parties in support of the groups International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the business activities.
Such contracts and arrangements may be EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial deemed essential to one or more operating company but there position and profit of the Company and the undertakings are no contracts or arrangements considered to be essential to the included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and group as a whole, save that British Sugar has collective bargaining t pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Chapter 4, agreements with UNITE and GMB unions and a contract with the the following sections of the Companys annual report contain National Farmers Union, the Inter Professional Agreement IPA.
a fair review of the development and performance of the The IPA consists of approximately 4,000 identical but individual business and the position of the Company, and the undertakings contracts with sugar beet growers.
Similarly, AB Azucarera Iberia in included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with Spain has some 4,800 individual contracts with sugar beet growers a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that which are negotiated and signed with the four professional theyface: agricultural organisations farmers unions in that country.
The Chairmans statement on pages 14 and 15: Further information 2.
Operating review on pages 16 to 29, which includes a review Further information that fulfils the requirements of Part 6 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and of the external environment, key strategic aims, future Reports Regulations 2008 and which should be treated as forming development and performance measures: part of this report by reference are included in the following sections 3.
Financial review on pages 30 and 31: of the annual report: 4.
Other disclosures: Research and development: t details of the structure of the Companys share capital and the rights attached to the Companys shares set out on page 93: 5.
Other disclosures: Financial instruments: and 6.
Other disclosures: Property, plant and equipment: t details of share schemes set out on pages 94 and 95, including 7.
Other disclosures: Power of the directors: and the voting policy of the trustee of a trust holding ordinary shares of the Company.
Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 48 to 51.
Disclosure of information to auditors The directors who held office at the date of approval of this On behalf of the board Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are Charles Sinclair unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to Chairman have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit George Weston information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware Chief Executive of that information.
For these purposes, relevant audit information means information needed by the Companys auditors in connection John Bason with the preparation of their report on page 63.
Finance Director Auditors 6 November 2012 In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Governance | Statement of directors' responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements 62 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting the group and parent company financial statements in accordance records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys with applicable law and regulations.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
responsible for preparing a Directors report, Remuneration report and Corporate governance report that complies with that law and Under company law the directors must not approve the financial those regulations.
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the group and the corporate and financial information included on the Companys parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation t select suitable accounting policies and then apply them in other jurisdictions.
consistently: t make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: t for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by theEU: t for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and t prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012
