36 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 Sustainability review continued Research & Development expenditure Research & Development % of revenue $171m 4.1% 2011: $167m 2011: 3.9% Smith & Nephew also introduced the REDAPT Femoral Healthy economic performance Revision System which was specifically designed to bring Our sustainability targets the concept of personalised patient treatments to the revision hip market.
The REDAPT system allows surgeons Achieving Healthy Economic Performance will also yield cost to recreate a patients specific functionality effectively savings and increasedrevenue while quickly and easily addressing issues such as poor Deliver a higher return to our shareholders than our peer group bone quality and proximal distal mismatch.
The REDAPT over the longer term instruments maximise surgical efficiency and improve Incorporate sustainability considerations into 100% of new accuracy and reproducibility of implant position.
product design by 2015 Business continuity Incorporate sustainability considerations with 100% of our major By creating a more sustainable business, Smith & supply chain partners by2015 Nephew is building resilience and flexibility to adapt to change.
With the demand for medical technology set Smith & Nephew makes a major contribution to the health to increase well into the future, we are applying more and well-being of individuals and communities across sustainable ways of behaving to ensure long-term the world.
Our pioneering technologies enable nurses, business continuity.
surgeons and other medical practitioners to provide effective treatment quickly and affordably.
More than this, Product Development is driven by three specific they help increase accessibility and save and improve the considerations on healthcare systems and patients: quality of peoples lives all while helping the business Cost, Outcomes and Access.
Design teams look at the thrive.
overall cost of a product and how it impacts healthcare stakeholders, consider the benefits or outcome of new products and question how to enable new patients access Product design to our new products and capabilities.
Revenue growth through innovation In order to grow, thrive and combat some of the worlds Supply chain most widespread health issues Smith & Nephew place Our major supply chain partners have clearly spelled out a strong emphasis on new product development and sustainability targets, mostly around reducing carbon innovation.
In addition we are working on initiatives that will By designing products, instruments and techniques that deliver further improvements by switching distribution provide both clinical and cost benefits, the Groups work in freight services where possible to lower carbon emissions this area has a major impact on improving the efficiency of such as from air to road and deep sea container service.
From reducing the frequency of dressing We now require sustainability reports to be provided for changes and shortening operating room time, to reducing new suppliers and for each contract renewal and these infection rates and length of time spent in hospital the are weighted in our assessments.
There are challenges Groups efforts in this area have a significant impact on the with small local suppliers in some countries but we are lives of people across more than 90 countries.
In 2012, Smith & Nephew launched an entirely new concept in advanced wound care management with ALLEVYN Life, which focuses on the patients overall quality of life.
Patient-centric in design, and considering the entire healthcare chain from provider to patient, ALLEVYN Life allows more healthcare providers the opportunity to help patients with hard to heal or hard to manage wounds.
Research has shown that improving patient well-being is fundamental to reducing the economic cost of wound care.
ALLEVYN Life offers unique benefits that help deliver this and is a significant advancement in preventing wounds that diminish the quality of life of many patients every year.
