marketplace and sustainability financial review corporate accounts and overview strategy and performance business segment review review and principal risks governance other information section 5 financial review and principal risks 53 On 6 February 2012, Smith & Nephew announced that it had Outlook and trend information reached settlement with the SEC and DOJ in connection with this The discussion below contains certain forward-looking statements matter.
Smith & Nephew has paid slightly less than $23m in fines that may or may not prove accurate.
For example, statements and profit disgorgement and committed to maintain an enhanced regarding expected revenue growth and trading margins, market compliance programme and appoint an independent monitor for at trends and our product pipeline are forward-looking statements.
least 18 months to review and report on its compliance programme to Phrases such as aim, plan, intend, anticipate, well placed, both the SEC and DOJ.
The settlement agreements impose detailed believe, estimate, target, consider, and similar expressions reporting, compliance and other requirements on Smith & Nephew are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Failure to comply with these requirements, Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and orany other violation of law, could have severe consequences uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual fortheGroup.
results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements.
For Smith & Nephew, these factors include: economic and financial conditions in the markets we serve, especially those Intellectual property disputes affecting healthcare providers, payors and customers: price levels The Group is engaged, as both plaintiff and defendant, in litigation for established and innovative medical devices: developments in with various competitors and others over claims of patent medical technology: regulatory approvals: reimbursement decisions infringement and other intellectual property matters.
These disputes or other government actions: products defects or recalls: litigation are being heard in courts in the United States and other jurisdictions relating to patent or other claims: legal compliance risks and and also before agencies that examine patents.
Outcomes are rarely related investigative, remedial or enforcement actions: strategic certain and costs are often significant.
actions, including acquisitions and depositions and our success in integrating acquired businesses: and numerous other matters which From the Groups entry into the negative pressure wound therapy affect us or our markets, including those of a political, economic business in 2007, Kinetic Concepts, Inc. KCI pursued claims of business or competitive nature.
patent infringement against the Group in the US, UK, Germany and other jurisdictions, asserting both its own patents and others Additional information on factors that could cause the Groups exclusively licensed to KCI by Wake Forest University.
During the actual results to differ from estimates reflected in these forwardcourse of 2012, the Group reached agreements with KCI and Wake looking statements, can be found under Principal risks and risk Forest to resolve all pending claims.
management section on pages 54 to 55.
The Group has twice won jury verdicts in the US district court for Information regarding the recent and longer term market growth Oregon against Arthrex Inc. for infringement of the Groups patents trends is given for each of the Groups divisions in the relevant relating to suture anchors.
Judgement was entered in favour of the Market and competition sections under Business segment reviews Group after the first verdict but reversed on appeal and remanded on pages 22 to 33. for a new trial.
The verdict in the new trial was overturned by the Smith & Nephew expects the market conditions seen in 2012 district court but then in January 2013 reinstated on appeal.
During 2013, the Group expects to maintain its excellent record in Other matters Advanced Wound Management and again grow at above the market In April 2009, the Group was served with a subpoena by the US rate.
Department of Justice in Massachusetts requiring the production Trauma and Extremities are expected to continue to build upon of documents from 1995 to 2009 associated with the marketing recent investments and grow slightly ahead of the market rate.
and sale of the Groups EXOGEN bone growth stimulator.
Similar subpoenas have been served on a number of competitors in In Sports Medicine, the Group anticipates growing at around the the bone growth stimulator market.
Around the same time a qui market rate, with a stronger finish to the year, as new products are tam or whistleblower complaint concerning the industrys sales introduced in the second half of 2013. and marketing of those products, originally filed in 2005 against Orthopaedic Reconstruction is likely to grow more slowly than the the primary manufacturers of bone growth stimulation products market, reflecting the Groups position in the product cycle and including Smith & Nephew, was unsealed in federal court in the metal-on-metal headwinds, albeit with performance improving Boston, Massachusetts.
A motion to dismiss that complaint was throughout the year as we realise the benefits of recent and planned denied in December 2010. product launches.
The Group is subject to country of origin requirements under the The Group exceeded its trading profit margin expectation for 2012 US Buy American and Trade Agreements Acts with regard to sales and remains focused on creating a business capable of delivering a to certain US government customers.
The Group has voluntarily sustainable 24% margin.
disclosed to the US Veterans Administration and the US Department During 2013, the Group expects further benefits will be gained from of Defense that a small percentage of the products sold to the US our efficiency programme and will continue investing for growth.
The government in the past, primarily from the orthopaedics business, first effects of the US Medical Device excise tax and the Healthpoint may have originated from countries that are not eligible for such acquisition, which is initially dilutive to the Group margin, will be seen sales except with government consent.
Taking all these factors together, our trading profit margin in subsequently conducted an on-site visit at the Groups orthopaedics 2013 is expected to be below the 23.3% achieved in 2012. business.
In December 2008, three months after Smith & Nephews initial voluntary disclosure, a whistleblower suit was filed in the US Smith & Nephew exited 2012 with a much stronger platform than we district court for the Western district of Tennessee alleging these entered the year.
In 2013 we will continue to focus on our Strategic violations.
Smith & Nephews motion to dismiss the suit was denied Priorities to deliver greater value for our Company and stakeholders.
