marketplace and sustainability financial review corporate accounts and overview strategy and performance business segment review review and principal risks governance other information section 3 marketplace and business segment review 19 Our marketplace In the US, the Groups products are marketed directly to healthcare Smith & Nephew operates in a complex marketplace.
providers, hospitals and other healthcare facilities with each Spending is heavily influenced by governments, who are business segment operating dedicated sales forces.
The US seeking to balance the demands placed upon healthcare sales forces consist of a mixture of independent contract workers and employees.
Sales agents are contractually prohibited from systems from long-term trends, such as ageing populations selling products that compete with Smith & Nephew products.
Our and obesity, with requirements to restrain budgets.
Patients Advanced Surgical devices are principally shipped and invoiced to healthcare providers, hospitals and other healthcare facilities.
are becoming more discerning and demanding, and Certain Advanced Wound Management products are shipped healthcare providers are increasingly making choices based and invoiced to wholesale distributors and others are consigned on both clinical outcomes and cost.
to distributors that lease the devices to healthcare providers, hospitals and other healthcare facilities and end-users.
In most Smith & Nephews sales and marketing models reflect otherEstablished markets, each division typically manages these factors.
The Group invests in developing innovative employee sales forces directly, and also ships and invoices products both directly to healthcare providers, hospitals and other healthcare products and services and in marketing these through facilities and to wholesale distributors.
the most appropriate direct or in-direct channels.
Sales In Emerging markets and International markets the Group operates trends reveal a number of longer-term forces at work within through direct selling and marketing operations, and through distributors.
In these markets, Orthopaedics and Sports Medicine our markets.
The importance of government funding to frequently share sales resources.
The Advanced Wound Management our business remains and there is a need to meet ever sales force may be separate where it calls on different customers.
Global manufacturing, supply anddistribution operations seek to maximise their efficiency Sales trends whilst supporting the sales and marketing process.
Smith & Nephews divisions participate in the global medical devices market and share a common focus on the repair of the human body.
Innovative new products are brought to market through Smith & Nephews principal geographic markets are in our Established highly focused research and development, and there is a markets healthcare economies of the US, Europe, Japan, Canada, robust policy of protecting intellectual property.
The Group Australia and New Zealand.
In addition, we are building our business in the Emerging markets Brazil, Russia, India and China and our seeks tominimise the impact of currency on its business.
International markets such as South Africa, Mexico and Turkey.
Global population Sales and marketing 1950 2000 2050 Smith & Nephews customers are the providers of medical and surgical services worldwide.
2.5bn 6.0bn 9.0bn Competition exists among healthcare providers to gain patients on Population by age % the basis of quality, service and price.
Providers are under pressure to reduce the total cost of healthcare delivery.
There has been some 0-19 20-64 65 consolidation in the Groups customer base, as well as amongst the 16 Groups competitors, and these trends are expected to continue in 27 7 the long term.
Smith & Nephew competes against both local and multinational corporations, including some with greater financial, 39 marketing and other resources.
5 The Groups business reflects a wide range of distribution channels, 54 purchasing agents and buying entities in over 90 countries 44 57 51 worldwide.
The largest single customer worldwide is a purchasing group based in the UK that represented 6% of the Groups worldwide 1950 2000 2050 revenue in 2012.
In certain parts of the world, including the UK, much of Continental Europe, Canada and Japan, the healthcare providers are largely Global obesity % government organisations funded by tax revenues.
In the US, the 0-5 5-10 10-15 15-20 20-25 25-30 30-35 35 No data Groups major customers are public and private hospitals, which receive revenue from private health insurance and government reimbursement programmes.
Medicare is the major source of reimbursement in the US, for knee and hip reconstruction procedures and for wound healing treatment regimes.
indd 19 26 02 2013 09:29 20 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 Our marketplace continued Smith & Nephews markets are characterised by increased longevity, National regulatory authorities administer and enforce a complex more active lifestyles, obesity, increased affluence and an increase series of laws and regulations that govern the design, development, in the average age of the population caused by the immediate postapproval, manufacture, labelling, marketing and sale of healthcare World War II baby boomer generation approaching retirement.
They also review data supporting the safety and efficacy of such products.
Of particular importance is the requirement in Together these factors have created significant demand for more many countries that products be authorised or registered prior effective healthcare products which deliver improved outcomes to manufacture, marketing or sale and that such authorisation or through technology advances.
Furthermore, pressure to resist registration be subsequently maintained.
The major regulatory increases in overall healthcare spending has led healthcare agencies for Smith & Nephews products include the Food and providers to demand products which minimise the length of hospital Drug Administration FDA in the US, the Medicines and Healthcare stays and use of surgeon and nursing resources.
products Regulatory Agency in the UK, the Ministry of Health, Labour Increasing patient awareness of available healthcare treatments and Welfare in Japan and the State Food and Drug Administration in through the internet and direct-to-customer advertising has led China.
to some increased patient influence over product purchasing Business practices in the healthcare industry are subject to decisions.
regulation and review by various government authorities.
In general, For a description of the impact on each division refer to the Business the trend in many countries in which the Group does business is Segment reviews on pages 22 to 33. towards higher expectations and increased enforcement activity by governmental authorities.
While the Group is committed to doing business with integrity and Dependence on government welcomes the trend to higher standards in the healthcare industry, and other funding the Group and other companies in the industry have been subject to In most markets throughout the world, expenditure on medical investigations and other enforcement activity that have incurred and devices is ultimately controlled to a large extent bygovernments.
may continue to incur significant expense.
See Legal proceedings Funds may be made available or withdrawn from healthcare on page 52. budgets depending on government policy.
The Group is therefore largely dependent on future governments providing increased Manufacturing, supply & distribution funds commensurate with the increased demand arising from demographic trends.
The Groups manufacturing production is concentrated at 12 main facilities in Memphis, Mansfield and Oklahoma City in the US, Hull, Pricing of the Groups products is largely governed in most Warwick and Gilberdyke in the UK, Aarau in Switzerland, Tuttlingen Established markets by governmental reimbursement authorities.
in Germany, Fort Saskatchewan and Calgary in Canada and Suzhou Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and Beijing in China.
and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation, excise taxes and competitive pricing, are The Group operates a number of central distribution facilities in the ongoing in markets where the Group has operations.
This control key geographical areas in which it operates.
Products are shipped to may be exercised by determining prices for an individual product Group companies which hold small amounts of inventory locally for or for an entire procedure.
The Group is exposed to changes in immediate or urgent customer requirements.
reimbursement policy, tax policy and pricing which may have an The Advanced Surgical Devices division operates a distribution adverse impact on sales and operating profit.
In particular, changes facility in Baar, Switzerland which acts as the main holding and to the healthcare legislation in the US are due to impose significant consolidation point for markets in Europe.
In the US, the Advanced taxes on medical device manufacturers from 2013.
There may be an Surgical Devices distribution hub is located in Memphis.
increased risk of adverse changes to government funding policies arising from the deterioration in macro-economic conditions in some Advanced Wound Management distribution hubs are located in of the Groups markets.
Neunkirchen, Germany: Derby, UK: and Atlanta, US.
The Group has a central Operations function which continues to implement Lean Manufacturing throughout the factories and the Regulatory standards and compliance inthe supply chain which is designed to improve and sustain higher levels healthcare industry of service, quality, productivity and efficiency.
The international medical device industry is highly regulated.
Core competencies include: materials technology: high precision Regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining whether machining in Advanced Surgical Devices: and high-volume, substances and materials can be developed into marketable automated manufacturing in Advanced Wound Management.
products and the amount of time and expense that should be Each business segment purchases raw materials, components, allotted to such development.
finished products and packaging materials from certain key The trend is towards more stringent regulation and higher standards suppliers.
These principally include metal forgings and stampings of technical appraisal.
Such controls have become increasingly for orthopaedic products, optical and electronic sub-components demanding to comply with and management believes that this trend and finished goods for Sports Medicine products, active ingredients will continue.
and finished goods for Advanced Wound Management and packaging materials across all businesses.
Suppliers are selected, and contracts negotiated, by a centralised Group procurement team wherever possible, with a view to ensure value for money based on the total spending across the Group.
indd 20 26 02 2013 09:29 marketplace and sustainability financial review corporate accounts and overview strategy and performance business segment review review and principal risks governance other information section 3 marketplace and business segment review 21 The Group outsources manufacturing where necessary to obtain Intellectual property specialised expertise or where it is possible to gain lower cost Smith & Nephew has a policy of protecting the results of research without undue risk to intellectual property.
Suppliers of outsourced and development carried out by the Group.
Patents have products and services are selected based on their ability to deliver been obtained in a wide range of fields, including orthopaedic products and services to specification, and establish and maintain reconstruction and trauma, sports medicine and advanced wound a quality system.
Suppliers are trained and are monitored through management.
Patent protection for Group products is sought on-site assessments and performance audits that include quality, routinely in the Groups principal markets.
Currently, the Groups service and delivery.
Finished goods purchased for resale include patent portfolio stands at approximately 4,700 patents in force and screen displays, optical and electrical devices in the Advanced patent applications pending.
Surgical Devices division and skincare products in the Advanced Wound Management division.
Smith & Nephew also has a policy of protecting the Groups products by registering trademarks under local laws of markets in which such products are sold.
The Group vigorously protects its trademarks Research and development against infringement.
Smith & Nephew manages a portfolio of short and long-term In addition to protecting its market position by filing and enforcing product development projects designed to meet the future needs patents and trademarks, Smith & Nephew may oppose third-party of customers and continue to provide growth opportunities for patents and trademark filings where appropriate in those areas that the business.
The Groups research and development is directed might conflict with the Groups business interests.
Expenditure on research and In the ordinary course of its business, the Group enters into a development amounted to $171m in 2012 2011 $167m, 2010 number of licensing arrangements with respect to its products.
None $151m, representing approximately 4.1% of Group revenue 2011 of these arrangements individually is considered material to the 3.9%, 2010 3.8%.
current operations and the financial results of the Group.
The Group continues to invest in future technology opportunities for clinical needs identified from across the Smith & Nephew businesses.
Currency fluctuations Smith & Nephew operates across many jurisdictions and therefore Research and development expenditure $m the Groups operations are affected by transactional exchange rate movements in that they are subject to exposures arising from $171m revenue in a currency different from the related costs and expenses.
2010 151 The Groups manufacturing cost base is situated principally in the US, the UK, China and Switzerland, from which finished products 2011 167 are exported to the Groups selling operations worldwide.
Thus, 2012 171 the Group is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates between the US Dollar, Sterling and Swiss Franc and the currency of the Groups selling operations, particularly the Euro, Australian Dollar The medical devices industry has a rapid rate of new product and Japanese Yen.
If the US Dollar, Sterling or Swiss Franc should introduction.
In order to remain competitive, each of the Groups strengthen against the Euro, Australian Dollar and the Japanese Yen, business segments must continue to develop innovative products the Groups trading margin could be adversely affected.
that satisfy customer needs and preferences or provide cost or other advantages.
Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and The Group manages the impact of exchange rate movements on uncertain process.
A potential product may not be brought to market intra-group sales and cost of goods sold by a policy of transacting or not succeed in the market for any number of reasons, including forward foreign currency commitments when firm purchase orders failure to work optimally, failure to receive regulatory approval, failure are placed.
Inaddition, the Groups policy is for forecast transactions to be cost-competitive, infringement of patents or other intellectual to be covered between 50% and 90% for up to one year.
property rights and changes in consumer demand.
The Groups The Group uses the US Dollar as its reporting currency and the US products and technologies are also subject to marketing attack by Dollar is the functional currency of Smith & Nephew plc.
Furthermore, new products that are developed and revenues, profits and earnings are also affected by exchange rate marketed by the Groups competitors may affect price levels in the movements on the translation of results of operations in foreign various markets in which the Groups business segments operate.
subsidiaries for financial reporting purposes.
See Financial position, If the Groups new products do not remain competitive with those of liquidity and capital resources on page 50. competitors, the Groups revenue could decline.
Research and development is primarily carried out at the Groups principal locations, notably in Memphis, US Orthopaedics, Mansfield, US Endoscopy and Hull, UK Advanced Wound Management.
There are a number of other smaller research and development units situated at other locations around the Group.
In-house research is supplemented by work performed by academic institutions and other external research organisations in Europe, America and Asia.
Following the acquisition of Healthpoint Biotherapeutics the Group has a research and development capability in next-generation bioactive therapies for the treatment of chronic wounds.
The principal pipeline product is HP802-247 for the treatment of venous leg ulcers which has entered Phase 3 trials.
