Legal issues Smiths Group is committed to operating within the law in all applicable jurisdictions, and seeks to benefit from the rights and protections afforded by relevant laws.
The Group aims to anticipate and meet the changing requirements of the markets it serves, as legal and regulatory reforms impact those markets.
Legal issues John Crane, Inc. litigation Smiths Group faces different types of legal issues in different John Crane, Inc. JCI, a subsidiary of the Group, is currently one of jurisdictions.
The high level of activity in the US, for example, many co-defendants in litigation in the USA relating to products exposes the Company to the likelihood of various types of litigation previously manufactured which contained asbestos.
This litigation commonplace in that country, such as mass tort and class action began around 30 years ago and, typically, involves claims for a number litigation, legal challenges to the scope and validity of patents and of diseases including asbestosis, lung cancer and mesothelioma.
The product liability and insurance subrogation claims.
These types of JCI products generally referred to in these cases consist of industrial proceedings or the threat of them are also used to create pressure to sealing products, primarily packing and gaskets.
The asbestos was encourage negotiated settlement of disputes.
encapsulated within these products in such a manner that, according to tests conducted on behalf of JCI, the products were safe.
John Crane In addition, contracting with the US Government subjects the Group ceased manufacturing products containing asbestos in 1985. to numerous stringent regulatory obligations, calling for an active programme of compliance, reporting and communication.
By In recent years, the litigation has focused increasingly on claims for contrast, the Groups activities in some countries with less developed mesothelioma, awards for which, when made, tend to be larger than legal systems pose challenges for the protection of corporate assets those for the other diseases.
Whilst the number of claims being led such as real estate and intellectual property rights.
against JCI and other defendants has been declining, the proportion of mesothelioma claims has increased, and JCIs ability to defend these In order to address the challenges and exploit the opportunities arising cases successfully is likely to have a significant impact on its annual from these and other legal issues, Smiths Group employs experienced aggregate adverse judgment and defence costs.
lawyers both in its head ofce and in its divisions, and retains the services of major law rms around the world.
JCI continues to actively monitor the conduct and effect of its current and expected asbestos litigation, including the efcacious presentation Read more in note 22 of its safe product defence, and intends to resist these asbestos on pages 128-130 cases based on this defence.
Approximately 221,000 claims against JCI have been dismissed before trial over the last 33 years.
JCI is currently a defendant in cases involving approximately 86,000 claims.
Despite these large numbers of claims, JCI has had final judgments against it in only 115 cases, and has had to pay awards amounting to approximately US $111m.
In connection with this litigation, JCI secured the commutation of certain liability insurance policies in financial year 2007, resulting in proceeds of 43m.
While JCI has substantial excess liability insurance, the availability and exact scope of the cover are currently the subject of litigation in the United States.
An adverse judgment at first instance from the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois is currently under appeal.
Pending the outcome of that litigation, JCI has begun to meet defence costs directly.
At 31 July 2012, the aggregate provision for JCI asbestos litigation, including for adverse judgments and defence costs, amounted to 213m expressed at the then current exchange rate.
In deciding upon the amount of the provision, JCI has relied on expert advice from a specialist in asbestos liability estimation.
Moreover, in establishing this provision no account has been taken of any recoveries from insurers as their nature and timing are subject to pending litigation.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 53 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
