Board of directors Donald Brydon, CBE Philip Bowman Peter Turner Bruno Angelici Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Non-executive director Aged 67, Donald Brydon Aged 59, Philip Bowman is Aged 42, Peter Turner is Aged 65, Bruno Angelici is is British and has a BSc in Australian with a MA in Natural British with a BA in Natural French with a MBA Kellogg Mathematical Science.
He has extensive Science Chemistry.
He School of Management and started his career in investment experience of leadership at qualied as a Chartered Business and Law degrees from management and has chaired major international public Accountant whilst working Reims.
He was appointed to the a number of major companies.
companies and was appointed for .
He became Chairman of Smiths Chief Executive of Smiths Group He became Finance Director Strengths and experience Group in 2004. in 2007. of Smiths Group in 2010.
Brunos career includes Strengths and experience Strengths and experience Strengths and experience senior management roles in Donald had a 20-year career Philip was previously Chief Peter joined Smiths Group from pharmaceutical and medical with Barclays Group, during Executive of Scottish Power plc the independent oil company, device companies.
Bruno retired which time he was Chairman and Allied Domecq plc.
He also Venture Production plc, where from AstraZeneca in 2009 and Chief Executive of BZW held non-executive directorships he was the Finance Director.
as Executive Vice President, Investment Management and at British Sky Broadcasting He previously held a number International after a 20-year acting Chief Executive of BZW.
Group plc, Scottish and of senior finance posts at career.
He was responsible for This was followed by 10 years Newcastle Group plc and Coles the global gases group, BOC Europe, Japan, Asia Pacic, Latin with the AXA Group where he Myer Limited as well as having Group plc, including Director America, Middle East and Africa held the posts of Chairman been Chairman of Liberty plc and of Taxation and Treasury and and originally joined as President and Chief Executive of AXA Coral Eurobet plc.
His earlier Finance Director of the Groups of ICI Pharma France.
Prior to Investment Managers and was career included five years as a largest division.
Peter has wide this, he was at Baxter, a USChairman of AXA Framlington.
director of Bass plc, where he knowledge and experience based global supplier of medical He has recently retired from held the roles of Chief Financial of multi-national operations, devices.
He has extensive the Boards of AXA Investment officer and subsequently Chief including the oil and gas sector.
international experience, Managers SA and AXA Executive of Bass Taverns.
including in the US, and brings Rosenberg LLP.
He was a deep understanding to the External appointments also formerly the chairman Group of the medical device and Senior Independent Director of the London Metal Exchange, pharmaceutical industries.
and Chairman of the Audit Taylor Nelson Sofres plc Committee of Burberry Committee memberships and Amersham plc and Group plc Audit Committee a non-executive director of Allied Domecq plc and Non-executive director of Nomination Committee Scottish Power plc.
Better Capital PCC Limited Remuneration Committee Committee membership Chairman of The Miller External appointments Chairman of the Group Limited Member of the Global Nomination Committee Advisory Board of Takeda Remuneration Committee Pharmaceutical Company Ltd, Japan External appointments Chairman of Royal Mail Non-executive director of Group plc and Chairman Novo Nordisk A S, a Danish of its Nominations committee healthcare company Chairman of Sage Group plc Member of the Supervisory Board and the Audit Committee Chairman Designate of the of Wolters Kluwer nv, a DutchMedical Research Council based information services effective 1 October 2012 and publishing company Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 64 Tanya Fratto Anne Quinn, CBE Sir Kevin Tebbit, KCB, CMG David Challen, CBE Senior Independent Director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Aged 51, Tanya Fratto was Aged 61, Anne Quinn was Aged 65, Sir Kevin Tebbit was Aged 69, David Challen CBE was appointed to the Board in appointed to the Board in 2012. appointed to the Board in 2009. appointed to the Board in June An American, she is a qualied She is from New Zealand 2006.
He is British with a BA in Mathematics, a BSc in Natural electrical engineer with a BSc and has a BCom and MSc has a BA in History.
Science Physics and an MBA Strengths and experience from Harvard.
Strengths and experience Strengths and experience Sir Kevin held policy management and finance Strengths and experience Tanya was CEO of Diamond Anne spent her early career with David had a long and Innovations Inc. a world-leading NZ Forest Products Limited and posts in the MoD, Foreign and Commonwealth Ofce and distinguished career in manufacturer of super-abrasive the US management consulting investment banking.
He is a products for the material company, Resource Planning NATO.
These included three years service in Washington former Chairman of J Henry removal industry, until 2010.
She has extensive Schroder & Co, where he spent Before that she enjoyed a overseas experience in the oil as Defence and European Counsellor at the British most of his professional career.
successful 20-year career and gas sector, having enjoyed He was the first chairman of the with GE.
She held a number a successful 20-year career Embassy before becoming Director of GCHQ and nally Financial Services Practitioner of senior positions in product with BP.
She held a number Panel set up under the act which management, operations, of executive positions including Permanent Under Secretary at the Ministry of Defence from created the Financial Services Six Sigma and supply chain Group Vice President in the Authority.
He has an in-depth management.
Tanya provides US, Belgium, Colombia and 1998 to 2005.
Sir Kevins career as a former senior British understanding of capital Smiths with wide experience in the UK.
Following her career markets and provides valuable product innovation and sales and with BP, Anne was a director civil servant provides Smiths with considerable experience support to the Group on key marketing in a range of sectors.
of Riverstone LLP, an energy financial matters.
Annes in the defence sector and in Committee membership government relations issues.
experience is a great benefit Committee membership Audit Committee to the Group in its development Chairman of the Committee memberships Nomination Committee of new geographic markets Audit Committee Audit Committee and its exposure to the oil Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee and gas sector.
External appointments Remuneration Committee Committee memberships Remuneration Committee Non-executive director Chair of the External appointments of Boart Longyear Ltd, an External appointments Remuneration Committee Senior Adviser to Senior Independent Australian-listed, US-based Director and Chairman mining products and Audit Committee URS Corporation of the Audit Committee services company Nomination Committee Senior Associate Fellow at of Anglo American plc Royal United Services Institute External appointments Chairman of the Citigroup Senior Independent Director Chairman of the Industry EMEA Governance Committee Advisory Group to the and Chair of the Remuneration Deputy Chairman of the Committee of Mondi plc and UKTI Defence and Security Organisation Takeover Panel Mondi Limited, a company dual-listed in the UK and Member of the Financial Visiting Professor at Queen South Africa Reporting Councils advisory Mary University, London group of audit committee Member of the Advisory Board chairmen of the Imperial College Institute for Security and Technology Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 65 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
