Business review Continued Filters boost information highway Smiths Interconnect Like all telecommunications network operators, Telstra is constantly seeking ways of squeezing as much trafc as possible Bringing technol ogy to life into its xed frequency spectrum to meet the unprecedented increase in broadband demand from smartphones, tablets and laptops.
Smiths Interconnect helped the Australian company expand its two-way transmission and receiving highway by supplying sophisticated lters which streamline the guard band separating opposing ows of trafc.
This provides a crucial advantage to Telstra as global demand is forecast to grow vefold in the next five years to meet the burgeoning market in mobile, wireless devices.
With more than 12,000 lters delivered over the past year, the Telstra delivery schedule was met by capitalising on Smiths Interconnects expanded regional production facilities in China where capacity was quickly ramped up to allow delivery of 2,000 units per month during peak times.
Expanding network capacity Telstra is able to deploy additional transmission hardware at its existing sites without sacrificing network performance.
Filtering more capacity Kaelus lters allow Telstra to use three 850MHz carriers simultaneously while operating co-located 900MHz systems with no sacrifice of spectrum bandwidth or data capacity.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 38 Two-way trafc Interference Kaelus lters create a far Soaring demand for wireless narrower median or central services is over-crowding reservation allowing the freedbroadband frequencies up bandwidth to carry more and prompting a search for of the lucrative data trafc innovative solutions.
With ltering Without ltering Wasted signal capacity Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 39 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Business review Continued Contribution to 2012 Contribution to 2012 Group Smiths Interconnect Group revenue headline operating profit 15% 11 % Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs Smiths Interconnect is a recognised leader in technically Revenue performance 449 differentiated electronic components and sub-systems providing m 379 signal, power and microwave solutions.
340 318 We design and manufacture products that connect, protect and control critical systems for the global data centre, wireless 261 telecommunications, aerospace, defence, space, medical, rail, test and industrial markets.
449m Our products are application-specic and incorporate innovative 18% technologies to provide our customers with a competitive advantage.
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2011: 379m Business features Revenue by sector 449m Principal operations regions 1 Connectors 35% 3 Smiths Interconnect operates globally and has locations in the US, 2 Microwave 45% 1 Mexico, Costa Rica, Ireland, UK, France, Germany, Italy, Tunisia, India, 3 Power management 20% China and Australia.
Customers Smiths Interconnect supplies to multiple levels of the supply chain and its blue chip customers include primes and service providers, OEMs, system suppliers and sub-system manufacturers.
Amongst 2 our largest customers are Raytheon, Finmeccanica, BAE Systems, Boeing, EADS, AAI Textron, Northrop Grumman, General Dynamics, Lockheed Martin, Row44, Ericsson, Motorola, AT&T, Verizon, Sprint, Go to www.
com ZTE, Huawei, Facebook, APC, Foxconn, GE Healthcare, Varian, for more information Qualcomm, NVIDIA and Alstom.
Competitors Smiths Interconnect operates in a fragmented market with many small and medium-sized competitors in various product and technology areas.
Connector competitors include Amphenol, Deutsch part of TE Connectivity, Everett Charles part of Dover, Glenair, ODU and Harting.
Microwave competes with, amongst others, Anaren, PowerWave, KMW, Dover, CommScope, Cobham, EMS part of Honeywell and Teledyne.
Emerson Network Power, Cyberex part of ABB, Eaton, Starline part of Universal Electric, Huber & Suhner, Dehn Shne and Phoenix Contact offer competitive power management products.
Suppliers Smiths Interconnect maintains a strong supply base with machined parts and electronic components together representing approximately half of the total spend.
No individual supplier accounts for more than 4% of total purchased value.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 40 Markets and trends Smiths Interconnect comprises three technology-focused business units: Connectors provides application-specic, high-reliability electrical interconnect solutions from highly integrated assemblies to microminiature connectors and spring probe contacts.
Microwave provides components, sub-assemblies, antennas and systems solutions, primarily for defence and aerospace applications, and solutions that test, lter and process high-frequency signals for wireless telecommunication networks.
Power management provides distribution, conditioning, protection and monitoring solutions for data centres, wireless communications and other critical or high-value electrical systems.
Smiths Interconnect addresses a variety of end markets, the most significant of which are military, aerospace and space mil aero, wireless telecommunications, data centres and semiconductor test.
Improving supply chains Considerable pressure remains on government budgets, particularly With most government budgets under severe pressure, the defence on Western defence spending.
While no area is likely to be immune, sector in particular is keen to explore innovative ways to improve it is expected that investment will be more focused towards systems affordability of major projects while maintaining all-important and capabilities upgrades rather than new platforms.
such as intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance ISR, improved battle space awareness, network-centric communications systems The Euroghter consortium has launched one such initiative and and force protection are likely to remain priorities.
Typical military Smiths Interconnect, in partnership with General Dynamics UK, applications for Smiths Interconnect technology include unmanned is playing an active role in it to help enhance supply chain efficiency.
aerial systems UAS, next-generation ground vehicles, networkDesigned to cut the manufacturing costs of avionic systems used in centric communications systems, radars and electronic warfare the Euroghter, the project involves Smiths Interconnects Hypertac systems, surveillance systems and self-protection systems.
Our radio business and is backed by Supply Chain 21, a programme run by the frequency and rugged connectors solutions are deployed in the most UKs aerospace and defence trade body.
extreme environments, such as enabling sensor and communications systems and keeping military personnel protected in areas of conict.
It comprises replacing legacy components with more economically sourced modern equivalents: the transfer of Hypertacs Despite challenging macroeconomic conditions, the commercial manufacturing lines to lower-cost facilities within Interconnect: and aerospace market continues to be strong, driven by increasing moving sub-assembly processes to streamline delivery times.
passenger and freight demand particularly in Asia and the Middle East, and the need for airlines to upgrade their eets to newer, more Overall, the partnership has resulted in cost removal from the supply efficient aircraft.
Smiths Interconnect provides electrical and microwave chain with no impact on the profitability for suppliers, and a cut in the connectivity solutions for various aircraft, space vehicles and satellites.
overall price tag for the aircraft itself.
The wireless telecommunications infrastructure market continues to be driven by network improvements to enable higher data rates and bandwidth utilisation which in turn support the proliferation of mobile communication devices and their data-intensive applications.
Smiths Interconnect supplies niche, high-performance microwave components used in base stations and cell sites, as well as solutions to optimise network performance and integrity, and to safeguard high-value infrastructure from the effects of lightning strikes and power surges.
Data centre demand is influenced by several factors including internet trafc growth due to the expansion of web-enabled devices and applications, virtualisation or cloud computing, and industry-specic regulatory drivers, for example in financial services and healthcare.
Smiths Interconnects conditioning, distribution, protection and monitoring solutions ensure power quality is delivered to sensitive IT equipment and enable accurate monitoring and metering, an increasingly important issue as electricity represents a higher proportion of data centre costs.
Smiths Interconnect provides connector solutions to semiconductor test, automated test equipment and circuit-board test applications.
The continued proliferation of electronic devices, high rate of technology refresh and increased functionality are key drivers for these markets.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 41 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Business review Continued Smiths Interconnect Continued Vital power provision Data centres, crucial to the IT and communications networks that support so much of modern life, can consume 20 times the electricity of an equivalent ofce.
Already accounting for about 2% of total US electricity consumption, they need not only quantity of supply, but reliability and quality.
To complicate matters further, building new or expanding existing hubs can be difficult and costly as their often central location means both space and high-quality power supplies are scarce.
PDI, recently acquired by Smiths Interconnect, offers a cost-efficient solution that circumvents the traditional but time-consuming and expensive option of raised-oor congurations.
PDIs PowerWave Bus modules, as easy to install as an overhead light xture system, are already providing sophisticated power management to data centres across the US and now increasingly in the UK and continental Europe.
Since launching two years ago PowerWave has generated more than $16m in sales, with customers including leading companies in social networking, financial services, automotive and IT hardware and consulting.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 42 Performance The addition of PDI more than doubled revenue from Power management.
However, on an underlying basis, revenue fell by 12% 2012 2011 Reported Underlying m m growth growth because of delays in US military orders, a strong previous comparator period which included a significant one-off military programme, and Revenue 449 379 18% 3% erce competition in China.
In addition, we experienced soft demand Headline operating profit 66 68 2 % 9 % from the North American wireless telecommunications market.
But Headline operating margin 14.7% 17.8% 310 bps during the year we developed next-generation products to provide Statutory operating profit 34 49 protection for nascent remote radio head technology and radio Return on capital employed 12.3% 15.7% 340 bps frequency protectors for broadband applications.
Power management also remains well placed to benefit from the mandated adoption Reported revenue for Smiths Interconnect grew 18%, or 70m, driven of Positive Train Control technology on US railroads, with power mainly by the acquisition of Power Holdings Inc. PDI which added protection products to be used in towers, signals, wayside station and 54m.
Underlying revenue grew 13m, or 3%, reecting a strong communications applications.
second half performance from Microwave partially offset by tough trading conditions continuing to impact both Connectors and Power.
From an end-market perspective across Smiths Interconnect, underlying revenue grew 1% in wireless telecoms, rose 4% in military Reported headline operating profit declined 2%, or 2m.
Excluding the and aerospace, and an aggregate 5% in the medical, rail, automation 4m profit benefit from the PDI acquisition net of integration costs, and test markets.
underlying headline operating profit fell 9% 6m.
Margins declined 310 basis points to 14.7% due to a combination of adverse operational Research and development gearing caused by lower volumes, particularly in Connectors, and a Total R&D spend increased to 27m or 6.0% of revenue 2011: 90 basis point dilutive impact from PDI.
First half gross margins were 25m or 6.6% of revenue.
Excluding PDI and customer-funding, weak because of sales mix and pricing pressure.
In response, we which remained constant at 4m and was primarily defence project cut costs including headcount reductions in several facilities, closed related, the underlying company-funded portion decreased to 20m one production plant, started the closure of another, outsourced 2011: 21m.
some non-core manufacturing processes and transferred selected Investment focused more on commercial products and markets in production capacity to low-cost countries.
In addition, procurement accordance with Smiths Interconnects strategy to allocate resources initiatives continue to offset cost ination.
These actions helped to higher growth sectors and opportunities offering the best returns.
increase second half margins compared with the first half.
Action plans Examples include miniaturisation and high data rate connector are also in place to improve PDIs margins through operational and technologies for semiconductor test applications: millimetre-wave procurement initiatives.
components for a new radar system enabling helicopters to operate Return on capital employed declined to 12.3% as a result of the lower safely in poor visibility: and power and radio frequency protection profitability in the underlying business and the impact of the PDI devices for wireless telecommunications tower-top electronics.
Innovation remains a core priority and the proportion of revenue from products or technologies developed in the last three years was As announced in the interim results, the Smiths Interconnect reporting maintained at over 30%.
segments now align with its three technology areas of Connectors, Microwave and Power.
Following the acquisition of PDI, the business Business developments was reorganised into these three technology areas and divisional In October 2011, Smiths Interconnect acquired PDI, a leading designer management monitor and control the business on this basis.
and manufacturer of specialist power distribution, conditioning and monitoring systems.
Based in Richmond, Virginia, PDI also has In Connectors, underlying revenue fell 10% due to a combination of facilities in Santa Ana, California and Howell, Michigan.
First half performance was affected by the impact of ooding transforms our power offering, adding a new range of products in South East Asia on customer supply chains and the seasonal and growth potential through access to more attractive and higher slowdown in the semiconductor test sector.
Two major medical growth end markets such as data centres.
It also offers sales and equipment customers also cut orders.
These factors improved in the operational synergy opportunities and reduces the divisions exposure second half whilst European demand fell, particularly in industrial to government-funded customers.
markets due to economic pressures.
The defence segment remained Performance to date has fallen short of initial expectations due to challenging throughout the year although we gained significant a significant reduction in demand in the highly volatile alternative orders for electronic warfare and phased-array radar applications energy sector and attening in PDIs core North American data centre and achieved design wins for new missile and radar programmes.
This has led to a 11m impairment charge against statutory Revenue from rail customers grew signicantly with contract wins in operating profit.
locomotive, rolling stock and signalling applications.
Data centre market growth projections remain positive for the medium Microwave performed strongly with underlying revenue growth of 20%.
to long term, which, combined with new international sales resources In wireless telecommunications, despite a difficult environment, we in Europe, India and China, will drive revenue improvements.
Value successfully leveraged our technical and commercial capabilities to creation opportunities have been identied and actions to improve perform strongly.
The increasing worldwide demand for smartphones manufacturing processes and margin performance are underway.
and wireless devices is driving growth in both broadband test equipment and network upgrades to provide additional capacity and Outlook speed to support data demands.
In two larger projects we provided Despite a positive ratio of orders to sales in the year and a stronger cable assemblies for a production test application, and lter products order book to start the current year, many of our markets remain to increase network performance and capacity for an Australian challenging.
US defence spending is projected to fall and, although operator.
Although the defence sector generally remains weak, we we are relatively well-placed in some key technology sectors and continued to focus on technologies and applications deemed as on some good long-term programmes, the military market faces investment priorities.
For example, in UAV Unmanned Aerial Vehicle a significant headwind.
Similarly, this years growth in wireless applications we won contracts for a tactical GPS receiver and a new telecommunications will provide a tough comparator in an essentially datalink ground antenna.
We also gained funding for the next phase of at market.
The commercial markets of semiconductor test and data our US Navy satellite communication terminal production programme centres are expected to be more robust, but will also be hindered which continues to be a significant revenue contributor.
In commercial by macroeconomic conditions and consumer spending patterns.
aerospace, sales of the KuStream airborne satellite antenna system Although volumes may decline in some sectors, margins should strengthened as we resolved programme and production issues that benefit from prior-year restructuring actions and ongoing operational affected the first half.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 43 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
