Smiths Group, through our five divisions, operates in more Bringing technology to life than 50 countries, serving a diverse array of customers ranging across the transport, military and petrochemical sectors to hospitals, telecommunications companies and equipment manufacturers.
Our products and services touch the lives of millions of people every day and help make the world safer, healthier and more productive.
Sealed and delivered John Cranes market-leading seals are vital for the efficient and environmentally safe extraction and transportation of oil and gas across the world.
Safer travel Smiths Detections advanced X-ray and trace detection scanners play a vital role in deterring weapons or explosives being smuggled aboard aircraft.
Tested to extreme High-performance seals used in some of the worlds largest LNG plants are made by John Crane, designed specially to meet the demands of extreme pressure and temperatures.
Ports and borders 90% of world trade is by sea and Smiths Detections high-energy cargo scanners play a major role in deterring the illegal trafc of contraband and threat items at ports and borders.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 2 Onboard control Interconnect components allow in-ight access to broadband services, while Flex-Teks ultra-light hydraulic hoses are used in the new generation of fuel-efficient airliners.
Connecting the world The new generation of communications networks rely on Smiths Interconnects wide range of lter and test products to optimise performance and protect against power surges.
Home comforts Flex-Tek supplies ducting, exible hoses and heating elements for a range of domestic uses such as gas Emergency life saver delivery, air conditioning and Mobile Pneupac ventilators have household cleaning.
Powered solely by compressed oxygen, they need no batteries and are ideal for eld deployment by paramedics.
Health applications Smiths Medicals sophisticated infusion pumps are market leaders and Flex-Teks speciality heaters provide stable temperatures to improve diagnostic scanner imagery.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 3 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
