Business review Continued Raising safety standards Smiths Medical Catheters are the workhorse device for clinical care the world over.
Used in the treatment of around 90% of hospital in-patients, they Bringing technol ogy to life administer uids and medication or draw blood for analysis.
So with around 350 million disposable intravenous IV catheters used and discarded every year in the US alone, any major technological advance holds the potential for immediate traction in a market worth almost $650m.
Smiths Medicals ViaValve is one such breakthrough product, raising the safety benchmark for IV catheters.
Not only does the ViaValve Safety Catheter protect clinicians from needlestick injuries by providing fully encased needle protection, it also incorporates a valve in the catheter hub to provide blood-ow control.
This innovative feature reduces the risk of infection and cross-contamination caused by blood exposure during IV starts.
ViaValve is the latest product from Smiths Medicals renowned Jelco Safety brand range, reinforcing its reputation for clinical excellence in a simple, easy-to-use design.
Push-off tab Such features are all the more important as national safety regulations become stricter in many countries.
In fact, blood control devices may eventually become the new standard in the industry.
Integral valve system Grooved hub Flash view window Blood protection The unique valve provides blood control by impeding the backow of blood from Ocrilon catheter the patients vein on initial venipuncture.
V-point needle Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 26 Patient comfort V-point needle helps maximise patient comfort with only light force needed for insertion.
Early ash indicator shows exactly when needle tip enters a vein.
Flow control Once in the patients vein, the catheter is activated by attaching the Luer tting of an infusion line which opens the valve to allow unrestricted ow.
Innovative features ViaValves introducer promotes one-handed insertion and threading while the ribbed hub facilitates catheter attachment.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 27 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Business review Continued Contribution to 2012 Contribution to 2012 Group Smiths Medical Group revenue headline operating profit 28% 35% Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs Smiths Medical is a leading supplier of specialist medical devices, Headline revenue performance 858 864 838 834 consumables and equipment for global markets.
m 703 In medication delivery, our devices help treat cancer patients and provide relief to those in pain.
Our vital care products reduce hospital-acquired infections, manage patients airways before, during, and after surgery, maintain body temperature and assist reproduction through IVF therapy.
Our safety products protect 864m health workers by helping prevent needlestick injuries and reducing cross-infections.
3% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2011: 838m Business features Headline revenue by sector 864m Principal operations regions 1 Medication delivery 28% We have operations in over 30 countries with manufacturing 2 Vital care 41% 1 3 concentrated in Mexico, US, UK, Italy, Germany and China.
We sell 3 Safety devices 31% to approximately 120 markets and, while the US continues to be our largest single market with around 50% of sales, we are investing to build our presence in select emerging markets.
Customers We estimate that three-quarters of our end customers are hospitals, 2 with the remainder comprising the alternate care market such as homecare, clinics and other surgery centres.
We have a direct sales presence in over 20 countries, and distribution arrangements in Go to www.
for more information Competitors The competitive landscape for Smiths Medical is complex as we compete with different companies across the broad product portfolio.
Our major competitors include Covidien, Teleex, B Braun, Becton Dickinson, C R Bard, 3M Arizant, Hospira and CareFusion.
We often compete with a small portion of a major competitors medical business, as well as with any number of smaller, single product line companies trying to gain entrance into a particular market.
This makes comparison between peers far from straightforward.
In emerging markets, we compete with both large multinational companies and smaller domestic players.
Suppliers Our strategy is to actively engage suppliers in product innovation, value engineering and a commitment to quality.
Our goal is to reduce product and supply chain costs, improve delivery performance and ensure supply continuity plans.
The majority of our direct spending is on resins, plastic injection mouldings, and electronics.
Among indirect purchases, freight, services, travel, temporary labour and capital equipment represent the majority.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 28 Markets and trends Budgetary restrictions continue to constrain customers capital spend and increase price pressure in many markets.
Procedure growth rates have declined in some countries largely because of reduced budgets and high unemployment, although we are seeing evidence of increased numbers of procedures in some countries, including the US.
Despite the market challenges, the medical device sector continues to be attractive, driven by ageing populations with greater care needs, safety legislation, interoperability and increasing prosperity particularly in emerging markets.
The global market for Smiths Medical is estimated to be worth over 4bn, with opportunities in target adjacent markets that would double the size of the addressable market.
Smiths Medical has sufficient reach in the design, production and distribution of medical device products to seize global opportunities.
Our product ranges serve three main markets medication delivery, vital care and safety.
Smiths Medical is particularly well placed in lower-risk, short-residency, interventional devices, applicable in a Engineering to add value wide variety of procedures.
Its broad portfolio includes strong brands in Smiths Group has embraced Value Engineering five as a highly hardware and consumable products as well as software and services effective way to maximise margins across all its divisions, none more supporting customers in both hospital and alternate care settings.
so than at Smiths Medical where a close review of cost-function ratios in production has led to a number of product enhancements.
Medication delivery Smiths Medical designs and manufactures drug delivery systems A prime example is the EpiFuse Catheter Connector which accepts that relieve acute and chronic pain, treat the most at-risk patients in a range of epidural spinal needles.
After a thorough five evaluation of high care units around the world, and enable patients with cancer, costs, productivity and quality, the number of parts used in production pulmonary hypertension or Parkinsons disease to receive home was cut by around 70%, resulting in a similar reduction in the cost of treatment.
The global market for medication delivery products in production combined with a marked improvement in end-design.
which Smiths Medical competes is estimated to be worth 1.2bn.
We The new, two-material injection moulding process introduced for expect continued market growth because of an increase in treatment mass production of the EpiFuse connector enables it to click-lock of chronic conditions, the integration of medication delivery devices securely yet unlock easily.
The five focus on improving quality as well with hospital IT systems, and the move to treat patients outside as boosting productivity helped develop the one-hand activation for hospitals.
Our CADD brand is a leader in ambulatory infusion, and we easy use by clinicians and a at prole for increased patient comfort.
have a strong position in the syringe pump market with our Graseby and Medfusion products.
Vital care Smiths Medicals products manage patient airways before, during and after surgery Portex, alleviate breathing difficulties Portex, Pneupac, help maintain body temperature Level 1, monitor vital signs such as blood pressure, blood oxygen saturation and heart rate BCI, Medex and assist reproduction through in-vitro fertilisation therapy Wallace.
The overall vital care market has been affected by a slowdown in procedure rate growth, but we expect future growth due to factors such as increasing chronic disease incidence rates and ageing populations.
The market is estimated to be 1.7bn for the segments in which Smiths Medical competes.
Safety Smiths Medical makes safety devices that prevent needlestick injuries and reduce cross-infections.
These cover a range of functions including drawing blood samples Jelco, administering injections and vaccinations Jelco, and delivering intravenous drugs Deltec.
The global market for Smiths Medical related safety products is estimated to be 1.2bn.
Looking ahead, the safety market is expected to grow as the focus on safety and reducing the risk of infection intensies.
Smiths Medical is well positioned to capitalise on the advancement of sharps safety initiatives, such as the EU directive and Brazils NR32, which are implementing policies to protect healthcare workers from the risk of needlestick injuries.
Our innovation pipeline is well positioned to capture growth from these trends.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 29 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Business review Continued Smiths Medical Continued Emerging medical markets China is at the forefront of Smiths Medicals drive into emerging markets where the rapidly increasing quality and quantity of healthcare is driving long-term demand for devices and equipment customised to local needs.
A sales recruitment push has almost doubled the Chinese workforce to more than 400 and Smiths Medicals expanded Hangzhou-based plant is boosting production of its highly popular Graseby 2000 range of infusion pumps.
We achieved double-digit revenue growth in markets such as China, India, the Middle East and Latin America.
Recruitment in targeted regions has also been stepped up to support the push for growth.
With subdued growth in North America and Europe, the accelerated investment in marketing, sales, and distribution in emerging economies leaves Smiths Medical well placed to service regions where increasing afuence is matched by improving medical infrastructure and access to healthcare.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 30 Performance Medication delivery revenue experienced strong growth in the second half and, excluding diabetes, full year results improved 4%.
Ambulatory 2012 2011 Reported Underlying m m growth growth infusion revenue rose 9% through the continued success of our CADDSolis pumps and dedicated disposable sets, as well as CADD-Solis Headline revenue 864 838 3% 2% PIB and VIP sales outside the US.
Infusion system revenue also grew, Headline operating profit 203 196 3% 2% primarily due to Medfusion 4000.
This new product continues to have a Headline operating margin 23.5% 23.4% 10 bps robust order pipeline, and we are well placed to capture further growth Statutory revenue 856 838 2% in this market.
Statutory operating profit 180 178 Return on capital employed 17.6% 16.9% 70 bps Vital care underlying revenue was at, despite relatively sluggish procedure volumes and pricing pressures in developed countries, Smiths Medical grew headline revenue 3%, or 26m, reecting an particularly reimbursement pricing pressure in Japan.
Assisted underlying increase in revenue of 20m 2%, as well as a currency reproduction, general anaesthesia, invasive blood pressure monitoring, benefit of 6m.
The underlying growth resulted from new product respiratory and tracheotomy businesses all grew.
Patient monitoring launches, particularly Medfusion 4000 and CADD-Solis PIB and VIP posted a strong performance due to enhanced capnography sales.
platforms, emerging market revenue 9% growth, now representing These gains were offset by a slight decline in temperature management over 10% of revenue and a broadening of our product sales efforts.
and declines in veterinary and kitting product lines where we are Headline operating profit rose 3% 7m and headline operating eliminating low-margin stock-keeping units.
margin increased 10 basis points to 23.5%.
These results were We also continue to optimise our manufacturing and distribution achieved despite pricing pressure in many markets and increased footprint to deliver a more efficient supply chain.
Operational investment in a range of growth initiatives, including new product responsibility for our European distribution centre in Nijmegen, development and sales capabilities in emerging markets.
Margins Netherlands, has been brought in-house to reduce costs and improve benefited from initiatives to cut manufacturing costs and overheads, performance.
We continue to pursue variable cost productivity as well as a favourable product mix.
initiatives aggressively, contributing to margin expansion and enabling Statutory revenue and operating profit both include an 8m charge further investment in sales and marketing resources.
which reects our decision to change the basis for estimating the Research and development accrual for rebates to distributors.
This change was prompted by the Investment in R&D remains a priority, increasing 9%.
Our total R&D availability of better data and estimation techniques: and was reected spend of 34m 2011: 31m comprised 3.9% of revenue 2011: 3.7%.
We continued to narrow the number of pipeline projects to ensure Return on capital employed improved 70 basis points to 17.6% as a there is adequate investment in the highest impact products.
This result of the increased profits.
is raising the rate of project execution and will continue to increase overall R&D effectiveness.
The underlying growth in revenue and profitability was achieved despite difficult trading conditions in the medical devices sector.
These Revenue from products launched in the last three years totalled some stemmed from adverse pricing, capital spending constraints and a 10.5%, an increase on the prior year.
During the year, we launched two slowdown in procedure growth rates in some countries.
The pressures significant medication delivery products: our Medfusion 4000 syringe were particularly acute in Europe given the prevailing austerity pump with wireless connectivity into the US and Canadian markets measures and economic uncertainty.
However, procedure rates in the and the release of our CADD-Solis PIB and VIP platforms outside the US and some other markets have shown recent signs of improvement.
These launches have driven significant growth, consolidating our Consumables sales, which represent almost 85% of our total revenue, leadership in the syringe and ambulatory pump markets.
Hardware revenue improved 6%, largely due to strong FDA 510 k clearance for our new ViaValve Safety IV Catheter in North sales of the new wireless Medfusion 4000 syringe pumps, as well as America, while in Europe we have CE clearance for our new Jelco CADD-Solis and VIP ambulatory pumps.
We have also launched new blood collection products that extend our VeniPuncture Needle-Pro and Saf-T Wing While developed markets remain testing, emerging markets continue blood collection range of products.
In emerging markets, we have to provide growth opportunities as the quality of and access to registered multiple safety product ranges in Brazil, China and India, healthcare improves.
We are expanding our efforts and presence where we are engaging our customers on the benets of adopting in these markets, adding approximately 250 headcount this year safety devices.
In the UK, we unveiled our CorrectInject Safety System, into selected countries, including China, Brazil, India, and various an innovative connection system designed to enhance patient safety Southeast Asia and Middle East markets in order to leverage our through a reduction in the risk of misconnection, while minimising broad product portfolio.
We are already seeing early signs of success change in clinical technique.
We anticipate further CorrectInject with double digit revenue growth in India, China, the Middle East and system-related product launches in the coming year.
Outlook Revenue from safety devices grew 4%, primarily due to the strong Developed markets are likely to remain challenging in the short term performance of safety needles and arterial blood sampling devices in as healthcare cost controls and unemployment put pressure on many developed and emerging markets, as well as improved safety price and volumes.
In the US, the medical device excise tax of 2.3% catheter sales in the US.
Interest in both safety needle and catheter is expected to constrain growth and margins, though we will seek to products remains high in developed markets and is growing in offset the impact, primarily through operational improvements and emerging markets.
In Europe, Smiths Medical is also well positioned increased focus on higher margin products.
Against these trading to benefit from the EU Directive, adopted in 2010, to improve workplace conditions, our R&D pipeline is strong and we will seek to drive sales safety by preventing sharps-related injuries.
We anticipate two safety growth through increased investment and new product introductions, catheter product launches in the coming year to capture global coupled with a continued emphasis on customer-facing resources and opportunities and replace declining conventional catheter sales.
addition, we have seen a recovery in vascular access, particularly huber needles and central venous catheters in most markets.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 31 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
