Group directors report Principal activities Changes in the Company and its interests during the financial year The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group On 18 August 2011 the Company announced an agreement to acquire are and, during the year ended 31 July 2012, were the development, the business and assets of Turbo Components & Engineering, Inc. of manufacture, sale and support of: Houston, Texas for US$20m in cash, subject to regulatory clearances.
detection technologies, including x-ray, trace detection, infrared On 2 September 2011 the Company announced an agreement to and gamma ray spectroscopy and millimetre-wave, that detect and acquire the issued share capital of Power Holdings, Inc. of Virginia, identify explosives, narcotics, weapons, chemical agents, biohazards, USA for US$235m in cash, subject to post-closing adjustments and nuclear and radioactive materials and contraband: regulatory clearances.
engineered products and services for the major process industries, On 16 July 2012 the Company disposed of its minority equity stake in including oil and gas, power generation, chemical, pharmaceutical, Cross Match Technologies, Inc. for US$69m in cash plus up to US$8m pulp and paper and mining sectors: to be held in escrow to cover working capital adjustments and possible legal claims for up to 15 months.
medical devices and consumables for medication delivery: vital care: and the safety of health-workers and patients: Post balance sheet events There have been no reportable post balance sheet events.
technically differentiated electronic components and sub-systems providing signal, power and microwave solutions for the global data Charitable and political donations centre, wireless telecommunications, aerospace, defence, space, During the financial year the Group made donations of 570,000 for medical, rail, test and industrial markets: and charitable purposes.
This comprised payments totalling 300,000 to the Institute of Child Health, in sponsorship of the Smiths Medical engineered components including ducting, hose assemblies and Professor of Anaesthesia and Critical Care and the Portex Anaesthesia, heating elements that move and heat uids and gases for the Intensive Care and Respiratory Unit and other donations made by aerospace, medical, industrial, construction and domestic appliance the Company and its businesses worldwide.
charities working in the areas of health: education and wellbeing: and The main manufacturing operations are in the UK, the Americas, the environment.
The Group made contributions to non-EU political Continental Europe and China.
parties totalling 32,000 during the year.
The political contributions were made on a bi-partisan basis in the US, in accordance with US Business review and model future strategy and development state and federal election laws, in order to raise awareness and to research and development promote the interests of the Company.
The Group has a number of The statements and reviews on pages 8 to 65 comprise the Group key manufacturing sites and approximately 8,600 employees in the US.
business review and are incorporated by reference, forming part of this Directors report.
This is a review of the development and Directors performance of the business of the Group, including the financial Messrs B. F. J. Angelici, P. Bowman, D. H. Brydon, CBE, D. J. Challen, performance during the financial year ended 31 July 2012: key CBE and P. A. Turner: Ms A. C. Quinn, CBE: and Sir Kevin Tebbit, KCB, performance indicators: and the principal risks and uncertainties CMG all served as directors of the Company throughout the year.
It also includes an explanation of the basis on which S. J.
Chambers retired from the Board on 1 July 2012 and Ms T. D. the Group generates or preserves value over the longer term and the Fratto was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company on strategy for delivering the objectives of the Group and information the same date.
on likely future developments and activities in the eld of research Reappointment of directors and development.
The cautionary statement set out on page 1 of this In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the Annual Report forms part of this Annual Report and is incorporated by directors, other than Ms Fratto, will retire voluntarily from ofce at reference into the business review.
the AGM and will seek re-election.
Ms Fratto will retire at the AGM Results and dividends under Article 49 of the Companys Articles of Association, following her The results for the financial year ended 31 July 2012 are set out in the appointment during the year, and will also seek re-election.
Revenues for the year amounted resolutions to re-elect each of them as a director of the Company will to 3,030m 2011: 2,842m.
The profit for the year after taxation be proposed at the AGM.
Biographical details of all the directors are amounted to 258.2m 2011: 385.1m.
An interim dividend of 11.75p per ordinary share of 37.5p was paid on Directors remuneration report 20 April 2012.
The directors recommend for payment on 23 November The Directors remuneration report is on pages 80 to 88.
2012 a final cash dividend of 26.25p on each ordinary share of 37.5p, An ordinary resolution to approve the report will be put to shareholders making a total dividend of 38p for the financial year.
The retained profit of 258.2m was transferred to Reserves.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 66 Directors interests in contracts Going concern Details of the executive directors service contracts are as disclosed The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to in the service contracts section of the Directors remuneration affect its future development, performance and position are set out in report on page 85.
Details of the interests of the executive directors the Business review on pages 19 to 49.
The financial position of the in the Companys share option schemes and plans are shown in the Company, its cash-ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities Directors remuneration report on pages 87 and 88. are described in the Financial review on pages 50 to 52.
In addition, the notes to the accounts include the Companys objectives, policies Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as dened by section 234 and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act have remained in force for objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: the directors during the financial year ended 31 July 2012 and, at the and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
date of this report, are in force for the benefit of the current directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur or may At 31 July 2012 the Group had available cash and short-term deposit have incurred to third parties in the course of their professional duties resources of 206m and undrawn committed borrowing facilities of for the Company.
US$800m which are due to expire in 2015 unless otherwise extended or reviewed.
Whilst these facilities have certain financial covenants they Apart from the exceptions referred to above, no director had an interest are not expected to prevent full utilisation of the facilities if required.
in any contract to which the Company or its subsidiaries was a party This, together with the maturity prole of debt, provides confidence during the year.
that the Group has sufficient financial resources for the foreseeable Interests in voting rights future.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Company As at 31 July 2012 the Company had been notied, pursuant to the is well placed to manage its business despite the current uncertain FSAs Disclosure & Transparency Rules, of notiable voting rights in its economic environment which increases risk and uncertainties see issued share capital or had received disclosures pursuant to the 2006 pages 54 to 58.
In coming to this conclusion, the directors have taken Act of interests in its share capital, as follows: account of the Groups risk management process, described on pages 75 to 78, and have paid particular attention to the financial and pension Percentage funding risks and their mitigation see pages 55 and 57. of issued Number ordinary The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable of shares share capital expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources BlackRock Investment Management UK Ltd 16.4m 4.2% to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus Ameriprise Financial they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in Threadneedle Asset Management 18.3m 4.7% preparing the annual accounts of the Company and the Group.
Legal & General Group plc 19.2m 4.9% Massachusetts Financial Services Company 17.9m 4.6% Policy on payment of creditors Newton Investment Management Limited 15.2m 3.9% The Companys policy and practice is to pay creditors including suppliers promptly in accordance with agreed terms of business.
The Percentage of ordinary share capital in issue on 31 July 2012. average time taken to pay an invoice was 41 days 2011: 23 for the parent Company and 41 days 2011: 43 for the Group as a whole.
On 29 August 2012 M&G Investment disclosed to the Company that it had interests in 17.4 million shares approximately 4.4% of the issued Share capital and control share capital.
As at 31 August 2012 Morgan Stanley Investment As at 31 July 2012, the Companys issued share capital was Management disclosed it had indirect interests as a discretionary 147,272,228.625 and comprised 392,725,943 ordinary shares of 37.5p fund manager in 14.2 million shares 3.6% of issued share capital each nominal value ordinary shares.
The ordinary shares are listed and Massachusetts Financial Services Company disclosed that it on the London Stock Exchange.
had interests in 18.5 million shares 4.7% of the issued share capital.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys The Company has not been notied of any other changes to the reports and accounts: to attend and speak at general meetings of the notiable voting rights in its shares during the period 1 August to Company: to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding The interests of the directors, their families and any connected persons of any class of shares and no requirements for prior approval of any in the issued share capital of the Company are shown in the Directors transfers.
None of the shares carries any special rights with regard to remuneration report on page 85. control of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights Corporate governance statement attaching to the ordinary shares.
There are no arrangements of which The Corporate governance statement is on pages 71 to 79 the directors are aware under which financial rights are held by a and is incorporated in this Directors report by reference.
person other than the holder of the shares and no known agreements  LLP has reviewed the Companys relating to or restrictions on share transfers or voting rights.
statements as to compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank to the extent required by the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules.
The pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
The results of its review are set out in the Independent auditors report on Company operates an employee benefit trust, with an independent page 90. trustee, to hold shares pending employees becoming entitled to them Financial instruments under the Companys share schemes and plans.
On 31 July 2012 the The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group: trust held 855 ordinary shares in the Company.
The trust waives all but the policy for hedging each major type of forecasted transaction for 0.1p per share of each dividend entitlement on its holding and abstains which hedge accounting is used: and the exposure of the Group to from voting the shares at general meetings.
foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, financial credit risk and The table on page 67 sets out the notications, received by the Company liquidity risk is outlined in note 20 of the Group accounts.
pursuant to the FSAs Disclosure & Transparency Rules and the 2006 Act, as at 31 July 2012 and any changes thereto up to 17 September 2012, from persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the Companys share capital.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 67 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Group directors report Continued The rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are Annual General Meeting AGM contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Changes to the The 2012 AGM will be held at The Thomas Lord Suite, Lords Cricket Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders in Ground, Grace Gate, St Johns Wood Road, London NW8 8QN on accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
The Notice of the AGM will be published on the Companys website, www.
com, on or around The powers of the directors are determined by English law and the 12 October 2012.
Articles of Association of the Company in force from time to time.
The directors have been authorised to issue and allot ordinary shares, Authority to issue shares pursuant to Article 5.
The directors have authority to make market At the AGM shareholders will be asked to renew and extend the purchases of ordinary shares.
The powers to issue and allot shares authority, given to the directors at the last AGM, to allot shares in the and, subject to specified limits, to allot shares on a non pre-emptive Company, or grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security basis, are referred to the shareholders at the AGM each year for into, shares in the Company for the purposes of Section 551 of the renewal.
At the AGM the shareholders are also requested to renew 2006 Act the Allotment Resolution.
the power to make market purchases of ordinary shares.
Any ordinary The authority in the first part of the Allotment Resolution will allow shares so purchased may be cancelled or held in treasury.
the directors to allot new shares in the Company or to grant rights to The Company has in place credit facility agreements under which a subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company up change in control would trigger prepayment clauses and has bonds to a nominal value which is equivalent to approximately one-third of in issue the terms of which would allow bondholders to exercise the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the latest put options and require the Company to buy back the bonds at their practical date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
principal amount plus interest if a rating downgrade occurs at the The authority in the second part of the Allotment Resolution will allow same time as a change of control takes effect.
The Companys share the directors to allot new shares or to grant rights to subscribe for or schemes and plans contain clauses which may cause options and convert any security into shares in the Company only in connection awards to vest on a change in control, in some cases subject to the with a rights issue up to a nominal value which is equivalent to satisfaction of performance conditions at that time.
The Company is approximately one-third of the total issued ordinary share capital of not party to any other significant agreements that would take effect, the Company as at the latest practical date prior to the publication of alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover.
This is in line with corporate governance guidelines.
If there is a change in control of the Company, the terms of Mr The Board has undertaken to seek the re-election of each director Bowmans service contract require that all available discretions will annually by the shareholders, whether or not this authority were to be exercised under the Companys share schemes and in default the be used.
Company must indemnify Mr Bowman for the value of any awards that At 17 September 2012, the Company did not hold any shares in treasury.
do not vest on the change in control.
There are no present plans to undertake a rights issue or to allot new No other director or employee is contractually entitled to compensation shares other than in connection with the Companys share option for loss of ofce or employment as a result of a change in control schemes and plans.
The directors intend to take note of relevant except that provisions of the Companys share schemes may cause corporate governance guidelines on the use of such powers in the options and awards granted to employees under such schemes to event that the authority is exercised.
vest on a change in control, in some cases subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions at that time.
If the resolution is passed the authority will expire on the earlier of 31 January 2014 and the end of the next AGM, due to be held in 2013.
Purchase of shares No shares were purchased by the Company during the financial year Also at the AGM shareholders will be asked to pass a special resolution ended 31 July 2012. to renew the power granted to directors to disapply shareholders pre-emption rights under certain circumstances the Pre-emption Corporate responsibility Resolution.
The Company has Group policies on environmental, employee and health & safety matters and operates a Code of Business Ethics.
The If the directors wish to allot new shares and other equity securities, Company seeks to minimise, as far as is reasonably practicable, any or sell treasury shares, for cash other than in connection with an detrimental effects on the environment of its operations and products.
employee share scheme company law requires that these shares are The Group HR director has responsibility for environmental, health offered first to shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
and safety matters, which are subject to preventative, investigatory The purpose of the first part of the Pre-emption Resolution is to and consultative systems, overseen by the Group Environment, authorise the directors to allot new shares, pursuant to the authority Health and Safety Committee, and reports regularly to the Board on given by the first part of the Allotment Resolution, or to sell treasury these matters.
Issues relevant to the Company pension schemes shares for cash: are likewise covered by means of structured committees, including representation from recognised trade unions.
a in connection with a pre-emptive offer: and or Further information on environmental, employee and health and b otherwise up to a nominal value equivalent to 5% of the total issued safety matters, including key performance indicators, is contained ordinary share capital of the Company as at the latest practical date in the Corporate responsibility summary on pages 59 to 63.
The full prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM, Corporate responsibility report is available online at www.
com in each case without the shares first being offered to existing responsibility.
shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 68 The purpose of the second part of the Pre-emption Resolution is to Political donations authorise the directors to allot new shares, pursuant to the authority A resolution will be proposed at the AGM to renew the authority, given by the second part of the Allotment Resolution, or to sell treasury granted by the shareholders at the last AGM to the Company and its shares for cash in connection with a rights issue without the shares UK subsidiaries, to make donations to political organisations and to first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their incur political expenditure.
Part 14 of the 2006 Act requires companies to obtain shareholders The directors intend to adhere to the provisions in the Pre-emption authority for donations to registered political parties and other political Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of organisations in the EU totalling more than 5,000 in any twelveauthorities within a rolling three-year period where the Principles month period, and for any political expenditure in the EU, subject to provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take place without limited exceptions.
The denition of donation in this context is very prior consultation with the Investment Committees of the Association wide and extends to bodies such as those concerned with policy of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
review, law reform and the representation of the business community.
It could include special interest groups, such as those involved with the During the financial year ended 31 July 2012, the following ordinary environment, which the Company and its UK subsidiaries might wish shares in the Company were issued: to support, even though these activities are not designed to support or 375,540 ordinary shares of 37.5p pursuant to the terms of influence support for a particular party.
the Companys shareholder-approved share option schemes and It is the policy of the Company not to make political donations or incur share plans.
political expenditure in the EU, as those expressions are normally Authority to purchase shares understood.
To avoid inadvertent infringement of the 2006 Act, the At the AGM the Company will seek to renew the authority, granted directors are seeking shareholders authority for the Company and its at the last AGM to the directors, to purchase the Companys ordinary UK subsidiaries to make political donations as dened in the 2006 Act shares in the market.
and to incur political expenditure as dened in the 2006 Act for the period from the date of the AGM to the conclusion of next years AGM The effect of the resolution is to renew the authority granted to the up to a maximum aggregate amount of 50,000.
Company to purchase its own ordinary shares until the next AGM due to be held in 2013 or 31 January 2014 whichever is the earlier.
This Auditors authority is limited to 10% of the ordinary shares in issue as at the Resolutions will be proposed at the AGM to reappoint latest practical date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM and  LLP as independent auditors, to hold ofce the Companys exercise of this authority is subject to the stated upper until the next meeting at which the accounts are laid, and to authorise and lower limits on the price payable, which reect the requirements the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Notice period for extraordinary general meetings Pursuant to the 2006 Act as amended, the Company can hold the A special resolution will be proposed at the AGM to renew the authority, shares which have been purchased as treasury shares and either granted by the shareholders at the last AGM to the Company, to call a resell them for cash, cancel them, either immediately or at a point general meeting of the Company other than an AGM with a minimum in the future, or use them for the purposes of its employee share notice period of 14 clear days.
Changes made to the 2006 Act by the schemes.
The directors believe that it is desirable for the Company to Shareholders Rights Regulations increased the notice period required have this choice as holding the purchased shares as treasury shares for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders would give the Company the ability to resell or transfer them in the approve a shorter notice period, which cannot, however, be less than future, and so provide the Company with additional exibility in the 14 clear days.
AGMs will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days management of its capital base.
No dividends will be paid on, and no notice.
voting rights will be exercised in respect of, treasury shares.
However, Before the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights Regulations it is not the Companys present intention to hold shares in treasury in on 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call general meetings the event that any shares were to be purchased under this authority.
other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice without obtaining such Shares will only be purchased if the directors consider such purchases shareholder approval.
In order to preserve this ability, such approval to be in the best interests of shareholders generally and that they is sought at the AGM.
Any exercise of this power by the Company will can be expected to result in an increase in earnings per share.
The be conducted in accordance with any relevant corporate governance authority will only be used after careful consideration, taking into guidelines applicable at the time.
In particular, the shorter notice account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment period will only be used where exibility is merited by the business of opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall financial the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as position of the Company.
Shares held as treasury shares will not a whole.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, automatically be cancelled and will not be taken into account in future when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
calculations of earnings per share unless they are subsequently The Company will comply with the requirement to provide appropriate resold or transferred out of treasury.
facilities for all shareholders to vote by electronic means at general If any shares purchased by the Company are held in treasury and used meetings held on less than 21 clear days notice.
for the purposes of its employee share schemes, the Company will count those shares towards the limits on the number of new shares which may be issued under such schemes.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 69 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Group directors report Continued Disclosure of information to the auditors Registrar As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there The address and contact details of Equiniti Limited, the Companys is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors Registrar, are listed on the inside back cover of this report.
Each director has taken all the steps he or she should shareholders access to their personal shareholder information is have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware available online, through the www.
The UK of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys shareholder helpline telephone number is 0871 384 2943.
Note: auditors are aware of that information.
calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a UK BT landline.
Other telephony providers costs may vary.
The international Electronic communications at www.
com shareholder helpline telephone number is 44 0 121 415 7047.
The 2006 Act recognises the growing importance of electronic communication e-communication and enables companies to Important information provide documentation and communications to shareholders via If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take in relation their websites, except to those shareholders who elect to receive hard to the resolutions being proposed at the AGM, you are recommended printed paper copies by post.
E-communication allows shareholders to consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or faster access to important information about the Company: saves the other independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Company considerable overheads, by reducing its print production Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you received this document in costs and postage: and helps the environment by saving the energy printed form from the Company and have recently sold or transferred and raw materials that would otherwise be used in producing and all your shares in Smiths Group plc, please pass this document to the dispatching printed documents.
At the Extraordinary General Meeting purchaser or transferee or to the agent through whom the sale or held on 11 June 2007 shareholders approved the adoption of electronic transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Recommendation Electronic copies of the Annual Report 2012 and the Notice of AGM Your directors believe that all the proposals to be considered at the will be posted on the Companys website, www.
The AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders Companys announcements to the Stock Exchange and press releases as a whole and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of the are available online through the website.
The directors intend to vote in favour of the resolutions in practical help on share transfers and changes of address can be found respect of their own beneficial holdings.
By Order of the Board Shareholders wishing to change their election and receive documents in hard copy form can do so at any time by contacting the Companys Registrar or by logging on to www.
Sarah Cameron Secretary Electronic proxy voting Smiths Group plc The Company continues to provide electronic proxy voting for this 2nd Floor, Cardinal Place years AGM.
Shareholders who are not Crest members can appoint 80 Victoria Street, London SW1E 5JL a proxy and vote online for or against or consciously not vote on the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM by visiting the website 18 September 2012 www.
The onscreen instructions will give details on how to complete the appointment and voting process.
Crest members, Crest personal members and other Crest-sponsored members should consult the Crest Manual or their sponsor or voting service provider for instructions on electronic proxy appointment and voting.
The Company may treat as invalid a Crest proxy voting instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
Paper proxy cards will be distributed with the Notice of AGM to all shareholders other than those who have elected for notication by email.
Shareholders who will not be able to attend the AGM on 20 November 2012 in person are encouraged to vote their shares by appointing a proxy and issuing voting instructions either electronically or by completing and returning their proxy cards.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received by the Companys Registrar not later than 48 hours before the AGM in order to be valid.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 70
