Business review Continued Crude under pressure John Crane Exploiting the vast oil and gas elds recently discovered off Brazils southeastern coast poses daunting technical challenges Bringing technol ogy to life and opportunities for Petrobras, the Brazilian energy giant, and its partners.
Lying some 6,000 metres beneath sea, rock and salt, the highquality crude can be economically extracted using secondary recovery schemes, such as water injection, gas injection or water alternating gas WAG.
The first production unit, known as Lula Pilot, is already producing about 95,000 barrels per day.
The CO2 stream produced is being re-injected and the hydrocarbon gas exported to shore.
John Crane, a close commercial partner of Petrobras for 50 years, has won a prestigious contract to supply advanced seals, ltration systems and bearings for 80 compressor trains and 32 gas turbines operating from eight FPSO Floating Production Storage and Ofoading units which are being built in Brazil.
Transferred from the FPSOs to tankers, the oil from the pre-salt elds can then be shipped to the Brazilian mainland or ultimately for export abroad.
Developing the eld Sea level The pre-salt development plan, operated by Petrobras, aims to deliver one million barrels of oil per day by 2017.
Sea 1000m 2000m Post salt layer Vitria Rio fide Janeiro So Paulo 3000m 4000m Salt layer 5000m 6000m Pre salt layer 7000m Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 20 Responding to market demands John Cranes expanding service infrastructure in highgrowth markets like Brazil supports customer needs for local service and expertise.
High-performance seals The non-contacting gas seals are designed to meet the most exacting demands.
In particular, reinjection requires safe and highly reliable sealing of a CO2-rich gaseous mixture at pressures of up to 425bar equivalent to more weight than a fully loaded jumbo jet on a manhole cover.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 21 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Business review Continued Contribution to 2012 Contribution to 2012 Group John Crane Group revenue headline operating profit 32% 36% Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs John Crane is a world-leading provider of engineered products Revenue performance 973 and services for the major process industries.
These include the m 894 oil and gas, power generation, chemical, pharmaceutical, pulp 790 786 and paper, and mining sectors.
626 Delivering engineered solutions that keep process plants running, John Crane enhances customer productivity by providing advanced technology industrial products and performance- 973m enhancing services backed by an exceptional global network.
9% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2011: 894m Business features Revenue by sector 973m 5 Principal operations regions OEM: 37% 4 John Crane is a global business with a presence in more than 1 Original equipment 50 countries.
manufacture 37% 1 3 Aftermarket: 63% Customers 2 Oil, gas & petrochemical 39% John Crane serves oil and gas and power generation companies, 3 Chemical & pharmaceutical 8% reneries, pump and compressor manufacturers, chemical and other 4 Distributors 7% process industries.
Its main customers include Chevron, BP, China 5 General industry 9% Petroleum, Suncor Petro Canada, Valero, Petrobras, ExxonMobil, 2 Gazprom, TOTAL, Sabic, PDVSA, Pemex, Saudi Aramco, Shell, Petrom, Sulzer, ITT Goulds, Flowserve, GE Nuovo Pignone, GE Energy and Power, Andritz Hydro, Rolls Royce, Siemens, Mitsubishi, Solar Go to www.
com Turbines, Elliot, York, BASF, Weir Group, Bayer, and Dow.
for more information No customer is larger than 3% of revenue.
Competitors For rotating equipment technologies, John Cranes main competitors are Flowserve and Eagle Burgmann Industries mechanical seals : Kingsbury and Waukesha engineered bearings : Pall and Hydac ltration systems : Rexnord and Emerson couplings.
For equipment in upstream energy, John Cranes principal global competitors include Weatherford and Norris.
Suppliers John Crane operates its supply chain globally, using global, regional and local partnerships to meet the required service levels.
Its main suppliers are Morgan Crucible, CoorsTek, Penn United Carbide, Schunk, Metalized Carbon, ESK, Earle M. Jorgensen, Femax, BE Group, DuPont, Greene Tweed, and Ashland Chemical.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 22 Markets and trends John Crane is recognised worldwide across processing industries as a leading provider of engineered solutions, and is dedicated to driving rotating equipment reliability, safety and operational excellence to its customers.
Its portfolio of highly engineered products includes mechanical seals, seal support systems, engineered bearings, power transmission couplings and specialist ltration systems.
Although primarily focused on the downstream oil and gas market, John Crane also maintains and enhances upstream oil and gas eld site productivity through the servicing and provision of onshore downhole articial lift pumping hardware and systems.
Critical to the real-time needs of customers today, these technologies are coupled with a global sales and service network that provides on-site  services leveraging John Cranes application expertise and proven eld experience developed over decades.
Service teams in more than 50 countries maintain and support the operation of critical customer assets throughout their Expanding our Middle East presence economic lifetime.
Committed to providing unrivalled customer service as locally as possible, John Crane has doubled the size of its regional Approximately two-thirds of John Cranes sales are direct to headquarters in Dubai by establishing an adjoining state-of-the-art aftermarket customers servicing their existing installed base of maintenance and manufacturing facility.
The remaining one-third of sales represent the design and supply of products to original equipment manufacturers The expanded Middle East and Africa headquarters includes one OEM including pumps, compressors, turbines, vessels and other of the worlds most advanced gas seal test rigs which features a rotating equipment.
customer viewing suite, on-line wireless access for testing and 2 reporting, plus full inspection services.
The 4,000m facility also The demand for John Crane products and services continues to houses custom diagnostic, inspection and refurbishment facilities expand regionally, driven by demographic and economic growth for wet seals and metal bellows.
Demand also continues by industry where current factors including increased global energy demand, greater environmental Gulf region customers will now benefit from easier access to a far controls, more stringent regulatory safety requirements and the more comprehensive inventory of John Crane spares than previously, development of market opportunities like shale oil and gas, drive the as well as rapid connections to the companys extensive global need for incremental processing capacity.
Building upon the strategy spares network.
The prestigious LEED Leadership in Energy and of adding targeted complementary products to the mechanical seals, Environmental Design silver-certied facility, which employs over systems and couplings businesses, we have more than doubled our 80 people, helps ensure John Crane maintains its global status as addressable market over the past four years with the inclusion of provider of choice for engineered solutions among process and engineered bearings, specialist lters and upstream energy services.
We continue leveraging the integration of these new product lines with a global service footprint and rotating equipment expertise.
John Crane is also working to further strengthen and deepen its customer aftermarket presence.
With a leading global market share position of approximately 30% in traditional product areas mechanical seals, seal support systems and couplings, John Crane is well positioned to support, develop and grow share in the complementary product ranges.
Service responsiveness is a critical element to achieving and maintaining customer rotating equipment uptime.
As an industry leader, John Cranes global service network is a key asset which allows for swift and effective execution of aftermarket service close to customers operations.
These facilities provide a range of services including repair, root cause analysis, alignment and condition monitoring, all designed to improve the performance of customers rotating equipment and to reduce downtime.
The geographic footprint continues to expand through opening additional manufacturing, sales and service centres in key markets.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 23 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Business review Continued John Crane Continued Tapping alternative power While John Crane is rightly renowned for servicing the traditional oil and gas sector, its advanced equipment is also proving crucial to the development of one of the most promising sources of renewable energy concentrated solar power.
By 2050 around 15% of Europes electricity demand could be met by solar energy and John Crane is already participating in projects in southern Spain and the United States.
Its patented HTC High-Temperature Corrosion-resistant seal technology allows reliable sealing of heat transfer uids, critical to the success of concentrated power plants.
John Crane sealing technology is also used in the power block section, where a safely encased combination of molten salts and water produces highpowered steam to drive turbines and generators.
The intense heat of up to 400C 752F is created by mirror-focusing the suns rays on to an absorber tube lled with heat transfer uid.
This thermal energy can be stored in the form of melted salts so that generation can continue through the night or on cloudy days.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 24 Performance Research and development John Crane is committed to increasing investment in research and 2012 2011 Reported Underlying m m growth growth development.
Investment in new product development increased 8% to over 11m.
The companys focus remains on developing products Revenue 973 894 9% 9% that support reduced environmental impact, energy efficiency, Headline operating profit 210 189 11% 11% condition monitoring and control, and provide engineered solutions to Headline operating margin 21.6% 21.1% 50 bps address our customers growing processing demands.
Statutory operating profit 155 143 Return on capital employed 24.0% 21.8% 220 bps The company is currently expanding its portfolio of seals offered to the mining and minerals, power generation and oil and gas markets.
John Crane grew revenue by 79m 9%, driven by a 79m increase Developments in these areas include expanded split seal designs, in underlying revenue, and a 6m benefit from the acquisition of the slurry seals, uncooled boiler-feed seals and the use of innovative business of Turbo Components and Engineering Inc. TCE, offset materials that enhance seal, bearing and coupling performance by 6m of adverse currency translation.
John Crane is also investing in new product designs to t original equipment and increased aftermarket revenue across meet the local needs of emerging markets.
all end markets, particularly oil and gas, and chemical, drove the John Crane additionally continues to research slow-roll conditions, underlying growth.
face coatings, and bi-directional capabilities for turbo gas seals with Reported headline operating profit rose 11% driven by a 20m 11% a view to achieving step changes in sealing performance to extend increase in underlying profit and a 2m contribution from TCE, offset uptime in difficult rotating equipment operating environments.
Margins increased 50 basis Business developments points to 21.6% from the prior year.
This underlying improvement in John Crane has also pursued a strategy to expand its addressable profitability stems predominantly from increased volumes, benets market by making targeted acquisitions that add complementary from our cost-saving initiatives and better pricing on aftermarket technologies and products while also leveraging its extensive network sales.
These gains in margin occurred despite increased investment of sales and service centres.
This was behind the acquisition of in highly competitive first-t original equipment projects, higher sales Houston-based Turbo Components and Engineering Inc. TCE in and marketing spend and cost ination.
Return on capital employed October 2011.
TCE services, repairs and builds replacement bearings improved 220 basis points to 24.0% because of improved profitability.
and seals used in critical rotating equipment and adds to our existing Statutory operating profit at 155m reects the cost of John Crane, engineered bearings business which was formed through acquisitions Inc. asbestos litigation 40m.
The acquisition accelerates plans to develop an aftermarket services business to support our existing engineered Overall aftermarket revenue grew 9% on an underlying basis, bearings offering.
Progress in market penetration of the expanded benefiting principally from strong demand in the oil and gas, and product line continues to advance globally, with several new accounts chemical sectors.
Aftermarket revenue from rotating equipment won in bearings and ltration.
seals, seal support systems, couplings, bearings and ltration, together representing 89% of revenue increased 9% with growth The bearings and lters business is now integrated within rotating across all sectors.
Sales for John Crane Production Solutions, equipment, which is managed in three geographical units.
representing 11% of revenue, advanced 8% as a result of greater Paul Cox stepped down as Divisional General Manager of John activity in US onshore oil and gas production.
The process to appoint a permanent replacement is First-t original equipment revenue rose 9% on an underlying basis as well advanced and in the interim, Tedd Smith, the Divisional General customers continued to invest in new capital projects.
We saw growth Manager of Flex-Tek, is running the division.
We remain convinced that in activity across the globe, primarily centred on the oil and gas, and there is significant unrealised potential within this business.
John Crane continues to invest in targeted original Outlook equipment projects around the world to ensure a robust pipeline of John Cranes order book is expected to support continued sales future aftermarket activity.
growth in the first half of the year.
However, the outlook beyond that Our sales and service network continues to expand in response to remains uncertain given the economic turbulence in Europe and growing market demands in all regions.
New service centres have slowdowns in several major economies around the world.
Full-year opened in Turkey, Western Australia and Alaska.
The greatly expanded sales growth will be dependent upon sustained maintenance and Dubai facility was ofcially opened in February 2012. repair activity in our key end markets as well as continued investment in capital projects in high-growth regions.
Margins will benefit from In China, localised manufacturing and commercial impact of the on-going operational efficiency efforts, offset by strategic investments Safematic pulp and paper seal lines, and the new metal bellow seal in longer-term growth opportunities such as the expansion of our line continue to strengthen our developing aftermarket position.
The sales and service network, targeted large projects and increasing our opening of a new training facility and the upgrade, relocation and presence in growth markets.
opening of three other service facilities in China have strengthened our footprint and eld support capabilities.
Expansion work began on the Rio Claro plant in So Paulo, Brazil, for the manufacture of American Petroleum Institute API standard seal system reservoirs, and John Crane Indul ltration systems.
This focus on emerging market expansion is delivering results with a 14% sales increase, such that these faster growth areas now represent over 20% of John Crane sales.
Continued investment will enhance our sales and service capabilities as well as broadening our product range in these key markets in the Middle East, Asia and Latin America.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 25 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
