The divisional business model Our business model in action Smiths Medical Invest in new product development Bringing technology to life Customer with Medfusion 4000 Organic Operations and supply chain intimacy investment and market in business knowledge Sales Aftermarket effectiveness services Cash generation Investing in new product development based on deep market knowledge Medication delivery mistakes can happen due to a misread prescription, a wrong drug choice, or a mis-programmed infusion pump.
Such errors can affect thousands of patients.
This is why Medfusion smart pumps were developed as the first syringe pump to have medication safety software.
Understanding our hospital customers need to track pump performance and document improved safety led to the development of the Medfusion 4000 and PharmGuard software.
Wireless connectivity allows every pump to be linked to the hospitals IT system, providing accurate infusions while transmitting all data to a dedicated server.
For the first time, clinicians have a comprehensive record of all pumps, allowing them to spot trends or issues quickly, upgrade software, and take immediate action to improve clinical performance.
Mark Vaughan Director Global Product Management, Medication Delivery Building a strong supply chain and efficient operations Wireless connectivity meant Smiths Medical had to source the appropriate radio and associated software as well as build in the communications security.
Finding it was safer to separate the communications and clinical aspects, we created a new base for the Medfusion 4000 that houses extended memory, the wireless radio and associated software.
In both our manufacturing and service designs, we created the key pieces in components that could, if necessary, easily be replaced in the future.
Finally, we developed core competencies in Microsoft SQL server development, which required more servers and wireless access points in our manufacturing site to develop, test and manage this new product.
Curt Akenson Director of Operations, St. Paul, MN Selling Medfusion 4000 effectively The Medfusion 3500 syringe pump is used in eight out of 10 neonatal intensive care units in the United States.
Almost all of US News and World Reports top 10 childrens hospitals use Medfusion syringe pumps.
We have been able to leverage our large installed base of pumps with customers whose fleet is ageing and who want the new features that the Medfusion 4000 provides.
We work closely with our customers to establish a checklist that prequalies hospitals based on their wireless capability, approved budgets, age of current fleet, and interest.
This approach ensured that our first-year launch plans were targeted to customers with the highest probability of purchase, allowing us to close prestigious and important reference accounts.
Regina McIntosh Vice President, Regional Marketing Providing aftermarket services This launch has transformed what was a biomedical repair service into a new comprehensive world of Technical Service and Support involving the installation and maintenance of server software.
We have a new customer among our hospital accounts the IT department that requires the kind of support we have not traditionally provided for our customers.
SureLink, a remote diagnostic software installed on every PharmGuard server, is a key example.
We can remotely monitor and manage server performance and proactively alert customers to maintenance issues that need to be addressed.
The capacity to provide active support remotely to our customers saves Smiths Medical time and money.
Paul Cabana Vice President, Global Technical Service & Support Meeting customer needs Compact, intuitive and easy to use, CHEO Childrens Hospital of Eastern Ontario staff are happy with the Medfusion 4000.
We appreciate the safety features and the various updates weve performed to optimise functionality.
A key feature is the wireless capability.
Having exibility to review pump data at any time has improved our interpretation and response to changing practice needs.
Although it is a lot of work to implement new technology, we cant imagine implementing a smart pump without wireless communication.
Mary MacNeil Director of Nursing Clinical Practice Kim Greenwood Director of Clinical Engineering Dr Regis Vaillancourt Director of Pharmacy Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 12
