Business review Continued Electric cores Flex-Tek It is hardly surprising that at the heart of any electric vehicle is its battery.
These are no ordinary batteries however, and their Bringing technology to life well-being has provided Flex-Tek a niche opening for its advanced, customised heating solutions.
Unlike in conventional cars, where the battery serves mainly to kickstart the engine and run accessories like a radio or air conditioner, the battery of an electric car runs virtually everything, including the crucial electric motor which actually powers the engine.
Ultra-reliable, robust, and easily-produced batteries that could make electric cars competitive with conventional vehicles remain the industrys holy grail and Flex-Tek has worked closely with one leading car manufacturer to come up with a solution.
Temperature and condensation control are all-important because electric car batteries are particularly prone to galvanic corrosion where rusting is accelerated by the presence of dissimilar metals and electric current electrolyte.
With the chances of temperature swings and electrical short circuits minimised, the battery is provided with a stable, long-running environment for optimal operation over many years.
Power protection Protecting the all-important battery of an electric vehicle is crucial if the green alternative to conventional cars is to make headway in the competitive auto market.
Maximising performance The temperature controller is light-weight, hard-wearing and powerful enough to ensure the battery can run for long periods at maximum power with minimum recharging.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 44 Temperature stability Hot air from the TutcoFarnham controller dries out the vital desiccants around the battery before they become saturated.
The damp air is then routed out of the vehicle.
Limited charges Recharging from mains power is minimised by providing optimum operational conditions for the battery, sharply reducing debilitating temperature swings and short circuits.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 45 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Business review Continued Contribution to 2012 Contribution to 2012 Group Flex-Tek Group revenue headline operating profit 8% 6% Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs Flex-Tek is a global provider of engineered components that heat Revenue performance 233 222 221 and move uids and gases for the aerospace, medical, industrial, m 212 206 construction and domestic appliance markets.
Our exible hosing and rigid tubing provide uid management for fuel and hydraulic applications on commercial and military aircraft, deliver fuel gas and conditioned air in residential and commercial buildings, and provide respiratory care for medical 233m applications.
Flex-Tek heating elements and thermal systems improve the performance of a range of devices: from medical 6% and diagnostic equipment to domestic appliances such as clothes 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2011: 221m tumble dryers and HVAC equipment.
Business features Revenue by sector 233m Principal operations regions 1 Fluid Management 35% 4 Flex-Tek operations are mainly located in the US and Mexico with 2 Flexible Solutions 15% Asian operations located in India, China, and Malaysia, and European 3 Heat Solutions 24% 1 facilities in France and Germany.
4 Construction Products 26% Customers We serve mainly aerospace engine and airframe manufacturers, domestic appliance manufacturers and the US construction industry.
3 Large customers include Boeing, Airbus, Pratt & Whitney, GE 2 Aerospace, Whirlpool, Electrolux, Trane, and Carrier.
Our notable distributors in the US construction market include Ferguson and Watsco.
com om Competitors for more information for more information Competitors for our Fluid Management business include specialty segments of Parker-Hannin, Eaton, and Kongsberg: as well as vertically integrated capacity from key customers.
Heat Solutions competitors in the US include: Zoppas, Nibe, Watlow and Chromalox: and in China, Kawai and Dongfang manufacture a wide variety of electric heaters.
Flex-Teks Construction products compete with US manufacturers: Hitachi, Atco, Omega-Flex, Hart & Cooley and Goodman.
Flexible Solutions competes globally with a number of smaller privately owned businesses which manufacture specialty hoses.
Suppliers Flex-Tek sources key raw materials from world-class companies including electrical resistance wire from Sandvik, breglass insulation from Owens Corning, specialty plastic resins from DuPont and PolyOne, and stainless steel from Allegheny Ludlum.
Each of these supply chain partners is chosen based on its ability to provide exceptional quality, service and value.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 46 Markets and trends Flex-Tek designs and manufactures engineered components which heat and move uids and gases for aerospace, consumer products, construction, medical, and industrial applications.
The diverse nature of these markets reduces Flex-Tek reliance on any specic technology, although Flex-Tek is highly leveraged to the US economy.
Flex-Tek is organised under four market-specic segments focusing on superior technology and service: Fluid Management We are a market-leading manufacturer of specialty high-performance, exible and rigid tubing assemblies for aerospace, industrial and automotive applications worldwide.
Our specialised tubing provides reliable and efficient delivery of hydraulic uids and jet fuel for both civil and military aircraft.
Automotive applications include petrol and brake uid delivery in traditional automobiles as well as nextgeneration fuels for natural gas and hydrogen-powered vehicles.
Demand for our products is linked to both the worldwide air transport Smooth operator market and industrial growth.
Tapping into its long expertise in gas hose components, Flex-Tek has developed a compressed air heating system that allows paint spray Heat Solutions guns to apply a far smoother nish in auto bodyshop repair work.
We are the worlds largest manufacturer of open coil heating elements.
Our specialised elements and thermal systems serve customers that The impact is more than merely aesthetic.
The advanced highmanufacture tumble dryers, HVAC equipment, medical applications, temperature and controller elements combine to provide a more and bespoke applications where consistent temperature controls consistent and faster application, reduced drying time, less paint use, improve system efficiency and performance.
Revenue is largely and most important of all up to 20% in cost savings.
dictated by household appliance demand in the US.
The device was the fruit of close co-operation between Flex-Tek Construction Products subsidiary Tutco and a leading US manufacturer of auto renishing Flex-Tek makes market-leading exible gas piping and HVAC exible equipment.
The company had been seeking ways of providing a ducting for the US construction market.
Our customers are large more affordable service while simultaneously improving quality and national wholesale distributors in North America, supplying both durability, and satisfying new environmental mandates promoting plumbing and HVAC tradesmen.
Demand is driven by a mix of the water-based paint.
strength of the US construction industry and replacement sales.
Though primarily geared towards the auto repair industry, the Flexible Solutions new device can also be used in a variety of sectors that commonly Flexible Solutions hose assemblies are focused into three distinct require spray nishing or coating, such as aerospace and markets: medical respiratory care, oorcare appliances, and furniture manufacture.
The business performance generally follows macroeconomic indicators such as healthcare spending, US GDP, and capital goods expenditures.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 47 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Business review Continued Flex-Tek Continued Fuel-efficient market The push by aeroplane makers towards lighter materials to save fuel and cut harmful emissions has opened complementary markets for Flex-Tek, a long-established supplier to the aviation industry.
Flex-Tex engineers have been working with their counterparts at Airbus and Boeing to develop new-generation, lightweight Kevlar high-pressure hoses that allow airlines to cut the weight of their hydraulic applications.
The use of Kevlar helps new airliners such as the Airbus A380 and Boeing 787 reduce their per passenger fuel consumption to around three litres per 100 km travelled a more fuel-efficient level than even the latest family cars.
By combining greater strength with less weight, Kevlar hoses can pass a demanding set of dynamic and static tests involving stresses of more than 5,000 pounds per square inch and a temperature range of -65F to 275F.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 48 Performance Heat Solutions underlying revenue was 9% lower than the prior year, primarily because sales of heating elements to residential 2012 2011 Reported Underlying m m growth growth HVAC customers remain weak in the US as a result of the uncertain economy.
The lower revenue was also due to reduced nickel prices Revenue 233 221 6% 5% and the correspondingly lower surcharges passed along to customers Headline operating profit 38 28 38% 36% 2m.
Consumer confidence remains cautious in the US and OEM Headline operating margin 16.3% 12.5% 380 bps appliance manufacturers continue to project low single growth rates in Statutory operating loss profit 17 26 the US markets.
We have seen an uptick in sales of our custom heating Return on capital employed 28.4% 21.9% 650 bps elements as our R&D investments have yielded new products and new applications.
Also the cross-selling efforts to the US distributor Flex-Teks reported revenue grew 6%, or 12m, driven by an underlying market have increased our sales of replacement aftermarket HVAC increase of 10m 5% and a 2m gain from currency translation.
The improvement was generated by revenue growth from aerospace components and sales to the US residential construction market.
Underlying revenue of the Flexible Solutions division was at against This was partially offset by weakness in the household appliance the previous year.
Sales of new medical hose products in the sleep sector of our heating element business.
Headline operating margin apnoea market and share gains in the US industrial market were rose 380 basis points to 16.3% as a result of the increased volumes offset by continued weakness in the oor care market.
We continue to and associated operational gearing and positive mix from the faster see positive results from this division as it transitions from a focus in growing aerospace sales.
The underlying increase in operating profit oor care to more specialty, engineered products and markets.
of 10m stemmed from higher volumes, pricing and the benets of Flex-Tek continues to increase R&D spend in Heat Solutions and our cost-saving initiatives.
There was also a 5m gain from the change Fluid Management and is seeing commercial success from this in accounting treatment for the legal defence costs associated with the investment.
In our Asian manufacturing facilities, in China and India, exible gas piping business.
In previous years these costs had been our investments are showing positive results.
We continue to seek new charged to headline operating profit but are now being treated as an opportunities to grow our market share, expand our product portfolio, exceptional item see notes 4 and 22 to the accounts.
Excluding this and target potential bolt-on acquisitions to build on the strength of the change in accounting treatment, the underlying headline operating business and the management team.
Outlook As announced at the half year, a provision has been established in The improved sales rate seen in the second half of the year is expected these accounts to resolve future claims, resulting in a charge of 55m, to continue.
Fluid Management is in a robust aerospace sales cycle leading to a statutory operating loss of 17m.
which is expected to be maintained for some time.
The strong sales Return on capital employed rose 650 basis points on the back of the should deliver better margins.
The US housing market appears to improved profitability.
have levelled in the second half of the year and we expect a gradual improvement in the coming year.
The backlog of unsold houses has In Fluid Management, sales of components to aerospace customers decreased, mortgage rates remain at historic low levels, and credit improved 13% on an underlying basis.
This was achieved as a result is more widely available.
These factors should help bolster the sales of higher volumes on major airframe platforms from Airbus and of our Heat Solutions and Construction Products divisions.
Flexible Boeing and engines from Pratt & Whitney and GE.
The order book for Solutions is expected to deliver modest growth with the general our commercial aviation OEM business remains strong and we have improvement in the US economy.
gained market share in our overhaul and repair service segment.
Demand in the commercial aviation market continues to be driven by increased passenger trafc, fuel and operating efficiency, and lower noise levels.
In addition, sales of our exible hose assemblies to the US automotive market for both fuel and brake applications remain robust.
Sales of our exible gas piping and HVAC ducting to the construction market rose 11%.
According to the US Census Bureau, the July 2012 seasonally adjusted annual rate of new single family home starts was slightly above 500,000, a level that has been fairly constant in 2012.
Growth has been achieved, resulting in increased market share, by cross-selling our ducting, exible gas piping and HVAC heating element product lines to the US distribution market.
In addition, our Construction Products division has benefited from consolidation at the distributor level.
Our customers have been highly active acquirers of distributors in the US and Canada.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 49 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
