Business review Continued Mobile, speedy detection of multiple threats Smiths Detection Smiths Detections GUARDION was launched this year to meet the growing demand for a more portable chemical threat detector Bringing technol ogy to life using next-generation technologies to provide speedier and more accurate identication of a wide array of threat.
Almost a quarter lighter than similar systems, GUARDION exploits its revolutionary combination of high-speed, high-resolution Gas Chromatography GC and miniaturised Mass Spectrometry MS to provide military and first responders with unparalleled on-site analysis.
Chemical warfare agents, toxic industrial chemicals and narcotics in complex gases, vapours, liquids and solids can all be identied.
It can also identify trace-level components in materials previously found to be undetected by other technologies.
Combined, the GC and MS technologies give a much ner degree of substance identication than used separately.
Smiths Detection has established a new GC MS Centre of Excellence at one of its US facilities.
It includes the integrated team who partnered with Utah-based Torion Technologies to miniaturise, ruggedise and optimise the GUARDION technology and specialised software.
Easy-to-read results GUARDION can be deployed in under five minutes and analyses up to 30 samples on a single battery charge.
High-performance, low-cost Advances in the detection technologies and software used by GUARDION have resulted in a sophisticated but low-cost system that requires minimal maintenance.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 32 Speeding particles The gas chromatograph separates and measures the rate of separation of the sample components as they pass through the GUARDIONs capillary column.
Sample Graphic display Carrier Toroidal ion trap Low thermal mass GC column with integrated heating Identication Downstream the mass spectrometer fragments each molecule into ions, identifying them by measuring their mass-to-charge ratios using a Toroidal ion trap.
Abundance % Time Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 33 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Business review Continued Contribution to 2012 Contribution to 2012 Group Smiths Detection Group revenue headline operating profit 17% 12% Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs Smiths Detection is a world-leading designer and manufacturer Revenue performance 574 of sensors that detect and identify explosives, weapons, chemical m 519 510 509 501 agents, biohazards, nuclear & radioactive material, narcotics and contraband.
Our technology helps customers in the global transportation, ports and borders, critical infrastructure, military and emergency responder markets.
We have the most comprehensive range 519m of detection technologies in the world, including X-ray, trace detection, infra-red and gamma ray spectroscopy, and 2% millimetre-wave.
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2011: 510m Business features Revenue by sector 519m Principal operations regions 1 Transportation 47% 5 6 Our nine manufacturing centres are concentrated in North America, 2 Ports and borders 16% Germany, France, Russia, Malaysia and the UK.
We sell to over 3 Military 11% 180 countries around the world either direct or through third- 4 Emergency responders 4% 1 4 party distributors.
5 Critical infrastructure 21% 6 Non-security 1% Customers 3 A significant majority of sales are influenced by more than 100 governments and their agencies, including homeland security 2 authorities, customs authorities, emergency responders and the military.
These include the US Department of Defense, US Transportation Security Administration TSA, and the UK Ministry Go t Go to o www www.
for more information for more information Competitors Smiths Detections broad portfolio in the homeland security and defence sectors brings it into competition with a wide range of companies in individual segments.
Principal competitors include: Morpho air transportation, Rapiscan air transportation, ports and borders, critical infrastructure, L3 Security & Detection Systems air transportation, Nuctech ports and borders, AS&E ports and borders, FLIR air transportation, defence, SAIC ports and borders, Chemring military, Bruker military, emergency responders, and Thermo Fisher military, emergency responders.
Suppliers We are actively developing synergies across sites and restructuring our purchasing group to ensure that we fully leverage the size of our business.
These developments will be ongoing taking into account the demand for local content with some of our major customers as well as our stringent quality and delivery requirements.
Our procurement team has now been centralised and our engagement with suppliers is being standardised across all business operations.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 34 Markets and trends Smiths Detection produces equipment for customers in the air transportation, ports and borders, critical infrastructure, military and emergency responder sectors to help them secure the safety and security of people and critical assets.
Demand for detection equipment in three of its principal markets, transportation, ports and borders and critical infrastructure estimated at more than 1.6bn is forecast to continue to grow at almost 7% per annum in the near-term because of ongoing geo-political unrest and the terrorist and criminal threats it creates.
Government budgets and legislation can also affect demand for Detection products and cause the timing and prole of orders to vary.
The changing nature of the detection business sector is resulting in a growing volume of smaller contracts and fewer major programmes.
Smiths Detection is actively adjusting its operations to meet the requirements of this run-rate business model which benets from lower volatility than areas which are more government controlled.
It is Size matters in cargo scanning also placing more emphasis on aftermarket sales, enhancing the level As government budget cuts squeeze spending on customs and of customer service to meet opportunities arising from the extensive border agencies, suppliers and contractors must innovate to maintain installed base of detection equipment across most regional markets.
To that end, Smiths Detection has launched an X-ray cargo scanner that is smaller, more cost-efficient and easier to The heavily regulated transportation sector is the largest market for operate than traditional mobile systems.
Rising passenger volumes are resulting in new airport investment, especially in the Middle East and South East Asia.
This, Unlike radioactive source-based scanners, the HCVM e uses together with continuing security threats, a strong replacement cycle the power of a 4MeV X-ray accelerator and can penetrate 200mm and globalisation of trade, boosting freight volumes, is expected eight inches of steel to check both for threat items and that the to continue to support market growth.
In addition more stringent cargo matches its manifest.
requirements from major regulatory bodies will increase the Fuel-efficient, lightweight and manoeuvrable, the HCVM e is the only sophistication of security equipment.
system of its kind that can be driven in the US without the need for In the ports and borders market, demand for detection equipment is a commercial drivers licence.
Its small footprint makes it ideal for expected to rise to address a variety of threats as governments become operating in cramped urban environments.
The HCVM e can scan up increasingly concerned about cross-border security involving the to 25 trucks an hour in mobile mode, traversing the parked vehicle, smuggling of explosives, weapons and radiological materials, while and up to 80 in pass-through mode, where the truck is driven through continuing to recognise the strong revenue-generating potential from the scanner, to inspect only the cargo area behind the drivers cab.
A further benefit is expected from the recovery in worldwide trade using maritime, road and rail transportation.
Overall demand in the highly fragmented critical infrastructure market continues to grow strongly.
Governments and other organisations are seeking to protect their assets within current terror threat levels and increasing levels of perceived risk.
The highly diverse nature of customers and the different forms of threat they face requires application-specic solutions to be developed and the increasing requirement for ease of use by operators to be met.
A squeeze on defence spending by governments in developed markets means lower growth rates of around 3% per annum in the military and emergency response sectors in the near term.
Defence budgets are returning to pre-conict levels, impacting the divisions sales of equipment to protect troops and assets from a range of chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and explosive threats.
The level of such threats remains high with demand shifting from defence and military applications to civilian incidents.
This is accompanied by a move towards more commercial solutions and a growing requirement for software, training and support to simplify, accelerate and aid on-scene decision making.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 35 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Business review Continued Smiths Detection Continued Next generation scanner wins key approval Smiths Detections revolutionary new scanner for screening checked baggage has gained a key EU approval, mandatory for long-term aviation security applications introduced from September 2014 onwards.
Developed in co-operation with Analogic Corporation, the HI-SCAN 10080 XCT uses Smiths Detections expertise in multi-view, multienergy x-ray technology, together with Analogics three-dimensional Computed Tomography CT.
The high-speed system, which can handle up to 1800 bags an hour, is designed to maximise both detection and throughput capabilities to help meet increasingly stringent security requirements and allow easy integration into existing baggage-handling congurations.
The EU Standard 3 approval, under its EDS Explosives Detection Systems categories, means that the 10080 XCT has passed the strictest performance requirements covering a range of detection capabilities and false alarm rates.
It is scheduled to undergo evaluation for certication by the US Transportation Security Administration TSA later this year.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 36 Performance The impact of government spending and legislative actions can be significant for Smiths Detection.
In our largest market, the US, 2012 2011 Reported Underlying m m growth growth constrained budgets continue to affect key departments such as Homeland Security and Defense.
Additional disruptions to government Revenue 519 510 2% 3% spending patterns are expected as a consequence of the forthcoming Headline operating profit 69 66 6% 13% US elections.
In Europe, there was a further postponement of Headline operating margin 13.3% 12.8% 50 bps legislation to adopt a uniform standard for detecting liquids in hand Statutory operating profit 84 64 luggage, which could delay investment in the latest technologies Return on capital employed 10.3% 9.8% 50 bps ahead of the European Commission reconsidering its legislative plans later in the year.
Revenue at Smiths Detection grew 3% 16m on an underlying basis, excluding the impact of acquisitions and disposals and currency Transportation revenue increased 12%, including a number of airport translation.
A 1m gain from foreign currency translation was offset contracts from customers in Germany, Sweden, Austria, Poland and by a 8m net impact from acquisitions and disposals, arising from the US.
Investment by most airport operators and governments has the sale of the food inspection business in March 2011 and an optical been curtailed but new airports and terminals are planned, mainly in analysis company in February 2012.
The 17% recovery in underlying the Middle East and Asia Pacic region.
revenue in the second half was driven by growth in transportation, A greater focus on sales to the critical infrastructure sector saw critical infrastructure and ports and borders, which more than offset underlying revenue grow 21%.
This market, which includes declines in the military and emergency responder sectors.
government buildings, public utilities, prisons, hotels and other Headline operating margins improved 50 basis points to 13.3% as strategic sites, is central to our drive to achieve a greater proportion headline operating profit rose by 3m, or 13%, on an underlying basis.
This will bring more stability to balance This was driven by cost savings from the performance improvement the unpredictability of major programmes and our target is more programme, announced at the start of the period, which more than than 30% of revenue derived from such regular orders, within two offset the impact of some low margin contracts negotiated in previous to three years.
years, additional investment in sales resources and an unfavourable Underlying revenue in ports and borders also grew 7%, and although product mix from reduced military sales.
spending by national governments was reduced, enquiry levels are Statutory operating profit includes profits from the disposal of Cross encouragingly high.
Major contracts for high-energy cargo scanners Match Technologies Inc. 27m and exceptional restructuring costs were awarded by Brazil, India, Azerbaijan and Nigeria.
opportunities should be improved by the launch of a lightweight mobile system enabling easier operation in the eld than traditional systems.
The improvement in profitability resulted in a 50 basis point improvement in return on capital, which rose to 10.3%.
In the military sector, underlying revenue fell 31% due to cuts in military budgets.
This reects reduced spending patterns in line with The performance improvement programme delivered 15m of savings the lower number of conicts involving US and international forces.
and incurred 20m of costs, of which 13m was treated as exceptional.
However, contracts continue to be awarded under the US Armys longThe programme is expected to deliver 40m of annualised savings by running JCAD Joint Chemical Agent Detector programme, resulting the end of the 2014 financial year.
It will cost 40m overall, of which in $49m of orders since April 2012, of which $39m was booked as 9m is expected in the coming year, treated as exceptional costs.
Site rationalisation and an 8% headcount reduction signicantly Research and development boosted cost savings.
In the US, five business units have been closed Smiths Detection remains committed to the funded development of its or divested over an 18-month period, with continuing operations now main technologies and new products and systems.
The effectiveness focused at three main sites.
We have begun to evaluate opportunities of this investment was evidenced over the past year by the highest for value engineering projects and there was a close focus on all number of product launches in Smiths Detections history.
A new global manufacturing initiative for X-ray machines, centred on three regional hubs, will also Company-funded R&D increased 7% to 37m 2011: 35m, as a deliver performance improvements.
This includes a new production percentage of revenue reaching 7.2% 2011: 6.9%.
This includes 15m facility for X-ray systems in Malaysia, which opened at the end of the of capitalised projects.
Smiths Detection actively seeks customer period and will grow substantially during the coming year, eventually and government support for R&D which totalled 6m in the period employing 170 people.
ft site will enable Smiths 2011: 8m.
Total R&D spend was 43m 2011: 43m or 8.3% Detection to supply its technology directly to the worlds fastest of revenue.
growing air transportation market, and respond quickly to customer Principal launches included GUARDION, a dual-technology chemical requirements in the region.
identier: HazMatID Elite, a smaller, faster, lighter and more durable Wiesbaden, Germany, will remain as a major X-ray production centre, infrared identier for unknown chemical threats: X-ray systems for air while continuing as the R&D centre of excellence for the technology.
cargo screening: and a new mobile cargo inspection system.
The third hub is at the Edgewood facility in the US, which was expanded At the start of the new financial year, the HI-SCAN 10080 XCT was by 100,000 sq.
ft with the addition of a manufacturing and training launched.
It is a next-generation explosives scanner for hold baggage area, as part of a $9m investment over the past five years.
This will which has recently received certication from the EU authorities.
signicantly expand X-ray systems production in the US.
It combines multi-view X-ray technology and three-dimensional Servicing the extensive installed base of our equipment is a major computed tomography CT in a single system, providing both greater focus and, based on current growth levels, aftermarket operations security screening potential and high throughput an extremely are set to account for 30% of total revenues within three to four years.
attractive offering for airport operators.
Critical to its success will be There was a 10% increase in aftermarket revenue in the year to 26% certication and approvals from the TSA, the key agency in the US.
Outlook Revenue from emerging markets grew 10% driven by the Middle The current order book is comfortably ahead of the same time last East, Brazil and Poland.
Revenue in Brazil, including a major cargo year and is expected to support sales growth over the coming year, screening equipment contract, was helped by investment in sales with the benefit of major contract wins.
Future revenues should also be and marketing resources following the acquisition of our Brazilian strengthened by the expansion of our aftermarket business, although distributor in the previous year.
overall sales growth may be affected by the level of government spending.
Headline operating margins are expected to gain from the restructuring initiatives now underway in the performance improvement programme.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 37 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
