Our business model The Groups role Smiths Groups business model operates at two levels.
The Group Strategy Budgeting and planning Sets Group strategy and Agrees annual Group and manages our portfolio to create value ensures divisional strategies divisional budgets.
are aligned with Group for shareholders, while the five divisions strategy.
manage their businesses to meet customers needs and create value for the Group.
The Groups role Governance Risk management We have a lean corporate centre, which sets our strategic direction Provides an effective Sets risk appetite, ensures and allocates capital to manage the portfolio and drive returns.
It also governance framework and a strong risk management fosters a culture of responsibility and accountability wherever we ensures good governance framework is in place and work around the world.
is embedded across the provides effective oversight.
The divisional business model Our diversied portfolio offers a wide range of long-term growth markets with different customers, demand drivers and competitors.
It makes our business relatively resilient throughout the economic cycle.
Our businesses also share some common characteristics.
These include high-quality brands, a deep understanding of customers and markets, the ability to engineer products to meet customers specic Performance monitoring Systems needs, and expertise in small-batch, low-cost manufacturing.
Reviews and regularly Makes sure the right business Our decentralised structure ensures our businesses are close to challenges divisional systems and processes are in their target markets and customers and encourages a culture of performance.
place so that decisions are entrepreneurship.
Our divisions are responsible for actively managing made efficiently based on their risks, ensuring that a strong culture of ethics and compliance high-quality data.
is embedded across their businesses, and developing and retaining their people, with regular reporting back to the Group centre.
Ethics and compliance EHS, talent and retention Approves policies and provides Sets the Groups environment, oversight to ensure a strong health and safety, and people culture of ethical behaviour development policies and and compliance.
Financing and capital structure Capital allocation Optimises the Groups capital Allocates capital across structure and secures long-term the Group through nancing.
Seeks to maintain investing in organic a strong investment-grade growth and acquisitions, credit rating.
managing our legacy liabilities and returning cash to shareholders.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 10 The divisional business model Invest in new product development R&D is the key driver of sales growth and margins.
It enables us to keep at the forefront of technology and develop products that meet our customers evolving needs.
Customer intimacy Organic investment We fund the majority of our R&D and we also seek funding and market knowledge in business from our customers.
Our spend is focused more on product Our businesses Our strong cash-ow development than pure research.
In 2012, we invested 117m consistently rene their enables us to reinvest in R&D, of which 10m was customer funded.
knowledge of their in the business to markets.
This includes drive top-line growth knowing the scale of the by investing in new market and its growth product development, rate, the competitors optimising our systems Operations and supply chain and their activities, and operations The majority of the manufacturing process is in small-batch, and our potential and expanding our low cost assembly, much of which is made to meet specic sources of competitive sales and marketing customer orders.
This makes us capital-light and exible.
This helps presence in key growth Where appropriate, we have established production facilities us anticipate and respond markets.
in lower-cost countries, such as Mexico, China, India, the Czech to developments.
This investment Republic, Costa Rica and Tunisia.
This deep market enables us to maintain knowledge enables us our technology to achieve a high degree leadership and of customer intimacy, accelerates sales allowing us to anticipate and margin growth their specic needs.
across the business, Sales effectiveness Aftermarket services This in turn helps us providing a platform We take our products to Many of our businesses to keep our customers for sustained growth.
market through our own provide a high level of for the long term.
sales and marketing teams aftersales service.
We also and a network of dealers and sell significant quantities distributors around the world.
Our focus on building longThese activities help us to term customer relationships retain customer loyalty, is fundamental to the success improve our understanding of our sales force.
of how our products perform over their lifetime and increase our resilience throughout the economic cycle.
Cash generation By emphasising working capital management, particularly our debtors and inventories, we are able to convert a high proportion of headline operating profit into cash.
Shareholder returns Manage our legacy liabilities Acquisitions and disposals Our focus on cash generation At the same time, we actively We buy businesses that add enables us to reinvest in the manage our portfolio of complementary technologies business to drive growth and to liabilities, such as our dened and products, expand our generate attractive shareholder benefit pension schemes and geographical footprint, returns, through both dividend legacy product liability issues, particularly in emerging payments and capital returns.
so that we minimise their impact markets, or allow us to on our value creation.
These leverage our existing scale and are managed at either Group or infrastructure.
We are also active divisional level, as appropriate.
in disposing of businesses that offer less attractive returns.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 11 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
