SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 GOVERNANCE About the Board 1.
Roger Cagle Non-Executive Chairman, 57 Executive Vice President, Deputy CEO Non-Executive Director, 57 Appointed: July 1999 Appointed: July 1999 and Chief Financial officer, 65 Rui fide Sousa has approximately 30 years Appointed: April 1997 Olivier Barbaroux has over 20 years experience in experience in the energy sector.
He was formerly the energy and utilities sector.
He was the Chairman Roger Cagle has over 35 years of experience in the a director of Gazprombank-Invest Lebanon SAL, oil and gas industry including succeeding positions and CEO of Dalkia and a member of the Executive the Chairman of Carbon Resource Management Ltd Committee of Veolia Environment until 2011.
Formerly, of responsibility with Exxon Corporation and senior and the President of Quantic Mining.
Rui is currently management roles with Superior Oil Company.
He he was the Managing Director of Compagnie Gnrale a director of Quantic Limited.
des Eaux, President and Chief Operating officer of was formerly the Chief Financial officer of Conquest Exploration Company and the Chief Financial officer Vivendi Water S. A. the Head of the Energy Sector 2.
Ed Story N of Paribas and the Chief Executive officer of the oil of Snyder Oil Corporations international subsidiary.
President and Chief Executive officer, 69 Roger is also a non-executive director of Vostok and gas production and exploration company Appointed: April 1997 Coparex International.
Ed Story has over 40 years experience in the oil and gas industry, beginning with Exxon Corporation, 4.
Cynthia Cagle where he held various positions including seven years Non-Executive and Senior Executive Director, Vice President Finance resident in the Far East.
He was formerly the Vice Independent Director, 65 and Company Secretary, 58 President and CFO of Superior Oil Company, a Appointed: June 2011 Appointed: December 2012 co-founder and Vice Chairman of Conquest Michael Johns is a solicitor by profession with over 35 Cynthia Cagle has over 30 years experience in the oil Exploration Company and a co-founder and President years experience as partner at international law rms.
She was one of the founders of SOCO of Snyder Oil Corporations international subsidiary.
Until his retirement in 2009, he was a partner at International plc and has been an officer of the Group, Ed was a non-executive director of Cairn Energy PLC Ashurst LLP, where he specialised in a broad range and a Director of its significant subsidiaries, since its until 2008 and is currently a non-executive director of practice areas including corporate, corporate inception in 1997.
Prior to joining SOCO, Cynthia gained of Cairn India Limited.
finance and energy law and was Head of Energy, her industry experience through senior accounting Transport & Infrastructure.
Michael was previously a positions in Snyder Oil Corporations international partner at Withers for 13 years and more recently has subsidiary, Conquest Exploration Company and served as a Director of Aer Lingus Group plc.
Superior Oil Company, and additional financial experience with Texas Commerce Bancshares.
3 3 5 5 1 4 4 A PROVEN 2 2 RECORD OF DIVERSE EXPERIENCE AND INSIGHT 40 Strategic Review Business Review Corporate Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Additional Information SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Key: Membership Committees Committee chair A Audit Committee member R Remuneration Committee advisor N Nominations 7.
John Norton A N Non-Executive Director, 68 Non-Executive Director, 69 Non-Executive Director, 75 Appointed: June 2001 Appointed: June 2009 Appointed: April 1997 Robert Cathery has over 40 years of City experience.
Ambassador Antnio Monteiro has over 40 years John Norton is a Chartered Accountant by profession He was formerly the Managing Director and Head of of experience with the Portuguese Ministry of Foreign and was a partner at Arthur Andersen, heading the oil Oil and Gas at Canaccord Capital Europe Limited, Affairs, including as Foreign Minister of Portugal, and and gas practice in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Head of Corporate Sales at SG Securities London with international organisations, including as UN High until his retirement in 1995.
John was formerly also a Ltd. director of Vickers da Costa and director of Representative for Elections in Cte dIvoire and as a member of the Oil Industry Accounting Committee and Schroders Securities.
Robert is also currently a member of the UN Secretary-Generals Panel on the a director of the Arab-British Chamber of Commerce.
non-executive director of Vostok Energy Limited, Referenda in the Sudan.
Mike Watts R A N Salamander Energy PLC and Central Asia Ambassador of Portugal to France and the Permanent Non-Executive Director, 57 Metals Limited.
Representative of Portugal to the United Nations, Appointed: August 2009 where posts included being President of the Security 8.
Ettore Contini Dr Mike Watts is currently the Deputy Chief Executive Council and of the Security Councils Committee Non-Executive Director, 38 of Cairn Energy PLC and has over 30 years experience established by Resolution 661 1990.
Antnio is Appointed: December 2001 in the oil and gas industry.
He was formerly the CEO currently also Chairman of the Board of Directors of Ettore Contini was formerly a director of Energia and Managing Director of the Amsterdam listed the Portuguese Bank Millenium BCP Banco E Servize SpA and an asset manager in the private Holland Sea Search, which was acquired by Cairn Comercial Portugus, a non-executive member of banking division of Banca del Gottardo.
Ettore is Energy PLC in 1995, and has held senior technical and the Board of the Angolan Bank BPA Banco Privado currently also a director of Eurowatt-Commerce.
management roles with Premier, Burmah and Shell.
Atlntico, President of the Luso-Brazilian Foundation Curators Council, member of the Faculty of Human and Social Sciences General Council of the Universidade Nova fide Lisboa and Chairman of the Advisory Council of Gulbenkians Foundation Program for Development Assistance.
11 7 9 6 10 8 41 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 GOVERNANCE In this section POLICIES, PROCESSES AND STRUCTURES AT THE HEART OF SOCO 1 2 3 Annual Report of the Directors Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report Principal Activity and Business Review p43 Board of Directors p47 Remuneration Committee p58 A A A Chairman and Chief Executive Executive and Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Policy p58 Results and Dividends p43 B B Company Secretary Board Balance, Diversity and Independence Executive Directors p59 Directors p43 Reappointment C C Succession and Appointments Package Components p59 Supplier Payment Policy p44 D D Basic Salary Board Structure and Process p51 B Bonus Contributions p44 E Long Term Incentive Plans Conicts of Interest p52 C Share Option Plan Share Capital p44 Pension Contributions F Accountability and Audit p53 D Directors and Auditors Responsibilities Substantial Shareholdings p45 Other Policies p62 G E Going Concern Risk Management and Internal Control Auditors p45 Non-Executive Directors p62 H Internal Audit Function F Relations with Shareholders Going Concern p45 Directors Contracts p62 I G Committees p54 E Directors Responsibilities for the p45 Audit Committee Directors Transactions p62 J H Financial Statements Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Directors Remuneration Report Tables p63 I Directors Responsibility Statement p46 K 42 Strategic Review Business Review Corporate Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Additional Information SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 1 Annual Report of the Directors HOW THE DIRECTORS ENSURE THE COMPANY OPERATES TO THE HIGHEST STANDARDS Results and Dividends he Directors present their annual report, B The audited financial statements for the year along with the audited financial statements ended 31 December 2012 are set out on pages 70 to of the Group for the year ended 31 92.
The Directors are not recommending a payment of TDecember 2012.
Information on pages 2 to a dividend in respect of 2012 2011 - nil.
However, the 37 and 47 to 56 is incorporated herein by reference Board expects to recommend a sustainable return of and forms part of this Directors report.
capital to shareholders during 2013, the level of which will be determined pending Hoang Long and Hoan Vu Principal Activity and Business Review A Joint Operating Companies approvals of a 2013 Work The Groups principal activity is oil and gas Programme and Budget for Ca Ngu Vang and Te Giac exploration and production.
The Group has its Trang and incorporating results of the upcoming headquarters in London and has oil and gas interests capacity test of the oating, production, storage and in Vietnam, Republic of Congo Brazzaville, the ofoading vessel.
Democratic Republic of Congo Kinshasa DRC and Angola.
The subsidiary undertakings principally Directors affecting the profits or net assets of the Group are C The business of the Company is managed by the listed in Note 17 to the financial statements.
Directors who may exercise all powers of the Company Cynthia Cagle, subject to the Articles of Association Articles and law.
The Business Review on pages 14 to 29 describes the Vice President Finance The Directors who held ofce during the year, and the performance and development of the Groups business and Company Secretary dates of their current service contracts or letters of during the year, its position at the end of the year and appointment, which are available for inspection, are its future prospects.
The principal risks and listed in the table on page 44.
All Directors held ofce uncertainties facing the Group are set out in the Risk throughout the year except as noted in the table.
Management Report on pages 26 to 29.
As set out in Relevant details of the Directors, which include their the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 32 to 37, Committee memberships, are set out on pages 40 and SOCO is committed to high standards of ethical 41.
Further details of Directors, their interests in the business conduct and to managing its operations shares of the Company, their interests in any contracts responsibly and sustainably.
The financial and relating to the Companys business and Directors non-financial key performance indicators KPIs used contracts are included in the Directors Remuneration by management are set out on pages 15 and 23, and Report on pages 57 to 65. are summarised along with pertinent denitions in the Five Year Summary on pages 94 to 95.
The KPIs In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate adopted in respect of personnel, health, safety and Governance Code, all Directors will retire at the environmental measures reect the small staff size and forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM and, being relatively small size and scope of projects directly eligible, offer themselves for reappointment.
The operated by the Company.
Additional KPIs will continue process for consideration of Board appointments and to be developed for reporting on these areas at an reappointments is set out in the Corporate Governance appropriate time in the evolution of SOCOs operations.
Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and the Group is included in Note 2 n The Non-Executive Directors fees, and SOCOs and Note 23 to the financial statements.
process for setting those fees, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 65.
SOCO provides liability insurance for its Directors and ofcers.
The annual cost of the cover is not material to the Group.
The Companys Articles allow it to provide an indemnity for the benefit of its Directors, which is a qualifying indemnity provision for the purpose of section 233 of the Companies Act 2006 2006 Act.
43 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 GOVERNANCE 1 Annual Report of the Directors continued Supplier Payment Policy No shareholder, unless the Board decides otherwise, D SOCOs policy is to settle the terms of payment is entitled to attend or to vote either personally or by Directors Holding Ofce during 2012 with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each proxy at a general meeting or to exercise any other Director Date of Contract transaction to ensure that suppliers are made aware right conferred by being a shareholder if he or she or of and abide by the terms of payment.
As the Company any person with an interest in shares has been sent Rui C fide Sousa 12.07.99 Chairman is a holding company, it has no trade creditors and a notice under section 793 of the 2006 Act which accordingly no disclosure can be made of the year end confers upon public companies the power to require Michael C Johns 23.06.11 creditor days.
information with respect to interests in their voting Senior Independent Director shares and he or she or any interested person failed to Olivier M G Barbaroux 12.07.99 Contributions supply the Company with the information requested E Roger D Cagle 14.05.97 Information regarding the Companys global within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
The Board charitable programmes, which are principally carried may also decide that no dividend is payable in respect Cynthia B Cagle 14.05.97 out in the countries where the Group has operations, of those default shares and that no transfer of any Appointed to the Board 05.12.12 is contained in the Corporate Responsibility Report on default shares shall be registered.
These restrictions Robert M Cathery 19.06.01 pages 32 to 37.
The Companys policies prohibit end seven days after receipt by the Company of a Ettore P M Contini 11.12.01 political donations.
notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information required by the relevant section 793 Antnio V Monteiro 10.06.09 Share Capital notice, whichever is earlier.
The Directors may refuse F John C Norton 14.05.97 Details of changes to share capital in the period to register any transfer of any share which is not a fullyand details regarding purchase of the Companys own paid share, although such discretion may not be Edward T Story 14.05.97 shares into treasury are set out in Note 26 to the exercised in a way which the Financial Services Michael J Watts 21.09.09 financial statements.
The Directors believe that the Authority regards as preventing dealings in shares of Denotes those determined by the Board to be independent acquisition of the Companys shares represented that class from taking place on an open or proper Non-Executive Directors as described in the Corporate good value to shareholders, and will enhance basis.
The Directors may likewise refuse any transfer Governance Report on pages 47 to 56. earnings per share.
of a share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Company currently has one class of share in issue, The Company is not aware of any other restrictions ordinary shares of 0.05 each, all of which are fully on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company paid.
Each ordinary share in issue carries equal rights other than certain restrictions that may from time to including one vote per share on a poll at general time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, meetings of the Company, subject to the terms of the insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Listing Rules Articles and law.
Shares held in treasury carry no such of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain rights for so long as they are held in treasury.
Votes employees of the Company require approval of the may be exercised by shareholders attending or Company to deal in the Companys shares.
otherwise duly represented at general meetings.
Deadlines for the exercise of voting rights by proxy on a poll at a general meeting are detailed in the notice of meeting and proxy cards issued in connection with the relevant meeting.
Voting rights relating to the shares held by the SOCO Employee benefit Trust are not exercised.
The Articles may only be amended by a resolution of the shareholders.
44 Strategic Review Business Review Corporate Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Additional Information SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 The Company is not aware of any agreements Auditors Going Concern H I between shareholders that may result in restrictions A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP Deloitte It should be recognised that any consideration on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Resolutions as the Companys auditors will be proposed by the of the foreseeable future involves making a judgement, will be proposed at the 2013 AGM, as is customary, Directors at the forthcoming AGM.
Deloitte also provide at a particular point in time, about future events which to authorise the Directors to exercise all powers to non-audit services to the Group, which are set out are inherently uncertain.
Nevertheless, at the time of allot shares and approve a limited disapplication of in Note 9 to the financial statements.
All non-audit preparation of these accounts and after making pre-emption rights.
Further information regarding services are approved by the Audit Committee.
enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation these resolutions is set out in the circular to The Directors are currently satisfied, and will continue that the Group has adequate resources to continue shareholders.
A resolution will also be proposed at the to ensure, that this range of services is delivered in operating for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, 2013 AGM, as is also customary, to renew the compliance with the relevant ethical guidance of the and taking into consideration the additional factors in Directors existing authority to make market purchases accountancy profession and does not impair the the Financial Review on pages 22 to 24, they continue of the Companys ordinary share capital, and to limit judgement or independence of the auditors.
The to adopt the going concern basis in preparing such authority to purchases of up to 34,095,432 Directors at the date of approval of this report confirm the accounts.
ordinary shares of 0.05 each, representing that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary audit information, being information needed by the Dir ectors Responsibilities for J share capital at 8 March 2013.
Shares purchased auditors in connection with preparing their report, of the Financial Statements under this authority may either be cancelled or held as which the auditors are unaware.
Each Director has The Directors are responsible for preparing treasury shares.
taken all steps that they ought to have taken, having the annual report and the financial statements in made such enquiries of fellow Directors and the accordance with applicable United Kingdom law Substantial Shareholdings auditors and taken such other steps as are required and International Financial Reporting Standards as G As at 8 March 2013, the Company had been under their duties as a Director, to make themselves adopted by the European Union both for the Group notied, in accordance with the UKLAs Disclosure aware of any relevant audit information and to establish and the Company.
Rules and Transparency Rules, of the interests in the that the auditors are aware of that information.
This issued share capital of the Company as set out in the conrmation is given and should be interpreted in The Directors are required to prepare financial table below.
accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the statements for each financial year that give a true and 2006 Act.
fair view of the financial position of the Company and of the Group and the financial performance and cash ows of the Group for that period.
In preparing those accounts the Directors are required to select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: present information and accounting policies in a manner that provides relevant, reliable and comparable information: and state that the Company and the Group have complied with applicable accounting standards, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
Substantial Shareholdings Issued Shares Name of Holder Number % Held Pontoil Intertrade Limited 82,333,145 24.81 BlackRock, Inc. 34,022,486 10.25 Chemsa Ltd 24,378,600 7.35 Edward T Story 13,073,866 3.94 45 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 GOVERNANCE 1 Annual Report of the Directors continued The Directors are responsible for keeping proper Directors Responsibility Statement K accounting records which disclose with reasonable The Directors confirm that, to the best of each accuracy at any time the financial position of the persons knowledge: Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with relevant legislation.
a the financial statements set out on pages 70 to 92, They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets which have been prepared in accordance with of the Company and the Group and hence for taking applicable United Kingdom law and International reasonable steps for the prevention and detection Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the of fraud and other irregularities.
European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and of the Group taken as a whole: and and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Information b this Directors Report, including each of the published on the internet is accessible in many management reports forming part of it, includes a fair countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation review of the development and performance of the in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and business and the position of the Company and the dissemination of financial statements may differ from Group taken as a whole, together with a description legislation in other jurisdictions.
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board 8 March 2013 Cynthia Cagle Company Secretary All Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for reappointment.
