Broaden global presence through first-to-market leadership in emerging markets Strategies for growth We have strong global brands with the most complete worldwide coverage of emerging markets of any business in our sectors.
During the last five years, the overall contribution We are pioneering the introduction of peristaltic pumps to total Group sales from our emerging markets has in much of the developing world, demonstrating their increased from 32% in 2008 to 39% in 2012.
Perhaps superior technology and lower life cycle cost bene ts even more importantly, these markets tend to carry higher for applications in bio-pharmaceuticals, precious metals pro t margins and in 2012 represented 45% of Group processing, foods production and chemical dosing in operating pro t. water and wastewater treatment.
In the past five years, we have commenced direct selling operations for Our strong global presence has resulted from decades Watson-Marlow in Argentina, India, Malaysia, Mexico, of work and determination to build global brands that are Poland and Singapore and are introducing customers easily recognisable and that symbolises expertise and to the bene ts of our unique peristaltic and sinusoidal reliability.
We have a long-standing presence in many pumping technologies.
For example, in Latin America we established businesses in Argentina, Brazil and Our strong infrastructure around the world, quality people Mexico over 60 years ago and have built very strong, and local training capabilities in these markets, help us enviable businesses and brand positions in each of these to more easily branch out into neighbouring markets that countries.
We entered the important Chinese and Russian are, in most cases, at an earlier stage of development.
markets with a direct presence in the mid-1990s and are Continued investment in market development in these reaping the bene ts of our early market development important developing and emerging markets forms the initiatives China today represents 10% of total Group basis of long-term growth opportunities for the Group.
sales and boasts our largest direct sales organisation anywhere in the world.
Opening of new geographic territories Improving oil re ning ef ciency, GS Caltex, Korea 2008 0 2 2009 2 4 2010 1 5 2011 5 4 2012 9 New markets Cumulative Emerging markets sales m 2008 Spirax Sarco helped GS Caltex, a leading oil company in Korea, to 2009 improve ef ciency, reduce waste and increase the quantity of light 2010 petroleum products produced on their Heavy Oil line through re- 2011 modelling the steam system at their oil re nery in Yeosu, South Korea.
