Our markets We serve a wide range of industries and this diversity insulates the Company from seasonal and cyclical demand.
This section shows the speci c applications in which we apply our tailored solutions to reduce energy costs and improve plant ef ciency.
One of the great strengths of the Group is Foods processing is our largest single end screens, space heating for large public our diverse range of customers and end market and represents approximately 12% buildings and university complexes and markets.
We have an excellent balance of total Group sales.
This end market has instantaneous hot water for hospitals, resort between cyclic higher-growth end markets manysub-sectors such as rendering plants, hotels and commercial buildings.
and those that are more defensive that slaughterhouses, packaged foods, dairies, Our third largest end market is re ning and tend to be more recession-proof.
More than raw foods processing, sugar processing and petrochemicals 9% of sales.
Steam is 50% of the Groups revenues are derived palm oil processing, which are important extensively used in catalytic and thermal from these defensive end markets including: markets for both our steam specialties cracking of crude oil, distillation columns, foods, beverages, HVAC, pharmaceuticals, business and Watson-Marlow Pumps.
power generation and in heat tracing.
healthcare, water treatment, chemicals, We have a very high exposure to food textiles and power generation.
More than processing throughout Asia, and this Pharmaceuticals, including biotechnology, 85% of our revenues are derived from represents 40% or more of total Asia sales.
is our fourth largest end market 8% of sales our customers annual maintenance or and represents the single largest end market HVAC is our second largest end market 11% operations budgets.
for our Watson-Marlow pumps business, of sales served by our steam specialties comprising about 30% of total Watsonbusiness, with applications in humidi cation Marlow sales.
including during the production of semiconductors, electronics and LCD and plasma Revenue by sector Foods Brewing and distilling HVAC OEM machinery Re ning and petrochemical Pharmaceuticals Healthcare Precious metal processing Water treatment Chemicals Textiles Rubber and plastics Other 10 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview 11 Foods Brewing HVAC OEM machinery Re ning and Pharmaceuticals and distilling petrochemical Steam is widely Steam is essential Our products are We work with Our steam Clean steam used in the for brewing used to provide manufacturers system services reduces the production of and distilling space heating, to optimise the and products risk of product packaged foods, processes.
It is humidi cation performance of enable optimum and process for blanching, used to protect and hot water to a diverse range performance contamination, cooking, baking, product quality and create comfortable of equipment, in steam and and our peristaltic packaging and avour, and ensure working conditions including mixers, condensate pumps enable sterilising.
compliance with for employees reactors, paper systems, and precise ow industry standards.
and visitors in and packaging reduce energy control and uid public and private machines, dryers, use during re ning isolation in the buildings.
sterilisers and and petrochemical pharmaceutical clinical diagnostic production.
Healthcare Precious metal Water treatment Chemicals Textiles Rubber and processing plastics Our products Peristaltic pumps Peristaltic pumps Steam is widely Fabric and carpet Our products have a wide range reduce water, are used to used as an energy production use facilitate of applications energy and accurately dose source in chemical steam during the temperature in hospitals and chemical use chemicals during production spinning, dyeing control of clinics for space and increase water treatment and product and nishing exothermic heating, hot reliability and processes and processing.
process reactors, water production, productivity while ef ciently transfer critical to the humidi cation moving and viscous and manufacture of and sterilisation.
modern composite abrasive ores materials.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11 Strategy and performance Generating value An overview of our business model, our strategies for growth and business performance during 2012.
An engineer adjusting an installed bellows-sealed isolation valve, UK Technology Centre.
12 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategy and performance 13 Customer Applications Insight Development Customer Industry value Leadership Local Availability Business model Strategies for growth Business review page 14 page 16 page 17 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
