Overview Our businesses 5 We comprise two world-leading niche businesses: Spirax Sarco for steam specialties Watson-Marlow for peristaltic and niche pumps Our Spirax Sarco steam specialties business is the global Watson-Marlow is the global leader in peristaltic and selective leader in the supply of engineered solutions for the design, niche pumps and systems, specialising not only in the design maintenance and operation of ef cient industrial and and manufacture of the most advanced pumps and tubing, commercial steam systems.
but also in the application of those pumps to our customers processes.
As a heat source, steam is the natural choice in most industrial processes due to its high heat-carrying capacity, controllability, Our peristaltic pumps are ideal for dif cult pumping applications.
sterility and ef ciency as a heat transfer uid.
With our specialist They are highly accurate and controllable and virtually maintenance knowledge, technical expertise and wide range of products andfree, making them a very reliable and cost-effective solution.
services, as well as our extensive global presence, Spirax Sarco Operating a make-to-order manufacturing system and uniquely is uniquely positioned to provide a broad range of  our own pump tubing, we have the leading position in friendly engineered solutions to the many industries using steam.
the supply of peristaltic pumps and tubing to the biotechnology, Our customers face a variety of challenges including high energy pharmaceutical, wastewater treatment, mining and food industries.
costs, pressure to improve the operating ef ciency and capacity The peristaltic pumping market is a small part of the global pump of existing processes, and the need to comply with increasingly market but it is one of the fastest growing segments.
stringent health, safety and environmental legislation.
Our direct sales force is highly trained in product application, system performance and the troubleshooting of steam systems.
The Spirax Sarco offering is very wide, from single products through to complete turnkey bespoke packages that can include design, fabrication, installation, commissioning and maintenance.
Group revenue Group operating profit Spirax Sarco 537.2m Spirax Sarco 106.9m Watson-Marlow 124.5m Watson-Marlow 36.8m Total 661.7m Total 143.7m Corporate expenses 7.4m Total 136.2m Unless stated otherwise, all references are to adjusted pro t, which excludes certain non-operational items as set out in note 2 on page 94.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5
