Strategies for growth We have developed a robust global business model and seek to build upon this foundation with five primary strategies to develop our future growth prospects.
What are the strategies for developing to provide turnkey systems design, Mark Vernon the business over the longer term?
Group Chief Executive The Group has developed a robust, global We have developed a large cadre of local business model that has proved resilient sales and service engineers who are highly through the business cycles.
We are seeking trained in ef cient steam system design, to build upon this foundation with five primary maintenance and operations, and niche strategies to develop the future growth pumping.
The skills of our sales and service prospects of the business.
engineers, coupled with our strategy of We seek to further strengthen our strong widening our range of engineered solutions, global market positions in steam systems are making it easier for our customers and niche pumping through strong customer to turn to Spirax Sarco to source all relationships in which our highly-trained their requirements.
local sales engineers and technical support What are the short-term goals?
staff provide expertise in applications Over the short term, we will continue to add and in steam system design, operations technical sales and support resources in and maintenance.
emerging markets around the world.
We We supply effective solutions in response see excellent growth opportunities in these to dif cult customer plant productivity issues Key strategies markets and will continue an investment and we help our customers reduce their programme of sustained market development.
Create strong market positions energy and water usage, and save money.
For example, in the past three years we have through local expertise and added 100 sales and service engineers in our We are broadening our global presence customer insight.
emerging markets in the Middle East, Asia, by being first to enter new markets with a Africa, Latin America and Eastern Europe, Deliver solutions to reduce direct presence that enables us to deliver to and our sales growth is bene ting from energy usage through innovative our customers the full range of engineering these investments.
engineering and comprehensive solutions, products and services.
In addition to our market development We seek to grow our market share by objectives, our product development efforts widening the range of products, services Broaden our global presence are yielding exciting new products that are and pre-fabricated engineered packages through first-to-market leadership broadening our ability to effectively monitor, that we supply, and to make it even easier in emerging markets.
meter and control the use of steam and other for our customers to source all their Grow market share through increased process uids.
We are also expanding our requirements from us.
market penetration and one-stop shop range of pumps, controls and boilerhouse We strive to generate consistent customer approach.
products to improve plant automation and are organic sales growth by providing greater looking to introduce new heat exchange and Generate consistent organic growth customer value through skilled local heat recovery solutions to address more by providing greater customer value.
expertise, close customer relationships and dif cult heat transfer applications and to convert local availability of a wide range of products waste heat into usable energy or power.
Summary How do the strategies align with the I am con dent that the Group is putting in changing business environment?
place the longer term strategies that will High energy costs and reducing energy build upon our already robust and resilient and water usage are areas of increasing business model.
The Group bene ts from concern to our customers.
Changing a very strong global market presence and legislative requirements that require brands, and we are looking to broaden substantial reductions in CO emissions and 2 our range of engineered solutions for our other plant emissions, plus better hygienic customers in more locations around the operations in hospitals and in the production world in order to make it even easier for of foods, beverages and pharmaceuticals, them to source all their steam system are becoming increasingly burdensome to and niche pumping requirements from us.
Additionally, many of our customers are reducing their plant staff and, Mark Vernon as a result, are seeking fewer key suppliers Group Chief Executive 16 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
