Create strong market positions through local expertise and customer insight Strategies for growth Our understanding of customer processes and applications enables our local skilled engineers to deliver leading edge solutions for sustainable ef ciencies in plant operations, ensuring a strong market position.
It is not our products alone that provide value to our We train our sales engineers in our 42 training centres customers it is the application of our extensive located around the world, most of which are equipped knowledge in systems design, operations and with live steam or pumping installations that facilitate maintenance.
Our direct sales approach accounts hands-on training.
for about 70% of total revenues and is fundamental to These centres are also used to train our customers our growth.
Working directly with our customers in close, technical and maintenance staff.
We have developed long-term relationships, Spirax Sarco sales engineers internet-based tools to improve the technical training of around the world apply our deep applications and systems our sales engineers around the world and to speed their knowledge, breadth of products and expertise in offering development.
Additionally, we have installed information the most extensive range of engineered solutions.
collection and sharing software to improve our ability to Our customers value the opportunity to source their diffuse application knowledge and provide a common steam system needs from a competent single source, platform to share application knowledge amongst work and rely increasingly on Spirax Sarco.
Today we employ groups across our global sales network.
nearly 1,300 local sales and service engineers who are focused on assisting steam and pump users to meet their challenges.
The heart of our business lies in our ability to improve the operating and energy ef ciency of existing steam systems, increase the throughput of our customers processes, improve their product quality and assist them in meeting more stringent environmental legislation.
This demands that our sales and service people are intimate with the operating issues of individual customers manufacturing plants and facilities.
Number of sales and service engineers by region Hungary for heat 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 549 445 279 Percentage of sales by geographic region 2008 2009 2010 An understanding of processes and applications at the Tiszai Vegyi Kombinat petrochemical plant in Hungary enabled Spirax Sarco 2011 engineers to design and implement a solution to solve the problem of 2012 44% 27% 29% a freezing water supply.
The ef cient and innovative solution, injecting steam directly into the supply pipe, has ensured a constant supply of EMEA Asia Pacific Americas water in the coldest months.
