Deliver solutions to reduce energy usage through innovative engineering and comprehensive energy audits Strategies for growth We provide our customers with innovative engineering solutions and products that save energy, improve plant ef ciencies and product quality, and achieve regulatory compliance.
The Group considers its commitment to new product Our Watson-Marlow pump business launched the Qdos development as critical to its long-term success.
pump containing revolutionary new pumping technology.
In the last four years, the Group has nearly doubled This new technology signi cantly extends the lifetime its R&D investments to accelerate the ow of new operation of our Qdos peristaltic pumps and improves products, to extend our current range of products and plant ef ciency by eliminating costly downtime and repair applications, and open new markets.
of other positive displacement pump types that are being replaced by the Qdos pump.
In 2011, we completed construction of what we believe is the worlds largest and most capable live steam testing Our highly trained sales and service engineers are facility, with the capacity to generate ows of up to 30,000 increasingly called upon to assist our customers in more kg hour of saturated steam and work at pressures of up to comprehensive plant-wide energy audits to reduce 110 bar 1,595 psig this facility enables us to accelerate their energy and water usage, lower plant emissions product development and comprehensively test new and improve overall energy ef ciency.
Although these product designs at elevated operating temperatures and audits typically cover the thermal aspects of plant energy pressures.
Although we operate R&D development and usage, we also have capabilities to cover a broader test centres at several locations around the world, the range of energy consumption, including boiler ef ciency, bulk of our development activities for both steam system plant compressed air usage and HVAC ef ciency.
products and peristaltic pumps are centred in the UK.
Investments made by our customers to improve their energy ef ciency typically result in payback periods of This year we introduced our new range of EasiHeat less than two years.
pre-fabricated, hot water delivery systems incorporating our unique SIMS software technology for local and remote monitoring and con guration.
The EasiHeat units deliver hot water instantaneously on demand and save signi cant energy by eliminating the need for our customers to supply continuous heating to maintain a high temperature of large volumes of stored hot water.
R&D expenditure m A reliable solution 2008 5.4 2009 6.7 2010 7.4 2011 9.9 2012 10.1 Spirax Sarco recently supplied two further EasiHeat steam-to-hotwater systems to Doncaster Royal In rmary, bringing its total to 12, underscoring the hospitals con dence in the technologys superior reliability and energy ef ciency.
