Grow market share through increased market penetration and one-stop shop customer approach Strategies for growth We see further opportunities for growth from our existing customers and markets by supplying a wider range of energy metering, controls, automation products, heat recovery solutions and pumps.
Our technically-expert direct sales force allows For Watson-Marlow, the story is similar, as our pumps us to leverage our brands into new products and product range has been progressively widened and applications.
As we have widened our range of products developed, making use of improved electronics, new and extended our application reach, particularly in ow pumping technologies and tubing materials to broaden metering, boiler controls, automatic control valves, heat the addressable markets.
In the past five years, new transfer systems and pumps, we are simplifying the products at Watson-Marlow also contributed about 20% buying process for our customers in offering an even of the overall organic growth of this business segment.
wider range of choices and options for their steam system In our Watson-Marlow pumps business, we have been and pumping requirements.
This increases the amount gradually transitioning our selling organisation in Europe of plant spend that we can capture in small-scale capital to more direct sales, particularly for the Flexicon and projects and maintenance activities from our extensive MasoSine product ranges that have been acquired customer base.
and that historically were sold through a distribution New products have contributed meaningfully to the network.
As a result, we are adding technical sales organic sales growth.
For the steam business, new engineers and achieving faster rates of growth by better products in areas such as automatic control valves, explaining to customers the technical and cost bene ts pre-fabricated heat transfer and heat recovery packages, of our pumps.
This greater concentration of sales on demand hot water generation systems, ow meters resources also enables Watson-Marlow to segment and steam system services, have resulted in these and focus selling activities into its core market areas product families growing collectively at a signi cantly of bio-pharmaceuticals, foods & beverages and faster rate than overall sales growth over the past five water treatment.
years and contributing about 20% of the overall growth of steam business sales in the period.
Percentage of steam specialties sales % MasoSine pumps solving a sticky problem 2002 81 19 2007 77 23 2012 72 28 Traditional Key initiatives Percentage of Watson-Marlow sales % 2007 100 2009 89 11 2012 84 16 To produce toffee sauce at their Tenbury Wells plant, UK, Kerry Ingredients & Flavours needed a pump capable of handling Traditional Key initiatives the demanding viscosity and ow properties of condensed milk.
Watson-Marlows MasoSine SPS 2.5 pump provided the ideal solution.
