spirent COMMUniCAtiOns plC AnnUAl repOrt 2012 business model adding value We develop innovative test solutions for the engineers working within the communications industry that allow them to evaluate the performance of the latest technologies, infrastructure and applications to be deployed worldwide.
We also provide tools for service technicians and field test engineers to improve network quality and make troubleshooting of live networks efficient and effective.
Network equipment manufacturers emphasis on providing professional and service providers face numerous service and support.
All of the above, challenges associated with bringing with the optimal utilisation of our own products and services from the lab to resources, supports the sustainability the commercial marketplace.
Spirents of the margins Spirent achieves.
solutions allow network equipment and mobile device manufacturers, service Technology cycle providers, enterprises and government Innovation in data technologies is required entities to holistically test and benchmark to satisfy the everincreasing demand the performance of their networks, for data capacity, reliability and security network elements, mobile devices by all members of society and by the and services.
development of new economic processes to create wealth worldwide.
How Spirent creates value Spirent enables its customers to increase Shareholder returns their revenues by reducing their time to Our focus on valuecreation through bring new products and services to investment in the business, whether market, with higher quality and reliability that be organically through product while reducing associated cost and risk.
development, by acquisition of Our test solutions, which span the entire technology, or access to new served product lifecycle from concept to markets, is aimed at delivering commercial availability, deliver efficiency capital growth and cash generation and effectiveness to development to service distributions through engineers to make better use of their dividends and share repurchase.
adjusted earnings per share 2012 Much of our revenue comes from follow on business with our customers, who have worked with us for many years.
This is a 13.38cents result of a combination of our ability to 2011 12.92 cents innovate to meet their needs and on our 8 C N U O S I T T A O V M O E N R N S I E I overview business review governance financial statements VALuECREATING CuLTuRE INNOVATION We have embedded a culture Spirent innovates and creates new which is aimed at creating value products and services through the for stakeholders and shareholders, endeavours of its highly skilled and minimising activities that do not creative workforce.
They build on contribute to this.
Management decades of experience and product encourages rational risk taking, management expertise.
External weighing the long term opportunity inputs are important through our with the utilisation of scarce technology partners as is being resources.
We attract and retain the located in the worlds leading centers best people to work for the Company, for technological development.
Our offering career development, a pace of innovation leads our industry nondiscriminatory workplace and enabling us to deliver the right fair and competitive remuneration, solutions to the global market within a nonbureaucratic culture.
CuSTOMER RELATIONShIPS INTELLECTuAL PROPERTY Customer relationships are key.
Spirent has created a large body of Our customers are the leading intellectual property, patented and providers of new technologies for data proprietary, which has raised the communications in the world.
It is barriers of entry to competition.
our close and continuing relationships Much of the new development is with them that drive our people to evolutionary in nature and builds aspire to achieve at higher levels each on our existing expertise as well and every year.
Through Spirents as expanding our capabilities both global sales and service organisations organically and through acquisition.
we strive to provide our customers We invest a significant and increasing with the highest quality of support amount in product development and service possible.
enabling us to bring the most advanced test solutions to market.
