spirent COMMUniCAtiOns plC AnnUAl repOrt 2012 spirents solutions portfolio a global leader Our portfolio of products and services is Device well aligned with growing and emerging opportunities in areas that matter most to our customers.
Our broad portfolio of solutions addresses the endtoend testing needs of todays converged, applicationaware networks.
Spirent provides hardware and software solutions, services, and test methodologies that address our customers testing needs from devices to access networks to the core, including applications and content delivery.
We are a leader in testing network equipment which utilises Ethernet at everincreasing scale, including switches, routers, firewalls, load balancers, data center fabrics and intrusion detection prevention.
Spirent is a leading provider of solutions that test the performance and user experience of 4G LTE and 3G mobile devices in the lab and on live networks.
Spirent is also the worldwide leader in testing positioning technologies such as GPS in mobile devices and other receivers used in an everincreasing range of applications.
We address the testing needs of all layers of service provider networks, including access, Application Experience WiFi offload, mobility and performance of the Mobile Packet Core, cloud infrastructure and applications.
Functional, conformance and Spirents infrastructure test optimization performance testing of 4G LTE solutions help address the challenges and 3G mobile devices in the lab.
of bringing quality products to market faster in the face of rapid change and Services and tools for measuring increasing complexity.
the subscriber experience of devices on live networks.
Our service assurance solutions allow service providers to facilitate service activation and to diagnose, troubleshoot and determine resolution of issues within live networks.
10 overview business review governance financial statements Satellite Content Delivery Wireless Positioning 2G 3G 4G Mobile Packet Core Wi-Fi Cloud Applications Residential Copper Fibre Unified Core Cable Internet Enterprise IP MPLS ETHERNET www Copper Fibre Fixed Mobile Convergence Cable Backhaul Edge Performance, Availability, High speed Ethernet Security and Scalability Wireless and wireline access and Mobility and performance testing Service quality, security, scalability backhaul network performance of the Mobile Packet Core with and application performance testing.
Leadership in testing GPS, 10, 40 and 100Gb high speed Virtualized solutions provide GLONASS and other positioning Ethernet functional and performance visibility into the entire data center technologies.
testing with realism and scale.
11 business review Chief Executive Officers review 13 Strategy 16 Operational and financial review 18 Key performance indicators 28 Principal risks and uncertainties 30 Corporate social responsibility statement 32 12
