spirent COMMUniCAtiOns plC AnnUAl repOrt 2012 strategy a strategy for growth Our vision is to be the global leader in growing and emerging test and measurement markets.
Focus on growing and emerging Invest in our people Innovation technology markets Spirent closely monitors the everchanging Spirent is its employees.
Finding, keeping Remaining at the leading edge of trends across the communications and IT and engaging highly qualified and skilled technology is critical to our continued landscape, strategically reallocating employees is central to our ability to success.
We apply our creativity to the resources to address growing and deliver on our strategy and to the development of tools and methodologies emerging technology markets.
that meet our customers complex needs.
In 2012 we maintained our focus on Our challenging work environment inspires We responded to our customers needs growth markets, for example we released innovation, with continuous learning as to bring their products to market faster new or enhanced solutions for 4G LTE an essential part of our human resources and with better quality with an innovative wireless, data center and high speed philosophy.
In 2012, career development environment that supports development Ethernet testing.
We also made two centered on the individual, providing a of holistic and integrated infrastructure acquisitions which further expanded our variety of education and learning test strategies.
We developed the Spirent served markets to include the testing of opportunities over time in a number iTest solution, originally acquired with applicationaware networks Mu and the of different ways.
Further information Fanfare in 2011, into a leader in addressing subscriber experience of mobile devices on what we have achieved can be found this emerging trend, and our business in on live networks Metrico.
in the CSR statement on pages 33 and 34. this segment grew strongly during 2012.
Objectives 2013 Objectives 2013 Objectives 2013 Spirent will complete the integration Our focus will be on building reliable Spirent will invest to accelerate the of assets acquired with Mu and Metrico pipelines for critical positions and key pace of its innovation to address growth with the Spirent portfolio, enabling us to skills in engineering and sales.
We will opportunities in markets such as 4G LTE build leadership in the growing security continue to work to better understand and data center to serve new markets such and 4G LTE mobile subscriber experience the development needs of our managers, as Enterprise, in order to retain its position markets.
We will also introduce new expanding leadership development and at the leading edge of the rapidlyevolving solutions for Enterprise markets and succession planning and progressing communications test and measurement for the new Chinese BeiDou2 global their individuallycentered career industry.
16 overview business review governance financial statements Communications and IT continues to grow as a result of the relentless demand for anytime, anywhere connectivity, enabled by such key trends as the mobile internet and cloud computing.
At Spirent we make use of our deep understanding of communications trends and technologies, together with our close customer relationships, to identify growing and emerging market opportunities.
Spirents solutions are used to develop and deploy the best devices, networks and applications, helping enrich peoples lives, whether they are consumers, employed by a business enterprise or work for a government entity.
The areas of strategic focus for Spirents operating segments are discussed further in each of the business sections on pages 19 to 23.
Evolve and expand our Right Solution at the Right Time Global reach solutions portfolio We invest in development across We enable our customers to bring new Our geographic diversity is a key strength.
our product and service portfolio at a products and technologies to market in We have built a worldclass organisation level that enables us to bring the most the shortest amount of time by making that enables Spirent to develop and advanced test solutions to market.
available the solutions they need, maintain strong customer relationships when they need them.
In 2012 Spirent released over 50 new Staying close to and working with our To enable the development of technology, products and additions to functionality.
For example continuing from its inception to deployment in live For example we broadened the coverage growth in the scale of data centers requires networks, across all geographies, we again of our CS8 solution for 4G LTE device the rapid evolution of their switching expanded our global reach in 2012 especially developers, including the addition of a fabrics to higher speeds and higher in the Asia Pacific region.
This further comprehensive capability to test Voice densities.
Spirents leadership in testing strengthened our close cooperation with our over LTE and other IMSenabled services.
the performance of these fabrics at massive customers across all segments, including Further information on our new solutions scale was showcased in a public test in network equipment manufacturers, mobile can be found in the business sections 2012 of QFabric from Juniper Networks, device manufacturers, service providers, on pages 19 to 23. the largest test of its kind ever conducted.
enterprise, technology providers and governments.
Objectives 2013 Objectives 2013 Objectives 2013 In 2013 the Group expects to increase We will once again benefit from staying In 2013 Spirent will continue to grow its its investment for future growth, in close to our customers by introducing, for operations in China and will address the particular focusing on expanding into example, solutions that address security needs of key markets across the globe, new served markets such as Enterprise testing needs across a broad range of including Enterprise in Europe and adding and consolidating Spirents position in the customers and markets, as well as to solutions for the 4G TDLTE technology 4G LTE, high speed Ethernet, data center test new voice and video chat services being deployed in markets that include and application security markets.
