spirent COMMUniCAtiOns plC AnnUAl repOrt 2012 board of directors Alex Walker 66 Bill Burns 45 Eric Hutchinson 57 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Alex joined the Board in December 2006 and was Bill was appointed to the Board in November 2008.
Eric was appointed to the Board in January 2000. appointed Chairman of the Company in March he is responsible for formulating the Groups he is responsible for overseeing the financial 2010. he chairs the Nomination Committee and objectives and strategy for approval by the Board.
operations of the Group and setting its financial attends other Committee meetings by invitation.
Working with the CFO he sets the annual budget strategy in conjunction with the Audit Committee he is responsible for leading the Board and and medium term plan and is responsible for and the Board.
he also oversees the overall ensuring that it operates in an effective manner.
reporting performance against plan to the Board.
framework for financial forecasting, planning, As Chairman, he sets Board agendas and ensures Bill also plays a key role in identifying and analysis and reporting.
sufficient time is available for discussing all executing acquisitions and disposals.
Before his appointment to the Board, Eric had agenda items, particularly key strategic issues.
Before his appointment to the Board, Bill was Chief previously been responsible for all financial he is also responsible for promoting a culture of Executive Officer of the Communications Group.
reporting and control within the Group.
he joined openness and debate within the Board, ensuring In this position he was responsible for the overall the Company in 1983, was appointed Chief constructive relations between the executive and leadership, strategy, investments, coordination of Accountant in 1987 and became head of nonexecutive directors and encouraging effective resources and leveraging of the Companys breadth Corporate Accounting in 1997. communication with shareholders.
and depth of technology across all of the Eric holds a degree in history from the university until August 2006 Alex was Chief Executive Communications Groups business units.
of Leicester and undertook postgraduate research of Yule Catto & Co. plc and until April 2010 he Before joining the Company in November 2004, in Contemporary history at Trinity College, Oxford.
was a Nonexecutive Director, Chairman of the Bill held several executive leadership positions at he is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Remuneration Committee and member of the Tellabs, Inc. including Senior Vice President Global Certified Accountants and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees of Rotork plc.
Marketing, Senior Vice President Europe, Middle Financial Reporting Review Panel.
Alex is a Nonexecutive Director of Zotefoams plc.
East and Africa and Vice President Competitive Service Provider Sales.
Bill holds an Associate degree in Engineering from The Pennsylvania State university, a Bachelor of Science degree from College Misericordia and a Master of Business Administration degree from Temple university.
42 overview business review governance financial statements Ian Brindle 69 Duncan Lewis 61 Tom Maxwell 65 Sue Swenson 64 Senior Independent Independent Nonexecutive Independent Nonexecutive Independent Nonexecutive Nonexecutive Director Director Director Director Ian was appointed to the Board Duncan was appointed to the Board Tom was appointed to the Board Sue was appointed to the Board in December 2006. he is Chairman in July 2007. he is a member of the in October 2007. he is Chairman in February 2012.
She is a member of the Audit Committee and serves Audit, Nomination and Remuneration of the Remuneration Committee of the Audit, Nomination and on the Nomination and Committees.
and a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
he has wideranging experience in She has a wealth of international As Senior Independent Director, the telecommunications industry and he has considerable fund experience and expertise in the he is responsible for meeting with provides advice and counsel to the management and investment trust telecommunications and technology the other nonexecutives to review Board on major strategic issues.
experience and, as Chair of the sector which she brings to the the Chairmans performance and is Remuneration Committee, is development of the strategic until March 2011, Duncan was available to shareholders to discuss responsible for developing the vision of the Company.
Chief Executive Officer of Vislink plc their concerns.
Companys policy on remuneration and until October 2008 was Senior From March 2008 until her retirement in of executive directors and other he was Senior Partner of Price Adviser to The Carlyle Group, April 2011, Sue served as President and senior managers.
Waterhouse from 1991 to 1998 assisting them in developing strategy CEO of Sage Software, Inc. the North and Chairman of Pricewaterhouse and identifying investments in the until September 2007, Tom was American division of The Sage Group Coopers until 2001.
Ian was also a telecommunications and media Investment Director and head of plc.
Before joining Sage Software, she member of the Accounting Standards sectors worldwide.
the uK Growth & Income Product held positions as the COO of Atrinsic, Board between 1992 and 2001 and Group at Martin Currie Investment Inc. formerly known as New Motion, Prior to joining The Carlyle Group, Deputy Chairman of the Financial Management in Edinburgh.
he is a Inc., Ampd Mobile, Inc. and TMobile, Duncan served as Chief Executive Reporting Review Panel between Member of the Chartered Institute was President and COO of Leap Officer and President of GTS Ebone, 2001 and 2008. of Bankers in Scotland and a Member Wireless International, Inc. and Managing Director of Equant NV and of the Society of Investment President and CEO of Cellular One.
Ian serves as Nonexecutive Chief Executive Officer at Granada Professionals & CFA Institute.
Chairman of Sherborne Investors Media Group and Mercury Sue is a Nonexecutive Director of Guernsey A Limited, Sherborne Communications.
Tom is a Nonexecutive Director of Wells Fargo and sits on their Audit Investors Guernsey B Limited and Foresight 3 VCT plc and is Chairman and Examination Committee and After serving in Senegal for Voluntary as a Nonexecutive Director on the of their Audit Committee.
Governance and Nominating Service Overseas Duncan studied at boards of F&C Asset Management plc Committee.
She also serves as Cambridge university and was also and Elementis plc.
Nonexecutive Director on the boards a visiting Professor of Business of harmonic, Inc. sitting on their Management at Strathclyde Audit and Examination Committee, university.
and Novatel Wireless, Inc. sitting Duncan is Chairman of nextiraOne on their Compensation Committee.
In Eu and Workshare Limited, August 2012, Sue was appointed by Nonexecutive Director of euNetworks the uS National Telecommunications Group Limited and director of several and Information Administration as a other companies.
founding Board member of the First Responder Network Authority.
