22 THE BUSINESS REVIEW Chief Executives Report uk sports retail UK Sports Retail revenue growth continues to be primarily driven by our retail and logistics skills providing the widest choice of the best products at the best prices with universal availability.
52 week UK Sports Retail sales were up 7.9% to 1,342m 2011: 1,245m, an excellent performance against a World Cup comparative year.
Sales in the second half of the Year were up 11.2% to 667.7m The Nike Training Academy and our state-of-the-art National 2011 H2: 600.2m.
Gross margins for the second half of the Training Facility in Shirebrook have been busy providing specialist Year worsened slightly to 39.7% 2011 H2: 40.2% reecting our training environments in Footwear, Running, Football, Womens investment in margin and our focus on contribution balancing Sportswear and SKUs Sports Knowledge Underground.
Gross margin for the year decreased As at 29 April 2012, 252 employees had progressed to by 90 basis points to 41.0% 2011: 41.9%.
Nike Graduate level with 64 undertaking post-graduate training.
In addition to Nike, we work closely with adidas and Puma to Online revenue has increased by 81.8% from 95.7m to 174.0m support in-store initiatives.
in the Year and represented 11.6% of total Sports Retail sales 2011: 7.0%.
We remain focused on developing this revenue Access to the National Training Facility has now been expanded stream further.
Order fullment and information technology solutions to improve other areas of the business.
It has enabled the are developed in-house with full back-up support from our National successful integration of USC into our operational systems, with Distribution Centre resources in Shirebrook, Derbyshire.
40 USC managers attending residential programmes.
International The website has benefited from the increased recognition of Retail teams from France, Portugal, Holland, Belgium, Iceland the online brand with 351 of UK store fascias now branded and Hungary have attended training programmes to ensure SPORTSDIRECT.
standardised service delivery across our operations.
UK Sports Retail 52 week like-for-like gross contribution increased The Group continues to invest in infrastructure in Shirebrook and by 0.7%, marking the third consecutive year of growth in this KPI our exciting expansion plans for our National Distribution Centre and an excellent performance against the World Cup comparative are on target to be completed by Autumn 2012, which will more 2011: 6.6% 2010: 3.4%.
UK Sports Retail like-for-like than treble the size of our facilities to over two million sq.
ft. We contribution is dened as the percentage change in contribution in have completed Phase 2, the 400 thousand sq.
ft extension to our the successive 12 month period, adjusted to remove the impact of existing Distribution Centre.
Plans are in place for the remaining 53 week year.
A like-for-like store is one that has been trading for development, Phase 3, a one million sq.
ft distribution centre solely the full 12 months in both periods and has not been affected by for our online offering.
a significant change, such as a major ret.
The number of stores We have continued to invest in Group marketing, including TV and in this calculation has remained at 290.
This KPI does not include press campaigns, during key sales periods and promotions.
year we produced two million catalogues which were 50% bigger Operating costs decreased by 1.1% to 344.5m 2011: 348.3m.
Store wages were at and as a percentage of sales remained at Relationships with our major third-party brand suppliers remain 8.6% 2011: 8.6% which demonstrates the continued progress in strong.
Nike Group, adidas Group and Puma all have their own cost control.
Sports Retail premises costs fell by 2.9% as a result ofces in our Shirebrook Head Ofce which enables us to work very of the continuous process of relocations and renegotiations.
Other closely with them on a day-to-day basis.
operating costs were up 10.3% to 117m 2011: 106m which is due to increased warehouse and storage costs.
The significant part We continue to build on our store-in-store concepts.
The Soccer of the increase is due to the expansion of the Shirebrook National Scene @ the Bootroom concept has completed its roll out Distribution Centre and eCommerce growth.
The costs were throughout our core stores while the SheRunsHeRuns concept reduced by a partial release of the onerous lease provision of 6m continues to be developed further, and the first Fightzone has due to unwinding of discount and the closure of stores.
opened in our key Lillywhites store.
Underlying EBITDA for UK Sports Retail was 207.7m 2011: Our store portfolio remains constantly under review with each 175.5m, an increase of 18.4%.
This increase was driven by a stores performance and ways of maximising performance being 28.9m increase in gross profit including wholesale due to the regularly examined.
As a result, we have closed 78 stores since growth in online sales and the 3.8m decrease in operating costs.
2008 as our portfolio continues to evolve.
We increased our period end square footage to c. 3.9m sq.
During the year The Groups retail businesses performed strongly in a continuingly we refurbished 21 stores and relocated eight stores, constantly difficult economic environment.
Our retail model, offering improving the store appearance and providing a fresh and exciting outstanding value to our customers, proved as resilient as we retail environment.
In addition, we have upgraded our Carnaby expected it to be, both in the UK and internationally.
We believe Street store to provide a agship Soccer Scene experience in that this business model provides exibility and control that enables Central London.
Throughout the Year, we continued to focus on our fundamental approach of offering the customer the most comprehensive product range and the best availability while reducing our costs wherever possible.
