56 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Regulation II and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations and of the Corporate Governance Code.
The Remuneration Committee The Committee has reviewed the salaries, other remuneration The Remuneration Committee and other employment conditions of senior and middle managers Simon Bentley, Dave Singleton, Charles McCreevy and Claire throughout the Group, and has taken them into account in Jenkins are Independent Non-Executive Directors, Keith Hellawell is considering Directors salaries and the creation of new incentive the Non-Executive Chairman.
schemes in order to create a sense of common purpose and sharing of success.
The Executive Bonus Share Scheme The role and main responsibilities of the Committee are detailed in performance targets mirror those to be applied to awards under the Corporate Governance Report on page 54. the Bonus Share Scheme, which will apply to all UK permanent employees of the Group in UK Retail, Brands and Head Ofce on Attendance at the meetings held during the year is detailed on page 52. the same basis.
Advisers The Committee is mindful that any bonus arrangements Dave Forsey, the Chief Executive, Bob Mellors, the Group Finance are balanced against delivering sustainable growth in earnings Director, and Mike Ashley, the Executive Deputy Chairman, have for shareholders.
also advised or materially assisted the Committee when requested.
The Committees remuneration policy in respect of the Non-Executive Directors is to pay annual fees which reect the Remuneration policy responsibilities and duties placed upon them, while also having The aim of the Group is to achieve long-term success and regard to market practice.
This is underpinned by the main principles of the Remuneration Committee to ensure policies and Basic salary practices are in place to encourage performance, which will in turn Basic salaries are reviewed annually.
The Committee decided help achieve this success.
again not to alter Executive Directors salaries in the review in July 2011.
Executive Directors salaries have now been at the same The Committee has endorsed the provisions of Section D of the UK Corporate Governance Code, and has had those provisions in mind level since 2002. when determining remuneration policies for the past, current and The basic salaries of Executive Directors at the Year end and at future years.
19 July 2012 the latest practicable date before the printing of this report were as shown below: The retail environment is highly competitive, so the Committee ensures that the level and form of remuneration is sufficient to At 29 April 2012 and 19 July 2012 attract, retain and motivate Directors and Senior Managers of the quality and talent required to run the Group successfully.
19 July 2012 At 29 April 2012 The remuneration policy for Executive Directors is highly performance-based, which encourages the growth and long-term Mike Ashley - - success of the Group, and is paid in shares.
Dave Forsey 150,000 150,000 Basic salaries have been set at a level well below the lower quartile Bob Mellors 150,000 150,000 for a business of the size and complexity of the Group and have remained the same since 2002.
During the Year the performance related elements of the remuneration packages consisted of Annual Bonus Scheme participation in the Executive Bonus Share Scheme The Committee has determined that no Annual Bonus Scheme full details are on page 57. will be operated for Executive Directors while the Executive Bonus Share Scheme is being operated.
Mike Ashley does not receive a salary for his role nor has he received a bonus.
The Committee consults major shareholders and representative groups where appropriate concerning remuneration matters.
The Committee is at all times mindful of the Companys social, ethical and environmental responsibilities, and is satisfied that current remuneration arrangements do not inadvertently encourage irresponsible behaviour.
