26 THE BUSINESS REVIEW Chief Executives Report Brands Brands total revenue increased 4.4% to 195.9m 2011: 187.7m.
Wholesale revenues were up 4.0% to 168.5m 2011: 162.0m, Operating costs increased by only 1.3% to 55.8m driven by strong performances in our North American businesses.
2011: 55.1m, notwithstanding a slight increase in advertising Brands gross margin decreased by 20 basis points to 41.2% and promotional costs as the benets of previous cost reductions 2011: 41.4%.
Wholesale gross margin fell to 31.7% 2011: 32.1% are reected in a lower cost base.
Increased promotional costs reecting the challenging price-driven environments in the UK included the Darren Clarke 2m bonus for winning the Open and Europe.
Underlying EBITDA increased 10.6% to 25.0m 2011: 22.6m due to higher wholesale sales and increased licence income.
During the year, we signed 67 new licence agreements, covering Underlying EBITDA represented 91% of licensing income in the Year multiple brands and product categories, with minimum contracted 2011: 88%, continuing to move towards our target of increasing values of $94m over the terms of the agreements.
We acquired the remaining worldwide rights to the No Fear brand Cash ow in the division was strong with tight working capital previously owning 50% and remain on course for licence income management resulting in a reduction in debtors of 7.3m.
Inventory to achieve a Compound Average Growth Rate CAGR of 11% and remained at versus 2011. reach at least $60m by April 2015.
We continue to focus on developing world-class products that are The division acquired the Intellectual Property and certain assets of endorsed by leading athletes on the eld of play.
Notably in 2012 Firetrap and Full Circle from administration in February 2012. we named one of Britains most successful athletes of all time, James Cracknell, as our Karrimor brand ambassador.
James has Longer term, we still regard licensing as the key driver for the been putting Karrimor equipment to the test on location in Africa, Brands divisions profitability and for the overall growth of the America and Brazil and he will continue to test Karrimor in some of business.
The main growth areas are expected to be Asia Pacic the worlds harshest environments.
and the Americas which should offset tougher trading in the UK and the rest of Europe.
key ambassadors and event associations ambassadors event association Tour Team includes: Global Ambassadors: Ofcial Ball: tennis Fernando Verdasco, Nicols Almagro John McEnroe Rome Masters Jrgen Melzer, Dominika Cibulkovz Pat Cash Madrid Masters Heather Watson Monte Carlo Masters Jonathan Marray 2012 Wimbledon Mens Doubles Champion Tour Team includes: Ofcial Ball: squash Nick Matthew, Ramy Ashour, Amr Shabana PSA - Professional Squash Association All former World No.
1 WSA - Womens Squash Association WSF - World Squash Federation Lee Westwood former World No.
1 golf Darren Clarke, David Howell, Thomas Aitken Carl Froch Global Ambassador: Prizeghter boxing Nathan Cleverley, David Price Joe Calzaghe Tom Watson BAMMA British Association of Mixed Martial Arts mma Andre Ward boxing Brock Lesnar, John Jones mma 27 James Cracknell Karrimor Brand Ambassador ambassadors event association Tour Team includes: Ofcial Supplier: tennis Jamie Murray, Ross Hutchins The Wimbledon Championships England Internationals include: Global Ambassador: cricket Eoin Morgan, Tim Bresnan, Matt Prior Alec Stewart Johnny Bairstow, James Anderson Global Ambassadors: Karrimor Great Trail Challenge outdoor James Cracknell, Bonita Norris Global Ambassador: winter sports Graham Bell Global Ambassador: womens fitness Kirsty Gallagher
