48 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE Directors Report Employee involvement Directors Our success is a result of the hard work, dedication and Details of current Directors, dates of appointment, their roles, commitment of our c. 190,000 employees and as a result of the responsibilities and significant external commitments are set out Bonus Share Scheme they now have the chance to gain their own on pages 44 and 45. personal stake in the Company.
The scheme is open to permanent Although the Companys Articles of Association require employees and aims to motivate and provide the employees with retirement by rotation of one third of Directors each year, the a direct and substantial link between Group performance and their Group has chosen to comply with the 2010 UK Corporate remuneration, and to encourage employee participation in the Governance Code and at each AGM the Directors will retire and Group.
The Bonus Share Scheme will operate in addition to the stand for reappointment.
current workplace bonus schemes, which are directly related to specic workplace performance.
Information on service contracts and details of the interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of the Company The Group has entered into an agreement with the trade union at 29 April 2012 and at the date of this report is shown in the Unite in respect of collective bargaining of the pay, hours and Directors Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 59. holidays of certain groups of employees at the Groups National Distribution Centre at Shirebrook.
Copies of the service contracts of Executive Directors and of the appointment letters of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Further information on relationships with employees can be found in are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 61. during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
No Director has a directorship in common or other significant links with any other Director except in the case of Executive Directors holding directorships of subsidiary companies of the Company.
Equal opportunities The Groups policy for its employees and for all applicants for employment is to t the abilities and aptitude of each individual to an appropriate job, irrespective of gender, race, religion or belief, Directors conflicts of interest sexual orientation, age, disability or ethnic origin.
The Company and other Group companies will not tolerate discrimination in any form.
The Board has formal procedures to deal with Directors conicts Applications for employment by disabled persons are given full and of interest.
During the Year the Board reviewed and, where fair consideration for all vacancies in accordance with their particular appropriate, approved certain situational conicts of interest that aptitudes and abilities.
The Group does all that is practicable to were reported to it by Directors, and a register of those situational meet its responsibilities towards the training and employment of conicts is maintained and reviewed.
The Board noted any disabled people, and to ensure that training, career development transactional conicts of interest concerning Directors that arose and promotion opportunities are available to all employees.
No Director took part in the discussion or The Group makes every effort to provide continuity of employment determination of any matter in respect of which he had disclosed a in the same or similar job where an employee becomes disabled transactional conict of interest.
including offering retraining in order that the employees employment within the Group may continue.
directors indemnities Research and development The Directors have been granted Qualifying Third Party Indemnity provisions by the Group within the meaning given to the term by The Group designs clothing and some footwear for sale Sections 234 and 235 of the 2006 Act.
The indemnities were in in-stores and has arrangements with suppliers for the research force throughout the financial year and will remain in force.
and development of goods for the Brands division.
Annual General Meeting Charitable and political donations The 2012 Annual General Meeting will be held on 5 September During the Year, the Group made charitable cash donations 2012 at Unit D, Brook Park East, Shirebrook, NG20 8RY.
In addition, the Group encourages shareholders to attend and participate in the meeting.
made cash donations to various charities within the USA, supported significant fundraising and made non-cash donations in the UK and overseas examples are contained in the Corporate Responsibility Report.
No political donations were made 2011: nil.
