44 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE the board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Dr Keith Hellawell QPM aged 70 Dave Forsey aged 46 Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Chairman of Nomination Committee Appointed 1984 Appointed 24 November 2009 Current Roles Dave is the Chief Executive of the Group.
Past Roles Prior to joining Sports Direct International plc, Dr Hellawell spent Key Strengths Skills over 40 years in public sector management being a former Chief Dave has been with the business for over 27 years, Constable of two British police forces.
Between 1998 and 2002, during which time he has acquired significant knowledge and working directly for the Prime Minister, he wrote and coordinated experience.
He has overall responsibility for the Groups the United Kingdom national and international anti drugs policy.
Current Roles He has been involved in the private sector since 1998 when he joined Evans of Leeds, a fully listed property company.
Since then he has served on the Boards of both Dalkia plc and Sterience bob Mellors Limited, subsidiaries of the French company Veolina Env.
Dr Hellawell is currently a Non-Executive Director of Mortice plc, Group Finance Director aged 62 a Singapore based facilities management company and a Director of Hudderseld Giants Super-League team.
He was Non-Executive Appointed Chairman of Goldshield Group plc, a marketing led pharmaceutical 2004 and consumer health company, from May 2006 to its sale in December 2009.
He has held a number of other Non-Executive Past Roles Board positions in private companies including vehicle A graduate in Economics, he qualied with manufacturing and IT.
He runs his own management and training  in London before joining Eacott Worrall, consultancy company.
where Sports Direct became a client in 1982.
He was managing partner and Head of Corporate Finance at Eacott Worrall before Key Strengths Skills joining the Group.
Dr Hellawell has worked in both the public and private sector for over 50 years.
Throughout this time he has built up a wealth of Current Roles experience to ensure the successful and effective operation of Bob is the Groups Finance Director.
Key Strengths Skills Bob has extensive financial knowledge, including in corporate finance and transactions, and brings valuable experience to Sports Direct.
mike Ashley aged 47 Executive Deputy Chairman Appointed Founder Past Roles Mike Ashley established the business of the Group on leaving school in 1982 and was the sole owner of the business until the Companys listing in March 2007.
Current Roles Mike is the Executive Deputy Chairman.
Key Strengths Skills Mike was the founder of the Group and has the necessary skills for formulating the vision and strategy of the Company.
With over 30 years in the sports retail business with Sports Direct, he is invaluable to the Company.
45 Simon Bentley aged 57 Charles McCreevy aged 62 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Audit Committee Appointed 31 March 2011 Appointed 2 March 2007 Past Roles Charles is a highly experienced politician who previously Past Roles served as EU Commissioner for Internal Markets and Services Simon qualied as a Chartered Accountant in 1980 and in 1987 2004-2010 and has held positions in several Irish Government joined Blacks Leisure Group plc where he was Chairman and Ministerial Ofces, including Minister for Finance 1997-2004, Chief Executive for 12 years until 2002.
Minister for Tourism & Trade 1993-1994 and Minister for Social Welfare 1992-1993.
Current Roles Simon chairs and is on the board of a range of companies Current Roles and organisations.
Among these, he is Chairman of the Charles currently holds Non-Executive Director positions at countrys premier leadership in management organisation, The Ryanair Plc, Sentenial Ltd, Celsius Funds Plc, BNY Mellon Leadership Trust.
He is Chairman of the hair brand Umberto Clearing International Limited, Grove Limited and Barchester Giannini and is the principal owner and Chairman of the leading Holdco Jersey Limited.
mobile ATM operator, Cash on the Move.
Key Skills Strengths Key Strengths Skills Charles has an extensive all-round business knowledge with Simon has lengthy experience of the sporting goods industry particular relevance to the European Union.
and was Acting Chairman of Sports Direct International plc from 31 May 2007 to 23 November 2009.
Claire Jenkins aged 48 dave Singleton aged 61 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed Chairman of Remuneration Committee 25 May 2011 Appointed Past Roles 25 October 2007 Claire was a member of the Management Committee of international tobacco company Gallaher Group Plc acquired Past Roles by Japan Tobacco in 2007 where she was responsible for Dave spent 25 years with Reebok International Limited.
He investor relations and Group planning.
She has also gained stepped down in April 2007 having helped to successfully corporate experience in various consulting roles and at Laing & integrate Reebok following its acquisition by adidas Group in Cruickshank, and as a Non-Executive Director of Retro January 2006.
For eight years he was Vice President Northern Classics Fund.
Europe Region & UK and since 2003 was Senior Vice President Europe, Middle East & Africa.
Current Roles Claire is Group Director Corporate Affairs and a member of the Current Roles Executive Leadership Team at Rexam PLC, the leading global Dave is Chairman of Bolton Lads & Girls Club, Chairman consumer packaging company.
She is also a trustee of Amicus.
of Bolton Community Leisure Trust and a Trustee at Bolton Wanderers Community Trust.
Key Skills Strengths Claire has excellent all-round business experience and, Key Skills Strengths in addition, has particular corporate governance and Dave has an extensive Senior Management record and brings communications skills.
valuable experience of international sports brand operations.
