8 GROUP OVERVIEW retail stores Uk The Groups UK stores other than Field & Trek supply a wide range of competitively priced sports and leisure equipment, clothing, footwear and accessories under a mix of brands.
We stock third-party brands including adidas, Nike, Reebok and Puma.
Group-owned brands include Dunlop, Slazenger and Lonsdale.
We also sell licensed-in brands.
A significant proportion of the revenue in the stores is derived from the sale of the Group-owned and licensed-in branded products, which allows the retail business to generate higher margins while at the same time differentiating the Groups stores from those of its competitors, both in terms of the range of products on sale and the competitive prices at which they are offered.
in-store international The Group continues to enhance its in-store offering with dedicated The Group has retail interests outside the UK and has a exible areas for specialist product collections.
approach to entry into new markets.
These interests include wholly owned retail outlets in Belgium, Holland, France, Luxembourg, Since 2007 we have owned 25% of Brasher Leisure, trading as Slovenia and Portugal trading as Sports Direct, joint ventures with Sweatshop.
This has enabled us to develop the SheRunsHeRuns other retailers such as in Heatons stores in Northern Ireland and concept in our stores.
To date, 50% of our stores have a dedicated the Republic of Ireland and stores within another retailers store SheRunsHeRuns area, and 15% have a Field & Trek product area.
Since December 2010 we have acquired a 50.1% Our newest collaboration with Soccer Scene and The Boot Room is stake in the third largest sports retailer in Portugal, Sports Direct currently in 80% of stores.
Portugal, which operates out of 13 stores.
9 fascias As at 29 April 2012 the Group operated out of 395 stores in the United Kingdom excluding Northern Ireland.
The majority of stores trade under the SPORTSDIRECT.
com fascia, although Field & Trek stores trade under their own fascia.
During the year, the Group created a Premium Lifestyle division which trades under the USC, Cruise and Van Mildert fascias.
sports retail premium lifestyle 395 67 stores stores
