Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 19 IAS 39 requires SSE to record these contracts at SSEs first financial responsibility to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
This involves comparing the contractual price its shareholders is to remunerate their for commodities against the prevailing forward market price at 31 March.
On that investment through the delivery of date this year, the average contractual price was lower than the market price in other sustained, above-inflation increases words, the contracts were in the money.
The actual value of the contracts will be in the dividend.
determined as the relevant commodity is delivered to meet customers energy needs.
For around 70% of the total energy volume, this will be over the next 12 months.
As a assets has also been impaired in anticipation months to 30 September 2012.
Its expectation result, SSE believes the movement in fair of the expected introduction of smart meters.
at the start of each financial year is that it will value of the contracts is not relevant to not provide an outlook for adjusted profit the underlying performance in 2011 12.
Delivering adjusted profit before tax before the publication of its fourth before tax in 2012 13 quarter Interim Management Statement, not The movement on derivatives under IAS 39 of Adjusted profit before tax is an important least because its principal financial objective 509m shown in the table on page 18 and on measure of performance in any given year, is dividend growth, and that remains the case the face of the income statement is primarily but it is not an end in itself.
SSE does not have for 2012 13. due to the change in the commodity contract the goal of maximising profit in any single position between the in the money positions year or over any particular period.
It takes Monitoring adjusted earnings per share on 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2012, when a longer-term view, believing that profit is To monitor financial performance over the medium-term, SSE continues to focus on the average contractual price continued to a means to an end: sustained real growth in be lower than the prevailing forward market the dividend, the delivery of which is its first adjusted earnings per share because it has price, but not as much as previously.
SSE sets financial responsibility to shareholders.
the straightforward benefit of dening the out these movements in fair value separately, amount of profit after tax that has been earned for each Ordinary Share and so as remeasurements, as the extent of the At the same time, SSE has delivered 13 actual profit or loss arising over the life of successive increases in adjusted profit before reects a clear view of underlying financial the contracts giving rise to this liability will tax since it first reported full-year results in performance.
not be determined until they unwind.
As in any other year, SSEs adjusted profit before tax for 2012 13 as a whole In 2011 12, SSEs adjusted earnings per share Exceptional items will be determined by issues such as: were 112.7p, based on 937.8 million shares, The pre-tax exceptional items totalling 551.6m compared with 112.3p, based on 927.6 million relate to the Wholesale 491.6m and Retail the management of the overall energy shares, in the previous year.
As stated in 60.0m segments and are mainly non-cash.
portfolio, in the context of geopolitical SSEs Annual Report 2011, the charge for and macro-economic issues: the hybrid debt coupon is presented within In the Wholesale segment, changing market the interaction between wholesale prices dividends and reected within adjusted conditions have resulted in impairment and for energy and fuel and the prices for the earnings per share.
other charges being made against the value of electricity and gas charged to customers: some electricity generation plant, CO emissions the availability of its operating thermal Dividend 2 allowances, goodwill relating to gas storage power stations to generate electricity: the output of renewable energy from its assets and gas and oil production prospects.
Increasing the dividend for 2011 12 In particular, following a sustained period of hydro-electric stations and wind farms: and SSEs first financial responsibility to its low spark spreads, SSE decided to undertake the actual and underlying level of shareholders is to remunerate their investment a comprehensive programme of maintenance customers energy consumption.
through the delivery of sustained, aboveand upgrade work to support more exible ination increases in the dividend.
The Board operations at Keadby and Medway power In terms of 2012 13, SSE continues to believe is recommending a final dividend of 56.1p, stations from 2013 onwards.
This means the that its balanced range of market-based and compared with 52.6p in the previous year, way in which the stations will operate and be  energy businesses, an increase of 6.7%.
This will make a full-year remunerated in the future will change.
Other and the diversity of opportunities within those dividend of 80.1p, which is: issues include a small write-down at Ferrybridge businesses, should enable it to deliver a level power station, due to the early use of allowed of adjusted profit before tax capable of an increase of 6.8% compared with 2010 11: running hours under the Industrial Emissions supporting the achievement of its principal a real-terms increase of 2.0%, based on the Directive, and a write-down in the value of onfinancial objective, a full-year dividend average annual rate of RPI ination in the and offshore wind assets in continental Europe.
increase of at least 2% more than RPI UK between April 2011 and March 2012, ination, while maintaining dividend which meets the target set for the year: In the Retail segment, restructuring and cover in a range around 1.5 times.
the thirteenth successive above-ination related costs arising from SSEs decision dividend increase since the first full-year to stop all of its doorstep sales operations SSE will provide an update on its financial, dividend paid by SSE, for 1998 99: in Great Britain have been recognised as operational and investment progress during more than three times the first full-year 2012 13 when it presents its results for the six exceptional.
The value of some metering dividend paid by SSE, for 1998 99: and
