Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 31 Retail Market-based businesses RETAIL Earning the right to make a profit.
Improving transparency in competitive Retail operating profit m Energy customer accounts customer-facing businesses millions In previous years, SSE reported performance relating to its Energy Supply activities as part of a Generation and Supply segment and SSE continues to believe that its involvement in the Retail activity of energy supply and the Wholesale activities of energy production and portfolio 321.6 9.55 management means it has a well-balanced portfolio of customers, assets and contracts for 2011: 400.5 2011: 9.65 purchasing gas and power purchase agreements.
Change: -19.7% Change: -1.0% In October 2009, Ofgem introduced the SSE is involved in the supply of electricity SSE supplies electricity and gas to household requirement to report details of SSEs Generation and gas and in other energy-related services and business customers in the energy markets such as electrical contracting to business in Great Britain and Ireland.
It is Britains and Supply results in a Consolidated Segmental and household customers.
Ofgem commissioned an independent review of suppliers segmental statements by BDO LLP and in January 2012 Home services customer Energy efficiency installations announced that while BDO had recommended accounts 000s GB 000s several changes to the way suppliers prepare their statements to improve transparency and cross-company comparability the fact it found suppliers financial information to be fair and appropriate and should also give consumers a degree of reassurance.
412 315 Therefore, in relation to Generation and Supply, 2011: 420 2011: 193 SSE was already publishing information to help Change: -1.9% Change: 63.2% to improve the transparency of its financial reporting.
Following changes to SSEs Home services provided by SSE include As an energy supplier, SSE has obligations gas boiler, central heating and wiring under government-sponsored schemes management structure in 2011 and in maintenance and installation and telephone to deliver energy efficiency measures the interests of further transparency, it has line rental, calls and broadband services.
in households throughout Great Britain concluded that this should be extended that deliver savings in CO. to its financial statements.
2 The second biggest energy supplier across Financial assistance for SSE Contracting Order Book m the Great Britain and Ireland markets vulnerable customers m SSE is the second biggest energy retailer across the competitive markets in Great Britain and Ireland.
It supplies electricity and gas to more than 9.5 million household and business accounts under brands such as SSE, Scottish Hydro, Southern Electric, SWALEC and Atlantic 46 78 in the Great Britain market and Airtricity in the markets on the island of Ireland.
2011: 28 2011: 67 Change: 64.3% Change: 16.4% The key responsibilities of the Energy Supply SSE provides assistance for customers who SSE Contracting is one of the largest business are to: struggle to pay for their basic energy needs, mechanical and electrical contracting including discounts on energy bills.
businesses in the UK, operating from ensure it secures enough electricity regional offices throughout Great Britain.
and gas to meet customers needs:
