SSE Annual Report 2012 40 Wholesale continued Market-based businesses supplied 26.7TWh to its small business contracts for purchasing gas and power competitive and sustainable energy purchase agreements.
procurement: and and household customers.
exible and greener electricity production.
In undertaking these activities, SSE publicly This means that, during the year, SSE: discloses planned or unplanned outages In delivering on these priorities SSE is affecting its wholly-owned power plant committed to the delivery of a diverse generated the equivalent of 86% of the for units of more than 100MW in capacity portfolio of robust assets, from which electricity needed to supply all of its or more than 100MW in aggregate for wind revenue can be generated on a reliable, customers: and generated the equivalent of 168% of the capacity, including the reason for the outage long-term basis and which support future and its expected duration.
This information is dividend growth.
electricity needed to supply its household in line with the expected requirements of the and small business customers.
EU Regulation on Energy Market Integrity and The wholesale price of energy can uctuate Transparency REMIT as it affects wholesale greatly, according to variables such as physical Any net balances were traded in the energy markets.
supply, customers demand, the weather, the wholesale electricity market, thereby availability of delivery infrastructure and contributing to its liquidity.
Financial performance in Wholesale geopolitical issues.
EPM and Generation Operating profit in Wholesale increased by act in unison maintaining a diverse and Increasing wholesale market transparency 6.4%, from 571.5m to 607.9m, contributing well-balanced portfolio of contracts and In response to customers wishes for greater 37% of SSEs total operating profit.
This assets, both longand short-term, to ensure transparency and concerns regarding the lack comprised comparisons with the previous that customers benefit from lower exposure of liquidity in the short-term wholesale market year in brackets : to wholesale price volatility and therefore for electricity, SSE introduced a new approach price stability.
In doing so SSE provides: in October 2011 under which it started to 541.5m in EPM and Electricity Generation, phase in the auction of all of its electricity lower risk from wholesale energy price supply and purchase all of its electricity 543.4m : 42.6m in Gas Production 4.6m : and volatility through reduced exposure to demand in the day-ahead market.
This move 23.8m in Gas Storage 23.5m.
any single commodity: was broadly welcomed by stakeholders, with greater ability to manage wholesale Ofgem saying it would create greater liquidity and more efficient price discovery on the Energy Portfolio Management energy price volatility and to protect and Electricity Generation customers from it: and day-ahead market.
more scope to deliver the investment Financial performance in Energy needed in Generation because the risks Moving to this approach effectively means that SSE is delivering a new level of transparency, Portfolio Management and associated with large-scale and long-term Electricity Generation investments are balanced by having signicantly improving liquidity, increasing SSEs EPM and Electricity Generation electricity and gas customers.
the depth and credibility of the market, and businesses have six main responsibilities assisting in the creation of a robust and tangible pricing index.
for which they are remunerated: Generating and buying electricity in Great Britain energy contract management: As at 31 March 2012, SSEs generation By the end of 2011 12, SSE had consistently sourcing energy through participation in capacity, including its share of joint ventures placed 100% of its exible thermal electricity wholesale markets for electricity, gas, coal, and associates, was around 11,860MW, generation and about 60% of its power oil, biomass and CO emission permits: comprising: demand via Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and 2 management of existing power generating Nord Pool Spot ASs N2EX daily auction.
11,360MW in Great Britain: In the financial year 2011 12, SSE traded assets and making available those assets for use: 80MW in Northern Ireland: and over 25TWh in the day-ahead auction market producing renewable energy: 420MW in the Republic of Ireland.
and, since starting the initiative, daily market securing Renewable Obligation Certicates volumes have increased by over 300%.
While During 2011 12, in Great Britain, SSE it is SSEs aim to trade 100% of its power in and Levy Exemption Certicates: and services to the electricity balancing market previous years numbers in brackets : the day-ahead auction subject to costs and under the Balancing and Settlement Code.
market conditions, delays by other utilities in generated 38.4TWh, based on contracted trading larger volumes has slowed the process.
Operating profit in EPM and Electricity output of electricity from all thermal power Generation reduced by 0.3%, from 543.4m stations in which it has an ownership Overall the move by SSE has been successful in to 541.5m.
It contributed 33% of SSEs total interest in GB 42.9TWh : and transforming the market and has signicantly operating profit in 2011 12.
The reasons generated 6.4TWh based on contracted improved liquidity, depth and credibility.
It has contributed to the creation of a more robust behind this performance are set out under output from renewable sources of energy Factors affecting adjusted profit before tax in which it has an ownership interest in GB, and tangible pricing index for electricity in 2011 12 on page 18. including pumped storage 3.7TWh.
contracts and with greater participation will make prices more transparent, robust and further increase liquidity.
Working to reduce volatility During the same period, also in Great Britain, it: for energy customers SSEs activities in EPM and Electricity Generation supplied 25.2TWh of electricity to its In April 2012, in line with its Building Trust industrial and commercial customers: and initiative, SSE announced a series of trading are guided by two long-term priorities: Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 41 also be balanced by a focus on selected areas natural gas market: and commitments for smaller suppliers of electricity to help them secure contracts of competitive advantage to SSE.
a 10-year contract with Statoil for the for wholesale electricity of the right size annual supply of 500mcm 185Mth and shape to enable them to manage Managing an energy portfolio of natural gas to be delivered to SSEs Peterhead power station via the St Fergus their risk prole.
SSE typically needs around 10 million therms of gas per day to supply its customers and to gas terminal.
Delivery of gas is due to begin Key trends in EPM and fuel its power stations and around 150GWh in the final quarter of 2012 with the price Electricity Generation of electricity per day to supply its customers.
of the gas also linked to prevailing prices in the natural gas market.
The contract also Whether at global, European or GB and Irish It is the role of EPM to acquire the necessary levels, the energy sector is experiencing a energy to meet this demand.
In focusing on contains provisions to allow the supply of period of profound change and challenge, the competitive and sustainable procurement gas to be diverted to help meet SSEs other with a number of external trends inuencing of energy, it seeks to meet the needs of requirements if Peterhead is undergoing maintenance or repair work.
SSEs decisions, including: Generation and of Retail customers and to maintain a diverse portfolio of energy options slow economic growth implying lower to ensure the effective spread of risk.
The structure of these agreements ts well electricity demand: with the gas purchasing prole SSE needs to UK climate change legislation requiring Managing energy procurement risk is a key support its business contracts and generation a 34% reduction in greenhouse gas challenge as it is heavily influenced to varying requirements.
They provide an excellent emissions, particularly CO, by 2020 degrees by a multitude of national and opportunity to cover a portion of future gas 2 international factors including: demand needs with an attractive pricing structure compared with 1990 levels : EU 2020 targets requiring 15% of the growth decline: the global economy: fuel and minimal risk.
UKs energy requirements to come from supply disruptions: international affairs such renewable sources for Ireland, it is 16% : as Libya: nuclear availability: CCGT demand: SSEs contracts with Shell and Statoil add to a shale gas: and Liqueed Natural Gas.
number of arrangements agreed in recent years projected global growth in coal 25% and gas 65% demand by 2035 IEA, including the 15-year tolling agreement with impacting fuel supply security: In managing this risk Energy Portfolio Marchwood Power Ltd which commenced in continuing integration of UK energy Management has three primary routes 2009, and the 2008 extension of the contract for energy procurement: for electricity output from Seabank Power Ltd. prices into the wider global market: tightening generation capacity in GB as older plant closes including coal, nuclear assets: upstream gas exploration and Furthermore, SSEs investment in renewable and gas plant: production, coal production, renewables, energy sources across the UK and Ireland provides long-term energy supply with no fuel increasing system variability due to higher forests and agriculture: penetrations of variable energy sources: contracts: gas producer contracts, LNG purchasing requirement and a hedge against uncertainties surrounding electricity capacity, power purchase agreements, the volatility in fossil fuel markets.
During market reform and a regulatory framework solid fuel contracts: and 2011 12 the energy produced by SSEs renewables portfolio was equivalent to trending towards increased central wholesale trading: where energy planning: and contracts are transparently traded on 260Mth of gas.
Renewables, coupled with increasing market integration between international exchanges.
existing and future investments in exploration GB and Ireland.
and production assets, are an increasingly By optimising this diverse portfolio SSE important source of energy for SSE.
In assessing and responding to these various ensures that its customers are protected from trends SSE is committed to the delivery of a the considerable volatility that exists in global In recent years LNG has come more markets, while ensuring adequate returns to to the fore in the UK representing diverse portfolio of robust assets, from which revenue can be generated on a reliable, support its commitment to sustained real around one quarter of gas entering the long-term basis and which supports future dividend growth.
National Transmission System in 2011. dividend growth.
As a further diversication to its long-term Meeting longer-term energy requirements energy contracts, SSE is proactively The main public policy driver is European Fuel supply contracts play a key part in helping investigating options for booking LNG and GB-led decarbonisation policy.
In line SSE to meet its customers needs and contribute regasication capacity.
with the energy trilemma, this must be to the long-term stability of its energy portfolio.
Long-term fuel supply contracts also support Principles for management carefully balanced by the need for supply security, both in terms of fuel security and a stable and confident market which supports of SSEs Generation portfolio capacity availability and the need for energy investment in new gas-red generation.
Over During 2011, SSE dened its long-term affordability and competitiveness.
To achieve the past year SSE has secured two significant priorities in Generation as being: exibility in operations: and a greening in production.
this tripartite objective, SSE recognises the long-term fuel supply contracts including: need for a diverse, sustainable and The establishment of these priorities clearly complementary generation and fuel portfolio.
a 10-year gas supply agreement of summarises SSEs ambitions and is underpinned It is, therefore, focused on maintaining a 790 million cubic metres mcm 292Mth by six core principles that direct the operation of, and investment in, its Generation portfolio: range of options that will meet policy goals per annum with Shell Energy Europe, while being consistent with its financial commencing in 2015.
The gas will be goal of sustained real dividend growth.
supplied as a rm delivery of 800,000 th day, compliance: with all safety standards Retaining options is important but must at a price linked to prevailing prices in the and environmental requirements: SSE Annual Report 2012 42 Wholesale continued Market-based businesses capacity: to meet the electricity needs support safe operation of power achievement of this objective: rather it will of domestic and small business customers: require a broad portfolio of solutions including generating plant: diversity: to avoid over-dependency on conventional and renewable generation help deliver increased availability particular fuels or technologies: and where feasible carbon abatement and performance of key plant: and availability: to respond to customer mitigate project risk with optimum technologies.
With its keen focus on diversity demand and market conditions: and sustainability, SSE continues to operate design solutions and technology choice.
exibility: to ensure that changes and develop a variety of options that play in demand for electricity can be to its strengths and capabilities.
A primary output of the centre, through its addressed: and Equipment Performance Centre EPC is the sustainability: to deliver an overall The practical application of its generation bespoke asset management model which 50% cut in the CO intensity of electricity principles means SSEs portfolio comprised analyses almost 500 million data points every 2 produced.
at 31 March 2012: hour, allowing for the early identication and resolution of potential plant safety and Playing to its strengths is an important focus 4,470MW of gasand oil-red capacity: availability risks.
The EPC has enabled a number for SSE as it ensures capital and management 4,370MW of coal-red capacity with of early interventions which previously may have resources are employed in areas and at stages biomass co-ring capability : and lead to significant forced outages.
The first wind where it best retains competitive advantage, 3,020MW of renewable hydro, including farms were connected to the EPC during 2011 maximises shareholder value and supports pumped storage: wind: and dedicated and predictive monitoring trials are currently in continued dividend growth.
progress, specifically looking at the operational performance of each SSE wind turbine.
A decision to exit nuclear With this portfolio, SSE has the greatest power development diversity in fuels for generating electricity With ever-increasing knowledge as to the In its Annual Report 2011, SSE said that: the among UK generators, which enables it to: performance and capability of its portfolio, SSE can ensure the right long-term decisions cost, development issues and timetable and operational efficacy of nuclear power stations avoid dependency on a single technology are made to deliver an efficient, exible, all require the greatest possible scrutiny or commodity: low-carbon generation portfolio which plays before a commitment to invest in new have a balanced portfolio with significant to the Companys strengths and experience.
nuclear power stations can be made.
optionality in the management of its power stations: and Improving delivery of It was against this background that SSE manage effectively the risks inevitably Large Capital Projects announced in September 2011 its intention associated with primary fuel procurement.
It is through maintaining a breadth of to dispose of its 25% stake in NuGeneration opportunities that SSE can take forward the Ltd, the joint venture company established Management of primary fuel procurement best investments and achieve the strongest to develop proposals for a new nuclear power risks is also assisted by the fact that SSE possible returns to support dividend growth.
In focusing on its is the largest generator of electricity from SSE is focused on the safe, sustainable strengths SSE concluded that, for the time renewable sources across the UK and Ireland.
and timely execution of its major project being, its resources are better deployed on portfolio, delivering business revenues business activities and technologies where it SSEs 31 March 2012 portfolio of 11,860MW and shareholder value.
has the greatest knowledge and experience.
of capacity for generating electricity compares with 11,290MW the year before.
During To meet this objective SSE has developed a In February 2012, the sale to NNB 2011 12, SSE: Large Capital Project Governance Framework, Development Company S. A. was concluded which ensures that all of its major investment added 495MW of new onshore wind farm projects are governed, developed, approved for an upfront cash consideration of 5.75m, with a further contingent payment of 1.25m capacity as a result of its investment and executed in a consistent and effective dependent on progress with the development programme: manner.
Through the rigorous implementation of the West Cumbria site.
commissioned over 180MW of new of this framework SSE is demonstrating industry-leading performance and delivering offshore wind farm capacity at Walney and While SSE may become involved in nuclear Greater Gabbard this excludes capacity in on its business goals as planned.
again at a future date, either as an investor disputed turbines at Greater Gabbard : and or as a purchaser of nuclear-generated sold 96.8MW of onshore wind farm A further dimension of the Large Capital Project framework is designed to inform electricity, its Generation investment plans capacity in April 2011 the majority of which for now are focused on a diverse range of had no SSE power purchase contracts, and and optimise the stage at which SSE enters options including renewable energy, gas-red took a small wind farm at Spurness offline the project development cycle which can generation, plant with carbon capture and for re-powering.
range from asset purchases, to new build, to long-term electricity contracts.
This storage and developments with solid fuel.
Maximising the capability of supports SSE in identifying the point of Maintaining a diverse SSEs Generation portfolio entry where it can best maximise value Generation portfolio In order to deliver the long-term value and and competitive advantage.
The way in which energy is converted reliability of its Generation portfolio and to to electricity is changing, primarily driven better inform its decision-making process SSE How SSEs gas-fired power by policy drivers directing decarbonisation.
has developed its purpose-built Engineering stations performed There is no one size ts all solution to the Centre of Excellence.
Its objectives are to: SSE owns 4,470MW of gasand oil-red Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 43 electricity generation capacity, including Total generation capacity MW its share of joint ventures.
2012 11,860 During 2011 12, SSEs principal wholly-owned gas-red power stations Keadby, Medway 2011 11,290 and Peterhead achieved 94% of their 2010 11,330 maximum availability to generate electricity, excluding planned outages, compared with 2009 10,740 88% availability in the previous year.
In 2008 10,530 addition to SSEs ongoing focus on high operational performance, availability was increased by the return to service of Keadby Generation capacity 2011 12 composition % in early May 2011 following the successful Gas oil 38 repair of a generator fault.
Coal biomass 37 Renewable 25 In addition to its wholly-owned gas generation SSE has joint venture interests in: Marchwood, the 840MW CCGT, owned by Marchwood Power Ltd, a 50:50 joint venture between SSE and ESB International.
During 2011 12 the plant, Power station CO emissions grams per kWh 2 achieved 94% of its maximum availability to operate during the year compared 2012 531 with 93% the previous year: and Seabank, the 1,140MW CCGT, owned 2011 504 by Seabank Power Limited, a 50:50 joint 2010 494 venture between SSE and Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Limited.
During 2009 491 2011 12 the plant, achieved 86% of its 2008 496 maximum availability to operate during the year, down from 96% the previous year.
All of the electricity output at both plants impact of spark spreads by displacing Investment options for is sold under contract to SSE.
higher-cost CCGTs and highlighting the gas-fired power stations significant benets to customers of SSEs Irrespective of current market circumstances, The amount of electricity generated by SSE diverse generation portfolio.
gas will play an increasingly important role at gas-red power stations in which it has an in electricity generation, providing vital ownership or contractual interest, including exibility to support the increasing amount Developing flexibility CHP, was 21.6TWh in the year to 31 March in gas-fired generation of generation from onand offshore wind 2012 including 12.5TWh from wholly-owned With more penetration of renewable farms required to deliver renewable energy stations, compared with 29.3TWh in the generation in the GB system, the stations and climate change targets.
previous year including 13.3TWh from at Peterhead, Keadby and Medway have, wholly-owned stations.
increasingly, been required to operate on a As stated in the EU Energy Roadmap 2050 more exible two shift basis.
This requirement gas will be critical for the transformation This reduction in output was driven by very will grow in the medium term.
To increase of the energy system and, in particular the high wholesale gas prices in the course of the exibility SSE is applying modications to power sector.
Many factors support this year which had a significant negative impact support more frequent two shifting.
including its relatively low capital costs, on spark spreads, which averaged less than exibility, short construction time, high 1 MWh over the year.
Spark spread is the Against this background, and following the thermal efficiency and its status as the difference between the cost of gas and the sustained period of low spark spreads, SSE cleanest of the fossil fuel technologies.
price of electricity produced from it.
Because it has decided to undertake a comprehensive was very low over the period, the stations were programme of upgrade work to support more Recognising this future role for gas in a operated less frequently.
This was consistent exible operations at its Keadby and Medway diversied generation portfolio SSE continues with the Department of Energy and Climate power stations from 2013 onwards.
To allow to develop a range of CCGT options for both Changes Energy Trends, published in March this work to be carried out, it suspended the medium and long term.
2012, which indicated a 17.4% reduction in electricity generation at the stations at the gas used for electricity generation.
end of March 2012 see also exceptional SSEs most advanced CCGT option, Abernedd items in the Financial Overview.
The work in South Wales, secured its construction and However, a record year for SSEs renewable that will be carried out follows a similar operation consents in February 2011.
SSE is generation, alongside increased output from and successful programme undertaken pursuing a single CCGT unit of up to 470MW, its coal-red power stations mitigated the which it considers the most economic option at Peterhead power station in 2011.
SSE Annual Report 2012 44 Wholesale continued Market-based businesses coal-red power sites as they benefit from Gas will play an increasingly important key infrastructure including access to water, transport links, and electricity network role in electricity generation, providing connections.
vital flexibility to support the increasing All of the capacity at Fiddlers Ferry and Uskmouth and half of the capacity at amount of generation from wind farms.
Ferrybridge over 3,300MW in total complies with the EU Industrial Emissions Directive and can operate for 17,500 hours between in the context of the site and the medium-term How SSEs coal-fired power 2016 and 2023. outlook for gas-red generation.
While an stations performed However, consistent with the UKs climate invitation to tender was issued in late 2011 an During 2011 12, SSEs 4,370MW of coal-red investment decision will not be taken until the power stations, located at Fiddlers Ferry, change abatement policies, as set out in second half of 2012 at the earliest and will Ferrybridge and Uskmouth generated the White Paper Planning our Electric Future, depend, amongst other things, on the emerging 16.8TWh of electricity, compared with it is SSEs view that no new coal-red power shape of the electricity market following the 13.6TWh in the previous year.
generation plant should be built in the UK UK governments proposed electricity market without CO abatement and that no coal-red 2 reforms.
This means that the power station, This increase in output took place against plant without such abatement should remain a back drop of global and national energy if built, will not be operational before 2015. operational beyond 2030. market volatility and demonstrated the Furthermore, SSE has a number of high considerable value of SSEs coal-red stations SSEs desire to deliver the full current and potential CCGT development options located as part of a diverse portfolio through their future value potential of these sites, while operational exibility, availability and reduced at existing generation sites including Keadby, meeting carbon abatement targets, means Ferrybridge and Fiddlers Ferry, plus Seabank, reliance on imported gas.
operational and investment decisions in its where SSE has recently acquired adjacent coal-red power plants will be influenced land for possible further development.
These The stations achieved 89% of their by four main factors: maximum availability to generate electricity, locations offer many attractive characteristics including established grid and gas connections, excluding planned outages, compared with the need to maintain and improve the availability of cooling water and land area.
Availability was day-to-day performance of the stations These and other potential sites across GB primarily impacted by a number of emergent while they are operational: and Ireland mean SSE has a wide range of issues identied during scheduled outages the prospects for the development of CCGT development options for independent at Ferrybridge and Fiddlers Ferry but all other solid fuels: or co-development.
units were available during the 2011 12 the UK governments final determination winter period.
on proposed levels of banded support Additional factors when considering the under the Renewables Obligation between development and operation of CCGTs include SSE Mineral Solutions owns and operates an 2013 and 2017: and fuel procurement, technical requirements for ash separation plant at Fiddlers Ferry, where the continuing UK government commitment plant exibility and future carbon abatement.
fresh and stored ash produced by the power to the development of Carbon Capture In assessing these options, SSE is continuing station can be processed into marketable and Storage CCS technology.
its policy of rigorous analysis to ensure the minerals and materials such as cement right investment decisions are made and substitutes.
While SSE fundamentally believes Generating electricity from multi-fuel then effectively delivered.
It is against this in the inherent value of the asset, overall The potential of the sites of SSEs coalbackdrop that: market demand for its products is such that red power stations was demonstrated the business is trading at an ongoing loss.
in April 2012 when SSE and Wheelabrator Barking Power Ltd, in which SSE has a However, as coal-red stations close, this Technologies Ltd entered into a 50:50 joint situation may change as the value of ash as 30% interest, is mothballing capacity venture to develop a new 300m multi-fuel at its 1,000MW power station: and a cement substitute increases.
Accordingly, SSE generation facility at Ferrybridge power Derwent Cogeneration Limited, in which announced in April 2012, the mothballing of station.
The joint venture Multifuel Energy SSE has a 49.5% share, is planning to cease the plant until conditions improve sufficiently Ltd MFE expects to begin full construction to support the business.
This will have no operation at its CHP plant during 2013.
The of a 68MW multi-fuel facility later this year plant provides heat to the nearby Celanese impact on the continued operation of and to complete it in 2015.
When operational, Acetates Spondon factory in Derbyshire.
the electricity generated by the plant will be sold to SSE.
While SSE agrees with the important role of Looking to the future of gas-red generation in both the Companys coal-fired power stations MFE has entered into a long-term fuel and the overall UK portfolio it believes the As exemplied in 2011 12 coal-red power procurement contract with 3SE SSEs joint right market signals must be apparent if the stations will continue to have a significant venture with Shanks Plc, which will provide necessary investment decisions are to be part to play in maintaining secure supplies processed waste-derived fuels using waste taken, particularly the introduction of a well of electricity and ensuring customers benefit taken from nearby Barnsley, Rotherham and functioning capacity mechanism under from the most cost-effective portfolio of Doncaster councils.
To support this contract Electricity Market Reform proposals.
Additional value also accrues to SSEs 3SE intends to develop a new Mechanical Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 45 combustion CO Biological Treatment and Anaerobic Digestion capture trial at in early 2012.
The project is a collaboration 2 facility.
Subject to planning permission, this is Ferrybridge, in collaboration with between SSE, Doosan Power Systems and expected to be operational by 2015.
Doosan Babcock and Vattenfall, Vattenfall and is the first of its size to be following its completion during 2011 12 integrated into a working power plant Multi-fuel technology is a tried and tested way see Making progress on Carbon Capture in the UK.
The plant bridges the gap of generating clean, base-load power.
between the pilot-scale trials and the new multi-fuel plant will provide additional commercial-scale demonstration projects diversity to SSEs Generation portfolio and Making progress on Carbon envisaged by the UK government.
It make a useful contribution to ensuring there Capture and Storage CCS captures 100 tonnes of CO per day from 2 are reliable energy supplies in the future.
EU energy policy is primarily driven by the the equivalent of 5MW of coal-red power The transactions that make up this project decarbonisation agenda and will broadly generating capacity.
The signicance represent a strong partnership between require a halving of carbon emissions by of the project lies in its scale and its major players in the multi-fuel sector, who the electricity sector every decade between ability to demonstrate the operational are committed to making a significant level now and 2050.
Ensuring that this transition characteristics of capture plant on an of investment in this technology.
is achieved while retaining supply security actual power station: and and affordability will require the continued Gas at Peterhead: In April 2012, the UK Between them the companies involved involvement of carbon-based fuels including government announced a new competition have extensive experience in sourcing coal and gas.
for funding of commercial-scale CCS and processing waste, constructing and projects in the UK.
SSE is working with Shell commissioning multi-fuel technologies, and In the near term, coal-red power stations UK to develop a gas CCS project at SSEs operating generation plant.
This partnership still have a crucial role to play in maintaining gas-red power station in Peterhead.
The creates a valuable platform to develop secure supplies of electricity as they provide project aims to design and develop a full multi-fuel technology in the future.
capacity availability, exibility and diversity.
chain, post-combustion CCS facility which However, in the medium-term, the use of coal will be capable of capturing CO from 2 Maintaining additional options to generate electricity will depend on the one 385MW CCGT unit.
It is planned for coal-fired power stations extent to which CCS technology can be that the CO will then be transported to 2 In addition to multi-fuel, SSEs investment applied to abate CO emissions.
the Shell-operated Goldeneye gas eld 2 strategy for Fiddlers Ferry, Ferrybridge and in the North Sea using, as far as possible, Uskmouth power stations is as follows: In the longer-term CCS technology will need existing infrastructure.
With works already to be applied as widely as possible if targets undertaken, the Peterhead project should following completion of a front-end for reducing CO emissions are to be met be in a position to begin a full FEED study 2 engineering design FEED study, it is and has become a key consideration when in the second half of 2012 positioning it investing in NOx emissions reduction planning the development of gas-red as a leading contender for the new CCS technology for one unit of 500MW at generation.
The correct funding package Fiddlers Ferry to establish the feasibility of viable carbon capture technology is central will be necessary for the project to go of the various options for operating the to the UKs climate change and energy ahead, and it is also being considered unit up to and beyond 2023: security objectives and this is reected by the European Commission to receive it is continuing to invest in the operation in the UK governments welcome inclusion funding under the EUs NER New Entrant and maintenance of the three stations with of gas-red generation plant in its CCS Reserve scheme to support CCS and a total of 60.1m invested in the stations demonstration programme.
renewable energy projects across the EU.
during 2011 12: it is investigating the potential to increase Against this background, SSE has two CCS Generating electricity from co-ring with biomass at Fiddlers Ferry, projects under way: alternative sources like biomass subject to the RO banding review and the In October 2011, the UK government released impact on future operation arising from Coal at Ferrybridge: This project, proposals for the level of banded support the Industrial Emissions Directive: and Europes largest post-combustion CO under the Renewables Obligation between 2 it is operating Europes largest postcapture trial, came into full operation 2013 and 2017.
This included proposals for: Making energy better: Renewable generation We now have 3,020MW of renewable energy capacity onshore wind, offshore wind, hydro and dedicated biomass in operation, in the UK and Ireland.
SSE Annual Report 2012 46 Wholesale continued Market-based businesses effectively halving its carbon footprint Renewable generation capacity MW every decade between now and 2050.
As a non-nuclear generator, this goal will be 2012 3,020 achieved through a stable, managed transition utilising a diverse range of solutions including: 2011 2,450 2010 2,370 expanding biomass co-ring at coal-red stations: 2009 2,220 demonstrating carbon capture technology 2008 2,030 for both coal and gas: increasing signicantly the output of renewable electricity: and Renewable energy capacity 2011 12 composition % ensuring industry-leading operational Conventional hydro 38 efficiency of its generation portfolio.
Pumped storage 10 Onshore wind 43 Offshore wind 6 In 2011 12, emissions of CO from power 2 Biomass 3 stations in which SSE has an ownership or contractual interest totalled 24.9 million tonnes, compared with 25.3 million tonnes in the previous year.
SSEs CO emissions data 2 is externally veried by a UK Accreditation Service UKASaccredited organisation.
dedicated biomass 1.5 ROCs : portfolio diversity provided by its coal plants SSEs first target is to reduce the amount of biomass conversion 1.0 ROCs : to ensure least-cost power generation for its CO per kWh of electricity generated at plant 2 co-ring biomass 0.5 ROCs : and customers.
However, increased CO emissions in which it has an ownership or contractual 2 enhanced co-ring, where biomass is used from coal generation were offset by reduced interest by 50%, between 2006, the first full to generate at least 15% of gross output emissions from gas-red generation, and year after it acquired coal-red power stations, 1.0 ROCs.
record volumes of renewable output.
when it was just over 600g kWh, and 2020.
On this basis, its CO intensity in 2011 12 was 2 The outcome of this consultation will have Assuming current market conditions persist, 531g kWh, compared with 504g kWh in the a significant influence on SSEs plans for SSE expects a similar output from its coal previous year, primarily reecting increased developments in biomass, particularly enhanced plant during 2012 13, after which point output from coal-red power stations.
co-ring, at its coal-red power stations.
it anticipates a substantial reduction in coal-related emissions as gas plants such More broadly, SSE has formed a partnership Under the proposals, qualifying output from as Keadby and Medway return to service, with other European energy companies, calling dedicated regular biomass plants will continue additional renewables are commissioned for the EU to adopt a greenhouse gas emissions to attract 1.5 ROCs per MWh.
SSEs plant at and coal plants use up their allocated running reduction target of 25% up from 20% at Slough has a current generating capacity hours under the EUs Industrial Emissions present as part of a long-term move away of 80MW and remains the UKs largest Directive.
This means SSE remains on track from fossil fuel-based electricity generation dedicated biomass energy facility.
During to half its CO emissions by 2020. and full decarbonisation by 2050.
As the 2020 2 2011 12, it produced 156GWh of electricity deadline nears, SSE considers it critical that from renewable sources, compared with From 2013, all of the CO emissions allowances the institutions of Europe provide investors 2 200GWh during the previous year.
for electricity producers will be auctioned.
with certainty regarding targets and the policy Moreover, the UK governments introduction framework beyond the current 2020 cliff edge.
Participating in the EU of the carbon price oor provides a clear Emissions Trading Scheme market signal for investment in low carbon and Fulfilling the potential of Phase II of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme carbon sequestration investments.
Proposals renewable sources of energy EU ETS began on 1 January 2008.
Across its for the introduction of a oor for the price of The way energy is transformed into electricity generation portfolio taking account allowances in the electricity sector will result in electricity is evolving.
While decarbonisation, of contractual shares, SSE has an allocation an effective carbon price of 16 tonne in 2013, supply security and affordability are of of 18.9 million tonnes of CO emissions rising to around 30 tonne in 2020 in 2009 equal importance, the primary European 2 allowances per calendar year.
This further signals the importance of and UK energy policy intervention is on the price of allowances ranged from around carbon capture and storage for coal and gas decarbonisation.
The targets that underpin 6 tonne to around 17 tonne.
generation in ensuring the achievement of this include the binding EU carbon abatement long-term carbon abatement targets.
target of a 20% reduction in CO emissions 2 SSEs emissions allowances requirement for by 2020, compared with 1990 levels, coupled 2011 12, beyond those apportioned from Tackling emissions of CO with more challenging targets over and above 2 the EU ETS allocation, was 5.3 million tonnes.
in thermal generation this that have been adopted by both the UK This compares with 6.5 million tonnes in the SSEs priorities in Generation are to be and Ireland.
These targets accompany the UK previous year.
With high gas prices and low a greener and more exible non-nuclear and Irelands 15% and 16% renewable energy spark spreads for gas generation, SSE used the electricity generator.
Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 47 its conventional hydro-electric capacity for While achievement of the renewable energy farms, offshore wind farms and dedicated targets is spread across electricity, heating the first time.
It now has over 1,300MW of biomass plant was 7,617GWh during and transport, it is the electricity sector that onshore wind farm capacity for the first time.
2011 12 compared with 4,411GWh in has proven itself most adept at responding That total compares with just 40MW of wind 2010 11.
This 73% increase is a reection power just six years ago.
This has been evidenced most of additional generation capacity coming recently by DECCs Energy Trends 2011 which into operation and the wet and windy saw Renewables share of generation in the Good progress made on SSEs landmark weather conditions experienced during UK increase to a record 9.5%, coupled with projects including Clyde, Griffin and the period.
In energy terms, it is equivalent a one third increase in capacity for renewable Gordonbush wind farms in Scotland and to 260Mth of gas.
Slieve Kirk wind farm in Northern Ireland means that 495MW of onshore wind farm Producing electricity from In its Renewable Energy Roadmap the UK capacity became operational during 2011 12. hydro-electric schemes government made clear its commitment Progress at Greater Gabbard and Walney SSE owns and operates more than 50 to increasing the deployment of renewable has taken SSEs net offshore wind farm hydro-electric power stations in the Highlands, energy across the UK stating that renewables capacity to 187MW.
Perth and Kinross, and Argyll and Bute, with will make the UK more energy secure, will just over 1,150MW of capacity.
A further help protect consumers from fossil fuel price At 31 March 2012, SSE had 3,020MW of 300MW comes from its pumped storage uctuations, is driving investment in new jobs commissioned renewable energy capacity facility at Foyers, on Loch Ness.
and businesses in the renewable energy sector, in the UK and Ireland, including its share as well as keep us on track to meet our carbon of joint ventures, comprising: Over the last 30 years, electricity output reduction objectives for the coming decades.
from conventional hydro-electric schemes 1,150MW conventional hydro: has ranged from a high of 3,896GWh to With this clear vision, public policy is strongly 1,303MW onshore wind: a low of 2,429GWh.
However, 2011 12 was 187MW offshore wind: aligned with the renewable energy targets, an exceptional year, delivering a new record providing financial support via the Renewables 80MW dedicated biomass: and hydro-electricity output of 4,262GWh.
Obligation in the UK and the Renewable 300MW pumped storage.
This success is a result of SSEs continued Energy Feed-in-Tariff in the Republic of Ireland.
investment in refurbishment of its hydro Of this, output from over 1,500MW qualies Furthermore, the UK governments current schemes in the North of Scotland coupled work on electricity market reform is explicitly for ROCs, the key financial support scheme with a particularly high amount of rainfall intended to make sure that low carbon for renewable energy in the UK, with: and snowmelt in each hydro catchment.
technologies such as energy from renewable sources become a more attractive choice for 1.0 ROC MWh for qualifying hydro and During 2011 12 previous years comparison investors.
The effect of appropriate policy onshore wind: in brackets : supports should not be undervalued and the 1.5 ROCs MWh for qualifying dedicated viability of the renewables industry remains biomass: and total output from all of SSEs conventional dependent on their continued existence.
2.0 ROCs MWh for qualifying offshore wind.
hydro-electric schemes was 4,262GWh 2,558GWh : and, within this, With the exception of hydro, SSE believes that In advance of planned revisions to ROC total output from SSEs hydro-electric the UKs revised ROC levels are appropriate banding, most of SSEs existing construction capacity qualifying for ROCs just over to changing market conditions, once they are sites will be accredited before the April 2013 500MW was 1,954GWh 1,193GWh.
complemented by an effective carbon oor value revision and, as such, will be eligible for price and cost reductions in the supply chain existing 20-year supports.
As at 31 March 2012, the total amount for renewable energy.
It is also of the view of water held in SSEs reservoirs which could that, given hydros exibility, storage capacity Following a very successful year of be used to generate electricity was 60% of and investment economics, a ROC of around constructing renewable energy projects SSE the maximum, compared with 61% in the 1.0 MWh is required to sustain investment in remains on course to own around 3,500MW previous year.
of renewable capacity that is in operation this important source of renewable energy.
or under construction, in the UK and Ireland, Restoring generation at the With this continued strong political support by the end of 2012 13.
This will mean SSE is Glendoe hydro-electric scheme for increased renewable penetration in the making solid progress in line with its green Work on the restoration of electricity priority and is supporting the achievement portfolio mix SSE does not perceive any generation at the 100MW Glendoe weakening of public policy commitment to of CO abatement targets, maximising the hydro-electric scheme is continuing to 2 renewable energy in either the UK or Ireland.
potential of indigenous and free renewable progress well, although it is a very substantial Nevertheless, it remains one of SSEs priorities resources and reducing consumer exposure project which has required considerably more to avoid dependency on a single generation to the price volatility of  than originally expected.
The technology or related financial support.
restoration works arose due to a rock fall which blocked the tunnel carrying water from Increasing energy from renewable sources Producing electricity from the reservoir to the power station, stopping In January 2012, SSE announced that renewable sources operation.
The process of re-lling the ongoing progress in the construction of Total electricity output from all of SSEs reservoir is expected to begin shortly, with its large capital projects meant that its renewable resources including conventional electricity generation resuming in the middle onshore wind farm capacity had exceeded of the calendar year.
hydro-electric schemes, onshore wind SSE Annual Report 2012 48 Wholesale continued Market-based businesses scheduled to commence later in 2012, but charging regime changes envisaged Meanwhile, SSE is continuing to pursue its legal and insurance options following the loss is subject to the outcome of the current by Ofgems Project TransmiT.
of electricity generation in August 2009.
net cost to SSE of the restoration work will not Sloy: SSE has consent to develop a 60MW Adding to onshore wind farm capacity and production be known until the works and the insurance pumped storage scheme as part of its and legal processes are complete.
The actual 152MW Sloy power station, near Loch At 31 March 2012, SSE owned 1,303MW and projected rate of return on the total net Lomond.
This means that, in addition to of onshore wind farm capacity and output investment at Glendoe, including the original electricity produced from water collected during 2011 12 was as follows previous years comparison in brackets : construction cost of 160m, will depend on and held in the Loch Sloy reservoir, Sloy will this and on the prices achieved for the be able to generate an additional 100GWh electricity produced.
These prices should, in of electricity in a typical year using water 1,418GWh in the UK, 739GWh : and turn, reect the strategic nature of the asset pumped from Loch Lomond to the 1,353GWh in the Republic of Ireland, 914GWh.
and its ability to respond rapidly to help meet reservoir.
A final decision on this circa 40m changes in electricity demand.
investment will be made following review of technical and engineering assessments, Total electricity output from onshore Developing new hydro-electric schemes which are now nearing completion and wind-based generation increased from Through the combination of investment following consideration of decisions 1,653GWh in 2010 11 to 2,771GWh in and ideal weather conditions hydro-sourced relating to Electricity Market Reform.
The key drivers of this increase generation has demonstrated its continuing Coire Glas: In February 2012 SSE was the completion of an additional 495MW success as a valued source of renewable submitted an application to the Scottish of new generation and the signicantly energy.
government for consent to construct a new windier weather relative to 2010 11.
Windier pumped storage scheme of up to 600MW conditions also saw load factors rise above Investment in such schemes should continue capacity to the north-west of Loch Lochy 30% compared with 24% in 2010 11. in the Great Glen.
This scheme has the to be attractive as they provide rm capacity and fast-response exibility complementing potential to produce 1,000GWh of On average, the turbines at SSEs onshore variable output from the growing number of electricity in a typical year and would be wind farms in the UK and Ireland achieved wind farms characteristics that the market the largest hydro project to be built in 97% of their maximum availability to generate electricity which has been should value more in the future.
Scotland and the first brand new pumped storage scheme to be developed in Great consistent over the past three years.
With its considerable operational experience Britain in almost 40 years.
The scheme in this technology SSE is advancing a number would require the construction of a new Delivering new onshore wind farms In meeting its commitment to high quality of development opportunities: dam and upper reservoir at Loch a Choire Ghlais the upper reservoir.
A powerhouse project delivery SSE has made significant Kildermorie: SSE has consent to develop complex would be constructed under progress in 2011 12 with the completion of a new 7.5MW hydro-electric power station ground, together with a series of tunnels to its wind farms at Griffin 156MW in Perthshire and Gordonbush 70MW in Sutherland.
Their near Ardross in Ross-shire.
It will consist of provide access and convey water between a new dam and storage reservoir, a buried the lower reservoir Loch Lochy and the total capital cost was 340m and they are pipeline and a semi-buried powerhouse upper reservoir.
Once completed the expected to produce around 640GWh of with associated tailrace.
Construction is scheme would have minimal visual electricity in a typical year.
Balmacaan: SSE is also proposing to At Clyde, 100 turbines with a total capacity of develop a 300MW-600MW pumped 230MW are producing electricity.
The remaining storage scheme at Loch Ness.
While 52 turbines, which will bring the project to its independent of Coire glas the two projects 350MW total, are expected to be completed are managed by a single development around the end of summer 2012.
Balmacaan has recently completed expected to cost around 500m and produce its pre-planning consultation on its over 1,000GWh of electricity in a typical year.
environmental impact assessment and is expected to be submitted for planning Also during 2011 12, SSE constructed and during 2012. commissioned the 27MW Slieve Kirk wind farm in Northern Ireland and the 12MW Construction of Coire Glas and or Balmacaan Rathcahill wind farm located in the Republic would not begin before 2014 at the earliest of Ireland.
Making energy better: and, subject to planning consent among Generating with waves Developing new onshore wind farms other factors, SSE will have the option to build neither, one or both of the schemes.
At 31 March 2012, SSEs onshore wind farm North of mainland Orkney we portfolio comprised around net : have been awarded exclusive rights Furthermore, progressing these schemes to develop Costa Head, a 200MW 1,303MW in operation: and other similar developments will be wave energy site.
dependent upon a satisfactory public policy 380MW in construction or pre-construction: and regulatory framework, including the and ROC banding review and the transmission over 550MW with consent for development.
Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 49 As the current tranche of onshore wind farms Through the combination of investment reaches completion during 2012 13 SSE is focusing on the alignment of its development and ideal weather conditions hydropipeline into strategic areas.
These areas facilitate the continued efficient allocation sourced generation has demonstrated of resources and economies of scale.
The following fully consented projects in the UK its continuing success as a valued source and Ireland are components of these areas: of renewable energy.
Strathy North 75MW : Located near Strathy village, Sutherland, this project received consent from Scottish Ministers Developing options in Scandanavia in November 2011.
The wind farm, which is Partnership will now prepare reports for its near Gordonbush, will comprise 33 turbines shareholders so they can consider the funding Further aeld, SSE is actively pursuing a over an area of around 950 hectares within of the next steps in the project.
295MW development pipeline in Sweden, Strathy North Forest, which is a commercial of which 80MW has consent for development, conifer plantation.
The project is anticipated This provides a portfolio of options whereby and the Nordconnect interconnector.
In an to enter construction in the next 18 months: SSE may select developments that deliver early stage of development, Nordconnect is Keadby 68MW : This is a fully consented the best value and continue to support a partnership between SSE, Energi, E-CO, Lyse project acquired from RES in May 2011. dividend growth.
and Vattenfall AB to plan, build and operate Adjacent to SSEs Keadby gas-red power an HVDC interconnector between Norway station, preparatory works began for the wind In addition to its consented portfolio, SSE and the UK.
These projects align strategically farm in February 2012 with construction continues to assess high potential developments to maximise the potential of the European and has submitted for approval by the relevant energy market, while providing diversity expected to start later this year: Calliachar 32MW : This fully consented planning authorities in the UK and Ireland to the portfolio of future SSE renewable site, adjacent to SSEs Griffin project in proposals for onshore wind farms with a total development options.
Perthshire was acquired by SSE in 2010.
SSE capacity of over 500MW including Clyde Extension 171MW and Dalnessie 70MW.
Managing constraint on subsequently sought consent to increase the tip height of the turbines from 100m the electricity system to 109.8m.
In January 2012, consent was Progress on all of SSEs renewable projects Constraint occurs when there are limitations received from Perth and Kinross Council is dependent on a continued favourable in electricity transmission capacity or for reasons of system frequency voltage control Development Control Committee subject planning, policy and regulatory environment.
Work is ongoing to satisfy The projects themselves would be developed or stability.
Transmission systems generally the conditions and construction is getting over the next few years.
experience periods of constraint, and it is this under way: and that provides a market signal for additional investment in the grid infrastructure.
Glenconway 18MW : As part of the Slieve Maximising electricity Kirk strategic area located in County Derry, output from wind farms Northern Ireland, Glenconway will add With its onshore and offshore wind farms During 2011 12, across GB, 6TWh of a further 18MW to the existing 27MW producing 3,199GWh of electricity in 2011 12, generation was constrained at a value of completed during 2011 12.
The project SSE is the largest operator and developer of around 300m.
Of this, SSE wind generation began construction in early May and is wind power across GB and Ireland.
From its was 80GWh or 1.3% of the total constraint expected to be completed during 2013.
Centre of Engineering Excellence in Renewable over the whole system.
Energy in Glasgow, SSEs highly-skilled team In total, onshore wind farm projects in or near of professionals ensure that maximum value With additional volumes of variable construction will add more than 150MW to the is derived from its wind assets.
Ensuring renewable generation on the system, existing portfolio in 2012 13.
In addition, SSE maximum value is founded in four critical instances of constraint will occur from time factors, rigorously assessed through the to time at different locations.
In Great Britain has over 550MW of fully consented projects across GB and Ireland including its 110MW development stages: and Ireland an emergent issue centres on share of the 170MW Galway Wind Park.
equitable compensation for constrained wind.
site selection: wind analysis carried out by a specialist At times of constraint, generators in Great The amount with consent for development also includes SSEs share of the capacity team: Britain are required to bid in their constrained contained in the proposal by Viking Energy, site optimisation to maximise output, generation capacity to National Grid.
It has the joint venture between Viking Energy including turbine layout: and been SSEs policy to bid fair and reasonable prices at all times for its renewable generation Ltd which is 90% owned by the Shetland turbine selection to match turbine Charitable Trust and SSE to develop a wind characteristics with wind conditions and it believes that this is the equitable farm with a capacity expected to be around and ensure reliability.
approach for all renewable generators 370MW SSEs share being 185MW on and in the best interest of customers.
This project Carefully assessing each of these criteria has recently received consent from Scottish ensures delivery of high quality projects, In Irelands SEM market, compensation government Ministers, with a reduction in the adding to business value and supporting rules for wind generation recognise both the number of turbines to 103.
The Viking Energy sustained dividend growth.
degree of control of an individual wind farm SSE Annual Report 2012 50 Wholesale continued Market-based businesses with all 140 monopile foundations and Onshore wind capacity MW turbines installed and to date, a total of 127 have produced power.
Meanwhile, the third 2012 1,303 and final electricity export cable has been installed and is undergoing commissioning.
2011 910 All of this means that construction works 2010 840 should be completed, as planned, before the end of this year.
2009 690 2008 600 GGOWL remains in a contractual dispute with Fluor Limited, the principal contractor for the wind farm.
The dispute relates to the quality of lower foundations monopiles and the export capacity guaranteed in its natural environment.
The fund is in connection agreement with the System addition to the 150m SSE has already and upper foundations transition pieces Operator.
In times of constraint, controllable committed to support community projects used in the early stages of the development wind farms are compensated for their lost in Scotland over the 25-year projected and supporting 52 of the 140 turbines.
output at market prices, while government lifetime of the Companys existing and The contractual dispute centres on: support payments REFIT in RoI and ROCs planned wind farms.
in NI are paid on the basis of metered the claim by Fluor Limited of around Building new offshore wind farms 300m relating to time and costs Fluor output.
SSE works with the System Operator to ensure that its wind farms demonstrate Due to the signicantly larger scale and cost of Limited alleges it incurred in carrying out the level of response required to be recognised both consenting and constructing offshore wind additional testing and repairs of some as controllable.
farms compared with onshore, SSE recognises of the welds on these foundations: and the inherent risks are best managed through GGOWLs need for assurance as to the To minimise the impact of constraints, partnership arrangements across a portfolio structural integrity of these foundations, appropriate investment is needed in of projects.
To this end SSE is building: which resulted in GGOWL initiating its transmission infrastructure, an issue which own programme of offshore testing to determine whether they meet the required is particularly acute in Ireland.
At the same Greater Gabbard, a 500MW development time, market arrangements in both GB and being built by Greater Gabbard Offshore contractual standards and will provide Ireland must provide equitable payment Winds Limited GGOWL, in which SSE has a full operating life of at least 25 years.
a 50% stake: and In relation to the claim by Fluor, GGOWL Walney, a 367MW development being built Creating local value from onshore by Walney UK Offshore Windfarms Ltd, has submitted what it believes is a very renewable development in which SSE has a 25.1% stake.
A formal arbitration process A leading differentiator and a source of pride is beginning and will resolve the dispute in due course.
for SSE is the economic benefit its onshore Total electricity output from SSEs offshore renewable investments bring to local wind farms was 428GWh in 2011 12.
In particular this year, SSE: the result of significant progress in the period In relation to the second aspect of the to 31 March at: dispute, in October 2011, on the basis of confirmed its ongoing commitment to the available evidence, including from its the Highland region of Scotland with the Greater Gabbard where all 140 turbines own programme of testing, and independent announcement of 50 new roles created were in place, of which 62 had been advice, GGOWL notied Fluor Limited that all commissioned, and not the subject of 52 of the relevant foundations are defective at its regional headquarters in Inverness.
The new roles are being created primarily any claim and are successfully generating and do not meet the standard required by to support SSEs renewable ambitions in electricity.
In addition, 46 of the 52 the contract between the two companies.
The local economic disputed turbines had also exported power: and Of these 52 foundations, Fluor Limited and employment value associated with the establishment of a corporate presence in Walney where all of the phase one turbines previously corrected defects that had been Inverness helps to highlight the benefit of have been successfully commissioned and identied in a number of the monopiles renewable development.
SSE believes the all 51 turbines in the second phase are before they were installed, and GGOWL believes that these repaired monopiles are new regional headquarters will support its producing power, of which 27 are fully endeavours in working with communities commissioned.
The balance of the monopiles and and stakeholders.
all 52 of the transition pieces are believed established its Scotland Sustainable Progress has continued at Greater Gabbard to be defective.
Energy Fund, an onshore wind community since the year end and currently 81 turbines investment plan.
The fund will be worth a which are not the subject of dispute have GGOWL believes that the onus is currently on potential 90m over 25 years if SSE is able been commissioned.
At Walney, an additional Fluor Limited to determine how it proposes to to realise its ambitions for new onshore 19 turbines have also been commissioned.
meet its contractual obligation to ensure that the transition pieces and monopiles comply wind farms in Scotland.
The fund will be available for organisations promoting Managing the issues at Greater Gabbard with the contract and that Fluor Limited will skills development, community energy significant construction progress was made be liable for all associated costs.
In relation schemes and improving the built and at Greater Gabbard during the financial year to this, GGOWL has initiated a formal Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 51 At Beatrice, an application for consent to to collaborate on offshore wind contractual claim against Fluor Limited, which is currently the subject of a formal develop the Beatrice offshore wind farm in the development: arbitration process.
Outer Moray Firth has been submitted to the ongoing participation in the Carbon Scottish government.
The application is the Trusts Offshore Wind Accelerator: and first of the Scottish Territorial Waters sites to acquisition of Wind Towers Ltd, a joint Progress at Walney The first phase of Walney is operational and be submitted for consideration.
The proposed venture between SSE and Marsh Wind commissioning of the second and final phase wind farm builds on the success of the Technology Ltd in May 2011.
In addition to of the wind farm, 51 turbines with a total Beatrice Demonstrator Project and would producing wind turbine towers for onshore wind farms, this site is constructing new installed capacity of 183.6MW, is now well have a maximum of 142 to 277 turbines, under way.
All of the turbines have now been depending on turbine size.
facilities to allow the production of turbine installed, and all have now exported electricity.
towers for offshore wind and therefore Beyond this, SSE has secured from The Crown maximising the potential of its modern facilities in the expanding market for The progress at Walney has set the Estate rights for the potential development benchmark for future offshore development of up to 4.8GW net additional offshore wind offshore wind turbine towers.
where DONG Energy has constructed the farm assets later in the decade.
Decisions second phase of Walney in the fastest ever regarding the build out of this pipeline will In seeking to reduce supply chain cost SSE is giving practical leadership in the delivery of time for an offshore wind project.
A new be reective of SSEs disciplined approach record was set for the sector following the and focus on taking forward only the best the UK governments ambitious 2020 target installation of all turbines and cables in just investments and achieve the strongest to lower the levelised cost of energy from five months and 13 days.
This marks an possible returns to support dividend growth.
offshore wind to 100 MWh and believes this important step in the drive toward further target can, and indeed should, be achieved.
As a result of this Building a supply chain for offshore wind progress it is expected that the full 102 In order to meet the full potential of the UKs Establishing an intermediate holding offshore wind resource it is essential to exert company for offshore renewable energy turbine, 367MW wind farm will be completed in the next few months.
downward pressure on the cost of energy SSE has advised external stakeholders that through the evolution of a sustainable supply it intends to reorganise all of its offshore Developing more new chain.
This will include the development of wind farm equity interests, including assets larger and simpler turbines and the effective in operation, under construction or in offshore wind farms Undoubtedly, offshore wind will play an ever industrialisation of the sector.
development, into a newly-incorporated increasing role in the delivery of low-carbon holding company.
It will be wholly-owned energy for the UK.
Already the GB offshore SSE has recently invested in a broad range of by SSE for the foreseeable future and its establishment will give SSE a company wind market is the largest in the world with new initiatives to increase the effectiveness, 1.5GW in operation, 2.6GW under construction and decrease the cost, of offshore wind through which to finance offshore renewable and a total of 11-18GW planned by 2020. deployment, including: energy developments and the exibility to introduce other sources of funding should this be required to support the development SSE has gained valuable experience of taking a leading role in forming the G9 offshore wind farm development and group of the worlds largest renewable and construction of offshore wind farms.
construction through the Greater Gabbard and energy developers, which have come The incorporation of the new company Walney projects and it is this experience that together to place health and safety at should be completed shortly.
enables it to exercise informed and disciplined the forefront of all offshore wind activity judgement when prioritising projects in its and developments: development pipeline.
In the near-term, the consent from North Ayrshire Council main focus for SSE is the successful and timely to construct an offshore test facility at completion and commissioning of these Hunterston in North Ayrshire.
The next two offshore wind farm will be Scotlands first offshore wind turbine projects then taking priority are: test site and will be an extension of SSEs Centre of Engineering Excellence for the 500MW Galloper wind farm, close to Renewable Energy.
In partnership with the existing Greater Gabbard development, leading turbine suppliers, up to three a 50:50 partnership with RWE npower prototype turbines will be tested at the site for a period of five years: renewables: and the 1,000MW Beatrice wind farm in the identication of Dundee as a key Moray Firth, a 75:25 partnership with strategic location for the development of Making energy better: Repsol Nuevas Energias UK 25% a comprehensive supply chain to support Producing biogas formerly SeaEnergy Renewables.
Scotlands emerging offshore wind industry.
Joining forces with Forth Ports, Scottish In Ayrshire, HRH The Prince of Wales Through 2011 12 significant progress was Enterprise and Dundee City Council, officially opened our innovative made in the planning phases of these SSE has taken a proactive approach to Anaerobic Digestion plant where projects, with Galloper receiving conrmation the development of the offshore wind food waste and other matter is from the Infrastructure Planning Commission supply chain: broken down to produce biogas.
that it has accepted the Development formation of strategic alliances with Consent Order application.
companies such as Siemens and Mitsubishi SSE Annual Report 2012 52 Wholesale continued Market-based businesses Investing in new ventures in energy Developing marine sources of electricity SSEs Generation investment programme is While offshore wind is a rapidly evolving SSE Ventures SSEV was set up in 2007 to designed to abate the environmental impact technology at deployment stage, marine-based develop and grow a portfolio of investments of existing assets and extend their working wave and tidal energy is at an earlier stage in smalland medium-sized enterprises lives, and to deliver new assets, principally in offering renewable, sustainable and energy of technology development.
As a longer-term renewable energy but also through trialling prospect, the UKs substantial marine efficiency-enhancing products and services.
other forms of decarbonised generation, energy resource coupled with a considerable including carbon capture and storage.
commitment to technology testing facilities In January 2012 it completed a deal with All of this is aimed at maintaining, for the means this sector could start to make a Scottish Equity Partners SEP that involves long-term, a diverse, well balanced portfolio significant energy contribution around the SEPs new EEF acquiring a portfolio of that will deliver a decarbonised, secure and end of this decade and beyond.
cleantech investments owned by SSEV.
part of the deal, SSEV has become a major SSE has a two-pronged approach to the partner in the new 95m green energy fund.
During 2012 13, SSE expects to invest development of this sector and to fullling around 750m in maintaining and the potential of marine energy resources: The new Fund has acquired nine investments upgrading existing generation assets and from the SSEV portfolio, all of which are in developing new assets.
Investment Technology development: market leaders from across the clean energy priorities for the coming year are to: Aquamarine Power is a wave energy spectrum.
The fund will have substantial developer, in which SSE has invested fresh capital available for investment in the invest in power stations to increase 24.7m over the past three years.
portfolio and also has agreement to add up exibility: At the beginning of 2012 11% of to five further SSE investments to the portfolio complete asset maintenance and SSEs shareholding was acquired by in future.
refurbishment programmes on time the Environmental Energies Fund EEF and on budget: By moving investments into the EEF, cleantech see Investing in New Ventures below.
meet key milestones in new asset EEF is now one of Aquamarine Powers companies can now also benefit from the development and construction, largest shareholders, along with SSE, track record and expertise of SEP, draw upon particularly on and offshore wind multinational power and automation the financial resources of the new partners and multi-fuel: and and ultimately deliver a better return on company ABB and Scottish Enterprise.
make progress in developing the The investment is a further step SSEs initial investment.
diverse range of investment options toward taking Aquamarine Power it has created for the second half to commercialisation in 2014. of this decade.
Energy Portfolio Management In November 2011 Aquamarine installed and Electricity Generation its next-generation Oyster 800 wave energy SSE will also actively seek to maintain priorities in 2012 13 and beyond device to its foundations on the seabed optionality and diversity in the future at Orkney.
Final commissioning is under development of its generation portfolio Over the coming year EPM will maintain way and the device is expected to be fully so that it remains on course to reduce its focus on value for money while further operational this summer.
In February 2012, by 50% the CO intensity of electricity 2 diversifying its range of energy options, consent was granted to install two further produced at power stations in which it including: Oyster devices in the same location.
With has an ownership or contractual interest, a maximum generating capacity of 2.4MW over the period from 2006 to 2020. continuing to improve wholesale market the three Oyster devices will demonstrate liquidity including forward markets: the feasibility of installing multiple Oysters The future development of its portfolio optimising SSEs energy portfolio, in small arrays and ultimately in larger will depend to a significant extent on including upstream assets, fuel supply, wave farms.
the outcome of the UK governments purchase of storage services, and consultation on electricity market reform.
generation: and Sites development: SSE believes a workable package of reforms investigating additional long-term SSE and its JV partners, including can still emerge from this process, based and geographically diverse fuel supply Aquamarine, Open Hydro and most around carbon price support, a mechanism contracts across the fuel portfolio.
recently, Alstom, have exclusive rights to reward all electricity capacity that is from The Crown Estate to develop 600MW available to generate electricity, and In Generation, SSEs 2012 13 priorities of wave and tidal energy at sites in the continuing support for the production remain consistent with its established Pentland Firth and Orkney Waters.
This of electricity from renewable sources.
principles to: includes the 200MW Costa Head wave It retains concerns, however, about the project, a new joint venture between SSE proposed Contract for Difference model comply fully with all safety standards and Alstom agreed in January 2012.
SSE and is continuing to work with the UK and environmental requirements: also retains exclusive rights to develop government and other stakeholders to ensure power stations are available a further 200MW of tidal energy.
SSE is ensure that the shortcomings associated to respond to customer demand and continuing to work closely with The Crown with this proposal are addressed.
The market conditions: and Estate and other stakeholders in advance UK government is expected to introduce operate power stations efficiently of submitting consent applications for legislation later this year, after further to achieve the optimum conversion these projects, the first of which is consultations.
of primary fuel into electricity.
