SSE Annual Report 2012 14 Why invest in SSE?
activities is underpinned by a series SSEs principal financial objective is to of long-standing financial principles: deliver annual above-inflation increases strength: maintenance of a strong balance sheet, evidenced by commitment in the dividend.
To do this, it operates to the criteria for a single A credit rating: rigour: rigorous analysis to ensure and invests in a balanced range of energy investments are well-founded and achieve returns greater than the cost of capital: networks, retail and wholesale businesses.
discipline: deployment of a selective and disciplined approach to acquisitions, which should enhance earnings per share over These businesses, and the people employed the mediumand long-term: and in them, are guided by the SSE SET of measurement: use of the economics of purchasing the Companys own shares core values: Safety, Service, Efficiency, in the market as the first measurement against which financial decisions are taken.
The application of these principles supports the fullment of SSEs first financial responsibility to shareholders: the delivery of sustained real dividend growth.
Continuing strategy for dividend growth As a result of this, SSEs strategy remains SSEs core purpose is to provide the energy the delivery of sustained real growth in the Delivering dividend growth for people need in a reliable and sustainable dividend payable to shareholders through a thirteenth successive year way.
In fullling this purpose, SSE requires the efficient operation of, and investment For 2011 12, the Board is recommending the support of the shareholders who have in, a balanced range of economicallya final dividend of 56.1p per share, making invested in its shares, and it continues regulated and market-based businesses a full-year dividend of 80.1p, an increase to believe their investment should be in energy production, storage, distribution, of 6.8% on the previous year.
The full-year remunerated through the payment supply and related services, mainly in the dividend is: of dividends, for four key reasons: UK and Ireland.
covered 1.41 times by SSEs adjusted receiving and reinvesting dividends is the The objective of delivering annual earnings per share : biggest source of an investors return over above-ination increases in the dividend more than three times the first full-year the long term: paid to shareholders means SSE has a clear, dividend paid by SSE, in 1999: and dividends provide income for those measurable and practical goal which sets the more than twice the full-year dividend investors who do not wish to reinvest them: long-term financial context for its operational paid eight years ago, in 2004. dividend targets provide a transparent and investment decisions.
means with which to hold management The recommended full-year dividend increase to account: and Sticking to financial principles of 6.8% represents the thirteenth successive a long-term commitment to dividend to underpin dividend growth above-ination dividend increase since SSE paid growth demands a disciplined, consistent The requirement on SSE to maintain its first full-year dividend in 1999.
SSE is now one a disciplined, consistent and long-term of just five continuing FTSE 100 companies to and long-term approach to operations, investments and acquisitions.
approach to the management of business have delivered better-than-ination dividend Key development 2012 2013 2014 GREEN DEAL PHASE 3 OF EU EMISSIONS NEW ELECTRICITY NEW GAS DISTRIBUTION NEW LOW CARBON SUPPORT SMART METER TRADING SCHEME TRANSMISSION PRICE PRICE CONTROL RIIO-G1 MECHANISM INTRODUCED ROLL-OUT BEGINS CONTROL RIIO-T1 2012 Main impact Forecast implementation In Phase 3 of EU ETS, all RIIO-T1 will set for an RIIO-G1 will set for an Under Electricity Market The government driven, of new energy efficiency carbon dioxide emissions eight-year period the eight-year period the Reform EMR, the first projects supplier led roll-out is framework for GB, with allowances for electricity allowed revenues electricity allowed revenues gas are to be given the option to due to begin, delivering the Green Deal finance generators will be auctioned.
transmission companies distribution companies use a new low carbon support 55 million smart electricity mechanism and new Energy Carbon price support in GB can collect.
mechanism, the Contract for and gas meters.
