SSE Annual Report 2012 38 Retail continued Market-based businesses other parts of Great Britain.
It supplies, The structure of the business has also been Energy-related Services installs and maintains domestic meters and kept under review and some rationalisation carries out metering work in the commercial, of depots has been undertaken.
Providing energy-related industrial and generation sectors.
It also offers products and services Conclusion data collection services to the domestic and In addition to electricity and gas, SSE also SME sectors.
This national metering business Through focusing on fair prices, simple provides energy-related products and services was created following the completion of a products and excellent service SSE believes to customers, covering three principal areas: programme of in-sourcing in 2010. that it can achieve long-term success in its Retail businesses which, in turn, will contribute retailing of home services such as During 2011 12, SSE collected previous year to the achievement of its key financial goal gas boiler, central heating and wiring in brackets : of sustained real growth in the dividend.
maintenance and installation, telephone line rental, calls and broadband services 9.1 million electricity readings and micro-generation: Energy-related Services priorities 8.4 million : and supplying, installing, maintaining and in 2012 13 and beyond 5.9 million gas readings 5.4 million.
reading meters in the household, commercial, industrial and generation Home Services, Metering and Contracting Longer term, SSEs Great Britain-wide sectors in Great Britain: and have specic priorities for 2012 13 and metering team will be able to support the domestic, commercial and industrial beyond, but across all of them there is transition to smart meters which will take mechanical and electrical contracting and a need to: place in the coming decade and will help SSE electrical and instrumentation engineering.
deploy other energy-related services and maintain the right portfolio of products products during that time see Preparing Providing home services and services: for the roll-out of smart meters on page 37.
SSE provides home services to 412,000 deliver high standards of customer accounts.
In addition, micro-renewables is a service: and A leading mechanical and very small market, but it has grown quickly in anticipate the changing requirements electrical contracting business response to Feed-in Tariffs with solar PV being of customers.
SSE Contracting has two main areas of activity: the most popular product.
At 31 March 2012, SSE had 38,000 registered FiT customers, industrial, commercial and domestic equating to a market share of around 15%.
mechanical and electrical contracting: and At the same time, customer numbers are electrical and instrumentation engineering.
limited by the fact that SSEs home services products and services have only been It is one of the largest mechanical and available in some regions.
electrical contracting businesses in the UK.
It employs around 4,000 people and operates SSE believes that extending the availability from regional offices throughout Great Britain.
of its home services, especially in the context of the forthcoming launch of the Green Deal, SSE Contracting continued to make solid will be necessary to integrate these products progress during 2011 12.
Its order book and services more closely with its wider ended the financial year at 78m, compared proposition for electricity and gas customers with 67m in 2010 11 on the revised basis and it intends to do this over the next three adopted on 1 April 2011.
It is also intended to extend SSEs features a number of important new home services offering in Ireland.
contracts with customers as diverse as Tesco and National Air Traffic Services.
Maintaining a national Metering business A key focus for SSE Contracting is on SSEs Metering business provides services post-sales control, particularly in terms of to most electricity suppliers with customers costs, and maintaining strong customer in central southern England and the north relationships, with careful analysis of the of Scotland.
It undertakes meter reading markets and areas of work it should prioritise.
operations and meter operator work in all Through focusing on fair prices, simple products and excellent service, SSE believes that it can achieve long-term success in its Retail business.
