Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 75 Remuneration Report Introduction To assess performance, targets are set each policy has to be able to respond.
SSE should year that are clear, robust and objective.
never have found itself in the position it did At the same time, there has to be a realistic in relation to doorstep selling activities.
Its for appraisal of performance in the context of this reason that the Remuneration Committee the wider economic and energy environment.
agreed that the Executive Directors should Unexpected situations or issues can arise that forego the Corporate Performance element take priority and test the skills and resilience of the Annual Incentive Scheme, despite the of the Executive Directors and other members fact that an award could have been made of the management team, and these should on the basis of the targets set at the start be taken account of as well.
Lady Rice CBE Remuneration Committee Chairman Judgement Teamwork The Executive Directors at SSE are clearly While reward must reect the responsibility In last years report, I noted that executive well-paid, relative to the average employee, and contribution of the individual, for us but a key feature of our remuneration policy is teamwork is one of the essential elements remuneration was a high prole issue, and to make sure they are fairly rewarded and not on which individuals are rewarded.
A year on, the prole of the issue has become even higher.
While the actual position may vary from one year to the next, the goal is to keep Teamwork must also extend beyond the renewed investor activism.
But activism should reward below market median for FTSE 20-50 Executive Directors, to the other employees start within a business itself.
And while companies excluding financial services and of the organisation.
Restraint in remuneration investors mainly look back as they judge remuneration, a business can and should below median against other benchmarks such contributes to that culture of teamwork by as FTSE 100, industrial companies and direct ensuring that Executive Directors and other look ahead as well.
At the same time, it is designed senior managers do not become remote or to reect the responsibility and contribution In January 2012, the UK Secretary of State detached from the people they are leading.
for Business told the House of Commons that of the individual and to make sure that SSE is able to retain people of the necessary calibre.
Similarly, effective remuneration for Executive a major transformation needs to get under Directors can only be a sound investment if way, as he set out a series of remuneration In terms of contribution, SSEs Executive reforms.
SSE endorses in principle what the that investment extends to other people.
One reforms are trying to achieve.
In particular, Directors have each worked for the Group for of the important issues that the debate on at least 15 years and given a total of over 30 executive remuneration has raised is the link what Executive Directors earn needs to be years service to the Board.
This is a sustained, between reward at the top of organisations clear and easily understood and should help shareholders to hold companies to account long-term commitment and their contribution and elsewhere in those organisations.
But we need to has helped SSE to deliver an above-ination continues to make that link when assessing increase in the dividend every year since it the position for Executive Directors.
consider as well what counts as performance: was formed in 1998.
Very few companies in the traditional focus on short-term results alone simply isnt good enough.
Reward the UK can say that.
Fundamentally, SSEs remuneration policy should also reect longer-term aspects of the remained unchanged in 2011 12 and no Much of the debate on executive remuneration major changes are planned in 2012 13.
We business both repercussions of decisions in centres on what is perceived as reward for believe it is important that there is stability in the past and expectations for the future.
And it should respond to the external economic failure.
Equally, success must be genuine remuneration policy to ensure that criticisms and sustained or it isnt really success.
SSEs of complexity, opaqueness and lack of environment, especially at times of constraint.
achievement in fullling, year after year, its transparency cannot be levelled against SSE.
first financial responsibility to shareholders The Remuneration Committee continues Transparency SSE sets great store by transparency in dividend growth is a success to which the to stay close to the concerns of shareholders Executive Directors, individually and collectively, and other stakeholders, and we continue to remuneration reporting: its overall approach have contributed enormously year after year.
welcome shareholder feedback on any issue is straightforward.
What Executive Directors earn is made up of: base salary, plus some related to executive remuneration.
benets-in-kind: cash and shares awarded Fairness The responsibilities of the Executive Directors Straightforward, performance-related, retentionunder an annual incentive scheme: and a are extensive, and growing.
They lead an focused, and below median these are the long-term incentive scheme, also with shares.
organisation which operates major assets Three of the elements are  of SSEs remuneration policy, related and two of the elements can only be such as power stations and electricity lines looking back and looking ahead.
Responsibility, and which looks after millions of customers commitment and leadership these are the earned through continued service, to help energy needs.
The standards which are characteristics expected of SSEs Executive encourage Executive Directors to remain with the Company.
The focus on performance is expected in asset operation, as in customer Directors.
In presenting this remuneration also being emphasised by the introduction service, are rightly increasing.
Providing the report to shareholders, I believe that these necessary leadership, and living with the characteristics have all been demonstrated.
of a mechanism to claw back share awards associated responsibility, requires fair if the need arises.
Retention and ongoing Lady Rice CBE service is further recognised through the remuneration.
Chairman pension arrangements in place for the Fairness works both ways, however.
When Executive Directors, which reward ongoing things go wrong, a companys remuneration tenure of service.
SSE Annual Report 2012 76 Remuneration Report continued Introduction appointed by the Committee for these Terms of Reference of the Committee Role of the Remuneration sets the Total Remuneration Policy services.
They did not receive any fees Committee on behalf of the Board: relating specifically to these services, approves the detailed remuneration terms and they are retained as SSEs brokers.
Governance of the Executive Directors including their The Remuneration Committees composition, service contract and the impact on senior Stakeholder engagement and consultation responsibilities and operation complied with management remuneration: As referred to in last years Remuneration Section D of the UK Corporate Governance approves the remuneration of the Chairman, Report, Lady Rice, on behalf of the Committee, Code other than in respect of the membership however the Chairman is not present for undertook a consultation with a number of of the Committee for the period from discussions on his own remuneration: institutional shareholders in June 2011 1 April 2011 until the appointment of Katie approves the design and performance regarding the likely non vesting of the 2009-12 Bickerstaffe to the Committee on joining the targets of incentive schemes: Performance Share Plan, and sought their Board on 1 July 2011.
This is fully explained on grants awards under the Companys views on potential changes to the performance page 61 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Long-term Incentive Plan to all senior criteria of current awards which had not yet In forming remuneration policy, the Committee managers: and vested.
The outcome of the consultation was has given full consideration to the best practice reviews the total remuneration of the considered, and the Committee decided that provisions set out in the Code.
This report Management Board and other senior there should be no alteration to the sets out the Companys policy on Executive executives below Board level.
Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2012 and complies with the Advisors The Committee also took the opportunity regulations made under the Companies the Chief Executive, the Director of Human to respond to the Department for Business, Act 2006.
The report will be presented at Resources, and SSEs Head of Reward, Innovation and Skills BIS Executive the AGM on 26 July 2012 for approval and advised the Committee on matters relating Remuneration consultation in November shareholders will be able to ask questions 2011.
The Committee was supportive of to the appropriateness of awards for the on the report at the AGM.
Executive Directors and senior executives a number of the proposals set out in the Members and meetings although they were not present for any consultation, and Lady Rice has since Attended discussions on their own remuneration: participated in discussions with BIS.
The Membership scheduled the Director of Human Resources and SSEs Committee also responded to the follow-up Lady Rice Committee Chairman 5 5 Head of Reward advised on HR strategy 2012 BIS Consultation Document.
Richard Gillingwater 5 5 and the application of policies across the Lord Smith of Kelvin 5 5 organisation: Employee representatives Katie Bickerstaffe 4 4 Deloitte LLP provided a range of advice The Director of Human Resources provided to the Committee which included market an update to all SSE-recognised trade unions The membership of the Committee comprises information drawn from published surveys, in March 2012 explaining the Companys three independent non-Executive Directors governance developments and their position on Executive remuneration.
This plus the Chairman of SSE.
They represent application to the Company, advice on covered many of the policy positions covered diverse backgrounds and experience.
This is the appropriate structure of short-term in this report and its view on current items such designed to provide balance and diversity incentives, long-term incentives, and as the recent BIS proposals.
Pay awards for within the Committee.
Informal consultation comparator group pay and performance.
senior executives take into account the general among the Committee members, and also Deloitte LLP received fees of 70,000 in environment and the approach to employee with other non-Executive Directors, takes place relation to their work for the Committee.
For example, this year, the Chief Executive outside the scheduled meetings as necessary.
They were appointed by the Committee and received a percentage increase award equal also provide ad hoc tax advice to SSE plc: and to the Company-wide pay review.
It is the Bank of America Merrill Lynch provided Companys intention to continue to liaise with advice on shareholder views.
They were employee representative bodies in the future.
Remuneration agenda 2011 12 Regular items Other items May Directors Remuneration Report.
Approval of Performance Share Targets and 2011 Grants.
July Performance Share Plan shareholder consultation feedback.
September Colin Hood retiral, remuneration approvals.
Review of Total Remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors.
November External governance environment update.
Review of base salary for Alistair Phillips-Davies and Gregor Alexander following allocation of extra responsibilities.
March Review of Chief Executives salary and Chairmans fee.
Establishment Review of BIS executive remuneration consultation of the 2012 13 annual incentive Performance targets.
Introduction of claw back Share Plan Forecast Results.
