SSE Annual Report 2012 06 The energy sector continued Ireland Since 2008, SSE has had significant Electricity and gas retailing Ireland and Northern Ireland operations in Ireland, including electricity fuel mix combined % electricity generation and energy At 31 March 2012 there were four main supply.
Large parts of the sector electricity and gas suppliers operating Solid fuels 16 remain state-owned.
Gas 64 Renewables other 18 The energy market in Ireland is split over Despite competitive business markets in two political and regulatory jurisdictions RoI and NI for a number of years, domestic the Republic of Ireland ROI and Northern switching in electricity and gas has been Ireland NI.
At the same time it has a a recent phenomenon.
SSEs retail brand common electricity wholesale market.
in Ireland, Airtricity, has been a significant contributor to the development of domestic As in GB, Ireland has limited interconnection competition across the island with over consisting of: The current price controls in RoI will run until 525,000 customers joining in the last 2015 and 2012 in NI.
the 500MW Moyle interconnector: the Scotland-Northern Ireland gas pipeline: The TSO in RoI is EirGrid plc with SONI Ltd, This has allowed full deregulation of RoI and a wholly-owned subsidiary of EirGrid plc, electricity retail market, since April 2011. the Scotland-Republic of Ireland gas pipeline.
operating the system in NI.
While deregulation in RoI gas and NI electricity and gas will follow, signicantly An additional 500MW interconnector is In RoI, state-owned Bord Gis owns, lower switching rates are slowing its delivery.
under construction between Dublin and maintains and develops the gas transmission As deregulation progresses the regulatory Wales, which is scheduled to come online and distribution networks while Gaslink, a authorities will transition from tariff by November 2012. ring-fenced business within Bord Gis, operates regulation to market monitoring.
Regulated by the Ireland is hugely dependent on fossil fuel, CER, the current price control runs until 2012.
Market structure over 90% of which is imported.
Ireland has very limited gas storage.
However, a new gas In NI the gas market is in the early stage of The RoI government in early 2012 announced production eld is being developed off the development.
Two companies Firmus Energy, a programme for the disposal of State assets west coast.
a subsidiary of Bord Gis, and Phoenix Natural through the National Treasury Management Gas own and operate separate distribution Agency NTMA.
The sale of Bord Gis Energy Both governments have set a target of networks, regulated by NIAUR.
Phoenixs price BGE, which contains retail, trading and 40% renewable electricity to be delivered control ended in 2011 and is currently being generation assets will comprise the main by 2020, which will require approximately reviewed by the Competition Commission, element of the disposal, with some 5,000MW of renewable capacity to be while Firmus runs to 2013. non-strategic power generation capacity installed across the island.
Renewables, owned by ESB included.
Gas and electricity mainly hydro and wind, currently supply Electricity and gas markets transmission and distribution systems will 15% of electricity demand.
The electricity 0# ', ', 12 2# !-, 20- @ F Transmission System Operator TSO, Across RoI and NI there is a common EirGrid announced that Ireland had reached wholesale electricity market: the Single 2GW of installed wind capacity as of March Electricity Market SEM.
With largely untapped offshore with dual currencies Euro and Sterling and resources Ireland has a significant opportunity dual support mechanisms for renewable to be an exporter of renewable energy.
In 2011 the SEM controlled over The British Irish Council is currently looking 6,000MW of fully dispatchable generation at removing barriers to cross-border and supplied over 33TWh, costing around renewables trading.
The retail market continues to operate as two separate markets with around 2 million Economic regulation of networks customers in the Republic of Ireland and 0.8 million in Northern Ireland.
The Commission for Energy Regulation CER and the Northern Ireland Utility The island consumes approximately 73TWh Regulator NIAUR regulate the electricity of gas annually of which around two thirds and natural gas markets in RoI and is used in power generation.
As in electricity 80% NI respectively.
the gas retail market operates as two separate markets with some 650,000 consumers in Over 80% of electricity The state-owned RoI Electricity Supply RoI and 150,000 in NI.
The majority of gas generated in Ireland Board ESB owns and operates the consumed is imported.
The governments distribution and transmission networks in and regulatory authorities are currently comes from fossil fuels, ROI and NI.
Similarly to GB, these assets developing an all-island gas market.
Gas of which over 90% is are regulated through Price Controls set prices in Ireland tend to be set by the UK wholesale price.
by CER and NIAUR for five-year periods.
