Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information SSE Annual Report 2012 01 Chairmans statement SSEs core purpose is to provide the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way.
In fulfilling this purpose, SSE requires the support of shareholders, to whom this report is addressed.
This report summarises SSEs performance in As a result of this, SSE recognises that it must 2011 12 and its plans for 2012 13 and beyond.
continually earn the right to make a profit and pay dividends and that it must do so in an There are three issues over which SSE has environment in which trust in business and no control but which in one way or another other institutions has eroded signicantly touched every part of its business in 2011 12 and in which there will be other significant upheaval in global energy markets, challenges.
This means that 2012 13 and beyond will be about SSE continuing the work widespread economic uncertainty and the weather.
Higher wholesale gas prices, falling to earn the trust of customers in retail and demand for energy and a succession of winter business markets, delivering reliable supplies storms presented major challenges for the of energy to network customers and investing in assets to support secure and lower-carbon wholesale, retail and networks parts of SSE.
supplies of energy in the future.
The fact that, despite all of this, SSE again delivered increases in the full-year dividend The more some things change in the future, and in adjusted profit before tax demonstrates however, the more others should stay the the resilience inherent in its balanced model same.
That means SSE must adhere to of market-based and  its core values of Safety, Service, Efficiency, energy businesses, and the robustness of Sustainability, Excellence and Teamwork.
its strategy of focusing on operations and These are the values of an organisation that investment in each of those businesses.
It also is committed to the long-term provision of demonstrates the outstanding commitment services, investment in assets and payment and professionalism of the people who work of dividends and they are the values on which for SSE throughout the UK and Ireland, where SSE expects to be judged.
the Companys operations and investments are focused.
With such a strong commitment to values, there can be every confidence that SSE In very challenging circumstances, the 2% will extend further its record of annual increase achieved by SSE in adjusted profit above-ination dividend growth.
SSE paid before tax in 2011 12 was a solid result and it its first full-year dividend in 1999.
Since then, there have been 13 successive above-ination is particularly encouraging to see such a good performance in Networks, which for so long increases.
The target for 2012 13 is to deliver have been SSEs backbone.
Also encouraging a 14th increase in the full-year dividend of was the increase in capacity for, and output of, at least 2% more than ination.
In both of these areas there has been significant investment in recent years, At heart, SSE remains a consistent and the benets of which are now coming through.
straightforward company providing vital services to customers, investing in essential For some people, profit and dividend are energy assets and paying dividends to contentious words when it comes to energy, shareholders every year.
It is a company which is not a discretionary purchase but with which I believe customers, shareholders, essential to the functioning of modern life.
employees and the Board should be pleased The reality is, however, that profit and dividend to be associated now and in the future.
allow SSE to employ people, pay tax, make Lord Smith of Kelvin investments that keep the lights on and Chairman provide an income return that shareholders need.
In doing this, SSE aims to provide social value as well as economic value.
