SSE Annual Report 2012 24 Networks  businesses NETWORKS Keeping the lights on and supporting growth.
Owning, operating and Networks operating profit m Networks Regulated Asset investing in Networks Value net bn In previous years, SSE reported the performance of its electricity networks on a geographical basis ie the north of Scotland and central southern England.
In terms of regulation, process, customers and service, it is now more relevant to report performance of electricity 737.1 5.88 networks by activity ie transmission and distribution rather than geography and so from 2011: 690.5 2011: 5.40 2011 12 onwards SSE is adopting this approach.
Change: 6.7% Change: 8.9% The performance of the  SSE is involved in: electricity transmission: The RAV is the price paid for economicallybusiness SGN will continue to be reported electricity distribution: gas distribution regulated energy networks when they were through Scotia Gas Networks : and other privatised plus allowed capital expenditure within Networks.
In addition, market-based networks-related businesses in lighting less depreciation.
It is indexed to the Retail activities of Lighting Services, Utility Solutions and Telecoms are also network-based and services, utility solutions and telecoms.
have, therefore, been included within SSEs Electricity networks capital Customer minutes lost South Networks segment as Other Networks.
expenditure m  network companies with a growing Regulated Asset Value SSE has an ownership interest in five  energy network 489 60 companies: 2011: 329 2011: 64 Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission 100% : Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution Change: 48.5% Change: -6.2% 100% : SSE owns, operates and invests in three Customer minutes lost is the average Southern Electric Power Distribution 100% : electricity networks companies: Scottish Hydro number of minutes that customers are Scotland Gas Networks 50% : and Electric Transmission: Scottish Hydro Electric without electricity supply in a year.
Power Distribution: and Southern Electric Southern network distributes electricity Power Distribution.
to almost three million properties.
SSEs electricity networks transmit and distribute electricity to around 3.7 million Utility Solutions electricity Lighting Services PFI contracts businesses, offices and homes via around networks 130,000km of overhead lines and under ground cables: and SGNs gas networks distribute gas to around 5.7 million homes, offices and businesses via 75,000km of gas pipes.
SSE estimates that the total Regulated Asset 118 11 Value RAV of its  natural monopoly businesses is now 5.88bn, 2011: 74 2011: 10 up from 4.2bn five years ago, comprising: Change: 59.5% Change: 10.0% SSEs Utility Solutions business designs, builds, SSEs Lighting Services business is the UKs 770m for electricity transmission: owns and operates networks for electricity, and Irelands largest streetlighting contractor, 2.84bn for electricity distribution: and gas, water and heat.
The electricity networks involved in the maintenance and replacement 2.27bn for gas distribution ie 50% of are outside SSEs two distribution areas.
the businesses total RAV of 4.54bn.
Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 25 by SHETL to recover additional forecast SSE is the only energy company in the UK Electricity Transmission to be involved in electricity transmission, construction costs arising from the electricity distribution and gas distribution.
replacement of its part of the line, Performance in Scottish Hydro Through Price Controls, Ofgem sets the from Beauly to Wharry Burn, taking the Electric Transmission Ltd SHETL total to 539m at 2009 10 prices.
Full index-linked revenue the network companies In SHETL, operating profit increased by 54.5% can earn through charges levied on their from 47.7m to 73.7m.
This reected the construction work on the replacement line users to cover their costs and earn a return is now under way, including the erection of increase in its asset base following on from on their regulated assets.
These lower-risk the first of the new pylons.
The replacement the ongoing increase in capital invested.
 natural monopoly During 2011 12, a total of 228.7m was line should be completed in 2014. businesses provide a financial backbone and invested by SHETL in its networks, up from operational focus for SSE and balance its A total of 173m was invested in these four 117.4m in the previous year, taking its total activities in the competitive Wholesale and projects during 2011 12 and their completion Regulated Asset Value from 560m to 770m.
They are core to SSE, to its is expected to take SHETLs RAV from 770m strategy in the short-, mediumand long-term Upgrading Scotlands electricity as at 31 March 2012 to over 1bn by March and to its ability to deliver sustained real 2013 and around 1.6bn in March 2015.
In transmission network dividend growth.
2012 13, SHETL expects to incur capital SHETL is responsible for maintaining and investing in the transmission network in expenditure of over 350m.
Developing market-based its area, which comprises almost 5,300km networks businesses In addition, in January 2012, SHETL of high voltage overhead lines and under In addition to its  submitted to Scottish Ministers an ground cables and which serves around 70% network companies, SSE owns and operates of the land mass of Scotland.
As the licensed application to construct a replacement three other networks businesses, which are 132kV transmission line between Beauly and transmission company for the area, SHETL has market-based: Mossford to accommodate a higher capacity.
to ensure there is sufficient network capacity Work on a new substation is getting under for those within it seeking to generate Lighting Services: maintaining and electricity from renewable and other sources.
Based on current estimates, the two replacing street and highway lighting: parts of the project are likely to require total Utility Solutions: designing, building, investment of around 45m.
A series of major developments is under way owning and operating networks for which is transforming the scale and scope electricity, gas, water and heat: and of SHETL: Achieving a fast track to Telecoms: providing network capacity, Price Control agreement bandwidth and data centre services.
In January 2012 Ofgem announced Knocknagael Substation: Ofgem authorised 43.8m of investment in that it was recommending that SHETL be As with  networks, this project at 2009 10 prices and all fast tracked under the RIIO T1 Revenue they have made significant progress in the Incentives Innovation Outputs process major construction works relating to the past five years, in terms of assets, contracts for the eight-year transmission Price Control substation and related overhead lines and and operating profit.
under ground cables have been completed.
This was on the basis The successful completion of the project of the business plan submitted by SHETL, Financial performance in Networks Keeping the lights on and supporting has increased by 125MW the amount of Operating profit in Networks increased by growth, which set three key objectives electricity that can be exported from the 6.7%, from 690.5m to 737.1m, contributing north of Scotland: for the next decade: 44.5% of SSEs total operating profit.
This : Work on comprised comparisons with the previous keep the lights on for customers: replacing the conductors of the 275kV year in brackets : invest for a greener future: and transmission lines between Beauly and Blackhillock and Blackhillock and Kintore, minimise as far as possible the impact 73.7m in electricity transmission 47.7m : on the environment.
to allow an increase in the capacity of the 396.5m in electricity distribution 418.9m : network to transmit electricity, is well under Ofgem said the business plan provided good 234.8m representing SSEs share of the way and is expected to be nished in 2015. operating profit for SGN 186.8m : and Ofgem has authorised investment of 81m evidence of how significant benets will be 32.1m in other network businesses 37.1m.
delivered to consumers through greater at 2009 10 prices for this development: efficiency, enhanced consumer engagement Dounreay-Beauly: Work on upgrading and investment.
and reinforcing the transmission network between Dounreay and Beauly is continuing, Ofgem adopted the new RIIO framework including the installation of a second set during 2011, and it is designed to incentivise of conductors to create a double circuit line companies to deliver investment while and development of new and upgraded substations.
Ofgem has authorised providing value for money for customers.
RIIO T1 is the first Price Control to be conducted investment of 73.5m at 2009 10 prices under the new process.
As Ofgem stated, for this programme, which should be completed in 2013: and fast-tracked companies, such as SHETL, can Beauly-Denny: Following consultation, benefit from the swiftness of the process and concentrate on delivering efficient Ofgem approved, in September 2011, network improvements for consumers.
an asset value adjusting event submitted SSE Annual Report 2012 26 Networks continued  businesses of electricity.
This proposal to develop Following consultation, Ofgem published Final Electricity Distribution Proposals for RIIO T1 in April 2012, featuring: a subsea cable retains the exibility to accommodate generation developments Performance in Southern Electric an allowed cost of equity of 7.0%: in the north of Scotland as and when the Power Distribution and Scottish need to do so arises.
An investment case a new index for determining companies Hydro Electric Power Distribution debt costs: will be submitted to Ofgem shortly: and The performance of SSEs two electricity depreciation based on 20 years for existing Shetland: SHETL has now secured consent distribution companies during 2011 12 was assets: and for converter stations associated with the as follows comparisons with previous years depreciation for new assets except proposed subsea onshore under ground high in brackets : Beauly-Denny moving to 45 years over voltage direct current HVDC transmission the course of two Price Control periods.
link between the Shetland Islands and the operating profit decreased by 5.3% Scottish mainland to accommodate to 396.5m: SHETL is now developing a full implementation renewable energy developments in Shetland.
electricity distributed fell by 1.4TWh plan for the new Price Control period, which The link would also connect properties in to 40.7TWh: will be shared with stakeholders later this Shetland to the mainland electricity network the average number of minutes of lost year, much earlier in the process than would for the first time and could be installed in supply per customer was 73 in the north have been possible had it not been fast the second half of this decade.
This should be of benefit to SHETL the number of supply interruptions per and its stakeholders.
Based on current estimates although these 100 customers was 71 in the north 74 will inevitably be revised these developments and 70 in the south 64 : and Keeping the lights on and supporting could require investment of around 1.4bn performance-based additional incentive growth in the long-term and would form part of the 4bn investment income and allowances excluding losses The central case of SHETLs business plan is programme that is additional to the 1.1bn of 11.4m is expected to be earned 8.5m.
central case of SHETLs business plan.
a 1.1bn capital investment programme, with exibility to increase this by up to a further The decrease in operating profit principally 4bn if required, to upgrade the transmission In May 2012, Ofgem set out plans to change reects the timing of recovery of allowed network during 2013-21.
Projects currently the charging arrangements for electricity income.
transmission networks, with greater account being developed and which could be constructed during the period include: being taken of the type of electricity generator Performance in respect of both minutes lost seeking to use the networks.
This will require and interruptions was ahead of the targets Western Isles: In October 2010, SHETL the Investment Cost Related Pricing ICRP set by Ofgem under its Interruptions Incentive concluded that the lack of financial methodology to be improved.
Once this is Scheme IIS, which gives financial benets underwriting from electricity generators completed, Ofgem will consider the final to distribution network operators that deliver attributed to the level of transmission form of the ICRP and make a final decision good performance for customers.
The number charges relating to the proposed link from on its modication.
The impact of the of minutes lost in the south was the lowest the Western Isles to the mainland meant it planned changes will have a bearing on ever.
Performance-based income covers a would not be able to conclude a contract for the amount of electricity from renewable number of issues, including the quality of the supply of the necessary electricity cable.
sources that is developed in Scotland service provided to customers, and innovation.
As a result, it withdrew its request to Ofgem and, therefore, on the way in which the for authorisation to make the investment.
Volume of electricity distributed Developers of wind farms on the Western The total volume of electricity distributed by Isles are now conveying greater confidence the two distribution companies during 2011 12 Electricity Transmission priorities about the deliverability of their projects, was 40.7TWh, compared with 42.1TWh in the for 2012 13 and beyond which means that the case for the Western previous year.
Under the electricity Distribution Isles link has been renewed and submitted Price Control for 2010-15, the volume of SHETL is SSEs fastest-growing and to Ofgem.
Detailed work is being electricity distributed no longer affects fastest-changing business, where the core undertaken to ensure that the final scheme companies overall allowed revenue although it activity for much of the next decade will design for the link meets the needs of the does have an impact on the timing of revenue.
Against this background, developers and, over the coming months, This has further reduced the level of risk its priorities for 2012 13 and beyond are to: work will resume on placing the relevant associated with energy networks businesses.
contracts and undertaking environmental complete successfully the remaining and other studies: Earning revenue by delivering stages of the RIIO T1 price control process: Caithness to Moray: SHETL is now a good quality of service meet key milestones in projects under planning to develop a subsea electricity As a result of their operational performance construction, in a way that is consistent with cable between Caithness, where consent has during 2011 12 SSEs two electricity distribution all safety and environmental requirements: been secured for a new substation at Spittal, companies expect to earn additional incentive make progress with projects in and Moray, where it is proposed to upgrade income and allowances of 11.4m 2010 11 development: and the existing substation at Blackhillock, to 8.5m including additional incentive income ensure it has the people, skills, resources, transmit the large volume of existing and of 4.5m 2010 11 3.4m.
This reects supply chain and stakeholder relationships planned electricity from renewable sources effective investment in the automation of the that will be necessary to support growth in the north of Scotland.
The cable will be networks and effective operational responses on a significant scale.
capable of transmitting around 1,200MW to electricity supply interruptions.
Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 27 Responding to the effects Networks Regulated Asset Value bn of severe weather In the winter of 2011 12, SSEs electricity 2012 5.88 networks were subjected to the effects of severe weather on an unusually large number 2011 5.40 of occasions, including the 3 January storm 2010 4.94 affecting the north of Scotland.
This weather event alone, featuring exceptional low altitude 2009 4.71 wind speeds of over 90 miles per hour, resulted 2008 4.45 in 600 separate faults and over 1,000 points of damage on the network and the loss of power to around 40,000 households.
The equivalent Networks Regulated Asset Value 2011 12 % of three months of fault repair work was carried Electricity Distribution North 16 out in four days with very high winds also Electricity Distribution South 32 occurring on 4 January and was marked by Electricity Transmission 13 the commitment of SSE employees and the Gas Distribution 50% share 39 patience on the part of affected communities.
The efforts of SSE and other service providers were praised by the Scottish government.
The 3 January storm and a number of other weather events were treated as exceptional by Ofgem, meaning that they are excluded from the calculation of performance measures In response to this, SSE has identied a invest around 275m in 2012 13, taking the such as customer minutes lost.
number of solutions and interventions for total for the first three years of the 2010-15 Operating electricity networks efficiently wider deployment in 2010-15 to ensure its Price Control to around 750m.
As a result, Efficiency is one of SSEs core values and success throughout the Price Control period.
the RAV of SSEs two electricity distribution networks should increase to over 2.9bn over amongst Ofgems explicit purposes in setting This means SSE has robust and cost efficient Price Controls is to keep as low as possible network investment processes that deliver real the course of the year.
the costs of providing secure and reliable value for customers.
It has also identied a networks.
SSE has a straightforward operating number of important innovations and new significant developments include a 30m project to install new 132kV plant at Bracknell model, under which the vast majority of technologies that are delivering cost savings activities are in-house.
Under this model: and minimising disruption.
and Camberley substations and new 132kV under ground cables between the substations.
customer-facing activities, such as restoring For example, in rural areas, use of the The project will help to meet demand for power supplies or providing new connections, Ordnance Surveys Imagery database of electricity in a key area between the M3 and are managed from a network of 14 depots aerial photography has provided a simple M4 motorways.
The cabling works should be in communities throughout central, southern and effective way of surveying thousands of nished in the autumn of this year and the final England and the north of Scotland: and kilometres of overhead lines for potential risk substation work should be completed in 2013. network management activities, of tree damage.
In urban areas, SSE has used such as inspections, maintenance directional drill technology, which creates In Scotland, plans have been made to invest and investment, are carried out in minimum disturbance to the highway and in the resilience of the electricity network Operational Production Groups.
thereby reduces disruption to the public and in Argyll and Bute, which was particularly the cost of reinstatement, to install for affected by the storms of 2011 12, including This model gives SSE a strong oversight of example new 66kW circuits in west London.
provision of under ground cables in Dunoon operations and investment, allows exibility and of large-scale mobile generation The deployment of innovations and connection points for Bute.
in responding to changed circumstances and supports a culture of efficiency, teamwork technologies such as these, plus good and excellence, including innovation.
performance in response to Ofgems Making electricity networks smart enhanced incentive mechanisms in areas Although there is no standard denition, the European Technology Platform for the Investing in electricity networks such as customer service should enable SSE and securing growth in their RAV to continue to achieve the post-tax real return Electricity Networks of the Future defines 2011 12 was the second year of the electricity in excess of 5% which it is targeting in smart grids as electricity networks that Distribution Price Control for 2010-15.
can intelligently integrate the behaviour and actions of all users connected to it generators, Control changed the framework for operating and capital expenditure to remove the perceived Against this background, capital expenditure consumers and those that do both in order bias in favour of the latter and to ensure the in electricity distribution networks was to efficiently deliver sustainable, economic delivery of not only the investment itself but 260.3m in 2011 12.
The need for further and secure electricity supplies.
of agreed outputs from it.
The most successful significant investment in Great Britains electricity distribution companies, therefore, will electricity distribution networks, to maintain The next decade promises major technological be those that apply efficiency and innovation and or replace ageing assets or to provide change for electricity distribution networks to maximise outputs from agreed expenditure.
additional capacity, is likely to mean SSE will as a result of things like micro-generation, SSE Annual Report 2012 28 Networks continued  businesses Low Carbon Networks Fund and, as a result, the replacement of gas with electricity as make progress on the deployment of a source of heating and electric vehicles.
NTVV will lead to the creation of one of the innovative investment in smart grids.
All of this will change the traditional ows UKs first intelligent distribution networks.
of electricity, which means smarter, more With such significant changes required over Supporting deployment dynamic networks will be required.
the next few years, not least in adapting of electric vehicles the networks to accommodate changes in SSE, with Smarter Grid Solutions Ltd, an Electric vehicles EVs will be an essential part production and consumption, the scope for associate company, switched on the UKs of the move towards a low-carbon transport additional incremental growth in electricity first commercial smart grid technology on its infrastructure.
Current predictions suggest distribution networks is clear.
power distribution network on Orkney in 2009. that EVs could account for as many as 10% This has since allowed 20MW of additional of new car sales by 2020.
The challenge for capacity for generating electricity to be electricity distribution companies is to prepare Gas Distribution connected to the network, at a small fraction their networks for the likely upswing in Performance in SGN of the cost that would have been required demand arising from EVs and SSE was a had traditional means been adopted.
full participant in two EV projects, both SSE receives 50% of the distributable earnings supported by the Technology Strategy from Scotia Gas Networks SGN, in line with its equity holding, and also provides it with Two other major smart projects, with total Board the MINI E and the Ford Transit corporate and management services.
In SGN funding of 64m, are being led by SSEs Connect consortia.
electricity distribution businesses: in 2011 12 comparisons with the previous These have helped to demonstrate that up to year in brackets : Northern Isles New Energy Solutions one in four homes will be able to have an EV SSEs share of operating profit was NINES in Shetland: NINES is a pilot without it having a significant impact on the project representing the first stage of the electricity network.
Nevertheless, other issues 234.8m 186.8m : such as the need to schedule re-charging gas transported fell by 22.8TWh to Integrated Plan for managing electricity 143.4TWh: and supply and demand in Shetland, which effectively and to develop new control Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution systems require significant attention and 98.7% of uncontrolled gas escapes were is required by Ofgem to present in 2013.
SSE is carrying out further work to understand attended within one hour of notication, the requirements of so-called smart charging compared with the standard of 97% 97.2%.
It features the use of heat and electricity storage to manage intelligently the impact to maximise use of the existing infrastructure.
of movements in demand on electricity The increase in operating profit for SGN generation in Shetland, which could allow In March 2012, SSE opened in Glasgow the is primarily due to three things: more renewable energy to be connected UKs first dedicated free EV charging, hiring the impact of the price changes agreed to the network.
It also features new and parking facility.
The facility features six active network management solutions.
charging car park spaces and electric car hire as part of the five-year gas Distribution In September 2011, Ofgem announced from Europcar and Peugeot as well as an Price Control to March 2013: underlying operational efficiencies that NINES should be funded as part electric car available for test drives.
achieved during the year: and of the Integrated Plan, with 85% of its expenditure included in SHEPDs RAV and income from 2010 11 not recovered during Electricity Distribution priorities the remaining 15% included in SHEPDs that financial year but subsequently received.
in 2012 13 and beyond allowed revenue.
This confirmed that Only 3.5% of SGNs transportation income is NINES is not just a smart programme but During 2012 13 and beyond SSEs priorities a comprehensive and sustainable solution volume-related: the remaining 96.5% is related in Electricity Distribution are to: to the energy challenges on Shetland to the maximum capacity requirements of its customers.
A small part of SGNs operating which is designed to meet the needs and comply fully with all safety standards profit is derived from the non-regulated aspirations of the community: and and environmental requirements: New Thames Valley Vision NTVV activities of its contracting, connections ensure that the networks are managed as and commercial services operations.
in and around Bracknell: NTVV aims efficiently as possible, delivering required to demonstrate that applying new outputs while maintaining tight controls technologies to Bracknells network Operating gas networks efficiently over operational expenditure: will provide a lower-cost alternative to When SGN acquired its networks in June put responsiveness at the heart of 2005, National Grid was contracted to provide redeveloping the substation to meet day-to-day operations, so that the it with services with a total value of 30m increasing electricity demand, with the number and duration of power cuts potential to reduce signicantly costs to per annum.
In following years, services were experienced by customers is kept to customers.
NTVV involves monitoring and brought within SGN, and SGNs remaining a minimum: service contracts with National Grid totalled predicting electricity demand and usage ensure that there is adequate capacity 7m per annum by the end of 2010 11. patterns and using a range of innovative to meet changing demands on the technologies, including network automation, electricity system: energy storage and automated demand These Managed Services Agreement contracts deliver excellent service to customers, covered transmission services, control and response, to manage the network ows which responds effectively to their needs IT services and emergency call handling, and predicted by the modelling.
In November during supply interruptions and in 2011, Ofgem announced that NTVV should the process of bringing them within SGN is business-as-usual situations: and secure funding totalling 30m under its continuing.
In June 2011, SGN stopped using Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 29 adopting best practice in serving the interests National Grids Gas Transportation acting safely, through reducing risk and Management System and replaced it with of customers, society and the environment.
protecting the public and employees: its new Distribution Network Control System This was the third successive year in which providing excellent service through and in September 2011 it replaced a National SGN secured the highest award under the maintaining gas supplies, giving timely scheme, and it recognised SGNs work on its Grid system with a new application called information and listening to customers: Demand Management System.
This means environmental impact, fuel poverty and safety.
being good neighbours by reducing that SGNs remaining contracts with National The Scheme, which is judged by a panel of environmental impact and removing Grid now total 4.5m per annum.
industry experts, was established as part of assets that affect local communities: and Ofgems gas Distribution Price Control 2008-13. being a business for the future by helping Investing in gas networks and to mitigate and adapt to climate change securing growth in their RAV Making gas networks more sustainable and keeping costs down.
The five-year gas Distribution Price Control, In March 2011, the UK government launched which began in April 2008, provides the the Renewable Heat Incentive to revolutionise In February 2012, Ofgem set out its initial opportunity for SGN to increase signicantly the way heat is generated and used in assessment of gas distribution networks investment in its gas distribution networks, buildings.
It will support emerging business plans.
Overall, it decided not to thereby reinforcing their safety and reliability technologies and is designed to reduce retain SGN or any other company within and securing another significant increase in their dependence on heating from fossil fuels.
the fast track process because of the number RAV.
By the end of 2012 13, SGN estimates of issues that would have to be resolved in that its total RAV will be around 4.8bn.
SGN has long recognised that renewable heat a compressed timetable.
SGN submitted is an untapped resource.
Working with a water a revised business plan in April 2012 which During 2011 12, SGN invested 404.3m in company and a gas supplier, it began the it is hoped Ofgem will adopt as the basis for capital expenditure and mains and services delivery and supply of biomethane to 200 its Initial Proposals document on the gas replacement projects, compared with homes in Oxfordshire.
Under the scheme, the distribution Price Control in July 2012. first of its kind in Britain, sludge is subjected to 399.3m in the previous year, including the 21m replacement of the under-sea gas main the process of anaerobic digestion to create Gas Distribution priorities between the south coast of England and the Isle biogas which, after the removal of impurities, in 2012 13 and beyond of Wight, completed during the year.
The project is fed into the gas distribution network.
It has since begun participation in the first commercial involved connecting Lepe and Gurnard through During 2012 13, SGNs priorities are to: the longest directional drill ever undertaken biomass upgrading system in England, near 2.9km.
Tunnels were bored from each direction, Poundbury in the Duchy of Cornwall.
Biogas deliver a safe and secure gas supply meeting around 40 metres below the seabed, produced from green waste and chicken to customers: to take the two 12 inch diameter pipes.
manure will be upgraded to natural gas quality deliver to time and budget the 2012 13 and fed into SGNs gas network to supply mains replacement and capital works The majority of the mains replacement green gas to almost 4,000 homes.
programmes: expenditure was incurred under the 30:30 continue to work with stakeholders to mains replacement programme which was It is estimated that biomethane could account secure an acceptable outcome to the started in 2002.
This requires that all iron gas for up to 15% of domestic gas needs in the new gas Distribution Price Control: and mains within 30 metres of homes and premises UK in 2020. support sustainable developments in must be replaced over a 30-year period.
2011 12, SGN replaced 1,202km of its metallic SGN is now developing this technology so that gas mains with modern polyethylene pipes.
larger volumes of biomethane at other sites can be commissioned into the network and is SGN is also committed to making new gas carrying out feasibility studies on a further six connections to existing homes that are not proposals for biomethane network entry points on mains gas as affordable as possible, from anaerobic digestion and landll gas and is running a new Assisted Connections projects in Scotland and southern England.
scheme, under which 19,456 properties were connected to its networks during 2011 12.
Preparing for the new gas A further 19,500 properties are expected Distribution Price Control to be connected in 2012 13.
As with electricity transmission, a new eight-year Price Control will be introduced for Investment will continue to be a top priority gas distribution from 1 April 2013 RIIO-GD1.
for SGN and, in line with that, it expects to SGN has undertaken extensive consultations Making energy better: invest around 400m in capital expenditure with stakeholders to help determine what Restoring power and mains and service replacement projects should be included in its business plan for during 2012 13. the new Price Control.
In January, engineers tackled three months worth of damage Earning financial rewards In October 2011, SGN completed a public repair work in just four days for corporate responsibility consultation on its proposed business plan due to storms.
In July 2011, SGN was awarded 1.3m under for RIIO-GD1 and submitted it to Ofgem in Ofgems Discretionary Reward Scheme which November 2011.
The plan set out four key rewards companies for developing and themes and related measures of progress:
