Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 09 Questions and answers with the SSE Executive Team SSE has three Executive Directors: Chief Executive, Ian Marchant: Finance Director, Gregor Alexander: and Generation and Supply Director, Alistair Phillips-Davies.
Together they have over 30 years experience of serving on the Board of SSE.
Here they answer questions about SSEs performance and plans for the future.
At 2%, we reported one of the smallest increases in adjusted profit before tax ever delivered by SSE but also one of the hardest to achieve.
The combination of higher wholesale gas prices, poor levels of income for gas-red power stations and falling demand for gas and electricity made it a tough environment for us, but the whole of the SSE team responded really well to the challenge.
Gregor There were some bright spots.
Our investment in renewable energy paid off, with record output.
That again showed the value of our large capital projects like wind farms although it was also thanks, in part, to the weather!
Our electricity and gas networks also achieved good results and the gas production assets we bought at the start of 2011 performed well.
All of that showed the benefit of maintaining a balance between market-based and  businesses.
Was there a particular low point in what youve said was a difficult year?
Alistair Absolutely SSE being found guilty at Guildford Crown Court on two counts out of seven relating to the use of doorstep sales aids, and being ned 1.25m.
We should never have found ourselves in that position and Im very sorry that we did.
Weve all thought long and hard about the lessons that the Guildford case holds for us.
Im confident that they have been well and truly learned throughout the SSE management team and that the need to maintain the highest standards in everything we do is clearly understood.
Do you think you have made it particularly hard to build peoples trust in energy suppliers?
Ian Clearly, the doorstep selling case didnt help, but Im proud of the progress that Gregor Alexander Finance Director Gregor, Ian and Alistair pictured has been made by SSE in the past year in Ian Marchant Chief Executive in the Scottish Hydro Centre for terms of more transparent pricing, simplied Alistair Phillips-Davies Generation and Supply Director Renewable Excellence in Glasgow.
tariffs, improved service standards and the SSE Annual Report 2012 10 Questions and answers with the SSE Executive Team continued not the same as bills and investment in energy We understand that energy is one of efficiency really does cut consumption and help keep bills down.
the most essential household costs and Ian If the long-term trend for unit prices also one of the biggest and that the is upwards, we have to redouble our efforts to show that any profits we make in supplying standards that people expect are energy are fair and reasonable.
Weve taken a number of steps to improve the transparency rightly increasing all the time.
of our Energy Supply business, and we expect our average profit margin in this area to be around 5% over the medium term.
Thats what fair and reasonable means in practice.
implementation of our sales guarantee.
Im of big projects is a complex area, however, also determined that we will maintain the in which continuous improvement not complacency is the order of the day.
Why have you started reporting momentum in the new financial year and the operating profit for Energy Supply, new commitments we announced in April in areas like estimated billing were part of that.
Ian Maintaining excellence in project and why have you changed your selection and execution is a key priority for reportable segments to Networks, SSE.
That means picking the right projects, Retail and Wholesale?
Alistair We understand that energy is one of the most essential household costs and also assigning the right resources and delivering one of the biggest and that the standards that them well, with managed risks and no Gregor Its the transparency word people expect are rightly increasing all the surprises.
While the principles of project again.
We already produced whats called a Consolidated Segmental Statement for Ofgem time.
Were doing better but we realise we selection and execution have to remain and weve decided that we should take the have to do much better still and thats what the same, each project presents its own were working to achieve.
This will always be a demanding natural next step and adjust the segments in and critical area for a company like SSE, our financial statements.
The three segments themselves reect the way we manage, review The nature of electricity and gas and it will always be treated as such.
and report our businesses internally.
makes energy subject to a lot of political and regulatory intervention.
As well as politics, regulation and large Does that worry you?
capital projects, SSE lists energy portfolio Alistair Some things havent changed.
We still think that being involved in the Wholesale management as one of its key risks.
Is activities of energy production and portfolio Ian It goes with the territory.
Elected this getting to be a more difficult area?
politicians have every right to intervene in management and the Retail activity of energy the sector if they want to and every right to Ian UK gross imports of natural gas now supply gives us a balanced business model thats in the interests of customers and give powers to regulators to do so.
Our job is exceed gross production for the first time since shareholders.
Balance will always be a key to work with them to make sure that changes the 1960s.
This big change means that there are coherent, practical to implement and is an ongoing integration of UK prices into the part of the SSE proposition.
actually in the short-, mediumand long-term wider global energy market, so were affected Its said that the cost of renewable interests of customers.
by macro economic or geopolitical issues.
This is an issue we can manage through things like energy is pushing up household bills.
Gregor We have a very simple approach to diversifying our energy procurement in areas Are you concerned about the hostility like location, counterparty and timing.
Were to wind farms and what that might this.
If were making any financial decision we mean for the future?
assess the risks, and legislative and regulatory also producing more energy ourselves, with change are amongst those risks.
If the risks our gas production assets and with our major cant be managed or are too great, then we investment in renewables.
Alistair Some people simply dont like wind farms, and they are entitled to have that view.
At the same time, we work with In terms of cost, we have a responsibility to governments and regulators to help them Alistair As well as acquiring gas production understand what is needed to stimulate assets, weve also been building up our get the cost of renewable energy as low as the investment they want.
portfolio of long-term fuel supply contracts possible, and were doing a lot of work with our supply chain to try to do that.
At the same with companies like Shell and Statoil to help time, demand for commodities like oil and gas Its one thing making the investment us meet demand for gas over the rest of this decision its another thing making decade and beyond.
is likely to increase and its also getting more sure its well-executed.
Is SSE doing and more difficult to extract them, even if they are available.
The cost of wind energy has to be well enough in this area?
What does this mean for household assessed in that context and on the basis that energy bills?
Gregor Our large capital project wind farms should last for 25 years or more.
programme took a big step up five years ago Alistair Weve said we wont increase Ian Wind as a source of energy is and in the time since weve gained significant energy prices before October 2012 at the indigenous, renewable and free at the point experience and expertise that is now standing earliest.
Unfortunately, the long-term trend for us in good stead.
Im particularly pleased unit prices for energy is upwards as worldwide of delivery.
I think those features are going with our progress in onshore wind farm demand for commodities increases.
Equally, to become more and more important over the next decade and beyond.
Development and construction the last few years have shown that prices are Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 11 a successful company in the short and long to renewable energy to building trust Can SSE continue to finance the investment in energy infrastructure term if it meets the needs of customers and in energy supply.
There is also what you like wind farms and transmission communities, in a responsible and sustainable might call restlessness in the organisation, upgrades that will be needed over way.
That includes providing a fullling working with people constantly looking for new environment.
Successful companies buy opportunities to be better at what we do.
services from other companies, employ people Gregor Yes.
We have plans to invest and pay taxes that governments can use to So whats the financial outlook between 1.5bn and 1.7bn a year in the meet societys requirements.
I think successful for 2012 13 and beyond?
period up to 2015, and these plans are companies with a long-term outlook make a consistent with our long-held financial positive contribution to society and I strongly Gregor Its partly the job of the Finance principles, including balance sheet strength.
believe SSE makes a positive contribution in Director to say each year that big challenges Weve been successful in moving quickly England, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland lie ahead but they certainly do in 2012 13.
Everything from wholesale energy prices to the to secure the right nancing options, like and the Republic of Ireland.
reopening the corporate bond market weather can affect our financial performance last September and completing a private SSE is now one of just five long-serving but we have a balanced business model to make placement with US investors earlier this year.
FTSE 100 companies to have delivered sure that the risk arising from any single business above-inflation dividend growth every activity is contained.
The key question for SSE Ian There are some eye-watering numbers year since the year it was formed, 1998. will always be can the dividend targets be met in terms of what the UK and Ireland will need Its had the same business model and and the answer is that I am very confident they to invest in energy over the next couple of financial principles throughout that can.
That means we expect to recommend an decades but investment decisions in things period.
Do you ever worry that the increase of at least 2% more than ination in like power stations and wind farms are up to us.
longevity of this approach could make the full-year dividend in the Annual Report 2013.
As Ive said before, investment opportunities it difficult for SSE to handle change in its sector or in society more widely?
What is your personal priority are not the same as investment obligations, and we will only invest in a way that is for SSE in 2012 13?
disciplined and consistent with earning Ian Its the job of every management team returns that support dividend growth.
to anticipate change, influence change and Alistair I have two that stand out respond to change.
I actually think its easier particularly.
Last year we adopted a simple goal If the business environment is difficult, to do that if the organisation is designed for on safety work without anyone getting injured.
can SSE sustain its commitment to the long term and has clear values and I want to see real progress on that.
I also want above-inflation increases in the dividend?
All around me I see work being to keep up the momentum on building trust in energy supply, with SSE showing real leadership done that will be of benefit to SSE in three, Ian Yes.
Were committed to an increase five and 10 years time and beyond.
and taking real action that makes a difference.
of at least 2% more than RPI ination for 2012 13 and then annual above-ination Gregor SSE is actually different from Gregor Id echo what Alistair said on safety.
My other priority is value for money.
These are realistic targets what it was five or 10 years ago, and it will which our balanced range of businesses and be different again in five years time.
You just For both current operational and capital our investment programme in large capital have to look at the asset base for a start.
expenditure, I want to make sure that every projects are designed to help us achieve.
But everything we do does come back to penny in SSE counts and that we demonstrate the business model and financial principles.
efficiency in everything we do.
Our dividend payments are Theyve stood us in good stead in a volatile comfortably covered by our adjusted earnings world since 1998, and I think they provide Ian I think were all agreed on safety.
After per share and we expect dividend cover to the basis for continued success in the future.
that, Id like to see more progress on taking be in a range around 1.5 over the medium the carbon out of electricity, either through term.
We have many new assets coming into Alistair I think SSE is actually very producing more energy from renewable operation now which should put us in a good innovative and progressive, and we can clearly sources or putting in place the networks to point to many parts of the business having deliver it.
That will reinforce the sustainability position to deliver real dividend growth in the years ahead.
a sector-leading position, from commitment -$ ', #4#07 1#, 1#@ F Alistair Dividend growth isnt just a financial commitment.
Its a management commitment to being disciplined, consistent SSE can only pay out dividends if it is and long term.
Thats entirely appropriate in a sector like energy and I think goes to a successful company.
It can only be a the heart of the type of company SSE is.
successful company in the short and long Is SSEs focus on the dividend compatible with wider corporate term if it meets the needs of customers and social responsibilities?
and communities, in a responsible and Ian Yes.
SSE can only pay out dividends if it is a successful company.
It can only be sustainable way.
