SSE Annual Report 2012 04 The energy sector continued Great Britain The majority of SSEs operations are SSE in electricity in England, Scotland and Wales, where most parts of the energy sector have SSE is involved in the generation, been privatised for over 20 years.
transmission, distribution and supply of electricity.
40% Reecting its island status, Great Britains energy ie electricity and gas sector is largely Over 40% of gas used free-standing with the exception of some electricity interconnection with Ireland and in the UK was imported.
mainland Europe and some gas pipelines This is likely to increase from mainland Europe and to Ireland see the map on page 3. to around 80% in 2020.
Around 30 million homes, offices and 1 businesses are connected to the electricity The companies operating these networks are network in Great Britain and around the subject of economic regulation through ELECTRICITY GENERATION 23 million to the gas network.
Total electricity a Price Control set by Ofgem which sets for USING TURBINES TO CONVERT ENERGY consumption in Great Britain in 2011 the periods of five in the future, eight years the FROM GAS, OIL, COAL, WATER AND WIND TO GENERATE ELECTRICITY.
latest for which information is available index-linked revenue they can earn, through was 371TWh and total gas consumption charges levied on network users, to cover their was 906TWh.
costs and earn a return on their regulated assets.
Ofgem also places incentives on The stated goal of the UK governments companies to be more efficient and innovative and to deliver an enhanced quality of service.
energy policy is to achieve secure, affordable and low-carbon energy in the years and decades ahead.
It also sets the framework for the capital investment they are able to make in 2 maintaining and upgrading the networks.
The sector is split between activities which are  energy transmission The networks each have a Regulated Asset ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION and distribution networks and activities Value RAV, which represents: USING HIGHER VOLTAGE LINES AND CABLES which are market-based energy production TO TRANSMIT ELECTRICITY FROM GENERATING PLANT TO THE DISTRIBUTION NETWORK.
the price paid for them when they and retailing.
Companies which operate in both parts of the sector must adhere were privatised: plus to rules to maintain legal separation and allowed capital expenditure: less condentiality, under the Utilities Act 2000. annual depreciation.
Economic regulation of networks The RAV is indexed to the Retail Price Index.
Companies cannot charge network users As the Great Britain energy regulator, Ofgem, puts it, energy transportation transmission more than is allowed under the Price Control.
3 and distribution networks are natural If, in any year, a regulated energy network monopolies there is no realistic means companys revenue is greater over recovery ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION or lower under recovery than is allowed of introducing competition.
There are four USING LOWER VOLTAGE LINES AND CABLES types of energy network: under the relevant Price Control, the difference TO DISTRIBUTE ELECTRICITY TO HOMES, WORKPLACES AND OTHER PREMISES.
is carried forward and the subsequent prices electricity transmission three networks the companies may charge are varied.
in GB high voltage electricity wires and cables: Overall, Ofgem seeks to strike the right balance electricity distribution 14 networks in GB between attracting investment in electricity lower voltage wires and cables delivering and gas networks, encouraging companies to operate them as efficiently as possible electricity to customers premises: gas transmission one network in GB and ensuring that prices ultimately borne by high pressure gas pipelines: and customers are no higher than they need to be.
gas distribution eight networks in GB 4 The current Price Controls are due to run until: lower pressure pipes delivering gas to ELECTRICITY SUPPLY customers premises.
RETAILING ELECTRICITY TO HOUSEHOLD, 31 March 2013 electricity transmission, SMALL BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL AND Distribution networks are each owned and gas transmission and distribution : and COMMERCIAL CUSTOMERS.
operated by the same company.
Transmission networks have a single, GB-wide system operator National Grid operates the GB For future Price Controls, Ofgem is using its new RIIO Revenue Incentives Innovation electricity and gas systems.
Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 05 Outputs model, which is designed to secure The markets are designed to maintain a SSE in gas greater stakeholder engagement in, and downward pressure on the cost of electricity deliver an outputs-led approach to, energy and gas, for the benefit of customers, and SSE is involved in the network regulation.
to encourage greater diversity in the supply production, storage, distribution of fuels in order to enhance energy security.
Electricity and gas markets There are also related markets for coal, oil and carbon dioxide emissions permits required In line with its island status, around 98% of for electricity generation.
the electricity consumed by UK customers is generated in the UK.
At 30 May 2011 the latest Gas storage date for which data is available, there were 26 electricity generators with more than 50MW Unlike electricity, gas can be stored in of capacity operating in Great Britain.
In total large-scale facilities such as under ground there was around 85GW of installed capacity.
Customers of these facilities can 1 have gas injected or withdrawn, according In the year 2010 11, over 40% of the gas to their needs, which means they can manage GAS PRODUCTION used in the UK by customers and by electricity their gas portfolio more effectively and the USING PLATFORMS TO EXTRACT NATURAL generators was imported via pipelines from country benets from greater gas security.
GAS, FROM FIELDS SUCH AS THOSE IN THE NORTH SEA, FOR USE ONSHORE.
European gas elds, the England-Belgium pipeline or liqueed natural gas terminals.
This is Electricity and gas retailing set to increase signicantly in the years ahead, as production of gas from the North Sea declines.
In the retail electricity and gas markets, customers are free to choose their retailer The production of electricity and gas for or supplier.
It is the responsibility of the customers in Great Britain is a market-based retailer to buy the electricity and gas customers activity with wholesale markets in which: need, arrange for it to be distributed to them through the relevant networks, provide the 2 producers generators, retailers or associated services such as metering and suppliers, large users, National Grid billing and promote the efficient use of energy.
GAS STORAGE Electricity Transmission Ltd and other energy USING CAVERNS TO STORE LARGE VOLUMES traders buy and sell electricity like any other At 31 March 2012, there were six electricity and OF NATURAL GAS UNDER GROUND FOR USE AT A FUTURE DATE.
It can be purchased through gas suppliers in Great Britain with a market bilateral contracts of various lengths and share each of more than 5%.
Across Europe, through trading in the market: and only the markets in Poland, Slovenia and producers, shippers, retailers, electricity Romania have a larger number of suppliers generators, large gas users, National Grid with a market share of more than 5%.
Gas plc and other energy traders buy and sell gas like any other commodity.
As with Ofgem is responsible for licensing the supply electricity, gas natural or liqueed natural of electricity and gas and also scrutinises can be purchased through bilateral retail prices for electricity and gas and the contracts of various lengths and through overall effectiveness of the retail energy 3 trading in the market.
Its Retail Market Review represents GAS DISTRIBUTION Ofgems attempt to enhance competition USING PIPES TO DISTRIBUTE GAS FROM It is part of Ofgems responsibility to licence in the retail energy market and make it work THE TRANSMISSION NETWORK TO HOMES, electricity generation and to make sure that more effectively so that the benets can be WORKPLACES AND OTHER PREMISES.
electricity and gas markets are competitive.
"0# '1#"" $-0 -0# !-, 13 #01@ F SSE price tracker showing components of a typical dual fuel bill 1,400 Wholesale D Current energy outlook 1,200 Supply 1,000 Use of system 4 Government 800 schemes 600 GAS SUPPLY Tariff RETAILING GAS TO HOUSEHOLD, 400 Margin SMALL BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL 200 AND COMMERCIAL CUSTOMERS."
-200 -400 Jan 04 Jan 05 Jan 06 Jan 07 Jan 08 Jan 09 Jan 10 Jan 11 Jan 12 Jan 13 Annual cost for a typical customer
