Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 87 Other statutory information Biographical details of all Directors are set out option schemes, are set out in notes 26 and Principal activities SSE plc is the holding company of the Group.
Details of the service contracts 30 to the Financial Statements.
Its subsidiaries are organised into the main for the Executive Directors and the letters of businesses of: appointment for the non-Executive Directors Authority to purchase shares are set out in the Remuneration Report on The Company was authorised at the 2011 Networks the economicallypages 82 and 83 respectively.
AGM to purchase its own shares within certain regulated transmission and distribution limits.
During 2011 12, SSE did not purchase of electricity and gas and other related The interests of the Directors in the Ordinary any shares under this authority.
The Directors will, however, seek renewal of their authority networks: Shares of the Company at 31 March 2012 are Retail the supply of electricity, gas and set out in the Remuneration Report on pages to purchase in the market the Companys own other services to household and business 85 and 86. shares at the AGM on 26 July 2012, and this customers: and remains a benchmark against which financial decisions are taken.
Wholesale the production, storage and Directors insurance and indemnities generation of energy and energy portfolio The Directors have the benefit of the management.
indemnity provision contained in the Annual General Meeting 2012 Companys Articles of Association.
The The 23rd AGM of the Company will be held on 26 July 2012 at 12 noon at the Bournemouth Business review Directors of the Company have been granted The Company is required to set out a fair review a qualifying third party indemnity provision International Centre, Exeter Road, Bournemouth of the business of the Group and a description which was in force throughout the financial BH2 5BH.
The Notice of Annual General of the principal risks and uncertainties facing year and remains in force.
The Company also Meeting 2012, which contains full explanations the Group known as a Business Review.
purchased and maintained throughout the of the business to be conducted at the AGM, The Business Review is required to set out a financial year directors and officers liability is set out in a separate shareholder circular.
balanced and comprehensive analysis of the insurance in respect of itself and for its Directors and Officers.
Substantial shareholdings development and performance of the Groups business during the financial year ended As at 15 May 2012 the Company has been 31 March 2012 and of the position of the Results and dividends notied under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Group at the end of that financial year.
The The Group profit attributable to Ordinary Transparency Rules of the interests in its Shareholders for the financial year amounted shares as shown in the table below.
information that fulls these requirements, and is deemed to be the Directors Report, to 197.8m.
The Directors recommend a is contained within pages 1 to 88 of this final dividend of 56.1p per Ordinary Share Creditor payment policy Annual Report.
The management report which, subject to approval at the AGM, It is the Companys policy that payment terms are agreed at the outset of a transaction and are for the year, as required by the Disclosure will be payable on 21 September 2012 to and Transparency Rules, is incorporated shareholders on the Register of Members at adhered to: that bills are paid in accordance with by reference within the Directors Report.
close of business on 27 July 2012.
With the the contract: and that there are no alterations interim dividend of 24.0p per Ordinary Share to payment terms without prior agreement.
The number of suppliers days represented by Directors paid on 23 March 2012, this makes a total The Directors during the year and at the date dividend of 80.1p per Ordinary Share.
trade creditors was 37 days at 31 March 2012. of this report are: Going concern Accounting policies, financial instruments and risk Executive After making enquiries, the Directors have Ian Marchant Chief Executive a reasonable expectation that the Company Details of the Groups accounting policies, Gregor Alexander and the Group have adequate resources to together with details of financial instruments Colin Hood retired 31 October 2011 continue in operational existence for the and risk, are provided in notes 1 and 31 to the Alistair Phillips-Davies foreseeable future.
The Financial Statements Financial Statements.
Non-Executive are therefore prepared on a going concern Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman basis.
Further details of the Groups liquidity Additional information position and going concern review are provided Where not provided elsewhere in the Thomas Thune Andersen Nick Baldwin resigned 1 April 2011 in note 31 to the Financial Statements.
Directors Report, the following provides Jeremy Beeton appointed 1 July 2011 the information required to be disclosed Katie Bickerstaffe appointed 1 July 2011 Share capital by Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006.
Details of the Companys issued share capital Richard Gillingwater Ren Mdori at 31 March 2012, which includes options Each Ordinary Share of the Company carries Lady Rice Senior Independent Director granted under the Groups employee share one vote at general meetings of the Company.
At the 2012 AGM all of the current Directors Substantial shareholdings apart from Ren Mdori will retire and offer Number of Nature of themselves for re-appointment.
Ren Mdori Entity shares Percentage holding will resign from the Board on 25 June 2012.
Capital Research and Management Company 46,267,405 5.02% Indirect Richard Gillingwater will assume the position Legal & General Group Plc 37,426,851 3.99% Direct of Senior Independent Director on 24 July At date of disclosure by relevant entity.
2012 in place of Lady Rice who will remain Since the date of disclosure to the Company, the interests of the shareholders listed above may have increased or decreased.
SSE Annual Report 2012 88 Other statutory information continued There are no restrictions on the transfer of Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company of the annual report and the financial statements other than certain restrictions which may from time-to-time be imposed by law for example, The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent insider trading law.
In accordance with the company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, certain employees are required to seek the Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial approval of the Company to deal in its shares.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law Employees who participate in the Share and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.
Incentive Plan whose shares remain in the schemes trusts give directions to the Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they trustees to vote on their behalf by way are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent of a Form of Direction.
company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: restrictions on the transfer of securities make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and or voting rights.
The rules governing the state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and appointment and replacement of Directors are prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to at a general meeting of shareholders.
show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its The Company is not aware of any significant financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility agreements to which it is party that take for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group effect, alter or terminate upon a change of and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
control of the Company following a takeover.
The Company is not aware of any contractual Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a or other agreements which are essential to its Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement business which ought to be disclosed in this that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial Details of any post balance sheet events are information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation provided in note 34 to the Financial Statements.
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Auditors We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee and approval of the Board, the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss Auditors, and to authorise the Directors to x of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and their remuneration, will be proposed at the the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the forthcoming AGM.
business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that Each of the Directors who held office at the they face.
date of approval of this Directors Report confirms that, so far as each Director is aware, For and on behalf of the Board there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware and Ian Marchant Gregor Alexander Chief Executive Finance Director each Director has taken all the steps that 15 May 2012 ought to have been taken in his or her duty as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
By Order of the Board Vincent Donnelly Company Secretary 15 May 2012 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 89 Financial statements Contents Financial statements 90 Independent auditors report 91 Consolidated income statement 92 Statement of comprehensive income 93 Balance sheets 94 Statement of changes in equity 96 Cash flow statements 98 Notes on the financial statements 98 1.
Other operating income and expense 115 5.
Exceptional items and certain remeasurements 117 6.
Acquisitions, disposals and held for sale assets 134 17.
Post balance sheet events Shareholder information 168 Shareholder information
