Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 39 Wholesale Market-based businesses WHOLESALE Securing the energy people and businesses need.
Sourcing and producing energy Wholesale operating profit m Thermal generation capacity GW In previous years, SSE reported performance in Energy Portfolio Management EPM and Electricity Generation as part of a Generation and Supply segment.
Following changes in SSEs management structure in 2011 and in order to report the results of the Generation and Supply business in a more meaningful 607.9 8.84 and consistent manner, these activities have been separated into different segments.
2011: 571.5 2011: 8.84 Change: 6.4% Change: 0.0% This means that the results from the Energy Supply business are being reported separately The businesses in SSEs Wholesale segment SSE has wholly-owned gas-red power within the Retail segment and the combined source, produce and store energy through stations at Keadby, Medway and Peterhead energy portfolio management, electricity and coal-red power stations at Ferrybridge, results of SSEs wholesale energy procurement generation, gas production and gas storage.
and optimisation activities and the electricity generation operations are being reported together as EPM and Electricity Generation.
Thermal generation output TWh Renewable generation capacity GW The aggregation of these activities reects the way they are managed and their relationship to the Energy Supply business, with EPM acting as the bridge that delivers energy to Retail customers from SSEs electricity generation, gas production 38.4 3.02 and energy contracts portfolio.
2011: 42.9 2011: 2.45 EPM is responsible for the scheduling of Change: -10.5% Change: 23.3% Generation plant through capacity contracts with the asset owners, the procurement of fuel Thermal generation output covers the Renewable generation capacity covers amount of electricity generated at gashydro-electric schemes conventional and for the plants and the optimisation and trading and coal-red power stations at which SSE pumped storage, wind farms onshore and of electricity, gas and other commodities.
The Generation business is responsible has an ownership or contractual interest.
offshore and dedicated biomass plant.
for asset management, maintenance and making available plant for use by EPM.
Neither Renewable generation Gas Storage capacity net mcm activity is reported as a discrete profit centre output TWh or activity.
In combination, these activities are carried out to provide the lowest cost input to the Energy Supply business for provision of energy to customers.
Under the new basis of reporting, 7.6 490 performance in Gas Production and Gas Storage will be reported separately, within 2011: 4.4 2011: 440 the Wholesale segment.
Change: 72.7% Change: 11.4% Renewable generation output is output from SSE has gas storage capacity at Hornsea SSE continues to believe that its involvement in SSEs conventional hydro-electric schemes, and, in a joint venture with Statoil UK Ltd, the Wholesale activities of Energy Generation and Energy Portfolio Management and the wind farms and dedicated biomass plant.
is completing a new development at Output is affected by the amount of plant nearby Aldbrough.
Retail activity of Energy Supply means it has in operation and by weather conditions.
a well-balanced portfolio of customers, assets,
