SSE Annual Report 2012 30 Networks continued Market-based businesses electricity networks outside the areas network offering carrier standard connectivity Other Networks served by its  to external customers and providing SSEs Performance in Other Networks subsidiaries Scottish Hydro Electric internal managed voice and data services.
SSEs Other Networks businesses Lighting Power Distribution and Southern Electric The origins of this business lie in the Services, Utility Solutions and Telecoms Power Distribution.
A further 43 are installation, a decade ago, of bre on SSEs are relatively small when compared with its under construction and contracts have electricity network, and the telecoms network energy networks, and they operate in tough been signed for the development of an now comprises: and competitive markets.
As a result of additional five, taking the total to 166 up difficult economic circumstances, their bre optic cabling which SSE owns 5,000km : from 117 at the end of 2010 11.
In total, contribution to SSEs operating profit fell SSE has 825MW of network capacity, leased lit bre 2,600km : and from 37.1m in 2010 11 to 32.1m in 2011 12. including 476MW of existing demand and microwave radio 3,600km.
349MW of connections to be completed.
Maintaining leadership in To complement its core telecoms network Gas pipelines: SSE is also a licensed lighting services provision gas transporter, installing, owning and business, SSEs Fareham-based data centre SSE remains the UK and Irelands leading operating gas mains and services on new provides capacity for more than 1,200 racks for streetlighting contractor.
It has: housing and commercial developments the co-location of IT services within the 80,000 square feet secure site and 10MW of power in throughout the UK.
The total number 24 contracts with local authorities in of new premises connected to its gas a resilient and energy efficient environment.
England, Wales and Scotland to maintain networks has continued to grow, and over 630,000 lighting units: during 2011 12 it connected a further Despite gaining some large, high-prole 28 contracts with local authorities in 13,853 premises, taking the total number technology companies as clients, the year was the Republic of Ireland to maintain over of connections to over 92,000.
Contracts characterised by a challenging environment for 240,000 lighting units, through Airtricity have been signed for a further 60,000 sales in respect of the network, which made Utility Solutions: and connections to be completed.
tight control on operating costs especially 11 contracts with 12 local authorities, under Water: Through SSE Water SSEW SSE important.
To support the business in the the Private Finance Initiative, to replace is able to install, own, operate and supply future, there will be a focus on development and maintain over 610,000 lighting units.
water and sewerage services alongside of its network and products in what remains its existing electricity and gas services.
The PFI contracts include the 25-year contract An inset appointment is the route by awarded by Knowsley Metropolitan Borough which one company replaces another Conclusion Council for the maintenance of over 24,000 as the appointed water and or sewerage Through efficiency, responsiveness and lighting columns, traffic bollards and traffic signs innovation, SSE aims to expand signicantly company for a specified area.
SSEW now and for the replacement of more than 70% of has 15 such appointments and provides, or its Networks businesses in the coming years these during the initial four-year investment has secured contracts to provide, water and and they will play a significant part in helping period which began in August 2011.
It includes sewerage services to over 21,000 properties it to meet its financial objective of sustained the deployment of SSEs Mayower technology and real dividend growth.
which offers customers variable light control, Heat: SSE uses a range of sustainable monitoring, fault detection and energy technical solutions, including Combined Other Networks priorities consumption measurement all undertaken Heat and Power CHP generation, biomass in 2012 13 and beyond from a central location.
boilers and groundand air-source heat pumps and combines these with community Lighting Services, Utility Solutions and Lighting Services ts well within SSEs business heating schemes where appropriate.
Telecoms have specic priorities for 2012 13, model and, as in electricity distribution, future There are currently seven heat networks but across all of them there is a continuing success will be based on effective and efficient in operation and five further schemes need for: customer service and successful deployment where SSE is the preferred bidder.
efficiency and customer service: Of the four areas that Utility Solutions operates effective product development: and Providing comprehensive Utility Solutions in, Heat is the least developed and has the technological change and innovation.
SSE provides a comprehensive range of utility most potential yet to full as a result of the solutions.
It designs, builds, owns, operates planning requirements placed on developers and maintains cable and pipe networks for and the introduction of the Renewable Heat delivering electricity, gas, water, heat and Incentive.
That, allied to continuing focus telecommunications to existing and new on safety, customer service and value across commercial and residential developments in all activities and an ability to offer a true England, Wales and Scotland.
It is, therefore, multi-utility solution to customers, means that able to provide a one-stop solution for Utility Solutions should continue to increase multi-utility infrastructure requirements its already prominent market presence.
to customers in the development and construction sectors.
Operating a national telecoms network SSEs Telecoms business operates in two Electricity networks: SSE now owns different markets.
It owns and operates the and operates 118 embedded energised UKs fourth largest bre and microwave
