SSE Annual Report 2012 32 Retail continued Market-based businesses the medium-term ie three to five years.
In arrange for electricity and gas to be Energy Supply distributed to customers premises through 2011 12, it was 3.5%.
On this basis, SSE hopes the relevant networks: Performance in Energy Supply to demonstrate that the prices it charges for, provide customers with necessary associated SSEs Energy Supply business buys and any profit it makes in, supplying electricity the electricity and gas it needs through services such as metering and billing: and and gas are fair.
It also hopes to give further SSEs Energy Portfolio Management and meet obligations in respect of energy momentum to its efforts to build trust in efficiency and any related social or Generation divisions.
The associated cost energy supply.
environmental schemes promoted to the Energy Supply business comprises: by government.
Building trust in energy supply the weighted average cost of electricity, In October 2011, SSE published a document, It must do so while being mindful of the fact made up of fuel used in generation plus Building Trust: SSEs proposals to build that its core products electricity and gas associated costs of CO emissions, power customers trust in energy supply in Great 2 purchase agreements and direct bilateral are something which people need to buy Britain.
It set out 10 measures to: rather than choose to buy, which means there electricity contracts: and is legitimate and significant political and the weighted average cost of gas, made restore simplicity, including reducing the regulatory interest in energy supply markets.
up of gas purchase contracts and direct number of tariffs from over 60 to four bilateral gas contracts and gas storage.
In Great Britain, for example, energy supply core products: has been the subject of a Retail Market Review enhance transparency, including improving announced by Ofgem in November 2010, which It therefore carries risks associated with energy wholesale electricity market liquidity: is supposed to make energy retail markets work procurement.
In addition, the Energy Supply improve customer service, including business has to meet costs associated with more effectively in the interests of customers.
retrospective introduction of a Sales the transmission and distribution of energy, Guarantee: and A significant provider of customer service and government-sponsored ensure fairness for all customers, social and environmental obligations.
including ensuring all customers have energy-related services SSE provides other energy-related goods the opportunity to access all tariffs.
and services to customers, covering three Operating profit in Energy Supply in 2011 12 principal areas: fell by 21.9% to 271.7m, and comprised In line with the fairness principle, SSE has 16.4% of SSEs total operating profit.
made a clear commitment never to engage Within this, SSEs operating profit from retailing of home services such as gas boiler, in any form of unfair pricing.
As the Institute central heating and wiring maintenance and supplying energy to a household account for Public Policy Research stated in February installation, telephone line rental, calls and in Great Britain in 2011 12 was an average 2012, customers are being overcharged to of around 30.
Operating profit in Energy broadband services and micro-generation: subsidise cheap offers for customers who Supply reects the higher wholesale gas supplying, installing, maintaining and switch suppliers in the more competitive end reading meters in the household, costs, and the delay to September 2011 of the market.
An effect of this practice is to commercial, industrial and generation in implementing an increase in household make entry in to the energy supply market in energy prices and falling energy consumption.
sectors in Great Britain: and Great Britain more difficult for new suppliers, domestic, commercial and industrial There was, however: and that is another reason why the practice mechanical and electrical contracting and should be stamped out.
a reduction in overheads associated with the doorstep sales operation as a result In April 2012, SSE confirmed that the 10 SSEs contracting business is the second largest of its closure in July 2011: and measures had been completed including two mechanical and electrical contracting business in success in managing, with customers, that had been successfully piloted and would the UK.
Its metering business became national the level of aged debt.
go forward to full implementation.
It also set in Great Britain in 2010 after it completed out a number of other measures to maintain a programme of in-sourcing of activities.
Expected profitability in Energy Supply the momentum, including steps to simplify Home services were supplied to over 400,000 Electricity and gas are things which people energy bills, tackle estimated bills and need to buy rather than choose to buy unless to enable prepayment meter customers customer accounts as at 31 March 2012. they are used inefficiently, so SSE recognises to get on to the best tariff.
SSEs activities in home services, metering that it would not be acceptable for it to and electrical and mechanical contracting achieve an excessive level of profitability in As part of its Retail Market Review, Ofgem Energy Supply.
At the same time, a reasonable has completed consultations on possible are all customer-facing and have, therefore, and sustainable level of profitability is been included in the Retail segment.
interventions in areas such as pricing necessary to ensure that the risks associated structures, tariff comparability and customer Financial performance in Retail with energy procurement can be remunerated communications.
Ofgem has said it would in a way that will sustain investment and to Operating profit in Retail fell by 19.7%, prefer to implement reform wherever ensure that investment can also be made from 400.5m to 321.6m, contributing appropriate with the co-operation of energy 19% of SSEs total operating profit.
This in the services and systems that customers supply companies but will consider a referral comprised comparisons with the previous will need in the future.
to the Competition Commission if necessary.
year in brackets : SSE expects that its profit margin ie adjusted SSE accepts the challenge posed by Ofgem 271.7m in Energy Supply 347.7m : and operating profit as a percentage of revenue but believes it is moving faster, and further, 49.9m in Energy-related Services 52.8m.
in Energy Supply will average around 5% over to meet customers needs in a way that a
