Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 53 ground are leached out by seawater which, LNG, both of which are required to Gas Production accommodate future growth in gas demand.
in turn, is replaced dewatered by gas under Producing upstream supplies of gas pressure.
At Aldbrough, six of nine caverns are A key milestone for SSE in 2011 was its SSE has an ownership interest in two major already storing gas at a capacity of 170mcm.
acquisition from Hess Limited of North Leaching at the remaining three caverns is gas storage facilities in East Yorkshire: Sea natural gas and infrastructure assets.
completed and completion of dewatering This acquisition was a measured entry by Hornsea is the UKs largest onshore gas through the injection of gas is expected SSE into non-operated upstream assets.
storage facility in which around 325mcm of shortly.
They are expected to be fully Following from the significant learning and gas can be stored in a total of nine caverns.
operational by the summer of this calendar experience gained, it is SSEs intention to Hornsea accounts for around 7% of the year.
SSEs forecast total investment for increase its presence in the upstream fuel total gas storage capacity in the UK and the development remains around 290m.
sector if assets can be acquired for a fair 15% of deliverability.
It can be injected with price.
In doing so, SSE aims to diversify gas at a rate of 2mcm per day and delivered SSE and Statoil UK Ltd have consent further its sources of primary fuel and to the National Transmission System at to increase the storage capacity at the provide a hedge for its gas-red generation a rate of 18mcm per day, equivalent to Aldbrough site beyond that currently under and gas supply activities.
the demand of four million homes.
During development but concluded during 2010 that 2011 12, Hornsea was 100% available to an investment decision on the development Overall, Gas Production delivered an operating customers, except in instances of planned should be deferred while the UK government profit of 42.6m in 2011 12 compared with maintenance.
This enabled storage develops its policy on gas security.
4.6m for the short period after the assets customers to manage their gas market risks were acquired in 2010 11.
Total output during and respond to gas trading opportunities.
Conclusion the year was 176.7Mth, compared with Aldbrough is one of the UKs newest With a focus on exibility and sustainability 27.6Mth in the period from acquisition onshore gas storage facilities, which SSE in its Wholesale businesses, SSE believes that in February 2011 to March 2011. its activities in EPM, Generation and Gas 66.6% share is developing with Statoil UK Ltd. Aldbrough will ultimately have Production and Gas Storage will support the capacity to store around 330mcm in the achievement of its first financial goal of Gas Production priorities nine under ground caverns of which SSE sustained real growth in the dividend payable in 2012 13 and beyond to shareholders.
It will have the capacity to deliver gas to the National Transmission In seeking to pursue further opportunities System at a rate of up to 40mcm per day, to secure upstream gas assets SSE will: Gas Storage priorities equivalent to the average daily consumption in 2012 13 and beyond of eight million homes, and the ability to focus on mature, producing, gas-weighted have up to 30mcm of gas per day injected.
assets: and Gas storage priorities for the coming In parallel with completion of the project, consider opportunities that include financial year include: the Aldbrough site has been in commercial operatorship.
During 2011 12 completion of construction work it performed well, with the surface plant As well as pursuing such opportunities at Aldbrough: and delivering 94% availability, directly, SSE will work with Faroe Petroleum ensuring safe and effective operation plc, in which it has a 5% holding.
Future of capacity at Hornsea and Aldbrough.
Gas Storage profitability investment decisions will, however, continue During 2011 12, gas storage delivered an to be considered in a careful, measured way, operating profit of 23.8m, compared with consistent with its financial principles and, 23.5m in the previous year.
profitability therefore, only where fair value can be secured.
has been aided by the increased capacity available for storage as a result of the progress of the Aldbrough development.
Gas Storage Providing capacity to store gas However, this was offset by weaker prices for Standard Bundled Units arising from the very In 2011 the UKs gross imports of natural mild winter and a reduction in the differentials gas were greater than gross production for the first time since 1967 and over the coming between forward summer and winter gas decade UK gas imports are projected to prices and reecting the increased availability of LNG.
While LNG has had a negative financial increase signicantly.
This presents both impact on gas storage in the near-term, the a supply security and price risk associated with the potential for: operational failures diversity offered by both options will be in pipelines delivering gas to the UK: political important for risk abatement for the reasons set out above.
disputes in gas-producing regions: increased demand from emerging economies: and periods of unexpected low temperatures.
Completing the new gas storage facility at Aldbrough To form caverns such as those at Aldbrough The two leading solutions to abating this risk and Hornsea, salt deposits around 2km under are gas storage and liqueed natural gas
