SSE Annual Report 2012 32 Retail continued Market-based businesses the medium-term ie three to five years.
In arrange for electricity and gas to be Energy Supply distributed to customers premises through 2011 12, it was 3.5%.
On this basis, SSE hopes the relevant networks: Performance in Energy Supply to demonstrate that the prices it charges for, provide customers with necessary associated SSEs Energy Supply business buys and any profit it makes in, supplying electricity the electricity and gas it needs through services such as metering and billing: and and gas are fair.
It also hopes to give further SSEs Energy Portfolio Management and meet obligations in respect of energy momentum to its efforts to build trust in efficiency and any related social or Generation divisions.
The associated cost energy supply.
environmental schemes promoted to the Energy Supply business comprises: by government.
Building trust in energy supply the weighted average cost of electricity, In October 2011, SSE published a document, It must do so while being mindful of the fact made up of fuel used in generation plus Building Trust: SSEs proposals to build that its core products electricity and gas associated costs of CO emissions, power customers trust in energy supply in Great 2 purchase agreements and direct bilateral are something which people need to buy Britain.
It set out 10 measures to: rather than choose to buy, which means there electricity contracts: and is legitimate and significant political and the weighted average cost of gas, made restore simplicity, including reducing the regulatory interest in energy supply markets.
up of gas purchase contracts and direct number of tariffs from over 60 to four bilateral gas contracts and gas storage.
In Great Britain, for example, energy supply core products: has been the subject of a Retail Market Review enhance transparency, including improving announced by Ofgem in November 2010, which It therefore carries risks associated with energy wholesale electricity market liquidity: is supposed to make energy retail markets work procurement.
In addition, the Energy Supply improve customer service, including business has to meet costs associated with more effectively in the interests of customers.
retrospective introduction of a Sales the transmission and distribution of energy, Guarantee: and A significant provider of customer service and government-sponsored ensure fairness for all customers, social and environmental obligations.
including ensuring all customers have energy-related services SSE provides other energy-related goods the opportunity to access all tariffs.
and services to customers, covering three Operating profit in Energy Supply in 2011 12 principal areas: fell by 21.9% to 271.7m, and comprised In line with the fairness principle, SSE has 16.4% of SSEs total operating profit.
made a clear commitment never to engage Within this, SSEs operating profit from retailing of home services such as gas boiler, in any form of unfair pricing.
As the Institute central heating and wiring maintenance and supplying energy to a household account for Public Policy Research stated in February installation, telephone line rental, calls and in Great Britain in 2011 12 was an average 2012, customers are being overcharged to of around 30.
Operating profit in Energy broadband services and micro-generation: subsidise cheap offers for customers who Supply reects the higher wholesale gas supplying, installing, maintaining and switch suppliers in the more competitive end reading meters in the household, costs, and the delay to September 2011 of the market.
An effect of this practice is to commercial, industrial and generation in implementing an increase in household make entry in to the energy supply market in energy prices and falling energy consumption.
sectors in Great Britain: and Great Britain more difficult for new suppliers, domestic, commercial and industrial There was, however: and that is another reason why the practice mechanical and electrical contracting and should be stamped out.
a reduction in overheads associated with the doorstep sales operation as a result In April 2012, SSE confirmed that the 10 SSEs contracting business is the second largest of its closure in July 2011: and measures had been completed including two mechanical and electrical contracting business in success in managing, with customers, that had been successfully piloted and would the UK.
Its metering business became national the level of aged debt.
go forward to full implementation.
It also set in Great Britain in 2010 after it completed out a number of other measures to maintain a programme of in-sourcing of activities.
Expected profitability in Energy Supply the momentum, including steps to simplify Home services were supplied to over 400,000 Electricity and gas are things which people energy bills, tackle estimated bills and need to buy rather than choose to buy unless to enable prepayment meter customers customer accounts as at 31 March 2012. they are used inefficiently, so SSE recognises to get on to the best tariff.
SSEs activities in home services, metering that it would not be acceptable for it to and electrical and mechanical contracting achieve an excessive level of profitability in As part of its Retail Market Review, Ofgem Energy Supply.
At the same time, a reasonable has completed consultations on possible are all customer-facing and have, therefore, and sustainable level of profitability is been included in the Retail segment.
interventions in areas such as pricing necessary to ensure that the risks associated structures, tariff comparability and customer Financial performance in Retail with energy procurement can be remunerated communications.
Ofgem has said it would in a way that will sustain investment and to Operating profit in Retail fell by 19.7%, prefer to implement reform wherever ensure that investment can also be made from 400.5m to 321.6m, contributing appropriate with the co-operation of energy 19% of SSEs total operating profit.
This in the services and systems that customers supply companies but will consider a referral comprised comparisons with the previous will need in the future.
to the Competition Commission if necessary.
year in brackets : SSE expects that its profit margin ie adjusted SSE accepts the challenge posed by Ofgem 271.7m in Energy Supply 347.7m : and operating profit as a percentage of revenue but believes it is moving faster, and further, 49.9m in Energy-related Services 52.8m.
in Energy Supply will average around 5% over to meet customers needs in a way that a Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 33 regulator-determined approach would not Energy customer numbers millions be able to achieve.
Indeed, the quick way in which SSE was able, in April 2012, to enter 2012 9.55 into an agreement with the UK government on measures to help improve the quality 2011 9.65 and relevance of the information available to 2010 9.35 customers demonstrates that speed of response and innovation are most likely to sustain and 2009 9.10 build customers trust in energy supply.
2008 8.49 Energy supply markets in Ireland are at a different stage of development: indeed, Energy customer numbers 2011 12 composition % since 2009, Ireland has experienced the Household electricity GB 53 EUs highest levels of customers switching Household gas GB 36 between suppliers.
Nevertheless, after a period Business sites GB 4 of rapid growth in customer numbers, SSE is Household business Ireland 7 committed to ensuring that the principles of Building Trust are also applied on the island of Ireland, and its Customer Charter for household customers in the Republic of Ireland reects that commitment.
Domestic customers payment methods 2011 12 % SSEs approach to retaining and gaining customers Direct debit 61 Pay-as-you-go 12 Long-term success in energy supply depends Credit terms 27 on the suppliers ability to retain and gain customers.
SSE aims to do this by: offering consistently competitive prices over the medium-term: providing a straightforward range of products that are easy to assess: and delivering the highest possible quality of service.
success in the Irish markets, where there was In May 2012 SSE announced its intention to a net customer gain of 130,000.
In contrast, acquire Phoenix Supply Limited, a regulated there was a reduction of 230,000 in customer supplier of natural gas to 130,000 customers In summary, its proposition to customers is based on fair pricing, simple products numbers in Great Britain, reecting the highly in Northern Ireland.
The acquisition also and excellent service.
At the same time, SSE competitive market conditions.
Of this net includes a small number of customers in believes that, because the products it supplies reduction, most accounts were lost in the six RoIs deregulated commercial supply market.
months between July and December 2011.
The acquisition is subject to approval by are fundamental to the functioning of modern life and so are not discretionary, This was the period following SSEs decision the Irish Competition Authority and SSE it has a responsibility to earn and retain to stop selling energy on the doorstep in Great expects to complete the purchase during the trust of customers.
Britain and the announcement of increases the summer.
in household gas and electricity prices.
Supplying energy to customers Selling energy in the right way in GB and Ireland Customer account numbers do not tell the In July 2011, SSE became the first of the whole story, however.
Within the overall total, leading suppliers in the Great Britain market During 2011 12, SSEs energy customer accounts in Great Britain and Ireland fell slightly 2.5 million customer accounts in Great Britain to stop commission-based doorstep selling to 9.55 million from 9.65 million in March 2011. are for loyalty products such as: of energy.
The decision was taken because Customer accounts at March 2012 comprised: confidence in the way energy was being sold energyplus Argos, which rewards on the doorstep and in the way in which 8.52 million household electricity and gas customers with money-off discount salespeople were being remunerated had accounts in GB: vouchers: become low.
407,000 business electricity and gas sites energyplus Pulse, under which customers are able to support the British Heart This was followed in December 2011 by SSEs in GB: and 621,000 electricity and gas customer Foundation which received 133,000 from decision to implement its Sales Guarantee accounts in Northern Ireland and the SSE in respect of energyplus Pulse customers for household energy customers and to apply Republic of Ireland 91% household and during 2011 12, taking the total since the the guarantee to any household energy sales product was launched to 1.5m : and made by it since October 2009, when Ofgem 9% business.
M&S Energy, available to customers placed new obligations on energy suppliers The reduction in customer account numbers through Marks and Spencers stores to make sure sales activities are conducted in GB was, therefore, offset somewhat by the and website.
in a fair and professional manner.
SSE Annual Report 2012 34 Retail continued Market-based businesses in Wales and Scotland and trained to an Under the guarantee, devised as part of targets for 2008-12.
It reported that SSE SSEs Building Trust initiative, any customer  standard.
The advisers had achieved 64% of its obligation by the who shows that they switched their energy will draw on SSEs experience in the Energy end of the third year of CERT: this increases supply to SSE after being given inaccurate Demand Research Project carried out in North to 71% when the innovation features of CERT information or being misled will have any Leigh, Oxfordshire, between 2007 and 2010, are taken into account.
The delivery of CERT resulting financial loss made good.
Since it during which a locally-based energy adviser and, in particular, of the requirement to was launched, SSE has contacted customers employed by SSE engaged with local people ensure that 15% of the CO savings are 2 about the guarantee and so far settled over to secure a 10% reduction in household achieved in a subset of low-income 3,000 claims.
It expects that the retrospective energy consumption.
According to the households considered to be at high risk implementation of the guarantee could cost Independent Project Final Analysis, published of fuel poverty the Super Priority Group up to 5m.
The application of the guarantee in June 2011, the adviser was able to work has proved to be very challenging, not is being independently assured and extended very well within the community and was least because of difficulties associated to all energy products.
very well received by them.
with identifying, and then collecting the information required to verify, a customer In May 2012, SSE was ned 1.25m after Customers use of energy as being within the Super Priority Group.
being found guilty, at Guildford Crown Court, is continuing to decline on two counts out of seven relating to the SSE household customers have continued to Complementing CERT, the Community Energy use of direct sales aids in February 2009.
SSE reduce their use of energy, and on an actual Savings Programme CESP is an obligation recognises that a company of its standing and basis in 2011 12 SSE household customers placed on energy suppliers and electricity with its values should not have found itself in used, on average: generators to make savings in customers this position and various steps of which the homes by helping to install energy efficiency Sales Guarantee is one have been taken to 451 therms of gas, compared with measures.
The programme is designed to ensure that it does not do so again.
563 therms in the previous year: and ensure that suppliers work in the lower income 4,104kWh of electricity, compared areas and to incentivise a whole house Meanwhile, SSE is continuing to co-operate with 4,408kWh in the previous year.
While delivering with Ofgems investigation into whether it CESP is challenging, SSE now has 33 CESP complied with the new licence conditions to On a weather-corrected basis, average agreements in place for locations throughout govern sales processes introduced in 2009. household consumption of gas by SSEs England, Scotland and Wales.
customers has fallen by 21.5% in the five years SSE aims to gain customers through venue, since 2007 and consumption of electricity CERT and CESP will be superseded by the telephone, online and direct mail sales and has fallen by 16.7%.
The decline in energy Green Deal and Energy Company Obligation through customer advice activities: through consumption is expected to continue for ECO when they are introduced following extending its range of affinity partnerships, of the next few years.
the passage of the Energy Act 2011: which M&S Energy is one example: and through a series of commercially-focused sponsorships.
Falling consumption presents short-term issues the Green Deal is a new nancing in relation to the revenue that companies are mechanism for customers seeking to install It is also planning to launch later this year able to earn from supplying energy and in energy saving measures, featuring a Golden pilot networks of appointment-only and relation to the operation and development of Rule under which the expected financial salary-based smart energy advisers, starting plant for generating electricity.
Nevertheless, savings arising from the measures must be as a result of the underlying fall in energy equal to or greater than the costs attached consumption, households are less exposed to the energy bill: and to the impact of high unit prices than the ECO will replace the obligations they otherwise would be and the overall arising from CERT and CESP, with suppliers sustainability of supplies of gas and electricity expected to focus assistance on the poorest is improved.
These are very positive trends, and most vulnerable households and the which SSE welcomes.
hardest-to-treat properties, which may not be able to take advantage of the Green Deal.
Helping customers use less energy in the future In April 2012, SSE was one of 22 organisations As an energy supplier, SSE has obligations to sign an agreement with the UK government under the Carbon Emissions Reduction Target to work to become one of the first Green Deal CERT 2008-12 scheme to deliver energy providers, offering energy efficiency packages efficiency measures to households throughout to consumers when the scheme launches later Making energy better: Great Britain that deliver savings in CO this year.
The UK government has emphasised 2 Educating customers emissions.
In 2011 12, SSE funded the the importance of a good customer installation of cavity wall insulation in over experience from day one of the Green Were helping our customers 125,000 homes and loft insulation in over Deal, a point which SSE strongly endorses.
understand how they use energy 190,000 homes excluding DIY insulation, by providing the real-time and an increase of over 60% on last year.
Energy efficiency is also a key issue in Ireland historic information they need and 2013 will see the introduction there to become more energy efficient.
In August 2011, Ofgem published its Annual of an energy company-administered Pay As You Save programme.
Report on suppliers progress towards CERT Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 35 Helping vulnerable customers As a result of the underlying fall in energy In March 2012 Professor John Hills published the final report following his review of the fuel consumption, households are less exposed poverty denition and target commissioned by the Secretary of State for Energy and Climate to the impact of high unit prices than Change.
Under the existing denition, a household is classed as being in fuel poverty they otherwise would be and the overall if it would need to spend more than 10% of its income on fuel to keep its home warm enough.
sustainability of supplies of gas and Hills has proposed an alternative measurement electricity is improved.
framework focused directly on the overlap of high energy costs and low income.
Hills believes that the new framework will show the cost of mandatory environmental policy and regulatory decisions on energy that interventions targeted at the core of the and social schemes that energy suppliers production, distribution and consumption problem especially energy efficiency policies are required to fund: and also having a significant impact.
focused on low income households can make the wholesale cost of energy.
Following Hills final As part of its Building Trust initiative, report, the UK government has committed The decline in actual average consumption of SSE publishes an online tracker showing to the adoption of a revised approach to electricity and gas by SSEs household customers the relationship between the different measuring fuel poverty by the end of the year.
in Great Britain in 2011 12, compared with components of a typical dual fuel energy bill.
2010 11 means that despite the price increase The tracker shows the changing components SSE agrees with Hills assessment of the on 14 September a typical household of bills with the aim of explaining the rationale importance of energy efficiency, and the customer of SSE paid 1,118 for electricity and for pricing decisions see page 5, and successful deployment of measures under gas in the year to 31 March 2012 excluding www.
schemes like CERT and CESP, is an important VAT, down from 1,137 in the previous year.
In addition, SSE fulls three This illustrates the distinction between the price How people pay their energy bills other key responsibilities in order to help those A total of 61% of SSEs domestic electricity of a unit of energy and the amount customers of its customers who struggle to pay for their pay for heating and powering their homes.
and gas accounts across Great Britain and basic energy needs: Ireland are paid by direct debit or standing According to the UK governments statement order.
A further 12% are paid through giving financial assistance with energy pay-as-you-go or pre-payment meters in of Energy Trends in March 2012, for the period bills, helping over 400,000 customers July to December 2011, prices including tax Great Britain and the balance are on credit with a total of 46m in 2011 12: paid by medium domestic gas and electricity terms and settled by cheque or other such providing tailor-made payment customers in the UK were the lowest and payment methods.
arrangements, helping over 300,000 fourth lowest in the EU15 respectively.
customers who may be experiencing Keeping customers energy hardship and having difficulty in paying A typical SSE dual fuel bill from 26 March debt under control their energy bills: and 2012 is made up of: As at 31 March 2012, the total aged debt ie contacting more than 60,000 potentially debt that is overdue by more than six months vulnerable customers, helping them with distribution costs 23%: of SSEs domestic and small business electricity practical advice and support.
metering and customer service costs 8%: and gas customers in Great Britain and Ireland mandatory social and environmental was 88.3m, compared with 89.2m in March As in Great Britain, greater energy efficiency is costs 9%: 2011.
A bad debt-related charge to profits of seen as the most sustainable solution to issues VAT 5%: and 40.5m has been made.
This compares with relating to energy affordability in Ireland.
a charge of 47.4m in the previous year.
Retail energy bills in Great Britain This leaves SSE with a profit of around 5%.
The general economic climate means there SSE increased its prices for household gas As recently as 2008, energy costs accounted are significant debt management challenges, supply by 18% and household electricity for 55% of a typical dual fuel bill.
The fall to with the volume of work in this area for SSEs supply by 11% average on 14 September Customer Service division again increasing.
50% in 2012 shows the impact of distribution, 2011.
That was the first increase in household environmental and social costs on household SSE has officeand eld-based employees electricity prices for three years.
SSE was able energy bills.
The bills issued by SSE now who work with customers to resolve debt to cut the unit price of gas for household contain this breakdown.
They aim to help customers by customers by 4.5% on 26 March 2012. identifying as early as is practical when their SSE will not implement an increase in the price payments are in arrears and contacting them There are three upward pressures on of household electricity or gas before October as soon as possible to discuss the options household energy bills: 2012 at the earliest.
Beyond that, energy available to them.
This makes the situation prices for household customers will ultimately easier from both SSEs point of view and that the cost of using energy networks depend on what happens in wholesale of the customer and the benefit can be seen to distribute electricity and gas to electricity and gas markets, with public in the fact that debt which is less than three customers homes: SSE Annual Report 2012 36 Retail continued Market-based businesses complaints in the previous year and the the ways in which customers engage with SSE months old was 16.5% lower on 31 March 2012 than the year before and debt overdue 1,231 complaints in 2009 10. is undergoing further change and responding by four-to-six months was 6.3% lower.
to this is a key priority for 2012 13 and beyond.
Although SSE maintained its best-in-sector At the same time, the charges SSE makes Providing sector-leading position in customer service during 2011 12, service to customers it was a year in which the prole of the energy for energy will always be cost-reective.
This SSE continues to be independently and supply sector remained very high.
In total, means that any differences between prices consistently recognised as the customer SSEs energy supply customers in Great Britain available online and prices available through other channels will reect only the different service benchmark for the leading energy made almost 16 million calls excluding calls suppliers in Great Britain.
To provide customers handled by automated services to its teams cost of the transactions.
Among leading energy with the best possible value for money, SSE in Basingstoke, Cardiff, Cumbernauld, Havant suppliers, SSE has had the lowest differential believes that it needs to provide excellent and Perth during the year.
These conversations between its online and standard credit prices.
service, simple products and fair prices.
allow SSE to assess, consider and respond to customers concerns and, over time, adapt the In line with its Building Trust commitments, SSE SSEs position as the customer service services and products it provides accordingly.
has gone one step further and in October 2011 benchmark for the rest of the energy supply removed all differentials between its tariffs industry in Great Britain is illustrated by: The same applies in markets in Ireland online and offline.
This means that a customer and SSE is planning further investment in of SSE will have the same price for their energy, the UK Customer Satisfaction Index, customer services and training to deliver regardless of the sign-up method used.
SSE will published in July 2011, in which SSE sector leadership there also.
continue to offer a 1% discount to all customers achieved the top ranking in the utility who choose paperless billing, which reects sector for the fourth consecutive year: Making services available digitally the lower cost of providing this option.
com Energy Customer Web and email are now rmly established as the second most common means of SSE believes that its approach helps make Satisfaction Awards, announced in November 2011, in which SSE won the communication with the Company used tariffs simpler and energy prices across all of Overall Customer Satisfaction category by SSEs customers.
Around 26% of SSEs its customers fairer.
It continues to believe the for the eighth time in a row.
Altogether, transactions with customers now take place much larger differentials maintained by other using digital channels.
suppliers should be the subject of the most SSE won eight of the 11 categories: the J. D. Power and Associates 2011 UK detailed investigation by Ofgem.
Electricity and Gas Supplier Customer Moreover, SSEs customers in the Great Britain Satisfaction Study, in which SSE brands and Ireland markets now have 1.7 million Developing new energy products and services topped both the electricity and gas digitally-billed accounts, up from 1.3 in the supplier rankings: and year before.
Such customers can view their The competitive energy supply market in Great the energy complaints league table, account and payment history, submit meter Britain spurred companies to develop and published by Consumer Focus in March 2012, readings and receive an up-to-date balance deploy an ever-increasing number of features and options around the core commodities of in which SSE achieved a five star rating with on their account, make secure payments on the lowest number of customer complaints their account and other such services.
This led critics to say that to Ombudsman Services: Energy, Consumer customers had become bamboozled by the Direct and contacts with Consumer Focus The popularity of e-services such as paperless complexities that resulted from this.
SSE is the only company to billing is likely to continue to increase rapidly achieve a five star rating and has topped the over the next few years.
Enabling customers As part of its Building Trust initiative, SSE has league table since it began in April 2010. to carry out more transactions using digital responded to this by introducing, in February channels if they so choose, is now one of SSEs 2012, a  range of During 2011 12, there were 896 SSE-related top customer service priorities and significant energy tariffs which will meet the needs of complaints to the following third party investment is being made in this and in services the vast majority of customers, featuring: organisations: the Ombudsman Services: to customers generally.
In this context, the development of mobile apps and social media four core products two with a variable Energy, Consumer Focus and Consumer Direct.
This was a reduction from the 1,161 channels such as Twitter and Facebook mean price and two with a xed price: Making energy better: Zero-carbon living In Slough weve built ten highly efficient homes to better understand customers needs in the future as the UK moves to reduce carbon emissions by 80% by 2050.
Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 37 in which electricity and gas are used In response to SSEs tariff simplification, to become more sustainable.
The way in which people live is also changing uSwitch.
com said: Yet again, SSE is setting and, in line with that, SSE completed a development of 10 zero-carbon homes the pace for the rest of the industry, this on a browneld site in Slough in 2010.
They feature triple glazing, mechanical time unveiling its plans to simplify its ventilation systems, solar PV tiles, solar thermal panels and an energy centre products and prices while Ofgem is still with a biomass boiler and a ground-source heat pump and conform to the highest consulting on its own proposals.
specication for sustainable building, Code 6 in the Code for Sustainable Homes.
five simple questions to enable customers the foundation stage to enable the energy The homes have been occupied throughout to nd the best deal: industry to build and test all the systems the period since, allowing information to be a new price comparison metric to enable needed to start the roll-out, ensure positive gathered about how householders adapt customers to see the relative cost of each customer engagement and deliver energy and respond to zero-carbon living.
The main tariff: and savings and to enable the UK government findings so far are that: the same availability online, face-to-face to establish the Data Communications Company, on which a consultation was or over the telephone.
residents like zero-carbon homes launched in February 2012, to manage which, despite the extensive renewable This fulls two key principles: smart meter communications: and and energy efficiency measures, feel the roll-out stage, between 2014 and 2019, very normal: simplicity for the customer who is concerned during which the meters themselves will due to enhanced insulation and triple only or mainly about price: and be installed in most households.
This has glazing, residents hear very little choice for the customer who is more to be a positive experience for customers, external noise: concerned about features and products.
and there is evidence from elsewhere that the homes have used less electricity and customers can be hostile to smart meter less hot water than expected but more To achieve this simplication, SSE removed installation programmes.
space heating than expected but net the no standing charge option from all of its energy costs were less than half that products, with all new customers being placed SSE sees its role in the smart meter roll-out of a traditionally-built home: and on a tariff consisting of: as a service provider, operating within the the integration of four different renewable framework set by the UK government for heating technologies into one energy a standing charge which covers a proportion issues like technical standards, data access centre has required time to commission of the xed costs in a customers bill: and and security.
In line with this, and its and optimise.
a single unit price for all units consumed.
measured and realistic approach to the roll-out, SSEs priority is to make substantive Final conclusions from the zero-carbon homes In response to SSEs tariff simplication, progress on the necessary IT systems to will be prepared when the initial trial period uSwitch.
com said: Yet again SSE is setting support the wider roll-out, without making is completed, which is expected to be in late the pace for the rest of the industry, this time commitments that may prove to be 2012.
Those conclusions will help inform unveiling its plans to simplify its products and mis-placed as the roll-out plan gets under way.
future developments in the decarbonisation prices while Ofgem is still consulting on its This means that, under its own programme, of the energy sector.
it had installed just 2,500 smart meters in own proposals.
customers homes by the end of March 2012, Energy Supply priorities Preparing for the roll-out as opposed to the hundreds of thousands in 2012 13 and beyond of smart meters installed by one other supplier, many of which do not conform to the technical specication Energy supply in Great Britain is expected During 2012 13, and beyond, SSEs priorities to be transformed by the installation of issued by the UK government in March 2012. in Energy Supply are to: around 53 million smart energy meters in around 30 million homes and businesses.
Fundamentally, SSE believes that the smart deliver fair prices, simple products They will enable the quantity and value meter roll-out is something which should and excellent service to customers: of electricity and gas used by the customer be started well and completed successfully, continue to build customers trust to be continuously monitored and allow rather than started too quickly and burdened in energy supply: information about its use and cost to be by problems before completion.
deliver energy efficiency programmes: available to the customer and exchanged make substantive preparations for the with the supplier, through two-way electronic In Ireland, installation of smart meters will roll-out of smart meters and related communications.
be the responsibility of network companies.
developments: and maintain progress in providing SSE supports the two-phase approach to Delivering zero-carbon homes additional services through digital the smart meter roll-out which has been Smart meters are one example of change in channels.
adopted, featuring: the energy sector designed to help the way
