Board of Directors N 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 a 3.5 3.6 3.7 3.8 Brief biographical details of the Stagecoach Group Board of Directors are provided below.
Information on corporate governance, including the operation of the Board of Directors, is given in section 5 of this Annual Report.
3.9 a Executive Directors 3.1 Sir Brian Souter 3.2 Martin Grif ths Position: Chief Executive Position: Finance Director Appointment to the Board: n a co-founder Appointment to the Board: 2000 Age: 58 Age: 46 Committee Membership: None.
Committee Membership: Pension Oversight and Health, Safety and Environmental.
External appointments: Chairman, Souter Investments.
External appointments: Virgin Rail Group Co-Chairman, Previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, Sir Brian a Robert Walters plc Senior Independent Non-Executive co-founded Stagecoach, Scottish company of the year 2012.
Director, AG Barr plc Non-Executive Director.
Sir Brian was named UK Master Entrepreneur of the Y ear at the 2010 Ernst & Y oung Entrepreneur of the Y ear Awards and, Previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, Martin in 2012, became the first public transport entrepreneur to Grif ths is a member and former Chairman of the Group be inducted into the British Travel Industry Hall of Fame.
of Scottish Finance Directors and former Director of Troy Income & Growth Trust plc, Trainline Holdings Limited, Road Executive responsibilities: Sir Brian is the architect of the King Infrastructure HK Limited and Citybus HK Limited.
He Groups strategy and philosophy.
He has extensive knowledge was young Scottish Finance Director of the year in 2004. of the ground transportation industry around the world and is responsible for managing all of the Groups operations.
Executive responsibilities: Martin Grif ths is responsible for the Groups overall financial policy, taxation, treasury, employee bene ts and pensions management.
He supports the Chief Executive in all aspects of the management of the Groups operation and new business development.
page 26 | Stagecoach Group plc 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:47 Page 27 Non-Executive Directors 3.3 Sir George Mathewson 3.6 Garry Watts MBE Position: Non-Executive Chairman Position: Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Appointment to the Board: 2006 Appointment to the Board: 2007 Age: 72 Age: 55 Committee Membership: Nomination.
Committee Membership: Audit Chair, Remuneration 3 and Nomination.
External Appointments: Cheviot Asset Management Chairman, Shawbrook Bank Chairman, Arrow Global External appointments: Spire Healthcare Limited Executive Limited Chairman, DBRS Inc Board member.
Chariman, GADA Group Limited Chairman, BTG Limited Chairman, Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc Non-Executive Director.
Previous Experience: Former Chairman of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc.
Former Chief Executive of the Scottish Previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, Garry Watts is Development Agency now Scottish Enterprise.
Former Director a former Chief Executive of SSL International plc, Non-Executive of Scottish Investment Trust plc.
Former Member of the Board of Director of Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency Directors of the Institute of International Finance.
Former Member and Protherics plc and Executive Director of Celltech plc.
Former of the Financial Reporting Council.
Former Chairman of Wood Finance Director of Medeva plc and partner with KPMG.
Former Chairman of Council of Economic Advisers.
Past President of the International Monetary Conference.
3.7 Helen Mahy Position: Non-Executive Director 3.4 Ewan Brown CBE Appointment to the Board: 2010 Position: Non-Executive Director Age: 51 Appointment to the Board: 1988 Committee Membership: Health, Safety Age: 70 and Environmental Chair, Audit.
Committee Membership: Pension Oversight Chair External appointments: National Grid plc Group and Nomination.
Company Secretary and General Counsel, member of Executive External appointments: Noble Grossart Holdings Ltd Committee, advisory Board member of Opportunity Now.
Non-Executive Director, Royal Society of Edinburgh Previous experience: Former Non-Executive Director of Treasurer, Senior Governor of St Andrew University Aga Rangemaster Group plc and Group General Counsel and Deputy Chair of the Edinburgh International Festival.
Company Secretary of Babcock International Group PLC.
Previous experience: Executive Director of Noble Grossart until 2003, a former Chairman of Lloyds TSB Scotland, Non- 3.8 Phil White CBE Executive Director of Wood Group and Lloyds Banking Position: Non-Executive Director Group, Chairman of Creative Scotland 2009 Ltd.
Appointment to the Board: 2010 Age: 62 3.5 Ann Gloag OBE S Committee Membership: Audit, Remuneration Chair Position: Non-Executive Director and Health, Safety and Environmental.
Appointment to the Board: n a co-founder External appointments: Lookers plc Non-Executive Age: 69 Chairman, Kier Group plc Non-Executive Chairman, Committee Membership: Health, Safety and Environmental.
Unite Group plc Non-Executive Chairman, Electricity External appointments: Mercy Ships International Board Member.
North West Limited Non-Executive Chairman.
Previous experience: Ann Gloag co-founded Stagecoach Previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, Phil White served and served as executive director until 2000. as Chief Executive of National Express Group plc from 1997 to 2006.
3.9 Will Whitehorn Position: Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board: 2011 Age: 52 Committee Membership: Remuneration, Nomination.
External Appointments: Speed Communications Chairman, Scottish Exhibition Centre Limited Non-Executive Director, ILN Group Limited Non-Executive Director.
Member of the First Minister of Scotlands GlobalScot Business mentoring network and member of Writtle Holdings Limited Advisory Board.
Member of the Science Technology Facilities Council STFC and Chair of the Economic Impact Advisory Board of STFC and Non-Executive Director of STFC Innovations Limited.
Previous Experience: Former President of Virgin Galactic and Brand Development and Corporate Affairs Director at Virgin Group.
Former Non-Executive Chairman of Next Fifteen Communications Group plc.
