Health & Safety Health and Safety continues to be a key performance indicator within the business, with the past year recording a marked improvement in the safety performance record.
Over the year trends in the business show continuous improvement, with the accident incident frequency rate further reducing from 0.53 in 2011 down to 0.16 in 2012 fostered by Stobart Groups positive safety initiatives.
Management Safety Training Unifying Safety Policy at Stobart Air Ongoing training of Operational Managers ensures that, in the Work has also been undertaken within the Stobart Air division to event of an incident, those responsible for effective situational define and implement a full, dedicated Safety Management control and subsequent reporting have the necessary skill sets to System at London Southend Airport.
The new system takes into discharge their roles effectively.
More than 90 of the Groups First account the wide-ranging needs of the Airside, Terminal and Rail Line Operational Managers have now received Institute of Station operations in a rapidly expanding business environment.
Occupational Safety and Health IOSH Managing Safely training.
Adoption of the SMS formed a critical key step in enabling Stobart 90 Operational Managers and support staff have also received Air to launch passenger operations in February 2012.
Work continues across the organisation to positively influence Engaging Employees in the Safety Culture accident and incident performance by reinforcing the Near-Miss The Group continues to recognise that involving and engaging Reporting Initiative through a focus on proactive risk management, with its workforce at every level leads to a positive Health & Safety rather than reactive accident management.
This ethos of engagement was clearly demonstrated by been produced and distributed throughout the Stobart Group site the response to the 2011 Stobart Group Employee Survey, where network, providing personnel with the opportunity to record and two-thirds of employees completed and returned their forms.
report situations which they believe present an element of risk.
Survey results demonstrated that employees consider Stobart Group to be providing them with a safe working environment, Health and Safety Achievement Award excellent working conditions and a commitment to environmental Eddie Stobart was proud to receive the 2011 Best Health and Safety responsibilities that significantly improves on statutory minimum Achievement in Transport and Logistics Award at the prestigious standards.
The Group received incredible feedback from SHP IOSH Awards Ceremony in London, beating stiff opposition employees with regards to Health & Safety: we take great pride in from the UKs leading names in transport and logistics, including the continuous development and improvement of safety standards Virgin Trains and CityLink.
The award for the Groups Stop, Think, and the overall welfare of our employees.
campaign provided the ideal illustration of our common-sense approach to safety issues.
Advanced Safety Software Further reinforcing the Groups core commitment to Health & Safety Initiatives Safety, the Executive Board has procured industry-leading RIVO Eddie Stobarts successful Stop, Think, Act!
campaign was taken Safeguard Health & Safety management software.
This system to the next level with a national Stobart Group poster campaign provides operatives with a reporting and control tool for all which directly addressed major accident trends identified in 2011. personal injury incidents, whilst effectively managing identified Developed around engaging caricature images, the posters non-conformances and aiding in the implementation of targeted drivers in a way that reinforced short, sharp messages appropriate future preventative actions.
RIVO Safeguard has also that would be both remembered and acted upon.
been adopted as a tool to manage Stobart Groups Health & Safety audit and inspection programme, enabling efficient Health & Safety procedures within Eddie Stobart benefit from a management and reporting, and providing trend analysis data Positive Performance Pyramid scoring mechanism that across the organisation.
encompasses all Health & Safety performance factors.
Fully endorsed by the Executive Board, the Pyramid ensures that every Stobart Groups Health & Safety Audit Programme continues to Manager and Supervisor remains vigilant of the impact their role ensure that each site receives at least one full audit every year.
has on Health & Safety, whilst minimising unnecessary extra work Each audit reviews all statutory Health & Safety requirements, involved in applying H&S best practice.
as well as internal company controls: ensuring a consistent, controlled approach that helps deliver continuous compliance.
Figures arrived at by dividing the number of RIDDORS by the number of hours worked x100,000.
Annual Site Audits are supplemented by bi-monthly inspections A RIDDOR is an incident, near-miss or work-related illness which is defined as reportable under which focus closely on major legislative requirements, whilst the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations, 1995. reinforcing consistency of approach throughout the Group.
