Divisional Structure Stobart Stobart Stobart Group Air Biomass Stobart Air is operator at two complementary facilities, London The launch of Stobart Biomass Products has represented a Employing around 5,600 people at more than 50 sites Southend Airport LSA and Carlisle Lake District Airport.
The pivotal move into a rapidly developing new business sector for across the UK, Stobart Group is a FTSE 250 listed Group intends to grow Stobart Air significantly following the the Group.
Stobart Biomass sources sustainable biomass, company that is both highly successful, and one of the completion of development at London Southend Airport.
LSA primarily life-expired timber and low-grade softwood for the countrys best known businesses.
Stobart Group is has developed new routes with major operators including generation of minimum-carbon power plants utilised both in easyJet with the ultimate aim of servicing over two million large-scale electricity generation and smaller, on-site industrial a key national leader in the multimodal logistics, passengers annually.
warehousing and biomass fuel sectors, as well as The Group is also pursuing air freight, maintenance and airport A significant percentage of the cost of biomass fuel relates to operating in the property development, port, airport service opportunities at LSA, including airport retail, private transport and logistics.
When coupled with the fact that and civil engineering sectors.
facilities, lounges and fees generated from the rail terminal, importation of biomass is already on the increase, the Group which provides up to eight services an hour direct to London believes that there are significant benefits and synergies between Stobart Air is operator of both the London Southend Liverpool Street.
Stobart Biomass and the Groups road, rail and port assets.
and Carlisle Lake District Airports.
Stobart Biomass reflects the Groups emphasis on sustainability, supplying environmentally responsible fuels for lowcarbon electricity generation.
At the heart of the Groups offering is Stobart Transport and Distribution which operates Eddie Stobart, the iconic name behind around 5,400 vehicles and trailers.
Alongside an existing holding of around 6m sq.
ft of premium quality warehousing within this division, the last year has seen a further 275,000 sq.
ft warehouse added to the business at Magna Park, allowing for growth of existing customer demands.
We continue to improve on our utilisation across the sites and are focusing heavily on implementing new business wins to the sites.
The comprehensive multimodal service package is completed by the Groups highly successful rail freight services.
Stobart Estates forms the holding company for the Groups large property portfolio.
Property assets are made up of a combination of sites utilised by the business, plus commercial holdings that comprise a broad spectrum of sites ranging from ultra-premium quality offices in central London through retail parks to light industrial and warehousing locations.
Finally Stobart Infrastructure & Civil Engineering delivers a comprehensive package of services centred on maintenance and improvement of the United Kingdom rail network and the construction of high quality industrial, commercial and transport facilities.
It supplies services both for the Group itself, and for some of the UKs leading businesses.
Although Stobart Transport & Distribution still represents over 90% of the businesss turnover, the Group has diversified in recent years through the acquisition of, inter alia, further transport businesses, airports, a Biomass fuel supply business and other Operations Operations property-related investments.
These new areas of activity will form increasingly important profit and Airport Operations Material Sourcing revenue streams for the Group in years to come.
Private Handling Material Processing Airport Retail Biomass Logistics Airside Services Biomass Exports Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 11 Stobart Stobart Stobart Infrastructure Transport & Distribution Estates & Civil Engineering This division includes all of the forms of transport, storage and Stobart Estates owns a diverse portfolio of properties, ranging Incorporating Stobart Rail Infrastructure and Civil handling services provided by the Group in the UK, Ireland from prestige retail sites through light industrial buildings and Engineering, this division delivers both the internal and and Europe, encompassing multimodal services provided distribution centres to premium office spaces.
Stobart Groupexternal infrastructure and development projects carried through road, rail and ports.
Stobart Transport & Distribution occupied property held under the Estates division includes out by the Group.
includes the operations of Eddie Stobart, the UKs leading airports and a waterway port in addition to a network of Stobart Rail Infrastructure is one of the UKs leading names logistics brand.
offices, warehouse sites and depots utilised by Eddie Stobart.
in rail network maintenance, repair and improvement.
With 5,400 vehicles and trailers and around six million Estates is also responsible for the management, development The Civil Engineering operation is responsible for the square feet of warehousing, Stobart Transport & Distribution and realisation of all Group land and building assets.
development and improvement of the Groups property meets ambient and chilled distribution and warehousing Performance of this division is monitored by regular holdings.
requirements, as well as controlling the Groups Ports independent third party valuations of investment properties in operation and the long running and successful Rail Freight the same way that any stand-alone property asset company services operated in the UK and now Europe.
Operations Operations Operations UK & International Road Transport Industrial Assets Rail Engineering Warehousing Office Property Civil Engineering Port Operations Retail Assets Infrastructure Development Rail Freight Development Specialist Plant Hire Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 12 Operational & Financial Review Ben Whawell I Chief Financial Officer The Group raised 115m via a placing in May 2011 which is being strategically invested to balance the business.
Initial returns from these investments have resulted in earnings per share being maintained at 9.0p.
Results Taxation Group revenue increased to 551.9m from 500.4m in the previous The tax charge of 1.3m 2011: 6.2m is at an effective rate of 4.4% year.
Underlying profit before tax was 35.2m compared to 34.5m 2011: 21.1%.
The effective rate has been reduced by 3.1m due in 2011 and recorded profit before tax rose to 30.5m from 29.5m to the impact of the change in corporation tax rate on the deferred in 2011. tax balances and by 3.1m due to the impact of utilisation of losses brought forward on which deferred tax was not recognised.
The Group has restructured its business segments in line with the new business structure that was announced in the Annual Report last May.
The new business segments are Stobart Air, Stobart Statement of Financial Position Biomass, Stobart Transport & Distribution, Stobart Estates and Stobart We have a strengthened balance sheet with net assets increased Infrastructure & Civil Engineering.
The 2011 figures have been to 472.7m 2011: 331.7m principally due to the Placing in the restated in line with these new segments further details are year and profits taken to reserves.
provided in Note 5 to the financial statements.
Reporting under the new segments should allow investors more easily to value the Non-current Assets different parts of the business.
Property, plant and equipment increased to 280.6m 2011: Earnings Per Share 237.7m principally due to the capital developments at London Southend Airport.
Investment properties increased to 99.6m Basic earnings per share were unchanged at 9.0p taking into 2011: 2.0m due to the acquisition of WADI Properties Limited account the weighted average number of shares in the period and a site at Appleton Thorn.
increased to 325.1m shares from 257.9m, principally due to the placing of new shares in May 2011 and a materially lower tax charge.
Operating Revenue m PBT m Cashflow m EPS pence 551.9 35.2 57.6 9.0 2011 500.4 2011 34.5 2011 27.7 2011 9.0 Profit Before Tax Earnings Per Ordinary Share Comprising the underlying operating profit of Basic earnings per share.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 13 Ben Whawell, Chief Financial Officer Stobart Gr Stobart Group oup Annual Report 20 Annual Report 201 12 2 14 14 Operational & Financial Review The balance of commercial vehicles held has reduced to Cash received from disposal of property, plant and equipment 26.6m from 49.2m as most of the truck replacements in the was 44.8m 2011: 10.5m.
This includes 22.7m for the disposal year have been taken on operating leases.
However, we still of the Magna Park property and 22.1m in relation to disposals retain the residual protection with manufacturers guaranteed of commercial vehicles.
The Group raised 114.5m from the placing in May 2011 and there Investments in associates and joint ventures has reduced to are currently 354.0m ordinary shares in issue.
1.1m 2011: 30.8m following the acquisition of the Interest paid in cash totalled 4.4m 2011: 5.6m and interest remaining 50% of the shares in Stobart Biomass Products Ltd received totalled 2.0m 2011: 0.9m.
which was previously classified as a joint venture.
The Dividends paid totalled 17.6m 2011: 15.9m reflecting an remaining associates and joint ventures represent interests in increased number of shares but the same annual dividend rate of property related entities.
Intangible assets increased to 281.5m 2011: 231.3m following the acquisitions in the year.
Included in intangible The Future assets are our brand names, trademarks and designs which are carried in the accounts at cost of 60.0m and which have been The diversified business structure forms a great platform for future recently independently valued at 179.4m.
The operations at London Southend Airport will create significant value as passenger numbers increase at the airport.
Funding The long-term contracts being negotiated in Stobart Biomass will The net debt of the Group has increased to 166.0m 2011: generate strong, sustainable income streams in future years.
The net debt includes a new bank loan of 87.7m Transport & Distribution has maintained impressive margins for acquired with the Moneypenny portfolio, which is a non-recourse its sector and reacted quickly to adverse market conditions by facility and new loan notes of 7.8m in connection with the implementing improved real-time systems and restructuring acquisition of Stobart Biomass Products Limited.
operations as a result of them.
The new structure gives this The net cash has increased to 31.0m 20112: 3.9m and division the base for more efficiencies and future growth.
overdrafts reduced to 4.6m 2011: 35.9m due to the remaining Estates will continue to deliver the value from our assets which it cash from the placing in May 2011. has demonstrated in the current year.
There remains 30m available on the 100m facility with M&G Stobart Infrastructure & Civil Engineering will support and manage UK Companies Financing Fund.
our ongoing developments without showing any returns until the The finance lease liabilities have decreased to 28.8m 2011: sale of the asset.
45.0m as most of the vehicle replacements which were funded using finance leases are taken on operating leases.
Dividends The gearing ratio is 35.1% 2011: 47.1% and the gearing ratio ignoring fleet financing is 29.0% 2011: 33.5%.
As indicated at the interims, the Board proposes a final dividend of 4p 2011: 4p reflecting the normal one third two thirds split bringing the total dividend for the year to 6p 2011: 6p.
Cashflow Cash generated from operations was 57.6m 2011: 27.7m.
The increase is due to a stronger focus on working capital management reducing debtor days and in some cases extending supplier payment terms.
Cash outflow for capital expenditure in the year totalled 93.4m 2011: 55.4m.
This includes development expenditure at London Ben Whawell I Chief Financial Officer I 18 May 2012 Southend Airport of 56.2m mainly for the new terminal, runway and aircraft stands.
Other significant items include purchase of a property at Magna Park for 16.0m which was subsequently sold in the year and purchase of a property at Appleton Thorn for 6.0m.
Gearing ratio: The gearing ratio is calculated as a percentage of net debt to net assets.
The gearing ratio ignoring fleet financing is a percentage of net debt excluding obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts to net assets.
Notes for the Divisional Financial Information: Profit Before Tax PBT : Comprising the underlying operating profit less share based payments, less finance costs plus finance income.
Note to EBITDA for the disclosure of financial information: EBITDA is normalised comprising the underlying operating profit, less share-based payments, less finance costs, plus finance income.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 15 2012 In the first trading year Biomass supplied 441k tonnes of low carbon biomass fuel, delivering a profit of 1.2m.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 16 Operational & Financial Review Case Study easyJet The UKs largest airline, easyJet celebrated its inaugural flight from London Southend Airport.
The first flight left for Belfast on-time, followed by flights to Barcelona and Amsterdam during the course of the day.
Catherine Lynn, easyJets Customer and Revenue Director, commented We are delighted to be checking-in our first passengers from London Southend this morning.
We have worked hand-in-hand with the airport for many months to make this a great passenger experience.
We are confident that more than 800,000 passengers will enjoy the fast, convenient and friendly experience of travelling from London Southend over the next year.
The airline now flies daily from London Southend Airport, with passengers having a choice of over 70 flights per week to ten European destinations including Amsterdam, Barcelona and Malaga.
A ski route to Geneva has also recently been announced.
LSA is easyJets eleventh UK base and has brought three new Airbus A319 aircraft and over 150 employees to the airport.
Speaking on the day of the inaugural flights Alastair Welch, London Southend Airports MD commented with 100 million invested, 500 new jobs created and ten exciting new routes from easyJet, we are gearing up to reach 100 flights a week from the airport this summer.
These first scheduled services by easyJet mark a new beginning for the airport, and it is a very proud day for the entire team.
Pictured: The inaugural easyJet flight from Southend.
Catherine Lynn, easyJet Customer & Revenue Director, far left, and Carolyn McCall, easyJet CEO, centre, with some of the Southend-based crew.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 17 Stobart Air Performance Revenue for the Air division was 8.8m 2011: 6.8m and underlying loss before tax was 0.4m 2011: 0.2m profit.
London Southend Airport has had a very busy year and is on target We have written off one-off pre-contract costs of 1.1m in relation to achieve two million passengers annually earlier than the forecast to training and referencing staff in advance of the launch of the 2020.
Construction of the new control tower, rail station, phase one easyJet operation.
These costs are separately disclosed items in passenger terminal and runway extension have all been completed the income statement and the new facilities opened at the end of the financial year.
The airport is ideally placed to benefit from the 2012 Games with Critically, in addition to Aer Lingus Regional services and charter additional aircraft parking facilities to be completed in May and flights by Jet2, easyJet has opened a new base for three aircraft at excellent connectivity through as many as eight trains an hour Southend.
As a result we predict almost one million passengers to from our on-site rail station running to the games main venue fly through the airport over the next year.
Flights currently operate in Stratford.
In addition, the new 129 bedroom Holiday Inn to thirteen destinations including Barcelona, Amsterdam, Faro and branded airport hotel is on schedule to open in time for the Belfast, with new routes commencing to Dublin, Geneva and global sporting event.
Venice in the coming year.
Looking to the future, construction of the passenger terminal extension is scheduled for the latter part of 2012.
This phase two development will see it more than double in size, ensuring high levels of passenger service are maintained as the airport develops.
At Carlisle Airport, a revised planning application has been submitted and we await the decision in Summer 2012.
In the meantime we have reduced costs of the ongoing airport operation.
Air Financial Highlights and KPIs Air 2012 Operational Highlights Key airport facilities completed by year end.
Aer Arann passenger operations to Waterford commence Revenue m from London Southend and a ten year partnership with easyJet announced.
All concession agreements at LSA in place.
2011 6.8 8.8 Carlisle Lake District Airport operational team reorganised to match the requirements of the airport.
Planning for Carlisle Lake District Airport re-submitted, with a decision expected during June 2012.
EBITDA m Air Three Year Aspirations 2011 0.4 0.2 Development: Terminal extension commences late 2012, with the new hangar and larger car park completed by 2015 year end.
LSA Flights: easyJet and Aer Lingus Regional commence a number of international flights from the airport early in 2012 financial year.
Additional routes and strategic partners are targeted through to 2015.
PBT m LSA Passengers: A total of over one million passengers projected for the first full year rising to over two million by 2015.
Carlisle Lake District Airport: Development work commences on airport 2011 0.2 0.4 in 2012, projected for completion by 2013 year end.
Further development opportunities to be exploited through 2015.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 18 Operational & Financial Review Stobart Biomass Performance Revenue for the Biomass division was 8.4m 2011: nil and underlying profit before tax was 1.2m 2011: nil.
On 19 May 2011 the Group acquired the remaining 50% of the Over the past year, Stobart Biomass has also increased its export voting rights of Stobart Biomass Products Limited for 18.2m routes and product range, securing new contracts with European comprising 11.0m loan notes and 5.8m ordinary shares with a companies for the supply of materials such as RCF, recycled fibre value of 1.24 each.
and RDF, which is refuse-derived fuel.
Stobart Biomass Products Limited is now a wholly owned division Although much of the European supply is delivered by specially situated within the Group structure.
chartered cargo ships, Stobart Biomass also utilises the Eddie Stobart International fleet for exporting a large volume of product Stobart Biomass is continuing to develop its own material supply by road to northern Europe.
network into the existing UK contracts, utilising the Eddie Stobart fleet of walking floor and chipliner vehicles for transport.
The 2012 financial year saw increased UK sales of both recycled and forestry residue products.
This growth is confidently projected to continue as we negotiate future long-term contracts for the supply of biomass to the UKs rapidly expanding commercial, industrial and domestic markets.
Biomass Financial Highlights and KPIs Biomass 2012 Operational Highlights Achieved sales of 441,000 tonnes in the year, with export sales of 242,000 tonnes, or 55% of total volume.
Revenue m UK sales included 180,000 tonnes of arboricultural arisings into EPR Thetford, SSE Slough and AW Jenkinson contracts.
RCF and RDF sales into existing UK facilties increased to 2011 Nil 19,000 tonnes in the year.
8.4 UK Government confirmed the long-term principles of the Renewables Obligation Certificates ROC regime leading to increased contract negotiation activity in the year.
EBITDA m Biomass Three Year Aspirations 2011 Nil 1.3 Sales Projections: Plan to contract up to four million tonnes on long-term contracts by 2015 with supply also commencing on the majority of these during the period.
UK Market: RDF sales commence during 2013 with an initial 80,000 PBT m tonnes per annum contract.
Looking forward to 2015 a number of major UK biomass energy plants come on-stream, including Stobart Groups own Widnes biomass facility.
2011 Nil 1.2 New Markets: Stobart Biomass is contracted to supply 260,000 tonnes of virgin wood to a major paperboard manufacturer.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 19 Case Study Refuse-Derived Fuel Over the past year Stobart Biomass has introduced a variety of new fuel products, key amongst these is the supply of RDF Refuse-Derived Fuel to markets in the UK and Europe.
Our RDF comprises waste collected from the Liverpool-Manchester area that would otherwise be going to landfill.
This material is processed for use as a valuable energy source for the European Cement industry and new Energy from Waste plants Bringing this fuel to market has taken the company and its two manufacturing partners over 12 months in research and development and an investment of over 1.5 million in specialised RDF processing and baling equipment.
During this time the Biomass sales team were hard at work developing Europe-wide contacts and an initial customer base centred on the marketing of baled product.
This key front line groundwork resulted in an annual order of 30,000 tonnes.
Following a few minor initial commissioning issues, Stobart Biomass started to see the project coming together.
Several weeks of maximum production aimed at building-up a stock then followed ahead of the arrival of our first designated RDF transport ship.
A gruelling 36 hours of loading saw our first shipment of RDF bales leave Garston Docks at Liverpool bound for Denmark.
The experience gained in identifying a fresh new fuel market, developing a quality fuel product and then bringing it successfully to market has opened doors to a substantial body of potential new customers both in the UK and internationally.
The possibility of shipments expanding to several loads per month from Garston and other UK ports is already developing for the new financial year.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 20 Operational & Financial Review Stobart Transport & Distribution Performance Revenue for the Transport & Distribution division was 519.5m 2011: 475.3m and underlying profit before tax reduced to 27.4m 2011: 34.2m.
Revenue growth has been driven by new and renewed contracts, In addition, the profitability of the division has been affected by including the new contract for Tesco grocery at the Daventry rail fluctuating customer order volumes caused by a high level of retail terminal, a full year of our Britvic contract and growth in transport promotions and also by reduced volumes in our chilled fleet and work for Stobart Biomass.
11.4m of the revenue increase can be reduced utilisation of our warehouses.
The division has refocused attributed to fuel price increases passed on to customers.
This has a on cost efficiency and profitability and has implemented two major 0.2% downward impact on margins.
initiatives during the year: We have incurred cost increases of circa 4m, which have not been fully recovered through rate increases, mainly due to the increase in our customers costs.
Transport & Distribution Financial Highlights and KPIs Transport & Distribution 2012 Operational Highlights Ambient fleet restructured into manageable units.
Ambient depot network reviewed and driver mix optimised.
Revenue m Ambient volume growth consolidated.
New operational fleet management tool known as TimeBased Planning introduced.
2011 475.3 New Bellshill chilled site comes on-stream for a major 519.5 customer.
Consolidation and reorganisation underway of chilled operation.
ISO 9001 quality management accreditation achieved throughout all warehousing sites.
2011 53.0 44.7 Transport & Distribution Three Year Aspirations Structure: Account management to be reorganised.
Chilled network PBT m reorganisation and restructuring.
Environmental: Full proving and, if successful, large-scale, introduction of the new extended Enviro-Trailers.
Development confirmation for low carbon and fuel efficiency programmes, including use of biofuels, dual fuel 2011 34.2 27.4 vehicles and further improvement of SAFED driving standards amongst the drivers.
Extension of ongoing drive for road-to-rail modal-shift with both existing and new customers.
Skill base: Further improvement of workforce skilling through the Management Development Programme and First Line Management training initiatives.
Efficiency: Rolling improvement of warehouse network utilisation levels and development of capabilities to deliver additional services.
Ongoing drive to reduce costs and waste from the Division, delivering further improved efficiency and achieving better returns.
Marketing: Identification and development of new markets and potential Earnings Before Tax, Interest, Depreciation and Amortisation: Of the movement in EBITDA, customers.
Introduction of a Stobart Driver franchising programme.
3.7m relates to movement in accounting from hire purchase to operating lease.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 21 Case Study Valencia Rail Service Following an initial service in 2010 during which the concept was developed, Stobart Rail relaunched its innovative fresh service from Valencia, Spain to Barking in London in October 2011, enabling customers to access a cost-effective, time-efficient, low-carbon importation solution.
The seasonal weekly service provides a low carbon alternative for customers importing fresh produce from the growing regions of southern Spain.
The service is based around a series of chilled containers which are filled at suppliers sites before being transported to Valencia by Eddie Stobart for loading onto the dedicated train at the railhead.
The new rail route not only cuts congestion on Europes road network but, at 50 hours duration, is faster than an equivalent journey by lorry and improves the shelf life of the mostly fruit and vegetable products carried, cutting costs and food wastage.
The service is also considerably more environmentally friendly than a similar road service: reducing annual CO2 emissions by 5,502 tonnes and cutting 6.92 million kilometres of road journeys per year.
The 2011 service was also successful in gaining significant funding from the European Unions Marco Polo fund, another first in Stobarts promotion of the modal shift of freight from road to rail.
Customer volumes for the 2011 2012 season have also increased compared to 2010.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 22 Operational & Financial Review We have greatly improved the timeliness and detail of our As a consequence of our improved management information, in business information which allows us to pinpoint where we are the second half of the year we restructured the ambient fleet losing time and money within the fleet and take actions to business to increase the utilisation of the vehicles and reduced improve performance.
Our improved Time-Based Planning costs in parts on the fleet.
This restructuring had a one-off cost of systems enable us to record every element of each vehicles 1.4m included within the separately disclosed items in the journey which is summarised in real time and analysed in detail income statement and savings of 1m per annum.
We closed a at the end of every week.
depot in Leeds and reduced headcount by around 282 adjusting to a more optimal ratio of tramper drivers to day-night drivers.
Local performance issues and improvements have already been identified but there is further room for improvements in We have also announced the restructure of our chilled transport managing collection and delivery times, lane rates and local operation.
This will involve closing two of our existing sites and operational management.
transferring operations to a new site at Magna Park in Lutterworth.
This is expected to lead to a significant saving in mileage and reduction in vehicles, drivers and site staff required to service the existing work.
We estimate that the one-off costs of site closures and new site set up costs will be in the region of 2.9m and fall in the financial year to 28 February 2013.
This restructuring should lead to ongoing cost savings of approximately 1.5m per annum.
Operational subdivisions UK Ambient Operations Environmental Transport Following the restructure, these operations are separated into eight These operations were established to support the growing biomass fleets with General Managers responsible for their own profit and market.
The foundations are in place to support the huge growth loss.
This is where the new Time Based Planning software was expected in this sector.
launched and has resulted in improvements in profit of over 20% in the second half of the year compared to the first six months.
Rail Freight UK Chilled Operations In 2011 Stobart Rail Freight began operation of the new rail terminal at Tescos Daventry Grocery Distribution Centre.
The new terminal There have been some business wins, notably with Arla Foods.
offers even greater control, flexibility and efficiency for every However, the chilled network suffered volume decline in the customer wishing to use Stobart rail services to and from the second half of the year impacting profit by around 3m.
The new terminal acts as a central hub, enhancing the profitable, it has been materially affected compared to the previous rail solutions we offer for distribution by rail across the UK.
The Time Based Planning software was introduced routes are constantly in development and new services are at the start of this calendar year and a restructuring exercise is in planned in the next twelve months.
place to enhance profits by over 1.5m per annum in future.
Warehousing International and Ireland Warehousing has experienced a mixed year with growth in certain Our Irish International business has continued to grow and our sites, including Daresbury, but some voids in other parts of the UK, dedicated customer sites are performing well.
We continue to invest particularly during the second half of the year.
The majority of these in growing our general fleet and warehousing with other customers have been rectified and empty space continues to be filled.
in Ireland and have incurred further business set up costs of 1.9m in the year.
In continental Europe our niche service offerings in F1 Port Operations and motorsport have performed very well but remain seasonal.
Whilst increasing the throughput at the terminal to over six trains a day, this operation has also extended its container transport offering with tramper drivers now widening the network.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 23 Time Based Planning Case Study Collection Time Per Load 55min.
Moving Average Time Target Time 45min.
Stobarts new data capture system represents an extremely powerful reporting tool which allows our haulage operations to be viewed from almost any angle: enabling is us to act quickly on the results.
Time Based Planning is Stobarts unique system of capturing haulage data and analysing that data to track financial performance, operational trends and drive business improvements.
At the start of each week some 50,000 lines of data are downloaded from our haulage planning and tracking systems detailing every delivery made in the previous week and providing information such as: time spent at each stage of the load collection, journey, delivery and trip to the next collection : deviations of these actual times to our model times for that route: distance travelled to deliver the load and then empty to collect the next load: revenue earned from the job: as well as details of which fleet, driver and truck carried out the run and for which customer.
Hourly costs derived from weekly fleet management accounts are then applied to this time data to allow us to attach a cost to each stage of the journey.
We are then able to assess profitability of any required subset of the data, ranging from: the week as a whole: to a particular fleet of trucks: to a certain driver or truck: to a selected collection or delivery site.
As such Time Based Planning is an extremely powerful reporting tool, allowing our haulage operations to be viewed from almost any angle and enabling us to act quickly on the results.
By monitoring a set of key performance indicators over time, we are able to identify trends in the data and act upon these to improve profitability.
For example, by identifying particularly high collection times from a particular site and quantifying the associated cost, we can work with our customer to understand the causes of the delays and how they can be reduced to deliver cost savings.
When as little as a 5 minute reduction in collection time per load at a customer site visited 500 times a week can deliver a cost saving of 65,000 a year, the potential benefits of Time Based Planning are considerable.
The Stobart Estates division is responsible for the management, Stobart Estates has also purchased a 145,000 sq.
ft warehouse development and realisation of all of the Groups property assets.
adjacent to our existing Appleton Thorn transport and office These assets comprise operational property sites including our complex, increasing the Group's presence in this major distribution freehold transport and storage sites and our two airports: the location.
This was acquired as an investment property and is Moneypenny portfolio of investment properties: and our property currently being sub-let to tenants.
During the 2012 financial year, the division also acquired the diverse The division will use the funds raised in the Placing in 2011 along Moneypenny portfolio via the acquisition of WADI Properties with other funds to make a number of property acquisitions and Limited.
Moneypenny comprised a total of 18 freehold and long to further invest in those Group properties which are considered leasehold properties which have served to diversify and strengthen to have development potential.
the existing Stobart Estates portfolio.
With targeted investment and astute asset management we believe these assets will deliver It has been an extremely busy and exciting year for the Estates significant gains for the Group in the future.
division, during which we began to make acquisitions in line with our Business Plan.
Highlights include the acquisition of a key A good start has been made, with residential planning consent strategic 275,000 sq.
ft warehouse at Magna Park, Lutterworth, for already being obtained for a highly desirable site at Soho Square Eddie Stobart.
This property was sold in February 2012 under a in the centre of London for conversion into luxury flats.
Asset sale and leaseback transaction, realising a profit on disposal of Managers have been appointed on some properties, with others 5.4m with a further 1.1m realised over the term of the lease.
now identified for early disposal in the coming year.
This facility has been instrumental in securing new chilled and Since the year end we have also obtained planning consent for ambient storage business for the Transport & Distribution division.
ft of warehousing at Stobart Park, Widnes.
This marks an The division has also benefitted from the gain in value of 5.7m on important milestone for the Stobart Estates Division.
One Plantation Place, a property asset held for sale.
The Estates division has a target IRR for new acquisitions and developments of 20%.
Estates Financial Highlights and KPIs Estates 2012 Operational Highlights Completion of the acquisition of the Moneypenny portfolio.
Establishment of Property Operating Board.
Revenue m Review of all properties completed, clear strategy set for each property designed to maximise exit value.
Key third party advisers appointed and instructed.
2011 4.4 6.7 Key joint venture partner appointed for biomass plant developments.
Acquisition of key strategic chilled and ambient warehousing EBITDA m facility at Magna Park, Lutterworth.
Acquisition of the investment property adjacent to Stobart Groups Appleton Thorn site.
2011 4.8 13.6 PBT m Combined Three Year Estates and 2011 3.9 Infrastructure & Civil Engineering Aspirations on page 30 12.4 Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 25 2012 The acquisition of the Moneypenny portfolio brought a number of Group operating sites, as well as a range of other industrial and commercial properties, into the ownership of the business.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 26 Operational & Financial Review Stobart Infrastructure & Civil Engineering Performance Revenue for the Infrastructure and Civil Engineering division was 57.2m 2011: 37.1m and underlying profit before tax was 4.4m 2011: 2.1m.
External Activity This division has become one of the UKs leading names in rail We continue to be an approved supplier to the Major Framework network maintenance, repair and improvement.
Operating contractors on both the Multi-Asset and Buildings and Civils throughout the UK, Infrastructure Engineering is active in delivering Frameworks for Network Rail.
earthworks, structures, bridge replacement, permanent way One of the many things the Division concentrates on is the renewals, refurbishment and maintenance, drainage, lineside regeneration of brownfield sites into valuable business space, infrastructure projects and emergency works.
recycling often contaminated land back into use.
Wherever This year the division is contracted to deliver numerous track repossible, during redevelopment or improvement, environmentally ballasting projects for Network Rail.
We continue the yearly contract responsible innovations are also introduced.
These typically range for the supply of Road-Rail plant and expect confirmation on from recycling of concrete and steelwork into hardcore and numerous tendered contract works for bridge and viaduct valuable scrap, through to lime stabilisation to make previously reconstruction and refurbishment works.
Our expertise in trackcontaminated land suitable for construction.
related engineering has seen us win our first major track renewals project for Manchester Metrolink, a relationship we hope to nurture and grow into the future.
Infrastructure & Civil Eng Financial Highlights and KPIs Infrastructure & Civil Eng 2012 Operational Highlights Annualised headcount savings of 1.2m.
Design, management and construction of runway extension Revenue m and upgrade, road diversion and terminal building and stands at London Southend Airport.
79% increase in external plant hire sales and a 450% increase 2011 37.1 in non-rail civil works.
57.2 Reportable accident frequency rate of ZERO maintained throughout the year.
EBITDA m 2011 3.2 5.6 PBT m Combined Three Year Estates and 2011 2.1 Infrastructure & Civil Engineering Aspirations on page 30 4.4 Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 27 2012 Stobart Infrastructure & Civil Key facilities at London Southend Airport are Engineering carries out its first completed.
Annual passenger numbers are major track renewal projects on predicted to hit 800,000 by the end of the year.
Stobart Gr Stobart Group oup Annual Report 20 Annual Report 201 12 2 28 28 Operational & Financial Review 2012 In Spring 2012 the opening of the new terminal saw London Southend become a modern, fully functioning international airport.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 29 Internal Activity Internally this division is responsible for the development and improvement of the Groups property holdings.
It will continue to deliver various projects as part of the regeneration of London Southend Airport throughout the year.
44.0m 2011: 23.3m of revenue and 2.6m 2011: 1.1m of profit which is removed on consolidation was earned on Group development projects.
The division has played a major role in the transformation of London Southend Airport, undertaking works on the road diversion and runway, the new terminal building and the new car parks.
The division also acted as an expert project manager for works carried out by other subcontractor parties, reducing our exposure to contractual risk.
We have also carried out further works in preparing for development of our site at the Mersey Multimodal Gateway in Widnes.
This valued engineering enhances the value of our assets and reduces costs and disruption through knowledgeable tendering and effectively working around our existing operations.
Revenue and profit on Group work is eliminated on consolidation and this value will not be realised until sale of the assets.
The rail infrastructure engineering business was flat due to the cutbacks in expenditure by Network Rail and other major customers, but demand for plant hire was strong.
Strict cost control measures have been implemented and we believe that the market will recover but the timescale is difficult to predict.
Infrastructure build will enable further development of the Widnes site, whilst the proposed Magna Park transport site will be delivered ready for operation for the Group.
Combined Estates and Infrastructure & Civil Engineering Three Year Aspirations 2012-2015 Stobart Estates and Stobart Infrastructure & Civil Engineering working together: Phase one London Southend Airport works substantially complete.
Development work to commence at Widnes distribution centre and biomass plant, Carlisle Airport, 37 Soho Square and Chelmsford.
Southend Airport terminal extension commences.
2012-2015 Stobart Estates: Disposal of investment properties.
Re-gearing of leases on remaining properties.
Acquisition of key new strategic site for transport depot.
Disposal of further Moneypenny properties following regearing of leases.
2012-2015 Stobart Infrastructure & Civil Engineering: Rail infrastructure work to increase by 50% on 2012 financial year, significant contracts already confirmed.
By 2015 Stobart Estates and Stobart Infrastructure & Civil Engineering working together: Development work completed on Widnes unit two and biomass plant.
By 2015 Stobart Estates: Disposal of remaining Moneypenny properties.
Potential disposal of remaining Group properties.
By 2015 Stobart Infrastructure & Civil Engineering: Targeting major rail capital projects Thames Link and Crossrail and High Speed 2.
Gillian Inglis and Fiona Hardwick Looking after our Customers Eddie Stobart Administration Director, Gillian Inglis, far right, has been with the business for more than twenty years.
Driven by a passion for excellence in customer services and administration, she works in close collaboration with all the Groups elements to identify opportunities to further improve its already excellent service levels.
This collaborative approach is reflected in the way we work in close partnership with customers to drive up performance and further eliminate waste from the businesss systems.
Working alongside Gill in the key role of Customer Services General Manager, Fiona Hardwick, right, delivers the highest levels of customer service by ensuring constant and effective proactive communication between our internal teams and their customers.
Fiona operates a rolling programme of process, technology and best practices review to deliver continuous improvement and operational efficiencies throughout the business.
