Board of Directors Michael Kayser Jesper Kjaedegaard Rodney Baker-Bates Andrew Tinkler Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Michael is a Fellow of the Jesper has over 30 years Rodney has had a long career in the City Andrew acquired Eddie Stobart in 2004 CIMA and has extensive experience in transport and and international finance sector and is a with longstanding colleague William experience in corporate logistics and was appointed CEO seasoned Director of large UK plcs.
In Stobart, going on to be appointed CEO transactions, both in quoted of Maersk Company UK Limited addition to his role as Stobart Group when the Group became listed.
He has and private markets.
Leaving in 2008, he coNon-Executive Chairman, Rodneys been instrumental in developing the founded Mercator International, current roles also include Chairmanship strategy and vision of todays Group.
Michael has also held a an independent ports and of EG Consulting Limited.
He also serves variety of senior finance A past winner of the IoD North West infrastructure consultancy.
as a Non-Executive Director on the appointments at Laporte plc, Director of the Year Award, Andrews proven Boards of several other companies, Doncasters Limited, Amey Jesper is also past President of risk management experience has formed a including Bedlam Asset Management plc, Unilever and Guinness the British Chamber of Shipping valuable foundation for implementing the plc, and is also currently Deputy Brewing Worldwide.
He is and currently holds a number Groups multimodal plans and delivering Chairman of the Co-Operative Banking also currently serving as of other Non-Executive roles in on the strategy.
Group and Chairman of Senior Independent Director the UK and South America.
Stobart Gr Stobart Group oup Annual Report 20 Annual Report 201 12 2 41 41 Ben Whawell Richard Butcher Alan Kelsey Paul Orchard-Lisle CBE David Beever Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Non-Executive Director and Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director A Qualified Chartered Accountant, Ben spent Richard joined Eddie Stobart in 1997 after Paul has spent fifty years in the David is a former Vice nine years at Grant Thornton before joining 14 years with HSBC Corporate Finance A Fellow of the Chartered Institute property sector, joining Healey & Chairman of SG Warburg and Eddie Stobart in 2004. and has been closely involved in a wide of Logistics and Transport, Alan Baker in 1961, where he rose to has been KPMG Chairman, UK range of Stobart business activities, has forty years experience in the become Senior Partner, later & International Corporate Ben oversaw the merger with Westbury holding a number of key positions City and industry, with a strong overseeing the Companys Finance amongst numerous Property Fund that resulted in the formation within the business including Managing focus on the Transport sector.
merger with Cushman & other Board Directorships.
He has been Group Corporate He is also a member of the He has played a key role in a number of He plays a key role in property asset Development Director at National He has been President of The Board of Trustees of the successful acquisitions, which have seen the development.
Moving to the Group Express Group plc and is also Royal Institution of Chartered University of London, and business triple in size over the last four years.
Executive Board, he is Company Secretary currently Chairman of Nord Anglia Surveyors and held numerous plc a Vice Chairman of Royal and also acts as Deputy CEO.
positions, both in Directorial and Holloway College at advisory roles.
Stobart Gr Stobart Group oup Annual Report 20 Annual Report 201 12 2 42 42 Richard Butcher, Company Secretary Stobart Gr Stobart Group oup Annual Report 20 Annual Report 201 12 2 43 43
