30 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 8 Board of Directors Peter Bamford Chairman Peter is also chairman of the nomination committee.
In addition he is chairman of MCPS-PRS Alliance Limited known as PRS for Music and Six Degrees Technology Limited and is a non-executive director of Rentokil Initial Plc.
Peter was a director of Vodafone Group Plc from 1998 to 2006 where he held senior executive roles, including Chief Marketing Officer, Chief Executive of Northern Europe, Middle East and Africa and Chief Executive of Vodafone UK.
Prior to this he held senior positions with WH Smith Plc, Tesco Plc and Kingfisher Plc.
Peter has served on the boards of public companies for the last 17 years and has extensive experience in developing and growing businesses and brands internationally.
Julian Dunkerton Chief Executive Officer Julian is also a member of the nomination committee.
Julian has worked exclusively in the retail sector for over 25 years, co-founding the Cult retail chain from a market stall in Cheltenham and turning it into a successful retail chain.
Together with James Holder, Julian established the Superdry clothing brand nine years ago.
Julian has a deep understanding of the Superdry brand, strong commercial instincts and feel for its target customers, developed through his hands on experience of building SuperGroup from the ground up.
Susanne Given Chief Operating Officer Susanne was appointed on 10 April 2012, and is responsible for the UK Retail division together with the central support functions.
Susanne has held senior positions in a number of leading retailers including John Lewis, TK Maxx, Harrods, Homebase and House of Fraser.
She brings a disciplined and structured approach to the Group developed from over 20 years retailing experience across a diverse range of retailers and product sectors.
Shaun Wills Chief Financial Officer Shaun was appointed on 23 April 2012.
Shaun was previously Chief Operating Officer at Habitat and Finance Director of Fat Face.
Prior to these appointments Shaun held senior roles at New Look and Debenhams Plc.
Shaun has over 20 years experience in the retail sector in finance, strategy and business development roles.
James Holder Brand and Design Director James is responsible for brand and product development, and heads up SuperGroups team of in-house designers.
James created the Bench clothing brand in 1992, which became the premier English skate-wear brand in the niche skate BMX market.
In 2003, he teamed up with Julian Dunkerton and developed the Superdry brand.
James brings exceptional clothing design skills to the Group and has been central to the success of the Superdry brand in appealing to its target market.
21339.04 12 07 2012 Proof 3 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 31 8 Board of Directors Theo Karpathios Chief Executive Officer Wholesale and International Theo is responsible for the Wholesale division which encompasses the international expansion of SuperGroup.
Theo joined the business in 2005 and worked closely with Julian Dunkerton and James Holder to develop what has now become SuperGroup.
He started his first business venture in 1987 by supplying clothing to Cult in its infancy.
In 1996 he began his own retail business, focusing on branded mens and womens street-wear and in 2000 launched a second retail concept which he built up to eight standalone stores and sold in 2004.
Theo has over 25 years of retail experience and has developed a strong international understanding.
Keith Edelman Senior Independent Non-executive Director Keith is also chairman of the remuneration committee and a member of the nomination committee.
He is also chairman at Beale Plc and a non-executive director at Safestore Holdings Plc, the Olympic Park Legacy and Thorntons Plc.
Keith was Managing Director of Arsenal Holdings Plc from 2000 to 2008 and Chief Executive of Storehouse Plc encompassing BHS and Mothercare, from 1993 to 1999.
Keith has extensive retail and international experience and has also served on the boards of public companies for over 28 years across a wide range of businesses and markets.
Steven Glew Independent Non-executive Director Steven is also chairman of the audit committee and a member of the remuneration committee.
He is also Group Finance Director at UK Mail Group Plc where he was appointed to the board in 2006.
Previously Steven was Group Finance Director of Mothercare Plc, Booker Plc and Crown Sports Plc.
He also held senior financial positions in Tesco Plc.
He has served on the boards of public companies for over 13 years and brings extensive retailing and financial management experience.
Ken McCall Independent Non-executive Director Ken is also a member of the audit committee.
He is the Managing Director of Europcar UK Group.
Ken was previously Chief Executive Officer of DHL Express UK & Ireland, Chief Executive Officer of TNT Middle East, Africa and Asia and Chief Executive Officer of TNT China.
He brings over 30 years experience in the logistics sector and of running international businesses in Europe and Asia.
Indira Thambiah Independent Non-executive Director Indira is also a member of the audit committee and remuneration committee.
Indira was chairman and Chief Executive at Multiyork furniture.
She has had her own consultancy practice where she worked with a number of retailers such as Mothercare and as Group eCommerce Director at Dixons Retail UK.
Prior to this Indira held senior roles at ASDA Wal-Mart and Home Retail Group Plc, where she was head of multi-channel.
Indira is a Chartered Accountant who brings to the board significant retailing and ecommerce experience relevant to the development of the Groups multi-channel business.
21339.04 12 07 2012 Proof 3 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction
