Business review Regional review UK & Ireland Europe & Middle East Revenue m Revenue m 160.3 158.3 123.3 158.0 154.9 118.8 117.4 104.7 135.0 82.7 2.2% 3.8% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 The UK & Ireland businesses continued to perform well with both of the Europe has become a challenging market for Synergy, in part because sterilisation businesses showing good growth in line with historic trends.
ofthe regions economic issues and in part because of very strong The rationalisation of the UK products business, together with the competitive conditions within the Dutch linen market.
Our objectives disposalof a small non-core business, resulted in a reduced rate of remain unchanged, however, with an ambition to continue expanding revenue growth of 2.2%, with reported revenues of 158.3 million ourgeographic coverage in both Applied Sterilisation Technologies and 2011:154.9million.
Operating profits increased by 13.0% to Hospital Sterilisation Services.
28.3million 2011: 25.0 million with margins increasing 1.8% Reported revenue for Europe & Middle East was up 3.8% to 123.3 to17.9% 2011:16.1%.
Operating profits however were down During the year we opened a new hospital sterilisation facility in Shefeld 5.1%to 19.5 million 2011: 20.5 million with margins decreasing and began the construction of two more facilities, in Lincoln and Grimsby.
Surgical volumes held up well with a number of waiting list initiatives The reduction in the regional margin reects price erosion in the Dutch undertaken throughout the year.
The outsourcing of hospital sterilisation linen business.
Although we maintained market share we have seen price continues to be seen as attractive with a strong bid pipeline of deation initiated by our major competitor in the Netherlands.
To address approximately 17 million per annum.
However, decision making has the competitive threat we closed two linen facilities, and as a result have remained slow as the UK Governments policies on the future of the NHS seen margins recover.
We also have the benefit of cost synergies within were delayed.
During the year we sponsored a research paper on the region and whilst organic growth will be held back again this year as a outsourcing in the public sector that was launched at the House of Lords, result of price deation, we expect the restored margins to be maintained and this research, together with four case studies from our most recent as a result of our aggressive cost management.
facilities, will become a catalyst to expedite the conversion of current bids.
This year, we have made further progress with our Applied Sterilisation Applied Sterilisation facilities continued to perform well, albeit with more business.
Growth during the first half of the year was very strong, resulting limited capacity for growth.
We have drafted plans for additional capacity in most of our facilities coming up against capacity constraints.
New in the region but we may delay implementation whilst there is some capacity has now been added to the ethylene oxide facility in Venlo, uncertainty around the outlook for Europe.
theNetherlands, and the gamma radiation facility in Marcoule, France The healthcare linen business continued to perform well with consistent remains on track to open towards the end of 2012.
Early in 2012 we margins and growth, primarily from price indexation.
Our strategy is to acquired the LSH gamma radiation and x-ray facility from LEONI Group, maintain our existing customer base and limit bidding to the remaining as part of our objective to expand our geographic presence in Europe.
NHS hospitals that are closing their in-house facilities.
During the year Switzerland has a large, value-added medical device manufacturing wewon an NHS outsourcing contract that commenced in the current market similar in size to Irelands, and it is important to have a presence in financial year.
In parallel with the surgical volumes, overall hospital linen this market.
The x-ray facility is the first of its type in the world, and whilst volumes have held up well.
utilisation is presently low, we expect that there will be a rapid adoption of this sterilisation technology by the manufacturers of high value-added The UK laboratory business returned to positive growth in both revenue medical devices.
Prospects for the pathology segment look positive, but during the second half of the year growth in occupational health testing slowed, During the year we invested in the sales and commercial development reecting the economic pressures in the UK.
team of Hospital Sterilisation Services, with the objective of expanding beyond our two core services in the Netherlands and Belgium.
We are Our UK products business, which manufactures infection control and making progress, with increased bidding activity in Germany and in other consumable products, was restructured in November and as a Turkey, where we are in advanced negotiations on a large PFI hospital bid.
result has returned to profitability.
We remain committed to broadening its However, across the continent the pace of development continues to be international market penetration, expanding the success we have enjoyed slower than expected.
We will continue to market our services in Europe in the Middle East and in Asia to other parts of the world.
to raise Synergys prole, but given the current economic climate, we are likely to direct resources to the opportunities opening up to us in the US.
16 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements Asia & Africa Americas Revenue m Revenue m 17.4 13.0 13.3 11.0 9.1 7.3 24.6% 0.4 31.6% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 proforma 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 The Asia & Africa region continues to be one of our more promising The Americas is another promising region, being the largest medical opportunities for sustained growth.
China in particular is seeing growth device manufacturing and consuming market in the world.
We are inhealthcare expenditure of 18% to 20% per annum, more than double verypleased with the level of growth in Applied Sterilisation revenue.
The creation of a national health service, where Theincrease incapacity in Central America and our recent expansion basicservices will be provided free by the state, will drive demand for into Hospital Sterilisation in the US sets the region up for a period of ourHospital Sterilisation Services, as well as the consumption of sterile sustained growth.
Our Americas Applied Sterilisation business was acquired at the start of In addition to China, we have facilities in Malaysia, Thailand and the financial year.
Reported revenues for the region were up 24.6% on SouthAfrica.
To support our growth plans we recently announced the apro forma basis to 13.0 million 2011 pro forma: 10.4 million: 2011 appointment of a new Regional CEO.
His level of regional and industry reported: 0.4 million.
Operating profits were up 49.9% on a pro forma experience will help us achieve our medium term objective for Asia to basis to 3.3 million 2011 pro forma: 2.2 million: 2011 reported: generate at least a quarter of the Groups income.
Operating margins improved 4.3% to 25.7% as a result ofimproved benets of scale from our capacity expansions.
Reported revenues in Asia & Africa were up 31.6% to 17.4 million 2011:13.3 million, with good growth across the region.
Operating Our Applied Sterilisation business benefited from improved capacity profits were up 43.5% to 3.8 million 2011: 2.7 million with operating utilisation, particularly in the Costa Rican facility.
Our strategy is to margins up 1.9% to 22.0%.
continue to increase our capacity in the region.
In July 2012 we will open a new electron beam facility and a new ethylene oxide facility.
These two In Malaysia we completed the acquisition of Sterilgamma from facilities, together with future investments planned in the region, will receivership in July, expanding our applied sterilisation services to Kuala continue to support high levels of growth.
We now have four facilities in Malaysia, offering bothgamma radiation and ethylene oxide services.
During the year we During the year we conducted a review of the hospital sterilisation evaluated the hospital sterilisation market and considered establishing a marketin the US, triggered by the FDAs consultation on the regulatory joint venture with a local Malaysian business, but our experience suggests environment in May 2011.
Following our research, we decided to bring that the market is not yet ready for outsourcing at this stage.
forward our investment in the US hospital sterilisation market with the acquisition of MSI in New York.
The outsourced hospital sterilisation Our Applied Sterilisation operations in South Africa and Thailand continue market is still in its infancy, and MSI represented the second largest of to show steady growth.
In South Africa we have expanded our services only two businesses active in the US.
We are increasing our level of toinclude microbiological laboratory services and we are evaluating an investment on the back of this acquisition, initially to promote education increase in our capacity.
and awareness, but ultimately to create a more developed outsourcing In Suzhou, China, our ethylene oxide sterilisation facility continues to market.
We believe that Synergys expertise in this niche market attract additional customers and we expect the facility to be largely full willbewell received by the healthcare market where high levels of within the year.
Under the guidance of the new Regional CEO we are ashsterilisation are known to create significant risk for patients actively looking to establish additional sites in strategic locations as part undergoingsurgery.
ofour ambition to be a major outsourced sterilisation service provider inChina.
The Hospital Sterilisation Services business also continues togainmomentum.
During the year we have continued to progress opportunities, on both a sole-bidder and joint venture basis, and have been selected to provide services for a large new PFI hospital campus inShanghai, a private hospital group in Beijing, and a hospital group inChengdu.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 17
