Governance Directors report The Directors submit their Annual Report and the audited consolidated The Company issued 324,900 ordinary shares of 0.625p each during accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended 1 April the period for an aggregate consideration of 1,423,000 in respect of 2012.
The Corporate Governance report set out on pages 35 to 39 forms options exercised under the Companys share option schemes.
No other part of the Directors report.
shares were allotted by the Company.
Principal activities and business review Directors Synergy Health plc is a holding company: its subsidiaries are grouped The present Directors of the Company are shown on page 30. into four geographic regions and these are set out on pages 16 and 17.
E A Hewitt was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2011.
No other The principal activities are the provision of outsourced healthcare Director served during the period.
R E Lerwill retires from the Board support services and contract sterilisation services.
With effect from 7 June 2012 D K Nichol, senior independent Director, will take up the role of Chairman.
R E Lerwill, the The Business review comprises the Chairmans statement on page 12, outgoing Chairman, was not involved in the appointment of D K Nichol the Chief Executives report on page 15 and the Finance Directors report as his successor.
In accordance with the recommendations set out in on page 18. the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the elected Directors will submit A separate report on page 23 sets out the principal risks and themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
E A Hewitt, uncertainties facing the Group.
having been appointed since the last Annual General Meeting, submits herself for election.
Details of the Directors service contracts are given in A further separate report on page 26 sets out Corporate and Social the Remuneration report on page 40.
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company as at 3 April The Chief Executives report on page 15 sets out the main trends and 2011 and 1 April 2012 were as follows: factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Groups business.
1 April 2012 3 April 2011 ordinary shares ordinary shares Issues with regard to the financial risk management objectives and of 0.625p each of 0.625p each policies of the Group including hedging policy and the exposure of the R M Steeves 607,815 2,477,674 Company to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are G Hill 24,300 16,300 covered in the Finance Directors report.
R E Lerwill 3,000 3,000 Results and dividends D K Nichol There was a profit for the period after taxation amounting to C F Baroudel 735 24,821,000 2011: 28,799,000.
A final dividend of 6,195,000 2011: second interim 5,421,000 is proposed by or at date of appointment the Board for the period ended 1 April 2012.
The final dividend will, There was no change in the shareholding of any Director between the subject to shareholders approval, be paid on 6 September 2012 to end of the financial period and the date of this report.
Details of options shareholders on the register at 10 August 2012.
A review of the Groups held by Directors are contained within the Remuneration report.
performance for the period ended 1 April 2012 is contained in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review and the Finance Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Directors report.
Report and the financial statements Share capital All the Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with As at 1 April 2012 the Companys authorised share capital consisted applicable law and regulations.
of one class of 106,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.625p each of which there were 55,415,682 ordinary shares in issue.
No shares were held Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent in Treasury.
At that date the authority granted to the Company for Company financial statements for each financial period.
Under that law the purchase of up to 5,511,247 ordinary shares remained in force the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in and unused.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare The rights and obligations attached to the Companys ordinary shares, the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK and restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company, are set out in Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained Accounting Practice.
from Companies House in the UK or the Company Secretary.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial Shareholders are entitled to receive dividends, when declared: to receive statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the Companys reports and financial statements: to attend and speak at the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit general meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies: and to exercise or loss for that period.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between the holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of Association of the Company, the Companys Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
32 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial over the coming years.
However, this will always be subject to the statements, the Directors are required to: overriding need to ensure that appointments are made on merit and having regard to an appropriate balance of skills, experience, x Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: independence and knowledge required on the Board.
The Davies report x Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: also examines the gender diversity at management levels below the Board.
The Group has a number of initiatives to improve diversity at a x For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been senior management level but recognises that these will take time to be prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: reflected in the number of women in the senior management team.
x For the Parent Company financial statements, state whether We will continue to review our approach on gender diversity, particularly applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject in the context of any developing guidance in this area.
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial The Group continues to employ multiple channels of communication statements: and and is committed to improving these channels so that all employees x Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it have access to information as well as having an opportunity to express is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company their views and ideas on matters affecting their employment and will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records Channels include: that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys x Employee Forums and where appropriate, Works Councils: transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that x Touch Point the Group intranet site: its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have x Regular Leadership briefings followed by communication general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to cascades team briefings: them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
x An Employee Satisfaction Survey: Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible x Regular business updates via circulars: and for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and x Communication via Yammer a professional social networking tool.
Corporate Governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Employment policies are updated in a timely way to reflect legislative changes and training to communicate or embed change is developed The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the and rolled out as appropriate.
corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Training is provided as required to ensure that we have a skilled financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
workforce this requires a balance of training for the work our employees do now and developing and preparing people for the future.
Employee engagement For several years the Company has operated a Savings Related Share The Group recognises the impact that positive employee engagement Option Scheme, which gives employees an opportunity to enter into a has on developing a culture of excellence, maintaining organisational savings contract for a fixed period, with an opportunity to acquire shares stability and fostering an environment in which people feel valued in the Company at the end of that period.
Directors indemnity The Group is an equal opportunities employer.
Equal opportunities are offered to all regardless of race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Directors have sex including gender reassignment, marital or civil partnership been granted a continuing indemnity issued by the Company to the status, disability, religion or belief, sexual orientation, age or trade extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their union membership.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent that the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment from people with disabilities.
The policy is to offer equal Directors and officers liability insurance opportunity to all disabled candidates and employees who have a During the period the Company maintained insurance cover for disability or become disabled in any way during the course of their Directors and officers liability as permitted under the Companies employment.
A full assessment of the individuals needs is undertaken Act 2006. and reasonable adjustments are made to the work environment or Corporate and Social Responsibility practices in order to assist those with disabilities.
The statement on Corporate and Social Responsibility on page 26 All candidates and employees are treated equally in respect of contains disclosures concerning environmental matters, employee recruitment, promotion, training, pay and other employment policies involvement and social and community issues.
All decisions are based on relative merits and abilities.
The Board has held detailed discussions over the guidance issued by Lord Davies of Abersoch in his report Women on Boards and the FRCs subsequent consultation and forthcoming revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Women currently comprise one third of the members of the Board.
The Board hopes the Group shall be in a position to maintain this level of representation when renewing Board membership Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 33 Governance Directors report continued Substantial shareholders The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the At the date of this report the Company had been notified of the following foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern holdings of voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares of basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
0.625p each in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: This statement in respect of the business as a going concern has been prepared in accordance with Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Name Shareholding % Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, published by the AXA S. A.
7,504,284 13.54% Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
Prudential plc group of companies 3,458,504 6.24% Disclosure of information to auditors Kames Capital 3,296,843 5.95% The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this report INVESCO Asset Management Ltd 3,154,839 5.69% confirm that so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit F & C Asset Management plc 2,726,059 4.92% information of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and each Black Rock Advisors 2,705,645 4.88% Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to ensure that Artemis Investment Management Limited 2,688,327 4.85% the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
Old Mutual Asset Managers UK Limited 2,599,250 4.69% Auditors Newton Investment Management 2,561,177 4.62% A resolution for the reappointment of KPMG Audit plc as auditors of the Contractual relationships or other arrangements Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Company has no contractual relationships or other arrangements Annual General Meeting with contractors, customers or suppliers that are critical to the business.
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 26 July 2012 at the offices The Company has a number of significant agreements, however the only of Investec Bank plc, 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP.
The notice agreements considered to be essential to the Group as a whole are its convening the meeting together with explanatory notes for the special bank facilities, which include change of control provisions.
In the event business are set out in a shareholder circular, which will be posted with of a change in ownership of the Company, these provisions could result the Annual Report and Financial Statements and proxy voting papers.
in renegotiation or withdrawal of the relevant facilities.
Full details of all the resolutions to be proposed are provided in the Notice of Meeting.
Policy and practice on payment of creditors All Group companies are responsible for establishing terms and Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the annual conditions with their suppliers and it is Group policy that payments are financial report made within such agreed terms and conditions.
Trade creditors at the We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: period end amount to 50 days 2011: 58 days of average supplies for x The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable the period.
set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, Political and charitable donations liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the During the period the Group made charitable donations totalling undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and 20,000 2011: 17,000.
No political donations were made during x The Directors report includes a fair review of the development the period 2011: nil.
Further information on the Groups charitable and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and donations is contained in the Corporate and Social Responsibility report the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, on page 26. together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Treasury and risk management that they face.
The Groups treasury and financial risk management objectives, and On behalf of the Board details in respect of the Groups exposure to these risks are detailed in note 19 to the financial statements.
T C Mason Going concern Group Company Secretary The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to 7 June 2012 affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business review on pages 14 to 17.
The financial position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Finance Directors report on pages 18 to 22.
In addition, notes 18 to 19 to the financial statements include the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Company has considerable financial resources together with long term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and market places.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
34 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
