Governance Board of Directors Robert Lerwill Gavin Hill Constance Baroudel Non-executive Chairman Group Finance Director Non-executive Director Robert was appointed as a Gavin joined the Group as Finance Constance was appointed to the non-executive Director of the Company Director in April 2010.
He was Board as a non-executive Director in January 2005 and Chairman in previously Director, Corporate Finance inSeptember 2010.
He is currently a for Serco Group plc following a the Group Director of Strategy and non-executive Director and Chairman number of divisional Finance Director Business Development at fide La of the audit committee of BAT plc and and Commercial roles.
Prior to fide La Rue she was non-executive Director and Chairman Gavin worked for Syngenta AG and asenior consultant for Strategic of the audit committee of Transcom AstraZeneca plc in both Finance Decisions Group.
Gavin is a lInstitut dEtudes Politiques fide Paris Robert was Chief Executive of Aegis chartered accountant and associate where she majored in corporate Group plc.
Between 1997 and 2003 member of the Association of finance and international relations.
Robert was an executive Director of Corporate Treasurers.
Constance also has an MSc in Cable & Wireless plc, and prior to that International Accounting and was Group Finance Director of WPP Sir Duncan K Nichol Financefrom the London School of Group plc.
Robert qualied as a Non-executive Director Economics.
Constance is Chairman chartered accountant with Arthur ofthe Remuneration Committee, Duncan became a non-executive Andersen.
He is Chairman of the anda member of the Audit and Director in November 2002.
He Companys Nomination Committee Nomination Committees.
wasChief Executive of the National and a member of the Remuneration Health Service Management Committee.
Robert will retire from the Liz Hewitt Executive between 1989 and 1994, Board on 7 June 2012.
Non-executive Director and a non-executive Director of BUPA between 1994 and 2002.
Duncan Liz Hewitt was appointed to the Richard Steeves iscurrently Chairman of Lorica Boardas a non-executive Director Group Chief Executive Employee Benets Ltd, and a inSeptember 2011 and is Chairman Richard founded the business in 1991 non-executive director of Deltex ofthe Audit Committee and a member and was appointed Chief Executive Medical Group plc, the Christie NHS of the Remuneration and Nomination in1992.
Previously he was corporate Foundation Trust, and UKAS.
She is also a nondevelopment manager for Braithwaite also Chairman of Skills for Justice and executive Director and member of plc, a plant hire company, and the Academy for Healthcare Science.
theaudit committee of Novo Nordisk associate consultant with strategic He is a member of the Audit, A S. She has previously been a consultants, LEK Consulting.
Richard Remuneration and Nomination non-executive Director of an NHS Trust has a PhD in biochemistry from Committees.
Duncan will be and a Trustee of Cancer Research UK.
StJohns College, Cambridge and appointed as Chairman of the Liz was Group Director Corporate aBSc 1st Class Hons in human Boardon 7 June 2012.
Affairs of Smith & Nephew plc from physiology from the University 2004 to 2011.
She worked for 3i Group ofBritish Columbia in Vancouver, plc for 18 years as an investor and Canada.
Richard is a Companion of nally as Corporate Affairs Director.
Liz the Chartered Management Institute.
was seconded to the UK Government in2006 where she was involved in establishing the Enterprise Capital Fund.
She qualied as a chartered accountant with Arthur Andersen & Coand has a degree in economics from University College London.
30 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
