Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements Our Executive Team Adrian Coward Niclas Olsson Paul Santing CEO UK & Ireland CEO Asia & Africa Group Commercial Director Adrian joined the Group in 2004 as Niclas was appointed CEO of the Asia Paul joined the Senior Executive director of IT and was later appointed & Africa region in June 2012.
Niclas Board of the Group in 2007, following Managing Director for the UK HSS worked for Getinge Group for 10 years the acquisition of Isotron plc.
Adrian previously worked in a variety of management positions, Asaqualied industrial pharmacist, fora scientific and IT consultancy culminating in five years as President Pauljoined OPG-Group in 1985 company providing solutions to of Getinge China.
His speciality is andfor 13 years he was active in engineering and R&D companies.
infection control in emerging markets, thePharmaceutical Division in Adrian has a BSc in mathematics and with experience in Eastern Europe, variousmanufacturing and sales a PhD in applied mathematics.
Adrian India, South East Asia and China.
andmarketing roles and joined was appointed CEO UK & Ireland In Prior to joining Getinge, he was Gammaster Group in 1988 as June 2010.
Marketing Director of Sanmina-SCI, Business Development Manager.
aworld leading outsourcing company, From 2000 onwards he became Marcello Smit and Business Area Manager Industrial President of the Gammaster Group CEO Europe & Middle East Automation for Mannesmann Rexroth and in 2002 joined the Executive in Sweden.
Niclas has a mechanical board of Isotron plc.
Paul has a Marcello joined LIPS Textielservice engineering degree and is a graduate Masters degree in pharmacy from the Holdings B. V. LTS following of the University of Lund.
Paul was completion of his post-graduate appointed Group Commercial Director studies in economics at the University Glenn Thibault in June 2010. of Amsterdam.
He has held various CEO Americas management positions in the Tim Mason organisation and was also a director of Glenn was appointed CEO of the Group Company Secretary a joint venture healthcare foundation.
Glenn has Marcello was appointed Chief over 20 years of experience in the Tim joined the Group in September Executive of LTS in 1997.
He was a medical device manufacturing and 2009.
He was previously Group member of the plc Board between sterilisation arenas.
His previous Company Secretary of Compass November 2005 and September responsibilities included Manager Group plc as well as being director 2010.
Marcello was appointed CEO ofQuality Operations for the Denver, and company secretary of their UK Europe & Middle East in June 2010.
Colorado, Service Centre and and Ireland holding company.
Prior Previously Tim held senior corporate tojoining BeamOne, he was North secretariat positions with HP Bulmer American Medical Manager of TUV, holdings plc, AMEC plc and Grand as well as Quality Assurance Manager Metropolitan plc.
Tim is a Fellow of the for Conmed Aspen Labs.
He has Institute of Chartered Secretaries and served as a member of the AAMI ISO Administrators and holds an MA in Richard Steeves Radiation Sterilization board, AAMI professional administration.
Tim is also Group Chief Executive ISO Microbiology board, and on the secretary of the Companys Audit, Gavin Hill HIMA sub-committee on sterilisation.
Remuneration and Nomination Group Finance Director Glenn is a graduate of the University Committees.
of North Carolina with a degree inMicrobiology.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 31
