Our business A clear set of values to achieve our vision 1vision 4values Our values Achievement Accountability We believe our success comes from our focus on We take personal responsibility for our actions and exceeding expectations and our commitment to go areequipped to take the right course of action.
thatextra mile, however small the difference.
Integrity Innovation We believe that the way we work is as important as what We achieve the best possible results by working with we do.
We care deeply about the quality of our work and customers to develop new ways of solving problems inspire trust by delivering on promises.
02 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements Our vision To build a lasting reputation as the trusted experts in global health-related markets by differentiating our services and products through the way we work.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 03 Our business A presence in major markets around the world Our presence We outlined a clear strategy four years ago to expand the Split of business by region Countries business internationally.
With its headquarters in the UK, revenue m Synergy has a global presence and employs over 4,600 people across the world, where we focus our business infour key regions.
15 Our four regions provide us with a mix of established markets, where we continue to invest and improve our service offer to our customers, and growth markets, Sites wherewe are establishing a significant presence and building a strong reputation with local hospitals and UK & Ireland 158.3 t healthcare organisations as a trusted sterilisation provider.
Europe & Middle East 123.3 t Asia & Africa 17.4 t Americas 13.0 10 4 t Our business by geography UK & Ireland Europe & Middle East Asia & Africa The Americas Synergy has 40 sites, We have 51 sites situated In 2009, we opened our A new region, created by offering the full portfolio of intheNetherlands, first facility in China, theacquisition in the year of our services Applied Germany, France, providing CSSD outsourcing BeamOne, the largest US Sterilisation, Hospital Switzerland, Belgium and and ethylene oxide provider of outsourced Sterilisation, and the UnitedArabEmirates.
sterilisation in the Suzhou electron beam sterilisation Healthcare Solutions.
We also have four sites services, andMSI Surgical in Malaysia, and one each Instruments, asmall in Thailand, South Africa, Hospital Sterilisation and HongKong.
2,300 employees 1,830 employees 290 employees 190 employees 04 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements We are global International demand for high quality sterilisation services to the healthcare market will continue to grow, as organisations look to benefit from thequality and efficiency benets of outsourced sterilisation services.
We offer ahighly technical and specialised service with anincreasingly global outlook, as we invest andexpand capacity in growth markets such as the US, China, Malaysia and Central America.
During the year Synergy established a presence in the US, giving the Group access to the worlds largest market for themanufacture and consumption of medical devices.
S Sy yn ne er rg gy H y He eal alt th h p pllc A c An nnu nual R al Re ep po or rt t & F & Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St tatem ateme ent nts 2 s 20 012 12 05 05 Our business A range of best inclass health related services Our services Synergy provides a comprehensive range of outsourced Sterilisation technologies sterilisation services to the medical device market as well as hospitals and healthcare providers.
In addition we provide outsourced services such as healthcare linen, pathology and specialist laboratory services.
5 Hospital Sterilisation Services Electron beam and x-ray beam Outsourced hospital sterilisation provides a high quality irradiation, gamma irradiation, instrument sterilisation service for reusable medical and ethyleneoxide, and steam.
surgical equipment used in operating theatres.
This service also extends across other hospital departments, primary care facilities and orthopaedic loan set suppliers.
Applied Sterilisation Technology Synergy provides the full range of sterilisation technologies, including gamma irradiation: electron, ion beam and x-raybeam treatments: and ethylene oxide sterilisation.
Our customers are drawn from medical device, pharmaceutical and industrial sectors.
Synergy Health isthe worlds second largest provider of outsourced applied sterilisation services.
Healthcare Solutions Our Healthcare Solutions segment covers a range of services involved in managing the environment in a healthcare setting.
The services primarily involve infection control with services such as linen management, hand hygiene and hard surface systems, occupational health and laboratory services.
Professor Sir Bruce Keogh, Medical Director for the UK National Health Service, at the opening of Synergys new Leicester HSS super-centre.
06 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements We are experts Our position as a market leader in healthcare sterilisation has been established through acombination of using the worlds most innovative technologies and a unique combination of talents in our teams across the world.
We believe strongly in working in partnership with our customers to ensure the services we provide are tailored to their needs.
Our unique approach and investment in state-of-the-art facilities means we are one of fewglobal sterilisation experts.
Synergy is the largest provider of outsourced hospital sterilisation services in Europe.
This expertise is supporting our entry into the lessdeveloped USmarket, and our existing operations across EuropeandAsia.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 07 Our business I nvesting to provide mission-critical facilities for the healthcare world Our key investments 5.8m 4.6m Construction of new hospital sterilisation facilities Construction of new gamma irradiation facility inLeicester and Shefeld, UK.
Following a successful accreditation audit, our new Our new facility at Marcoule, near Avignon, will serve Leicester super-centre came into service in February, customers throughout southern andeastern France, and our new Shefeld facility will commence service and northern Italy.
The facility is expected to commence transition in the summer of 2012. operation in late 2012.
4.4m 2.9m Construction of new ethylene oxide facility and Construction of new ethylene oxide facility expanded capacity for electron beam irradiation inFlorida, US.
Synergys first ethylene oxide facility in the US opened A second electron beam sterilisation line has been during the year, improving our capacity to service installed, and a new ethylene oxide facility, the first customers in the south-eastern US.
inCentral America, has been built.
1.5m 2.9m Additional ethylene oxide capacity in Venlo, Investment in additional cobalt-60 to increase gamma Netherlands.
Our Venlo ethylene oxide sterilisation facility already Our many gamma irradiation facilities worldwide operates four processing chambers.
During the year, utiliseradioactive isotopes of cobalt to generate high wecommenced the installation of a fifth chamber, energy gamma radiation.
We have increased our tomeet increased customer demand.
irradiation capacity to meet increased global demand forour services.
NB: Capital expenditure gures quoted are amounts spent in the year to 1 April 2012.
08 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements We are hi ghly technical The services we provide are increasingly reliant onstate-of-the-art facilities and technical expertise.
Our level of investment capital expenditure in 2012 was 27.1 million.
This investment will continue to position Synergy as a company withsome of the most advanced and innovative facilities in the world.
We also invest in research and development and talented people with the technical knowledge to ensure we always work atthe cutting edge of sterilisation and continue toimplement new developments in technology.
Synergy is the largest operator of cobalt-60 gamma irradiators outside the US, and we are the largest operator of pallet irradiators worldwide.
Pallet irradiators allow for automated material handling and significant labour cost efficiencies when compared to tote irradiators.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 09 Our business Ensu ring the quality of our people is a key differentiator Our people The translation of our vision and values into reality is Synergys graduate programme: onlyachievable through the inspiration and diligence ofour4,600 employees across the Group worldwide.
Wecontinuously strive to attract, develop, and retain thebest people who wish to share in the mission, values, and success of the Group.
Our Human Resources department works closely with The scheme really does offer managers and employees to meet their aspirations for anindividual the opportunity to personal growth and development.
In addition, we hold a number of internal development centres and workshops, become an all-rounder in terms and assist employees to create personal development plans.
Teamwork is At our Senior Executive Board meetings, a minimum of essential for idea generation four talent reviews are undertaken per year where the Board discusses the talent within the business with a view and getting goals achieved to how they can develop them further.
We recruited a efficiently and on time.
further seven graduates in 2011 across the UK & Ireland and Europe & Middle East regions, providing a powerful example of our strategy to grow and develop our talentpool.
Over the coming year we will be launching a new performance management system which will directly assess our employees against our leadership model, helping to identify our business leaders of the future.
Oliver Moorhouse joined Synergys graduate development programme The Company has a Senior Leadership Community, in2010.
He initially worked in an HSS operations position in London, whichinvolves 80 managers from across the Group.
before commencing a businesses development secondment to the US, TheCommunity was established to encourage crossfocusing on patient hygiene, wound care, and surgical solution products.
functional working practices and ensure that information and expertise is shared across the different businesses.
The Community also allows management to develop their leadership skills.
We are looking to increase the visibility and interaction of senior management across the business.
We pride ourselves on the fact that we differentiate ourselves from our competitors through our people.
10 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements We are trusted partners We work closely with our customers to understand their needs and tailor solutions for local requirements.
This usually combines technical ability, healthcare expertise and the skill to provide customised logistics solutions across services which are often missioncritical for our customers.
It is essential that globally we attract, develop and retain talented people who work to inspire confidence and deliver success to theorganisations we partner.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 11
