Governance Synthomer plc Annual report 2012 27 Report of the directors for the year ended 31 December 2012 The directors submit their annual report including a business review The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, and the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended being the only class of issued share capital, as well as the powers of the 31 December 2012.
Companys directors, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House or can be Results and dividends downloaded from the Companys website.
There are no restrictions on the The profit attributable to shareholders for the year was 56.6 million.
voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer The interim dividend of 2.2 pence per share was paid on 8 November 2012. of securities in the Company.
No person holds securities in the Company The directors recommend a final dividend of 3.3 pence per share payable carrying special rights with regard to the control of the Company.
The on 5 July 2013 to those shareholders registered at the close of business Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities on 7 June 2013.
A dividend reinvestment plan is available to shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
and this alternative will continue to be offered until further notice.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of Association of the Company, the Companys Articles of Association may be amended Principal activities and business review by special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries and a business review are set out on pages 7 to 25 and form part of the report Other than in relation to its borrowings which, unless certain conditions of the directors.
are satisfied, become repayable on a takeover, the Company is not party to any significant agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate upon Financial instruments a change of control following a takeover bid.
The Company does not Details of the Groups use of financial instruments and its financial risk have agreements with any director or employee that would provide management objectives and policies, and of its exposure to price, credit, compensation for loss of ofce or employment resulting from a takeover.
liquidity and cash ow risk in relation to such instruments, are contained in note 22 to the financial statements.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would normally vest and Directors become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction The present membership of the Board is shown on page 26 all of of any performance conditions at that time.
whom served throughout the year except for Dr Jansz, Ms Macpherson and Mr Chen who joined the Board on 2 April 2012, 17 May 2012 and Contractual arrangements 5 October 2012 respectively.
All the directors will retire and will be seeking The Group has contractual and other arrangements with numerous third election or re-election as appropriate at the forthcoming Annual General parties in support of its business operations.
The disclosure in this report of Meeting except for Ms Macpherson who is leaving the Board.
information about any such third parties is not considered to be necessary for an understanding of the development, performance or position of the None of the directors seeking election or re-election has a service contract Groups business.
other than Mr Whiteld and Mr Blackwood who each have a service contract which contains a twelve month notice period.
Details of directors Major shareholdings emoluments and the interests of each director in the share capital of Other than the shareholdings disclosed as directors interests in the the Company are shown in the Directors remuneration report on remuneration report as at 22 February 2013, the Company had been pages 35 to 39. notied under Section 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority of the following significant holdings of voting rights in Director indemnity provisions its ordinary shares: Under the Companys Articles of Association, the directors of the Company Percentage have the benefit of a qualifying third-party indemnity provision which Ordinary of ordinary shares shares in Nature of provides that they shall be indemnified by the Company against certain number issue holding liabilities as permitted by Sections 232 and 234 of the Companies Act 2006 Kuala Lumpur Direct and against costs incurred by them in relation to any liability for which they Kepong Berhad Group 66,111,401 19.45 interest are indemnified.
The Company has purchased and maintains insurance Direct and against directors and ofcers liabilities in relation to the Company.
Standard Life indirect Investments Limited 37,412,994 11.01 interest Share capital and control Details of the Companys share capital are contained in note 25 to the financial statements.
During 2012 no shares were issued or repurchased.
A total of 226,528 shares were purchased on the open market on behalf of the shareholders who elected to participate in the dividend reinvestment plan.
28 Synthomer plc Annual report 2012 Report of the directors for the year ended 31 December 2012 continued Employment policies Statement as to disclosure of information to auditor The Group gives every consideration to applications for employment Each director of the Company confirms that, so far as he is aware, from disabled persons.
Employees who become disabled are given every there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is opportunity to continue employment under normal terms and conditions unaware and that he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as with appropriate training, career development and promotion wherever a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information possible.
The Group seeks to achieve equal opportunities in employment and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
through recruitment and training policies.
For these purposes, relevant audit information means information needed by the Companys auditor in connection with preparing their reports on Authority to purchase own shares pages 41 and 79.
The Company has a general authority, which expires at the conclusion of the 2013 Annual General Meeting, to make market purchases of not more This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with than 33,988,076 of the Companys ordinary shares in accordance with the Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. terms of the special resolution passed at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
A resolution will be tabled at the 2013 Annual General Meeting to renew Corporate governance this authority.
The Corporate governance report is set out on pages 30 to 34 and forms part of the report of the directors.
Employee involvement The Group encourages employee involvement in its affairs and makes Principal risks and uncertainties use of an intranet system to promote such involvement and to aid The directors have appropriately considered the Groups principal risks communication with employees.
The Group is currently implementing a and uncertainties including the following: project in order to establish whether its current communication procedures s Conditions in the global economy, economic uctuations in customer can be improved.
An annual management conference is held to bring industries and volatility and cyclicality of the global chemicals and senior managers together to share ideas and develop policy and values.
polymers markets may adversely affect the results of operations, Dialogue takes place regularly with employee representative groups to financial condition and cash ows of the Group: make employees aware of the financial and economic factors affecting s Volatility in raw material prices and energy prices may adversely the performance of the Group.
Performance related bonus schemes are affect the profitability of the Group and its working capital position: in operation throughout the Group.
s The failure of the Group to procure key raw materials may lead to production interruptions that may adversely affect the profitability A new long-term share incentive plan for directors and senior executives of the Group and its working capital position: was introduced in 2011 with the approval of shareholders.
s The markets in which the Group operates are highly competitive and the Group may lose market share to other producers or sellers UK pension funds of water-based polymers or to other products that can be substituted The trustees have reviewed the independent investment management for the products of the Group: of the assets of the Company pension schemes in the UK and assured s The Group operates in a number of different geographies which may themselves of the security and controls in place.
In particular, it is the present different legal and regulatory risks.
In addition, the Group trustees policy not to invest in Synthomer plc shares nor lend money operates in a number of different tax regimes, which may increase to the Company.
the volatility of the effective tax rate and cash tax rate of the Group: s The ability of the Group to compete is highly dependent on its ability Creditor payment policy to develop technological innovations, to introduce new products and The Groups policy is to make payments to creditors and other suppliers to protect its intellectual property, trade secrets and know-how.
Failure in accordance with terms of payment agreed at the time the contract of to do so could have an adverse affect on the Group: supply is made, subject to all the terms and conditions of the order being s The Group may be liable for damages based on product liability claims satisfied by the supplier.
The Company signed up to the UK Prompt brought against its customers in end-use markets.
In addition, Payment code in January 2013.
Trade creditor days of the Company for compliance with extensive environmental, health and safety laws and the year ended 31 December 2012 were 22 days 2011 28 days based regulations could require material expenditure, changes in the operations on the ratio of trade creditors at the year end to the amounts invoiced during of the Group or site remediation: the year by trade creditors.
s The manufacture, storage and transportation of chemicals is inherently dangerous and any incidents relating to the hazards which the Group Charitable donations faces may adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations Charitable donations in the year amounted to 62,000 2011 53,500. and reputation: There were no political donations during the year 2011 nil.
s Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may signicantly impact the results of the operations of the Group and may signicantly affect the comparability of financial results between financial periods: s Credit market conditions and credit ratings may restrict the ability of the Group to obtain credit facilities or to renance its existing debt facilities in the longer term.
In addition, interest rate uctuations and increases in bank lending margins may increase the Groups costs of borrowing in the longer term: and s The Group has funding risks relating to dened benefit pension schemes and any deterioration in the value of assets in which the pension scheme has invested as against the financial obligations to make payments to members of the schemes could have an adverse affect on the Group.
Governance Synthomer plc Annual report 2012 29 Not all these risks can be managed or substantially mitigated.
The Group Key performance indicators has a number of key processes to effect reduction and some mitigation Management monitors a number of financial and non-financial key of operational risks where reasonably practical, including: performance indicators, which are disclosed within the Chief Executive Ofcers report, the Financial review and Corporate social responsibility s Active management processes to manage margins and recover input report.
These key performance indicators include divisional sales and cost increases from customers: underlying operating profit, net borrowings, reportable safety incidents, s Sourcing strategies to access multiple sources for key raw materials: energy usage and water consumption.
s Actively managed innovation processes: s Product quality control and testing processes: Cautionary statement s A centralised internal audit function dedicated to SHE issues, and The purpose of this report is to provide information to the members of programmes for continuous improvement across all major the Company.
It contains certain forward-looking statements with respect SHE areas: and to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
s Internal audit and business performance review processes, the format By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events of which were enhanced in 2012. and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reect knowledge Financial risks are partly mitigated through currency and interest rate and information available at the date of preparation of this report and the hedging and the Group has a policy on leverage limits and seeks to ensure Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking it has adequate borrowing headroom on a twelve month forecast basis.
Nothing in this report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Going concern Independent auditors The directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on going concern A resolution to appoint  LLP as the Companys and in reaching their conclusions have taken into account factors including: auditor will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
s the Groups euro denominated 150 million term loan facility and 60 million multicurrency revolving credit facility the termination dates Annual General Meeting of which were extended from 13 December 2013 to 31 March 2015 The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 am on on 22 December 2011.
Thursday 16 May 2013 at Manor of Groves Hotel, High Wych, s the second repayment under the 2004 series private placement notes Sawbridgeworth, Hertfordshire CM21 0JU.
of US$70 million due in September 2014.
Further discussion on liquidity and nancing is provided in the Financial By order of the Board review.
R Atkinson Company secretary After making enquiries and taking account of reasonably possible 14 March 2013 changes in trading performance, the directors have concluded that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
