4 Business strategy and objectives significant opportunity to deliver customer and Increasing efficiency shareholder value We have targeted 50m of operating efficiencies over the We see significant opportunities ahead of us to grow both medium term, to be delivered through a programme of revenues and profitability.
improving our end-to-end processes and simplifying our operating systems.
Simpler, more efficient processes allow We have a strong, long term position in the UK telecoms industry, us to deliver better customer service that in turn allows us underpinned by our value for money positioning, large installed to reduce customer service costs.
As the achievements of customer base, advanced NGN and cost efficient operating the last 18 months have demonstrated, this is one of our key model.
We are well placed to take advantage of a number of organisational capabilities.
key industry trends such as the proliferation of connected devices in the home and the growing appetite for on-demand New services for consumers and businesses content from both consumers and businesses.
These trends We have clear pipelines for growth in our consumer and business are driving demand for reliable and uncontended bandwidth customers that will enable us to leverage industry trends, our in what increasingly, is becoming an essential service.
network assets and our processes.
Fixed line networks are signicantly advantaged over mobile We are committed to providing an expanding range of clear, networks in this context, as the incremental costs of bringing value for money services to our customers.
Customers who buy additional capacity onstream are much lower.
Our network, more than one service from us save more money, deliver greater withits deeply embedded points of connectivity into the UK value, and stay with us for longer.
To date, our customer value core, both for consumers and for businesses, is therefore journey for consumers has included upselling customers from akeycompetitive asset.
single play broadband only to dual play broadband and voice, In November 2010, we set out a framework of strategic priorities on to our Plus product, an expanding range of paid Boosts and for delivering medium term revenue and margin growth: acompetitive SIM-only mobile offering.
Extending our network and its benets to 700 For consumers, the launch of a TV proposition will be a key moreexchanges element in the implementation of our strategy of building a compelling quad play offer to deliver ARPU growth and lower 2.
Increasing efficiency by simplifying our operating systems churn i. e. more valuable customers.
Also during 2012, we will and processes launch a series of handsets to extend our mobile offering.
Developing compelling new value for money services We also have clear revenue and margin growth opportunities for consumers in TalkTalk Business.
Our network gives us a significant capability 4.
Using our network to expand our range of advanced data to meet efficiently the changing needs of business customers services for businesses as they migrate from legacy voice services to data-driven trafc.
We aim to build upon the success of our Ethernet products to 5.
Preparing for a bre future create a best value connectivity business that also provides voice and data hosted applications to deliver value added Network expansion solutions to our customers.
By the end of FY2013 we will have unbundled 2,700 local exchanges 2012: 2,508, taking our coverage to 91% of UK Superfast broadband households.
Unbundled exchanges, in which we install our own We are confident about our role in bre, which we see as a equipment, are linked to our core national NGN by high capacity, profitable and low capital driver of incremental ARPU over low cost backhaul circuits.
This all IP network allows us to time.
As the number of devices our customers use to access manage multiple services efficiently, control service quality, the internet, and as they increasingly require higher speeds and develop new services rapidly and cost effectively.
to support their data consumption, so the delivery of our core Fully unbundled customers on our network are able to access broadband service needs to evolve.
A future-proof network to more services from us, save more money, and enjoy a superior deliver NGA is therefore at the heart of our broadband strategy.
They also deliver the most value for us as a We aim to offer a simple to understand and competitively business because they buy more services from us and cost pricedbre product to our customers, as BT Openreach less to serve.
Following the launch of our Over the next five years, we plan to increase our network 40Mbpsbre boost in 2011, we have recently launched capacity by over 100 times within our capex run rate of 6% an80Mbps product that an increasing number of customers of revenue.
Primarily this will take the form of cost efficient willbeable to access.
backhaul scaling against a sustainable exchange footprint.
A key element of our bre strategy is to maintain regular and In addition, we will continue to optimise our network for video close dialogue with both BT Openreach and the UK regulator content, security and access to cloud services.
This network Ofcom, to ensure that consumers continue to enjoy a choice advantage will enable us to grow revenues, by providing of fairly and competitively priced services.
We believe the UK additional services to our consumer and business customers.
regulator will, in due course, reafrm its responsibility for maintaining strong retail competition, which will support our bre strategy.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 5 2013 Financial guidance We have already delivered on key elements of the medium term strategy we set out 18 months ago.
Our operating and financial performance in the last financial year has delivered a materially more profitable and stable customer base and a leaner, more efficient cost structure.
As a result we have entered the new financial year in a position of strength, from which to invest in growth opportunities such as YouView, and to deliver further shareholder value.
The majority of our investment in TV will take the form of variable SAC and marketing costs with minimal capital expenditure requirement.
The guidance below excludes these costs, further details on which, together with details of our proposition, will be provided in due course.
Revenue We are confident of achieving our target of a return to positive net adds in the first quarter of FY2013.
We expect that this, together with ongoing progress in ARPU from an improving customer mix on our fully unbundled base, will drive a return torevenue growth.
Operating expenses We expect operating expenses to be broadly at in FY2013 as customer service improvements and back ofce simplication cost reductions, enable us to reinvest in increased network footprint and resilience.
EBITDA margin We expect ARPU growth and stronger margins from improved customer mix to generate an EBITDA margin of 20%-21% in FY2013.
Cash ow items We do not expect material net exceptional cash expenditure in FY2013, as the costs of contact centre consolidation are expected to be offset by a credit relating to an historical BT dispute.
Capex is expected to be in line with our stated policy of 6% of revenue.
We expect our tax cash rate to be less than 10%.
Dividend We are rmly committed to growing our dividend whilst also investing for growth, a commitment that is supported by the increasing profitability of our core business, our cash generation and overall financial strength.
Thus, although FY2013 and FY2014 will see us absorb the costs of investing in TV, we expect to grow the dividend by a minimum of 15% in each of these years.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2012
