2 What we do We are the UKs leading value for money Services to Consumers TalkTalk is strongly positioned as the leading value for provider of xed line broadband and money broadband and voice provider for UK homes.
voice telephony services to residential We are differentiated by our clear and simple tariff and business customers.
structure, low prices, and groundbreaking safety features.
We are delivering a steady stream of innovations to augment Over the past six years, we have built one of the UKs largest our broadband and voice offering to customers, with the aim broadband and voice customer bases, attracting customers of increasing our customers savings, their loyalty to TalkTalk, looking for significant bill savings.
More recently, we have and our revenue potential.
started to extend into mobile services, and in FY2012, we plan to launch great value television services.
In the beginning of 2011 we launched HomeSafe, a network based security service that, when activated, protects all the devices in Our network gives us a strong value for money advantage the home from viruses and inappropriate content.
We believe We are able to offer our customers voice and broadband online safety is a right, and we therefore offer this service free of services at signicantly lower cost than our cable and incumbent charge.
We have seen strong engagement among our customers, competitors.
This is because we operate the UKs most extensive who appreciate our commitment to family online safety.
Next Generation Network, which has our own advanced, highly We have also seen strong performance in our value for money SIM cost effective equipment.
mobile offering, which launched at the end of 2011.
We plan to extend our mobile range with a launch into handsets in the Summer of 2012.
Our NGN now covers 91% of UK homes, operating in 2,508 Again, our handsets will be clearly positioned as offering strong value exchanges.
These exchanges are connected via our own high-speed, for money, with low prices and a commitment to bill control.
high capacity all IP national network, enabling us to carry all of our customers voice and data trafc efficiently and cost effectively.
We also launched superfast broadband in 2012, and have seen steady uptake among specic customer groups who require This investment enables us to take control of the telephone line faster speeds.
from the exchange to the customers premises, and to manage all We are partnering with the BBC, ITV, BT and several other ofthe voice and broadband services.
This process is known as local companies to launch YouView in FY2013.
YouView is a broadband loop unbundling, and our customers benefit through optimised based television service with differentiated catch-up and onbroadband speeds and quality, and access to our growing range demand services, and an open platform for future application oflower cost, value add products and services.
For example, our driven innovations.
We believe customers will have strong demand groundbreaking HomeSafe technology, which protects children for value for money services in the television sector.
from seeing inappropriate content online, is built into this network.
Market overview BT Retail and Virgin Media are positioned at the premium end of the market, with signicantly higher price points.
They focus on speed and reliability of broadband connection.
BSkyBs focus is on cross At the end of December 2011 there were selling broadband and voice to its pay television base, providing deep 20.7 million household broadband connections discounts to customers who take all three products with them.
in the UK, 6.2% more than atthesame time the Within this context, TalkTalk is clearly positioned as the leading previous year.
It is estimated that more than provider for customers seeking a best value, reliable voice and 70% of UK households now have a xed line broadband.
We believe this reputation for value for money will broadbandconnection.
improve further as we are able to offer more television and mobileservices.
There are four key players in the broadband market.
BT Retail isthe largest broadband service provider, with Virgin Media, the cable provider, the second largest player.
BSkyB is the fourth For more information visit: largest player behind TalkTalk.
TalkTalk is the largest unbundler.
com % % 46.3 92 TalkTalk share of UK unbundled network TalkTalk unbundled customer percentage 2012 3.755 2012 92 2011 3.607 2011 86 million % On-net base On-net customers TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 3 UK telecoms regulation The UK telecoms market is regulated Ofcoms objective is to ensure that these Regulation is monitored by the Regulatory by Ofcom, which sets the charges for wholesale products enable effective Compliance Committee as detailed on wholesale access to infrastructure competition in the market, so that page 20. and associated services owned by consumers and businesses benefit The areas regulated by Ofcom that BT Openreach, where BT is deemed from a choice of services and retail aremost material for TalkTalk are: to enjoy significant Market Power.
LLU Charges Next Generation Access Treatment of BTs pension deficit On 7 March 2012, Ofcom made Openreachs NGA infrastructure, currently BTs wholesale charges currently do not its statement regarding the level of mainly comprising its FTTC network is now include any contribution to BTs pension BT Openreach Openreach charges being rolled out.
Openreach is required to deficit repair payments.
In 2009 and forLLU for the period until 31 March 2014, offer a wholesale NGA product on equivalent 2010, Ofcom consulted on whether, as which covers MPF charges, SMPF charges terms and conditions for all communications demanded by BT, these costs should and WLR charges.
It takes account of a providers.
The current wholesale product is beincluded.
Ofcom concluded that range of factors, including Openreachs GEA, which TalkTalk is using to provide decitrepair payments should continue cost of capital, the regulatory valuation customers with its Fibre Optic Boost tobeexcluded.
BT appealed Ofcoms oflocal loop infrastructure, and potential product.
At present GEA is not subject to approach.
BTs appeal also challenged efficiency gains.
Pursuant to this decision, formal price controls.
The development of twoaspects of the way cost of capital MPF rental prices reduced to 87.41 GEA is the subject of discussions between wascalculated.
We expect the final on 1 April 2012 from 91.50 previously TalkTalk, other service providers, Openreach determination of the Competition and will reduce again by RPI 5.9% on and Ofcom, aiming to improve the customer Commission in June 2012.
TalkTalk has appealed the experience and to make its economics more statement since it believes that the prices attractive for providers and customers.
The are still set too high.
BT also appealed the future regulation of GEA will be reconsidered decision.
The outcome of these appeals in the upcoming Wholesale Local Access are likely in early 2013.
Market Review which will be effective from April 2014.
Other regulation and legislation Several other significant areas ofcurrent or potential legislation aresignicant for TalkTalk: Digital Economy Act Net Neutrality whether they wanted to turn on the parental This Act was enacted in 2010 and requires A number of parties have lobbied vocally controls element of HomeSafe, the UKs ISPs to send notications to customers at national and EU level for the introduction only network level security system.
TalkTalk whose connections have been identied of rules to prevent certain forms of data also announced its commitment to roll out as being used for illegal le sharing.
The trafc management by ISPs.
However, active choice to existing customers with Actalso includes reserve powers torequire the EU, UK Government and Ofcom all trials beginning later in the year.
the ISP to disconnect these customers.
appear to be committed currently to allow Alongside the Bailey Review, an independent TalkTalk, along with BT, was given market transparency and competition Parliamentary Inquiry was convened to permission for a judicial review of these to protect consumers interests, rather examine Online Child Protection, chaired provisions of the Act.
In judgments by the than prescriptive regulation.
In order to by Claire Perry, MP.
The review, published in High Court April 2011 and Court of Appeal ensure that themarket works effectively, April, praised TalkTalks HomeSafe for its March 2012 the majority of the challenge TalkTalk has committed to a code of ability to protect all devices using the home was rejected though the amount ISPs practice regarding trafc management broadband connection and called for other needed to contribute to thecosts of the transparency and we are developing a ISPs to introduce similar systems.
Further secondary code regarding open internet principles.
Inquiry also concluded that default blocking legislation and regulation is required and of pornography, where customers have to the Government now projects that letters Government consultation opt in to view this content, was preferred.
willbe sent out in early 2014. on parental controls In June 2011 the Government published the On 4 May 2012, the Prime Minister The Act had provisions that could Bailey Review into the commercialisation announced that the Government would requireISPs to block certain websites and sexualisation of children.
One of the hold a formal consultation into whether thatpromote illegal le sharing.
The key recommendations was that parents pornography should be blocked by default.
Government has decided not to pursue should be offered an active choice by ISPs FTTC Fibre to the Cabinet these.
However, the MPA has been about whether or not they wanted to use GEA Generic Ethernet Access granted a court order under the ISP Internet Service Provider parental controls.
LLU Local Loop Unbundling Copyright Act requiring TalkTalk to MPF Full unbundling blockaccess to the Newzbin website In March, TalkTalk became the first, NGA Next Generation Access NGN Next Generation Network andthe BPI has been granted the same and so far only, ISP to implement the RPI Retail Price Index inrespect of The Pirate Bay website.
Governments policy of offering new SMPF Partial unbundling WLR Wholesale Line Rental customers a yes or no decision about TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2012
