Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 17 Board of Directors and advisors Chairman: Charles Dunstone 47 Charles founded the Carphone Warehouse, andcreated TalkTalk in 2002.
Since that date he hasdirected the development of TalkTalk to become one of the leading xed line telecoms businesses inthe UK.
Charles is chairman of the Princes Trust, chairman of Carphone Warehouse Group PLC and aNon-Executive Director of The Daily Mail and General Trust PLC and Independent Media Distribution PLC.
Executives: Dido Harding 44 Amy Stirling 42 David Goldie 48 Dido has been Chief Executive officer of TalkTalk Amy has been the Chief Financial officer of TalkTalk David joined TalkTalk when the Opal business since February 2010.
Prior to that date Dido was since 2006, having been with CPW since 2000. wasacquired by CPW in 2002.
Davidhas over 25 Sainsburys convenience director, having been Amy has played a key role in the management and years experience in the telecoms industry and has appointed to Sainsburys operating board in March integration of the significant businesses acquired been instrumental in the establishment and growth 2008.
Dido joined Sainsburys from Tesco PLC by TalkTalk over the past seven years.
David holds a Non-Executive role at where she held a variety of senior roles.
Dido is external director appointments.
TheFulwood Academy and was a Board member of a Non-Executive Director of The British Land theNorthwest Regional Development Agency until Company PLC.
The Agency was closed on 31 March 2012.
Non-Executives: Roger Taylor 47 John Gildersleeve 67 Ian West 48 Roger was Chief Financial officer of CPW from John was an Executive Director of Tesco PLC, Ian has been involved in the TMT sector for over January 2000, and played a key rolein the creation and joined the Board of CPW in June 2000 20years.
Ian held numerous roles at British Sky and growth of its group, including TalkTalk.
Roger before becoming Chairman in July 2005.
John is a Broadcasting over 11 years, including managing isalso Chief Executive officer of Carphone Non-Executive Director of Carphone Warehouse director of the Sky Digital subscription business Warehouse Group PLC.
Group PLC and The British Land Company PLC.
and co-founded Top Up TV in 2003.
John Allwood 60 Brent Hoberman 43 John was the Chief Operating officer and latterly Brent co-founded lastminute.
com in 1998, and was Group Finance Director of Mecom Group PLC, and their Chief Executive officer until it was sold in 2005, prior to this he was managing director of Telegraph during which time he oversaw its otation on the Media Group Limited, Chief Executive of Orange UK London Stock Exchange in March 2000.
Brent has andof Mirror Group PLC.
John is a member of Exeter subsequently founded mydeco, the innovative University Council and a Non-Executive Director of onlineservice for home design and furniture.
Brent Carphone Warehouse Group PLC.
is Governor of the University of the Arts, London, a Non-Executive Director of Guardian Media Group, Non-Executive Chairman of Where are we now?
Limited, amember of the Business Council for Britain and a Young Global Leader for the World Economic Forum.
Company Secretary Advisors Tim Morris Principal Bankers: Registrars: Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC Equiniti Limited, DnB Bank ASA Aspect House, Spencer Road, Barclays PLC Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6LG HSBC Bank PLC Auditor: Lloyds TSB Bank PLC Deloitte LLP, Corporate Brokers: 2 New Street Square, Credit Suisse Europe Limited, London EC4A 3BZ 1 Cabot Square, London E14 4QJ Barclays Capital, 5 The North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London E14 4BB TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2012
