Governance: Board of Directors Introducing your Board of Directors Sir Peter Gershon Chairman and Javed Ahmed Chief Executive Tim Lodge Chief Financial Officer Chairman of the Nominations and Joined the Board as Chief Executive in Joined the Board in December 2008 as Corporate Responsibility Committees October 2009.
Joined the Board as an independent Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Non-Executive Director and Chairman Javed has extensive international experience Tim joined the Group in 1988 and has held Designate in February 2009.
Appointed from a wide variety of senior commercial a number of senior operational and financial Chairman in July 2009.
He started his roles, both in the UK and internationally, Skills and Experience career with Procter & Gamble and then including Managing Director of Zambia Sir Peter has broad business experience spent five years with Bain & Co. before Sugar: Group Financial Controller: Finance gained in large and complex international joining Benckiser later Reckitt Benckiser Director of the Food & Industrial Ingredients, organisations and held various leadership plc in 1992 where he gained significant Europe division: and Director of Investor roles in the UK private and public sector.
experience of international consumer goods Relations.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered He was formerly Chairman of Premier markets and held positions including Senior Institute of Management Accountants.
Farnell plc: Chief Executive of the Office of Vice President, Northern Europe: President, Other Directorships Government Commerce: and Managing North America: Executive Vice President, None Director of Marconi Electronic Systems.
North America, Australia and New Zealand: and Executive Vice President, Europe.
Other Directorships Chairman of National Grid plc Other Directorships Member of the UK Defence Academy None Advisory Board Member of HM Government Efficiency Board Liz Airey Non-Executive Director and William Camp Non-Executive Director Evert Henkes Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Joined the Board in May 2010.
Joined the Board in January 2007.
Joined the Board in December 2003.
Skills and Experience Bill worked for 22 years for Archer Daniels Liz was an investment banker and has Midland Company, before retiring in 2007, Skills and Experience extensive financial experience in the UK and and held a variety of management positions Most of Everts career was with Shell where internationally.
She was formerly Finance including Executive Vice President, Asia he held a number of senior management Director of Monument Oil and Gas plc.
Strategy: Executive Vice President, positions in Europe and Asia Pacific Processing: and Senior Vice President, culminating in Chief Executive of Shell Other Directorships Global Oil Seeds, Cocoa and Wheat Milling.
Chemicals from 1998 until his retirement Chairman of the Unilever UK Pension Fund in 2003.
Senior Independent Director of Jupiter Other Directorships Fund Management PLC Non-executive director of Chiquita Brands Other Directorships Non-executive director of Dunedin International Inc Non-executive director of Air Products Enterprise Investment Trust PLC Non-executive director of BioAmber Inc and Chemicals Inc Senior Advisor, Naxos Capital Non-executive director of SembCorp Industries Ltd Non-executive director of TNK-BP Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 36 Governance More online: Read full biographies of the Board of Introducing your Board of Directors Directors and our Group Executive Committee at www.
com Our Governance structure Certain responsibilities are delegated to four Board Committees, details of which are given on pages 44 to 49.
The current membership of the Board Committees are as follows: Audit Committee Douglas Hurt Non-Executive Director Dr Ajai Puri Non-Executive Director Liz Airey, Chairman Joined the Board in March 2010.
Joined the Board in April 2012.
Chairman of Evert Henkes the Research Advisory Group.
Skills and Experience Douglas Hurt Douglas is a Chartered Accountant.
He Skills and Experience Remuneration Committee held a number of financial and operational Ajai has a PhD in Food Science from the roles, including US and European senior University of Maryland, USA and a MBA Evert Henkes, Chairman management positions, at GlaxoSmithKline from Rollins College, Florida, USA.
He was William Camp before joining IMI plc as Finance Director President Research, Development and Sir Peter Gershon in 2006.
Product Integrity and a member of the Dr Ajai Puri Executive Board of Koninklijke Numico N. V. Robert Walker Other Directorships from 2003 to 2007.
From 1981 to 2003, Ajai Finance Director of IMI plc Nominations Committee held various management positions with The Coca-Cola Company, culminating in Senior Sir Peter Gershon, Chairman Vice President Technical, The Minute Maid Javed Ahmed Company.
Liz Airey William Camp Other Directorships Evert Henkes Member of the supervisory board Douglas Hurt of Nutreco N. V. Dr Ajai Puri Non-executive director of Barry Robert Walker Callebaut AG Non-executive director of Britannia Corporate Responsibility Industries Limited Committee Sir Peter Gershon, Chairman Liz Airey William Camp Dr Ajai Puri Our Group Executive Committee The Group Executive Committee oversees the development and execution of the Groups strategy, and Robert Walker Senior Independent Robert Gibber Executive Vice President, has overall responsibility for achieving Director Company Secretary and General Counsel business results.
Joined the Board in January 2006.
Appointed General Counsel in 1997 and Javed Ahmed Company Secretary in 2001.
Chief Executive Skills and Experience Robert spent over 30 years with Procter Skills and Experience Tim Lodge & Gamble, McKinsey and finally, PepsiCo, A solicitor, Robert joined Tate & Lyle in 1990 Chief Financial Officer where he was responsible for the as a commercial lawyer.
He previously Robert Gibber companys beverage operations in Europe, worked for City law firms Wilde Sapte and Executive Vice President, Company Middle East and Africa.
Robert graduated Secretary and General Counsel from Wadham College, Oxford in Oriental Other Directorships Studies Chinese in 1984.
Rob Luijten Chairman of Travis Perkins plc Executive Vice President, Chairman of Enterprise Inns plc Other Directorships Human Resources Chairman of Americana International None Holdings Limited Karl Kramer President, Innovation and Commercial Development Olivier Rigaud President, Speciality Food Ingredients Matt Wineinger President, Bulk Ingredients Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37
