Governance: Corporate Governance monitoring the implementation of Effectiveness Tenure of non-executive directors transformational investments, in particular Board composition the project to create one global IS IT At the date of this report, the Board platform, the global Shared Service comprises nine directors: the Chairman, 1 Centre in dz, Poland and the who has no executive responsibilities: two Commercial and Food Innovation Centre executive directors: and six non-executive in Chicago, USA: directors.
The names and biographies approving the project to restart the of the directors are on pages 36 and 37. mothballed facility in McIntosh, Alabama, 3 Dr Barry Zoumas died on 14 August 2011 USA and monitoring progress: and Dr Ajai Puri was appointed a continuing to oversee talent management 2 non-executive director with effect from and recruitment activities: and 1 April 2012.
Further information on the through the above, overseeing the selection process is contained within the ongoing transformation of the Groups Nominations Committee report on page 47. culture and business.
1 0 to 3 years 3 directors 2 4 to 6 years 1 director Independence Areas of particular focus for the Board 3 7 to 9 years 2 directors With the exception of the Chairman, who in the 2013 financial year are on page 38. is presumed under the Code not to be Board allocation of time independent, the Board considers all the Time commitment The chart below shows the approximate non-executive directors to be independent.
All Directors have disclosed any significant time the Board has spent discussing The Senior Independent Director, Robert external commitments to the Board and agenda items during the year, separated Walker, is available to shareholders if they confirmed they have sufficient time to into broad categories.
have any issues or concerns, and leads discharge their duties.
The other significant the annual review of the Chairmans commitments of the Chairman, Sir Peter performance.
Board allocation of time Gershon, are set out on page 36.
The non-executive directors have a wide During the year, the Chairman was range of skills and knowledge and combine 1 appointed as Chairman of National Grid plc broad business and commercial experience 5 and prior to that appointment, he confirmed with independent and objective judgement.
to the Board that to ensure he had sufficient The terms and conditions of appointment time to devote to both the Company and of the non-executive directors can be National Grid, he would be giving up his 4 inspected at the Companys registered 2 other company directorships before assuming office and will be available for inspection 3 the chairmanship of National Grid.
The Board at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
reviewed his time commitments and was Each director has been through a formal satisfied that his new position would not performance review process as part of the restrict him from effectively carrying out his 1 Strategy 30% 2 Capital expenditure 4% Board effectiveness review.
In line with the duties as Chairman of Tate & Lyle PLC.
The 3 Finance Risk 36% Code, Evert Henkes and Robert Walker, Senior Independent Director has confirmed 4 Operations 17% who have served for over six years, have that the directors review this on a regular 5 Governance 13% been subject to a rigorous review.
basis and are satisfied that the Chairman continues to devote the necessary time to the Company.
Division of Responsibilities Board support The roles of the Chairman and Chief All directors have access to the advice and Executive are separated and their services of the Company Secretary, Robert responsibilities are clearly established, Gibber, who is also the General Counsel and set out in writing and agreed by the a member of the Group Executive Committee.
The Chairman is responsible for The Company Secretary and the Deputy the leadership and workings of the Board Company Secretary are responsible for and ensuring its effectiveness, while the ensuring that Board processes are followed Chief Executive is responsible for running and that applicable rules and regulations the business and implementing strategy are complied with.
The appointment and and policy.
removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
There is also a formal procedure whereby, in the Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 40 Governance During the year, the Chairman and non-executive directors visited over 25% of the Groups key locations.
furtherance of their duties, directors can Performance evaluation 2012 Board effectiveness review: Recommendations Agreed Actions obtain independent professional advice, A review of the Boards effectiveness is Understanding and More time has been if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The progress made knowledge of the allocated to the since the 2011 evaluation is summarised Information, induction and speciality food consideration of below: professional development ingredients market the speciality food The Chairman, assisted by the Company 2011 Board effectiveness review: to be strengthened.
ingredients markets Recommendations Update on actions Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that in Board meetings In light of the changes Following a review the directors receive accurate, timely and and Board training to the Companys led by the Chairman, clear information on all relevant matters.
strategic focus, future the Board has Nominations Committee Increased On appointment to the Board, new directors Board composition agreed a mediumto increase its focus on emphasis will be receive background reading about the should be subject term plan succession planning.
given to succession Group and details of Board procedures to a detailed review for the composition planning for future and other governance related matters.
Nominations A comprehensive tailored induction A Board diversity The Boards diversity Committee programme has been put in place for strategy should be strategy was agreed meetings.
Dr Ajai Puri, based on previous induction developed.
and implemented in Opportunities for senior A wider range of programmes.
Further details line managers senior managers are on page 38. ongoing, includes site visits to the Groups involvement in the CR will be invited to operations in Europe and the USA and Personal development Each non-executive Committee to be identified attend all or plans should be director has a meetings with senior management across and implemented.
part of the CR developed for each personal the Group.
Committees of the non-executive development plan meetings, based Directors receive ongoing training and directors and the which is regularly on the items updates on relevant issues as appropriate, Chairman.
discussed with the under discussion.
taking into account their individual Chairman.
Arrangements for Interim updates will qualifications and experience.
Bespoke It would be useful Deep dive sessions updating the Board where be provided to the training sessions were held during the year.
for the Board to have have been held to there is an interval of more Board via the Board These included a session on evolving a series of deep dive focus on key issues than two months between portal following an corporate governance trends.
including talent Board meetings should agreed schedule.
The Company Secretary helps directors and post-acquisition The rolling Board agenda The rolling undertake any other professional integration.
should be overhauled to agenda has been development they consider necessary better reflect the Groups overhauled with to assist them in carrying out their duties.
Having undertaken an  agreed strategy and focus.
increased emphasis Visits to external events or organisations review in 2011, the Board agreed that the on strategic issues.
are also arranged for the Board to help 2012 Board effectiveness review would non-executive directors in particular to gain be facilitated by the Chairman.
As part With regard to the performance of individual a deeper insight into the Groups operating of the process, the Chairman held directors, the review concluded that all environment.
During the year, in addition to one-to-one meetings with each director directors continue to make an effective the Boards visit to the Commercial and and the Company Secretary, and the contribution to the Boards work, are well Food Innovation Centre, Chicago, USA, Deputy Company Secretary gathered prepared and informed about issues they the Chairman and the non-executive feedback from senior management who need to consider, and that their commitment directors visited a total of nine of the Groups attend Board and or Committee meetings remains strong.
Individual feedback was sites in Europe, the US and the Far East via a tailored questionnaire.
The main also provided to each director.
as part of their independent site visit themes and observations on the Boards programme.
These visits provide directors effectiveness were summarised in a with the opportunity to interact with local report to the Board.
It concluded that management and gain in-depth knowledge the Board continued to operate in an about the challenges being faced by the effective manner but made a number Groups operations across the world.
of recommendations for improvements including those recommendations summarised on the right.
Progress on agreed actions is being monitored by the Company Secretary and will be reported in the Annual Report 2013.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41
