Business Review: Our Strategy and Business Transformation Programme How we are delivering onourstrategy 2010 A strategy for long-term growth Focus The Focus phase, which is largely Our vision is to become the leading global provider of complete, is about concentrating our speciality food ingredients and solutions.
Our strategy resources and investment in areas that is to deliver this vision through: will support our objective of delivering long-term sustainable growth.
A disciplined focus on growing our Speciality Food Ingredients business through: Why speciality food Deeper customer understanding, continuous ingredients?
The global speciality food ingredients innovation and agility market is growing at 4% to 5% annually, Stronger positions inhigh growth markets underpinned by strong underlying consumer trends like health & wellness Driving our Bulk Ingredients business for sustained and convenience.
cash generation to fuel this growth A fragmented market, it gives us In May 2010, following a detailed reviewof the entire opportunities to grow both organically and via acquisition.
Despite some business, we started a journey to realise our vision through strong competitive global market our Focus, Fix, Grow business transformation programme.
positions, we have a relatively limited presence in a significant proportion of the market, namely emerging markets and the market for small and medium-sized SMEs and private label companies, providing opportunities to grow.
What have we moved away from?
Tate & Lyle has a long and proud history of sugar refining and the decision to sell our EU sugar refining business in July 2010 was not one we took lightly.
However, it had for some years ceased to be a core part of the business and we concluded that it was in the best interests of both Tate & Lyle and the sugar operation that it be owned by a company for which cane sugar refining was the main focus.
In November 2010 we sold our Molasses business and we are in the process of disposing of our Vietnamese sugar operations.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 06 Business Review Future Fix Grow We are over halfway through this phase, which is all about Our primary objective is to create a platform which is making changes to ensure that we have the right operating capable of delivering sustainable long-term growth and model, the right operating capabilities and the right people.
we have identified three core areas to achieve this: Operating model Customer engagement In June 2010 we moved to a new streamlined operating model: We opened our new global Commercial and Food two global business units, Bulk Ingredients and Speciality Food Innovation Centre in Chicago in March 2012, giving us Ingredients, supported by the new Innovation and Commercial leading-edge customer-focused facilities.
Now firmly embedded, this model is state-of-the-art R&D laboratories, it has pilot plant, sensory more efficient, simpler and allows us to get much closer to and analytic testing facilities, a demonstration kitchen, our customers and the markets in which we operate.
and global video streaming capabilities.
15 Operating capabilities Innovation In January 2011 we launched two projects to transform In 2010, we created the Innovation and Commercial our operational capabilities: implementing a common set Development ICD group which houses R&D, product of business processes supported by a single global IS IT management and marketing, providing us with a fully platform: and setting up a global Shared Service Centre to integrated approach to developing and commercialising manage our support functions.
Within ICD, we also have an open innovation team focused on looking externally for new products and Our shared service centre, based in dz, Poland, started technologies that fit our strategy.
The move to Chicago and operations in September 2011.
By the end of the year ending the creation of the new Commercial and Food Innovation 31 March 2013, when fully operational, it will be a multi-lingual Centre has allowed us to attract people in ICD from a wider facility supporting our businesses worldwide.
The new global and more diverse pool of talent.
IS IT platform, which we will commence rolling out in summer 2012, will greatly improve the way we operate.
It will allow us New markets to gather and interpret information much more quickly and To build our presence in emerging markets, we have be more responsive as a result.
strengthened our sales and technical teams in Asia and Latin America.
We have also recruited dedicated resources People to focus on the private label and SME segments.
To make the most of our operational model and capabilities, we need the right people working in the right way and to develop a high performance culture.
In 2010 we overhauled our performance management system and remuneration arrangements: today we have one global management bonus Commercial and Food Innovation Centre: a key part plan and one global sales incentive plan, both directly linked of our platform for long-term growth to our key performance indicators.
We have made key hires in customer-facing areas to boost our skills, while developing In March 2012, we opened our new innovation centre those with potential internally by providing the right in Chicago, USA which will form the hub of our global assignments and relevant training.
Global Shared Service Centre opens for business Our new centre in dz, Poland opened in September 2011.
It is already helping to support a common way of working across the business.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 07
