Business Review Business Review: Risks Tate & Lyle is exposed to a number of risks which might have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operations and financial performance The Board of directors has overall extent deemed appropriate taking account The Groups risk management process responsibility for the Groups system of of costs and benefits.
The output is then continues to follow the Committee of risk management and internal control.
The reviewed by the Board.
Responsibility for Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway schedule of matters reserved to the Board managing each key risk and the associated Commission COSO Enterprise Risk ensures that the directors control, among mitigating controls is allocated to an framework.
The COSO framework provides other matters, all significant strategic, individual executive within each division.
a process to manage the risk of failure to financial and organisational issues.
As part of the process, senior executive achieve business objectives and assurance management formally confirms that these against material loss or misstatement.
key risks are being managed appropriately Approach within their operations and that controls The Groups enterprise-wide risk Key risks have been examined and are effective.
management and reporting process helps Key risks and uncertainties identified as part The confirmations and any exceptions are management to identify, assess, prioritise of the risk management process undertaken discussed at the Audit Committee and and mitigate risk.
The process involves during the year, together with some of the Corporate Responsibility Committee once an ongoing programme of workshops, mitigating actions that we are taking, are a year.
facilitated by the risk management function, set out below.
It is not possible to identify held around the Group.
The risks identified or anticipate every risk that may affect the During the year ended 31 March 2012, the are collated and reported through functional Group.
Our overall success as a global Board of directors and the Group Executive and divisional levels to the Group Executive business depends, in part, upon our ability Committee undertook an exercise to Committee.
This culminates in the to succeed in different economic, social and consider the nature and extent of the identification of the Groups key business, political environments and to manage and Groups risk appetite.
The results of this financial, operational and compliance risks to mitigate these risks.
exercise are used as part of the Groups with associated action plans and controls to strategic planning activities, and in mitigate them where possible and to the considering ongoing mitigating actions.
Risk Impact and description Examples of mitigating actions Failure to act The safety of our employees, contractors, Board annual review of Group safety environmental performance policies safely and to suppliers, and the communities in which we Central global function, Group Operational Efficiency and Sustainability, maintain the safe operate is paramount.
We must operate outside business unit control, sets and monitors standards and continuous within local laws, regulations, rules and Health and safety policies and procedures at all facilities with dedicated operation of our ordinances relating to health, safety and the staff to ensure policies are embedded and measured facilities environment, including emissions.
The Annual review of policies and performance by the Corporate operation of plants involves many risks, Responsibility Committee including failure or sub-standard Environmental management systems at production facilities performance of critical equipment: improper Internal global compliance audits on safety and environment performed installation or operation of equipment: failure Business continuity capabilities in place to enable supply, as quickly of a critical supplier: industrial action: and as practicable, of product to customers from alternative sources in the natural disasters.
If these risks cause a event of a natural disaster or major equipment or plant failure backed by temporary or permanent stoppage in appropriate insurance coverage against business interruption production, this could have a material Periodic review of critical supply or supplier dependencies in principal adverse effect on the Group.
Failure to grow in The Groups strategy is to become the Non-core businesses have been sold in order that the Groups resources Speciality Food leading global provider of speciality food and investment growth capital are focused on speciality food ingredients Ingredients ingredients and solutions.
Failure to deliver Three platforms have been established in Innovation and Commercial on this strategy over the longer term would Development sweeteners, texturants and health and wellness to drive impact the Groups credibility and new product development and innovation in speciality food ingredients reputation.
New global Commercial and Food Innovation Centre opened in Chicago to promote closer collaboration with speciality food ingredient customers and to link with the global network of applications and technical services laboratories Investments are being made to increase the Groups sales and technical resources in emerging markets Internal capabilities have been enhanced to help promote growth through acquisition Open Innovation team actively involved in scouting for breakthrough technologies and opportunities across industries and universities Programmes in place to recruit new staff and develop existing staff to upgrade skill sets particularly in customer-facing areas and innovation.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27
