Governance Service contracts of executive directors The policy in determining service contracts is to take account of market practice, and to ensure that provisions in relation to termination notice periods or payments are not excessive.
The following table summarises the key provisions of the executive directors service contracts.
Provision Javed Ahmed Chief Executive Tim Lodge Chief Financial Officer Notice period By the director 6 months 6 months By the Company 12 months 12 months Termination payment The Company has the option to pay in lieu of notice The Company has the option to pay in lieu of notice the the base salary and pension allowance that would salary, pension allowance and other contractual benefits have been payable during the notice period.
arising during the notice period.
The Company has the contractual right to phase the payments and to reduce them if the executive mitigates his loss.
Holiday 30 days 30 days Restrictive covenants For the period of 12 months less any garden leave For the period of 12 months less any garden leave period period following termination of employment.
Contract commencement date 1 October 2009 4 December 2008 Executive directors external appointments The Board believes that the Company can benefit from executive directors holding external non-executive directorships at the appropriate time.
Such appointments are subject to approval by the Board and are normally restricted to one position for each executive director.
Fees may be retained by the executive director concerned.
Neither of the executive directors currently holds an external non-executive directorship.
Chairmans fees The Committee reviews the Chairmans fees each year and the Chairman does not participate in discussions or decisions relating to his own remuneration.
Following the most recent review of fees, the Remuneration Committee approved an increase of 3% in the Chairmans fees to 291,750 effective 1 April 2012.
From 1 April 2012, the separate cash allowance payable to the Chairman will be consolidated into the base fee.
Non-executive directors fees Non-executive directors fees, reviewed annually by the Board, are set at a level to retain individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make a substantial contribution to the Group.
Fees paid are commensurate with those paid by other UK-listed companies.
In addition to the basic fee for each non-executive director and the Senior Independent Director, supplements are paid to the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees to reflect the extra responsibilities attached to these positions.
A supplement is also paid to DrAjai Puri for chairing the Tate & Lyle Research Advisory Group.
The non-executive directors do not participate in the Groups incentive or pension schemes, nor do they receive other benefits.
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts or notice periods, but, under the terms of their appointment, they are usually expected to serve on the Board for between three and nine years, with a review of their terms of appointment every three years, subject to their re-election by shareholders.
Non-executive directors have no right to compensation on the early termination of their appointment.
Taking account of the current market position, and the time commitment required of the non-executive directors, the executive directors and the Chairman agreed that an adjustment to increase non-executive directors fees by 3% would be made with effect from 1 April 2012.
The fees are shown in the following table.
Basic fees per annum At 1 April 2012 At 1 April 2011 Non-executive director 59 750 58 000 Senior Independent Director 66 600 64 650 Supplemental fees per annum At 1 April 2012 At 1 April 2011 Chairman of Audit Committee 15 850 15 375 Chairman of Remuneration Committee 10 550 10 250 Chairman of Research Advisory Group 22 150 21 525 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55
