Business Review: Bulk Ingredients Bulk Ingredients manufactures and markets a range of products including nutritive sweeteners, industrial starches, ethanol, acidulants and animal feed, forfood and beverage, industrial and agricultural customers around the world.
Bulk Ingredients also partners with an increasing number of bio-based materials companies seeking expertise in the commercialisation of green chemistry fermentation.
One such partnership is our joint venture with DuPont which manufactures Bio-PDO a bio-based ingredient used in the textile and plastics industries.
Year ending 31 March Change 2012 2011 Constant m m Reported currency Sales 2,201 1,915 15% 18% Adjusted operating profit 172 157 10% 13% Margin 7.8% 8.2% -40 bps -30 bps Although demand for industrial starches indicate that planted corn acreage will Sales in the US remained above the levels seen increase to the highest level since 1937, during the downturn in 2008 09, overall driven by high corn prices.
demand was lower than the prior year.
Against a backdrop of high corn prices, 2,201m In Europe, the shortage of potato starch a severe drought in Texas and renewed on the back of the poor 2010 harvest access to export markets, demand for 2011 1,915m increased demand for corn starches animal feed was exceptionally strong during benefiting industrial starch margins overall.
the first half with prices reaching record Adjusted operating profit After a better potato harvest in 2011 and levels.
In the second half, market conditions due to increased uncertainty about the normalised as corn prices decreased, and macroeconomic situation in Europe, demand for animal feed reduced as a result market conditions started to soften during of a relatively mild winter.
10% US ethanol prices rose during the first half Financial performance and continued largely to track the corn price In Bulk Ingredients, sales increased by until the end of the third quarter when prices 15% 18% in constant currency to 2,201 Market conditions and trends 1 fell sharply ahead of the expiry of the million 2011 1,915 million with volumes Sugar is the key competitor of many of our blenders tax credit at the end of December down by 2% as we continued to divert grind bulk corn sweeteners.
Since then, prices have remained to speciality food ingredients.
The effect of prices falling from their peak in July 2011, depressed as a result of an overhang in exchange translation was to decrease sales they remained high by historical standards supply and an overall fall in the demand for by 44 million.
as a result of rising global demand against gasoline.
As a result, ethanol margins in the Adjusted operating profit increased a backdrop of ongoing tight supply.
US fourth quarter reduced to levels well below by 10% 13% in constant currency to sugar prices also remained very high those achieved in the 2011 calendar year.
172 million 2011 157 million driven against which corn sugars remained very Despite signs that excess capacity is by an improved performance in European competitive.
In Europe, which continues starting to come out of the market, the industrial starches and exceptionally strong to be in structural deficit, sugar supply environment over the next few months returns from co-products in the first half.
remained tight due to insufficient imports is expected to remain challenging.
The effect of exchange translation was and low levels of inventory resulting in an US corn prices continued to rise in the to decrease adjusted operating profit increase in prices during the second half.
first half peaking in June 2011 reflecting by 5 million.
While US domestic demand for nutritive concerns about the quantity of the new This division comprises three broad product sweeteners declined, an increase in exports crop following adverse weather conditions categories: sweeteners: industrial starches, helped to offset this decline with Mexico during the spring and early summer.
While acidulants and ethanol: and co-products.
continuing to represent the major export corn prices fell towards the end of the first destination where US corn sugar continues half, prices remained high for the rest of Sweeteners to substitute more expensive local cane the year due to the ongoing tight supply In the Americas, sales of bulk corn sugar.
In Europe, the selling price of situation with the stocks to use ratio falling sweeteners increased by 13% 16% in isoglucose corn sugar, which is closely to 6.8%, well below the historical average.
constant currency to 876 million 2011 correlated with the sugar price, increased 1 The price of corn in the EU largely tracked 775 million as a result of higher corn during the second half.
the US corn price during the year.
The latest prices, with volumes 2% lower than the prior planting intentions reported by the USDA, year.
As anticipated at the time of the 2011 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 18 Business Review Key locations Customers Products Americas Large, multi-national food Liquid sweeteners Dayton, Ohio, USA and beverage includingcorn sugar, Decatur, Illinois, USA manufacturers dextrose and glucose Duluth, Minnesota, USA Paper and board producers Industrial starches 1 Guadalajara, Mexico Fuel and gasoline suppliers Citric acid Lafayette, Indiana, USA Textile manufacturers Bio-fuels Loudon, Tennessee, USA Animal feed compounders Animal feed including Matt Wineinger Santa Rosa, Brazil corngluten feed and corn President gluten meal EMEA 1 Adana, Turkey 1 Boleraz, Slovakia Casablanca, Morocco 1 Razgrad, Bulgaria Szabadegyhza 1 Hungrana plant, Hungary 1 Joint venture calendar year sweetener pricing round, the time of the 2008 credit crisis.
As a While the contribution made by these corn sugar unit margins were broadly result, we were able to achieve higher initiatives remains small, they provide a good in line with the comparative period and margins and deliver a better performance opportunity to diversify our corn grind to while we experienced firm US domestic for the year overall.
reduce volatility over the longer term.
demand and robust demand from Mexico, In Europe, the shortage of alternative Co-products profits for the full year in this category starches as a result of poor harvests Sales of co-products increased by 35% were slightly lower than the prior year due during the prior year increased demand 37% in constant currency to 507 million to the slightly lower volumes and softer 1 for corn starches and led to a firmer 2011 376 million.
pricing environment and an improved During the first half, we generated an In Europe, sales of bulk corn sweeteners performance for the year.
During the additional 19 million of income from increased by 15% 11% in constant final quarter, we saw a slight softening in co-products as a result of a combination currency to 141 million 2011 123 market conditions reflecting the more of factors.
Firstly, high corn prices and 1 million with volumes in line with the prior uncertain macro-economic environment strong demand meant co-product prices year.
While margins during the first half were and, with typical contract lengths in Europe remained very firm throughout the period.
lower as a result of higher corn prices for being shorter than in the US, we remain Secondly, prices for animal feed in the US which hedging options within the EU are cautious about the outlook.
were further strengthened by the impact more limited, they recovered during the In US ethanol, which represents a small of the severe drought in Texas and renewed second half on the back of an increase in part of our business, while we achieved access to European markets.
Finally, sugar prices, which provides the reference improved cash margins during the first half the tight demand supply situation led to price for isoglucose in the EU, with full year we saw a substantial reduction in margins some changes in our customers buying profits ahead of the comparative period.
in the second half on the back of the behaviour, with what is traditionally a Operating profits from Almex, our Mexican significant fall in ethanol prices in December.
short-term market seeing customers joint venture, were up on the comparative While ethanol prices have stabilised recently, wanting to secure volumes several months period reflecting higher volumes and with inventory levels remaining high we in advance allowing us to fix longer-term improved margins.
expect the market for ethanol to remain soft sales at favourable pricing.
While the in the near term and we have scaled back additional income generated from Following the unionisation of the Eaststarch production volumes to the extent possible.
co-products in the second half was joint venture plant in Turkey, a strike marginally positive, overall the markets for commenced in March 2012 which is After a softer first half, the performance co-products returned to more normal levels.
ongoing and we have taken measures to of our citric acid business improved, with mitigate the impact on our customers in profits for the full year in line with the prior Since over 80% of our US corn grind is the short-term.
Most of the products in year.
In April 2012 we sold our share of the utilised to produce bulk ingredients, the Turkey are bulk sweeteners, however the Sucromiles citric acid joint venture to our majority of this impact is recorded within plant also makes some starch-based long term partner and will now focus on this division.
During the period, sales of speciality food ingredients.
the sale and distribution of product to our European co-products also rose on the customers.
In the financial year ended back of the continuing high corn prices.
Industrial starches, acidulants 31 March 2012 our share of the joint and ethanol venture contributed 2 million to Group Sales of industrial starches, acidulants and 1 During the year we refined our product categories operating profit.
ethanol increased by 6% 10% in constant within Bulk Ingredients to, amongst other things, 1 allocate revenue related to sales to certain of our currency to 677 million 2011 641 million.
Having broken-even last year and despite joint ventures, previously included in industrial achieving higher volumes, our Bio-PDO In industrial starches, volumes were starches, acidulants and ethanol to the relevant joint venture made a small loss as a result categories, and to include the results of only feed, 5% lower as we continued to switch a of higher input costs.
meal and oil within co-products.
Prior period proportion of corn grind to speciality food results have been restated on a comparable basis.
In the US, where we are able to We made good progress on the two contract for longer periods than in Europe, initiatives we announced last year with while volumes were slightly lower than the Amyris to produce farnesene and with comparative period, prices were higher Genomatica to produce Bio-BDO, both Group outlook for the year ending reflecting the renewal of contracts struck at at our pilot plant facilities in Decatur, Illinois.
15 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19
