Business Review: Additional Financial Information Derivative financial instruments used to Going concern manage the interest rate and currency of The Groups business activities, together borrowings had a fair value of 24 million with the factors likely to affect its future asset 2011 4 million liability.
The main development, performance and position types of instrument used are interest rate are set out in this Business review.
The swaps, interest rate options caps or floors financial position of the Group, its cash and cross-currency interest rate swaps.
flows, liquidity position and borrowing The fair value of other derivative financial facilities are described in the same instruments hedging future currency and sections.
In addition, Note 21 to the financial commodity transactions was 1 million statements includes the Groups objectives, liability 2011 3 million asset.
When policies and processes for managing its managing currency exposure, we use capital: its financial risk management spot and forward purchases and sales, objectives: details of its financial instruments and options.
and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The fair value of other derivative financial instruments accounted for As set out in the sections and note as held for trading was 1 million asset referenced above, the market conditions 2011 2 million asset.
of the areas in which the Group operates have been affected, and are likely to continue to be affected, by large movements Fair value estimation in input prices.
However, with some 75% The fair value of derivative financial of revenues from food and beverage instruments is based on the market price ingredients, the Group has a measure of comparable instruments at the balance of resilience although not immunity to sheet date if they are publicly traded.
In addition, the fair value of the forward currency contracts Group has access to considerable financial was determined based on market forward resources through its facilities as described exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
in Note 21 to the financial statements.
The fair values of short-term deposits, In making their assessment of the going receivables, payables, loans and overdrafts concern basis, the directors have reviewed with a maturity of less than one year are the maturities of these facilities, the assumed to approximate their book values.
headroom available from them and the The fair values of bonds, bank and other Groups ability to meet the covenant loans, including finance lease liabilities due requirements of certain of them.
As a in more than one year, are estimated by consequence, the directors believe that discounting the future contractual cash the Group is well placed to manage its flows at the current market interest rate business risks successfully.
available to the Group for similar financial instruments, adjusted for the fair valuation After making enquiries, the directors effects of currency and interest rate risk have a reasonable expectation that the exposures, where those instruments Company and the Group have adequate form part of related hedging relationship resources to continue in operational agreements, financial and commodity existence for the foreseeable future.
forward contracts and options, and Accordingly, they continue to adopt the commodity futures.
The values of certain going concern basis in preparing the items of merchandisable agricultural annual report and accounts.
commodities that are included in inventories are based on market prices.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 26
