Governance: Directors Remuneration Report Bonus outcomes for the year ended 31 March 2012 The table below shows, for each metric, the performance required to achieve maximum bonus and the actual 2012 outcome relative to prior year performance.
The corresponding bonus outcome is noted.
All numbers are shown at constant exchange rates.
As at 31 March 2012 Performance required Actual 2012 Performance to achieve performance Performance factor maximum bonus outcome result Commentary PBTEA 22.0% 27.6% Above stretch Growth in PBTEA was driven by: 1 a solid operational performance level performance with steady growth within Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients supported by an exceptionally strong performance from co-products in the first half of the year: and 2 a reduction in the net interest charge.
Net sales 13.1% 15.7% Above stretch Good sales growth in both divisions was driven by: in Speciality less cost of performance level Food Ingredients, volume growth of 4% and the pass through of raw materials higher input costs: in Bulk Ingredients, the pass through of higher corn costs and improved pricing in industrial starches and isoglucose in Europe.
Cash conversion improve 7.5% worsen 9.4% Threshold not The lengthening of the cash conversion cycle was attributable to cycle achieved an increase in working capital including our decision to maintain full corn silos against a backdrop of continuing tight market conditions.
On the basis of these performance outcomes, an annual bonus was awarded by the Committee of 102% of base salary for the Chief Financial Officer and 102% of base salary for the Chief Executive.
Any bonus amount up to 100% of base salary is paid in cash.
Any excess above 100% of base salary is delivered in the form of deferred shares, with the right to receive a dividend equivalent between award and release.
The shares are released after two years subject to the executive remaining in service with the Company.
Both the cash and share elements are subject to claw-back, which means they may be recouped in whole or in part, at the discretion of the Committee in the exceptional event that results were found to have been misstated or if an executive commits gross misconduct.
Long-term incentive arrangements Performance-based long-term incentive plans LTIPs closely align executive directors and senior executives interests with those of shareholders, and are therefore an important component of the overall package.
During the year ended 31 March 2012, the Company made awards under the Tate & Lyle 2003 Performance Share Plan PSP.
Performance Share Plan PSP Shareholder approval for replacement plan Following detailed consultation with major shareholders in 2010, specific amendments to the 2003 Performance Share Plan were formally approved by shareholders at the 2010 AGM, to align the long-term incentive framework with the business strategy.
The 2003 Performance Share Plan will expire shortly when it reaches the end of its ten-year life.
Accordingly, shareholder approval is sought at the AGM to renew the arrangement.
The terms of the ongoing PSP are consistent with the current long-term incentive arrangements, save for the proposed introduction of a claw-back provision.
Further details are provided in the Notice of Meeting.
2009 PSP award PSP awards made in 2009 were dependent on relative TSR against a comparator group and Earnings Per Share EPS compound annual growth targets, with each condition applicable to half of the award.
The comparator group for the TSR condition is formed from the largest 50 to 130 FTSE listed companies at the beginning of the performance period.
Level of vesting Performance Proportion Performance for this element condition of total award outcome of the award Combined vesting outcome Relative TSR 50% 81st percentile 100% Based on the combination of TSR and EPS performance over the period, 99.6% of the PSP award made in 2009 may be released.
99.1% The Committee considers that the level of vesting as a result of these performance outcomes is justified in the context of the underlying financial performance of Tate & Lyle over the performance period.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 52
