Business Review Commercial and Food Innovation Centre opens in Chicago, USA In March 2012 we opened our new global For example, many of our larger Commercial and Food Innovation Centre customers have their own in-house in Chicago.
The new Centre provides chef or culinary function which tends to a full range of state-of-the-art facilities be a key incubator for new product ideas including bespoke laboratories for each of or recipes.
In our new facility we have our research, applications and technical created a modern Culinary Center with services teams: a full suite of sensory and our own dedicated in-house chefs who culinary services: and a pilot plant facility are already interacting with their peers with enhanced prototype-making at our customers.
It will also be a key enabler Speciality Food Ingredients: pg.
16 in transforming the way we collaborate with our customers.
The Centre is focused on providing customers with the highest quality of service.
A key part of that service is being able to interact with customers in areas that are increasingly important to them.
decision making, speed and effectiveness originally envisaged.
During the year, we Group outlook for year to and enable us to be more responsive to incurred 25 million of expenditure on 31March 2013 the needs of our customers.
the implementation of our global Shared In Speciality Food Ingredients we expect Service Centre in dz a nd our common to achieve good sales growth, although We continued to strengthen, refresh and IS IT platform, taking the total amount of operating margins in this division are diversify the talent within the business and expenditure incurred to date on these two expected to be slightly lower reflecting to fill key skills gaps in a number of areas, projects to 35 million.
the additional fixed costs associated in particular, within our customer-facing, with the restart of McIntosh and its product management and innovation We expect the final costs of our business share of the investment in the business areas, with 17% of all employees having transformation projects to be around transformation programme.
joined the Group in the last year.
Within 10-15 million higher than the original ICD, the profile of our people has changed estimate of 94 million as a result of In Bulk Ingredients, we anticipate improved considerably over the last two years with some scope changes and timeline bulk sweetener margins in both Europe an increase in both qualification levels and extensions in the phased rollout of our and the US to broadly offset our expectation the breadth of international experience.
As for the Commercial of more normal co-product returns and and Food Innovation Centre, the balance the impact of softer market conditions We are starting to see the benefits of between capital and exceptional expense in industrial starches in Europe and ethanol our new global sales incentive plan being is expected to be more weighted to capital in the US.
embedded within the organisation in than originally estimated.
terms of encouraging the right behaviours Overall, taking into account the current and reinforcing a customer-focused The investment we have made in our level of economic uncertainty and despite and performance-driven culture.
business transformation programme a step change in fixed costs associated will result in a step change in fixed with the investment necessary to transform Whilst our priority is to build a platform costs, including depreciation and the business, we expect to make progress capable of delivering sustainable amortisation, of 11 million during the during this financial year.
long-term organic growth, we will also year ending 31 March 2013. look to accelerate that growth through Javed Ahmed acquisitions either within the base Conclusion Chief Executive business or in adjacent categories.
We have made good progress delivering 30 May 2012 against the objectives we set at the start Costs of the year as we continue to transform During the year, 45 million of cash the business.
In the coming year, we costs were incurred on our business expect to complete the implementation transformation projects taking the total of our principal initiatives to strengthen expenditure to 61 million over the our operational capabilities with the last two years.
transfer of our remaining businesses The total cost associated with the over to shared services and the roll-out development of the new Commercial of the new global IS IT system.
While we and Food Innovation Centre is expected still have more work to do to build a strong to be 32 million, although the balance platform capable of delivering sustainable between capital and exceptional expense long-term growth, we remain on track to will be more weighted to capital than deliver this objective.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15
