Business Review: Speciality Food Ingredients Speciality Food Ingredients develops, produces and markets distinctive, high-quality ingredients for food and beverage customers across the world.
By leveraging our manufacturing facilities, innovative technology and formulation expertise, we help them create more cost-effective, better tasting products for consumers.
Speciality Food Ingredients works closely with our Innovation and Commercial Development team see page 20 to develop a pipeline of new products.
Year ending 31 March Change 2012 2011 Constant m m Reported currency Sales 887 805 10% 12% Adjusted operating profit 214 206 4% 5% Margin 24.1% 25.6% -150bps -150 bps Second, volatile and high sugar prices This segment comprises three broad Sales and significant increases in the price of product categories: starch-based speciality certain other raw materials have led to ingredients, high intensity sweeteners and an increased focus by customers on cost food systems.
reduction and a rise in the number of 887m Starch-based speciality ingredients cost-optimisation projects.
In starch-based speciality ingredients, 2011 805m Finally, continued rapid urbanisation, sales increased by 14% 17% in constant coupled with rising levels of disposable currency to 494 million 2011 434 Adjusted operating profit income in developing markets, are million with volumes up 4%.
Despite higher increasing the penetration of packaged corn and other input costs which were and convenience foods particularly in partly offset by the divisions share of Asia and Latin America.
additional co-product returns, we were 214m able to maintain most of the five percentage point margin gains made during the prior Financial performance 4% year enabling us to deliver good growth Within Speciality Food Ingredients, volumes in operating profit within this category.
grew by 4% and sales increased by 10% 12% in constant currency to 887 million Market conditions and trends In food starches, solid volume growth in the 2011 805 million with the level of sales While the food industry remains relatively US and good growth in Latin America was growth partly reflecting the pass through resilient, it is not immune to fluctuations offset by softer volumes in Europe driven of higher input costs.
Volume growth in the in the wider economy and, during the primarily by lower demand for packaged second half was less than the first half due second half, the deterioration in the foods.
The continuing high price of potato primarily to lower volumes in Europe.
The macroeconomic environment in Europe starches and the change in the potato effect of exchange translation was to led to weaker demand within some regime this year provided opportunities decrease sales by 11 million.
Against this to expand volumes of higher-margin food backdrop, the global market for speciality starches in the snacks sector and we Adjusted operating profit increased by 4% food ingredients continues to benefit from continued to work with customers wishing 5% in constant currency to 214 million a number of key trends.
to substitute potato starch with our 2011 206 million.
In Latin America, operating unit margins were slightly ahead First, the increasing focus by consumers where the demand for convenience and of the prior year, percentage operating and governments on healthier lifestyles, packaged foods continues to grow, the margins reduced by 1.5 percentage points and the rising prevalence of diabetes and addition of dedicated sales and technical to 24.1% 2011 25.6% after the pass obesity in both developed and developing resources helped us to secure new through of higher input costs.
The effect markets is driving food and beverage customers and additional volumes within of exchange translation was to decrease companies to develop healthier alternatives this category.
adjusted operating profit by 3 million.
and increasing demand for ingredients in the health and wellness space.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 16 Business Review Key locations Customers Products Americas Large, multi-national food Starch-based speciality Buenos Aires, Argentina and beverage ingredients: Chicago, Illinois, USA manufacturers Speciality starches Houlton, Maine, USA Small and medium-sized including fat-replacers Lafayette, Indiana, USA food and beverage and stabilisers McIntosh, Alabama, USA manufacturers Speciality sweeteners Mexico City, Mexico Private label food and including crystalline Olivier Rigaud Princeton, New Jersey, USA beverage manufacturers fructose President So Paulo, Brazil Soluble corn fibres Sycamore, Illinois, USA including STA-LITE Van Buren, Arkansas, USA Polydextrose and PROMITOR Soluble EMEA Corn Fiber Bergamo, Italy High-intensity sweeteners: Koog, The Netherlands SPLENDA Sucralose Kya Sand, South Africa PUREFRUIT Lille, France Food systems: Lbeck, Germany Food stabiliser systems Mold, UK Functional ingredient Noto, Italy blends Ossona, Italy Asia Pacific Brisbane, Australia Jurong Island, Singapore Shanghai, China Speciality corn sweeteners continued to testing the product.
The focus over the SPLENDA Sucralose volumes benefit from higher sales volumes in the coming year will be to continue to build the grew by 12%.
US and emerging markets on the back pipeline and to support customers on new of continuing volatile and high sugar prices.
We continued to see strong growth in In addition to helping our customers reduce Food systems demand for SPLENDA Sucralose driven input costs by reducing sugar content, Sales from food systems increased by 5% by the continuation of two key trends.
our products provide important functional 3% in constant currency to 196 million First, the increased prevalence of diabetes benefits such as improved shelf-stability 2011 186 million with volumes up by 1%.
and obesity which is driving demand for and mouth feel.
products with reduced sugar and fewer The year has seen significant increases During the year we saw continued growth calories and second, the continuing high in the price of certain raw materials, in in our fibres range with volumes in Europe and volatile price of sugar is leading particular guar and gelatin.
Whilst we have benefiting from the favourable opinion customers to look for more cost-effective had some success mitigating the impact granted by the European Food Safety alternatives.
In both cases, we are able of higher input costs, through the use of Authority EFSA on polydextrose at the to leverage our applications and technical more cost-efficient corn-based substitutes beginning of the year.
Building on the expertise to help customers maintain and shortening the length of customer success we have had in the US and Latin the functionality and taste profile of their contracts, operating margins and profits America with our PROMITOR dietary products and optimise the cost in use for this category were somewhat lower fibre product line, in October 2011 we of their ingredients.
announced the expansion of our fibres On the back of the continuing growth offering in Europe, with the launch of In the year, we made progress broadening in demand for SPLENDA Sucralose, PROMITOR Soluble Gluco Fibre.
In the coverage of our food systems business in March 2012 we restarted production China, as a result of adding sales people by moving more into bakery.
We also at our facility in McIntosh, Alabama, with specific expertise in the dairy sector, started to gain traction with our range of further consolidating our position as the we secured additional fibre volume.
leading global provider of sucralose.
Our High-intensity sweeteners In June 2011, the former owner of G. C. investment in sucralose manufacturing Within high-intensity sweeteners, which Hahn & Co, which makes up the majority technology means that our two unique comprises SPLENDA Sucralose and of our food systems operations in Europe, large-scale,  our zero-calorie, fruit-based sweetener exercised their option to sell their remaining SPLENDA Sucralose facilities in the PUREFRUIT, volumes grew by 13% 5% shareholding for a total cost of 8 million US and Singapore will allow us to and sales were up by 6% 8% in constant 7 million resulting in Tate & Lyle owning continue to offer our customers the currency to 197 million 2011 185 100% of the company.
highest standards of quality, traceability million.
SPLENDA Sucralose volumes and reliability in the industry.
grew by 12% and, as expected, the rate During the year, we made good progress of price decline was lower as the impact developing the demand pipeline for of long-term, volume-incentive customer our zero-calorie, fruit-based sweetener, contracts continued to reduce.
PUREFRUIT and started working with a number of customers in qualifying and Group outlook for the year ending 31 March 2013: pg.
15 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17
