Business Review: Our Business Model Sources Turning raw All our ingredients are produced from crops, predominantly corn.
Ensuring we have a materials into reliable source of corn for our plants is essential.
This involves developing long-term, mutually beneficial relationships with growers, farmers distinctive, and other commercial partners to secure supply: understanding commodity markets: and hedging costs where feasible.
Supply chain ethics are high quality important to us.
We apply clear standards, both operational and ethical, to our suppliers, and work with them to help them meet our ingredients compliance needs.
This is essential if we are to meet our customers requirements for traceability, quality and ethical standards and solutions throughout the supply chain.
for our customers Through our facilities throughout the world we: Use our innovation capabilities to develop andenhance new and existing products Leverage our technical and applications expertise toprovide a full end-to-end service for our customers More online: Bring our business model to life online at www.
com annualreport2012 Raw materials Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 04 Business Review Operations Customers We operate through two global business units Bulk Ingredients and Food and beverage is our most significant market Speciality Food Ingredients.
Each division has its own manufacturing comprising over 70% of Group sales.
Other markets and commercial operations to provide the necessary focus and we sell into include industrial, animal feed, and expertise for customers in their two different end markets.
Customer understanding drives all that we do.
We use market research to understand the consumer our customers customer, the markets we operate in and our customers needs.
We use this insight to drive our own product development, to differentiate ourselves from our competitors and, importantly, to give our customers an advantage by working with us.
For large customers, we provide technical and applications support.
For smaller customers, we are Speciality Food Ingredients SFI often their outsourced R&D team.
SFI produces distinctive, high-value ingredients which are sold in markets where customers look for technical and innovation capability, insight and flexibility.
SFI also has a food systems or blending business which sources ingredients and uses them along with our own to develop bespoke combinations of ingredients primarily for smallto medium-sized customers.
16 Speciality Food Ingredients Customers Commercialising Innovation Both divisions, but principally SFI are supported by the Innovation and Commercial Development ICD group.
ICD brings together Innovation and product development, marketing and platform management into one global team, enabling Commercial a fully integrated approach to developing and commercialising innovation.
Development Innovation and Commercial Development: pg.
20 Customers Bulk Ingredients Bulk Ingredients BI BI produces ingredients which are relatively undifferentiated and are sold in markets where customers principally look for supplier reliability, quality and value.
18 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 05
