Governance: Directors Remuneration Report Overview of remuneration arrangements and policy objectives The current remuneration package for executive directors consists of base salary, annual bonus, long-term incentives, and retirement and other benefits as described below: Component Objective Summary Base salary Reflects market value of the Base salary reviews take into account pay increase levels for employees below the individual, their skills and executive level, and the impact on pension and other consequences of increases.
experience and Positioned around the median of the relevant market primarily the 50th to 130th largest performance.
UK-listed companies, and taking account of personal performance.
Annual bonus Rewards the achievement Three performance metrics apply: profit growth is given the greatest weighting, of the annual performance alongside sales growth and cash conversion.
Targets for each metric are set at the start of each financial year, taking account of the business strategy, performance in previous years, market expectations and the prevailing economic climate.
A minimum profit hurdle applies before any bonus is payable against any of the metrics: for the maximum bonus to be payable, performance in all three metrics is required to be outstanding.
Maximum cash bonus is 100% of salary.
Any annual bonus above 100% of base salary is delivered in Tate & Lyle PLC shares which are deferred for two years.
Maximum cash and share bonus is 175% of salary.
Long-term Rewards sustained Performance shares that vest after three years, subject to demanding performance incentives performance, and helps requirements.
Two performance metrics apply: earnings per share growth and percentage return on capital employed.
The Committee has flexibility to make awards up to 300% of base salary if appropriate to ensure market competitiveness and taking account of Company performance.
Only 15% of the award vests at threshold performance.
Outstanding performance is required for 100% vesting.
Share ownership policy Ensures alignment with The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer have target holdings of four and shareholders.
three times base salary respectively.
Share ownership requirements extend to other Executive Committee members and, from 2011, to a broader group of executives in senior leadership roles.
Pension Provides competitive Defined contribution in nature.
Only base salary is pensionable.
pension, with low risk The Chief Executive has a cash allowance of 35% of base salary.
The Chief Financial Officer has a cash allowance of 25% of base salary with effect from 6 April 2011.
Other benefits Provides competitive These include car benefit or car allowance, health insurance, group income protection benefits.
and, where appropriate, life cover.
Consideration of employment conditions within the Company The Committee takes into account the general pay and employment conditions of other employees of the Company when determining executive directors remuneration for the relevant financial year.
This includes considering the levels of base salary increase for employees below executive level when reviewing executive base salaries, and ensuring that the same principles apply in setting performance targets for executives incentives as for other employees of the Group.
Base salary The Chief Executives base salary was increased by 3.0% with effect from 1 April 2012.
The Chief Financial Officers base salary was increased by 3.0% with effect from 1 April 2012.
This compared with average levels for other UK-based employees, who were awarded a base salary increase generally of between 3% and 4%.
Executive directors base salaries are shown in the table below.
As at 1 April 2012 2011 Executive Directors Javed Ahmed 721 000 700 000 Tim Lodge 405 820 394 000 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 50
