Governance: Directors Remuneration Report Potential impact of M&A activity In the context of M&A or other corporate activity, any potential impact on the schemes will be specifically considered by the Committee.
In these circumstances, the Committee retains the authority to vary performance targets or the vesting outcome to ensure that outcomes are equitable from both a participant and a shareholder value perspective.
Change of control and voting All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time, and in proportion to the time served during the performance period.
Executive share ownership policy The Chief Executive has a shareholding target of four times base salary, which he has already met.
The Chief Financial Officer has a target shareholding of three times base salary, to be achieved by July 2015.
Other Executive Committee members are subject to the share ownership policy, with target holdings at three times salary.
From 2011, this policy extends to a broader group of executives who have senior leadership roles within the Company.
The shareholding target for this group is equal to one times base salary.
The Committee monitors progress against the share ownership guidelines annually.
Sharesave Plan 2011 The Plan is open to all employees in the UK, including executive directors.
No performance conditions are attached to options granted under the Scheme since it is an all-employee scheme, and the value of individual grants is capped.
Options granted to participants are normally set at a discount of up to 20% to the market value of the shares at the time of the grant.
Dilution To satisfy options granted under the Sharesave Scheme 2001 and Sharesave Plan 2011, the Company issues new shares.
To satisfy outstanding awards under the 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme, PSP and legacy Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP matching shares, the Company uses either treasury shares or shares that have been purchased by the Trustees of the Tate & Lyle Employee Benefit Trust.
The Company will use shares that have been purchased by the Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy awards made to Javed Ahmed and any awards to be made under the Group Bonus Plan.
In the ten-year period to 31 March 2012, awards made under the executive schemes represented 1.30% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital, leaving available dilution headroom of 3.70%.
Awards made under all share schemes represented 1.58% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital leaving available dilution headroom of 8.42%.
Pensions The Groups largest pension scheme is the UK-based Tate & Lyle Group Pension Scheme Group Scheme, a defined benefit arrangement.
The Company closed the Group Scheme to new entrants from 1 April 2002, and, since then, new employees have been offered defined contribution type pension provision through a Company Stakeholder Plan.
The Group Scheme closed to future final salary pension accrual from 6 April 2011 and the employee members have been offered membership of the existing Stakeholder plan.
Javed Ahmed is not a member of the Group Scheme for pension purposes and accordingly has accrued no pension benefits under it.
He is paid a cash allowance calculated as 35% of base salary, from which he can make his own retirement savings arrangements although this may include the Company Stakeholder Plan.
He has been provided with life assurance cover and has also participated in the Group Income Protection Scheme, which applies to all UK employees who are not otherwise covered for ill-health benefits under the Group Scheme.
Tim Lodge was a member of the Group Scheme until its closure and accrued pension at a rate of approximately 1 38th of pensionable earnings basic salary only for each year of service, subject to an employee contribution of 3% of pensionable salary.
The benefit accrued includes a widows pension payable on his death and a lump sum on death in service.
As a deferred member, and once in payment, this part of his pension and any subsequent widows pension will be subject to annual increases in line with price inflation up to a maximum of 5%, with a minimum of 3%.
From 6 April 2011, Tim Lodge is paid a cash allowance calculated as 25% of base salary, from which he can make his own retirement savings arrangements although this may include the Company Stakeholder Plan.
Details of amounts paid in lieu of pensions to Javed Ahmed, and to Tim Lodge from 6 April 2011 are included in the table on page 57, under pension allowance.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 54
