Business Review: Chief Executives Review On the journey to growth: With the focus phase largely complete, over the last year weve been working hard on the fix and laying the foundations for the grow getting the right operating capabilities and ensuring we have the right people in the right roles: and investing in innovation, new customers and markets.
The restart of production at Innovation Centre in Chicago enabling us Developing a platform for McIntosh, which took place ahead of to globalise our innovation capabilities and long-term growth schedule, was assisted by the return allowing customers to interface with the In March 2012, we reached a significant of more than 75 per cent of our former new centre wherever they are located.
milestone with the opening of our new operators and technicians, many with global Commercial and Food Innovation In terms of developing new customer more than ten years of experience working Centre in Chicago.
The centre, which is the channels, we have made progress during on sucralose production.
This was the global headquarters of our Innovation and the year in the private label category, first major project to be governed by Commercial Development ICD group, establishing direct relationships with our new capital management disciplines features state-of-the-art laboratories, a a number of retailers.
We continue to instituted two years ago.
demonstration kitchen, sensory testing, see the private label and small and and analytical and pilot plant facilities.
The costs incurred in restarting McIntosh medium-sized SME categories as The new centre will help us to transform included 12 million of capital expenditure providing good opportunities for growth.
the way we interact with our customers and 1 million of operating expenses.
In January 2011, we started two major and enable much closer customer The restart of production at McIntosh initiatives to strengthen our operational collaboration.
It will also form the hub will be broadly cash neutral in year ending capabilities: the move to global support of our global innovation network, connecting 31 March 2013 but after a depreciation services through a shared service centre: our satellite applications and technical charge of 8 million will reduce profits.
and the development of a common set services laboratories across the world.
As the volumes produced and contribution of global business processes supported margin increases at McIntosh over the Within ICD, we continued to build the by a single global IS IT platform.
In next few years, we expect to see good innovation pipeline across our core September 2011, our new global Shared operational leverage benefits.
categories of speciality sweeteners, Service Centre in dz, Poland became texturants and health & wellness, with We continue to invest in higher growth operational.
The centre is currently the total number of projects in the markets and have made further progress responsible for processing financial pipeline doubling during the year.
during the year growing our Asian and Latin transactions for both our European and American businesses.
As well as expanding US businesses.
When fully operational Additionally, our open innovation team the size of our teams in these regions we at the end of year ending 31 March 2013, continues to look for new processes and have also broadened our skills through the it will be a multilingual facility employing technologies and to develop partnerships recruitment of additional technical and approximately 200 people.
The move to with universities and research institutes.
This organisational global shared services will help to support In October 2011, we signed an agreement strengthening has had a direct impact in a common way of working across the with Eminate Ltd, a subsidiary of The helping to secure new business in both business and deliver efficiency gains by University of Nottingham, UK, for its novel regions.
As well as attracting the right eliminating the duplication of resources salt reduction technology known as people, we also invested in our innovation and is already delivering some cost SODA-LO and we expect to launch and customer-facing infrastructure in benefits.
Our new global IS IT system is a range of products later this year.
emerging markets through the opening of currently in the test stage with a phased In March 2012, we restarted production our new applications and technical services roll-out across the business due to at our SPLENDA Sucralose facility in laboratories in So Paulo and Mexico City commence in the summer of 2012.
McIntosh, Alabama further reinforcing our during the year.
These laboratories link The new system will significantly enhance position as the leading global provider of directly into our new Commercial and Food our analytical capabilities, improve our Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 14
