Business Review Restart of the McIntosh, Alabama facility In March 2012, we restarted production everyone at our sites, but also to ahead of schedule at our SPLENDA excellent project planning and execution.
Sucralose facility in McIntosh, Alabama.
The restarting of McIntosh was helped This marked the culmination of an enormously by the return of more important growth project to expand than 75% of our former operators and SPLENDA Sucralose capacity to meet technicians, many with more than ten rising global customer demand the first years experience working in sucralose project to follow our new capital asset production at our site.
We are delighted management process introduced two to welcome them back to Tate & Lyle.
16 Not only did the plant restart early, but it did so with a good safety record by both employees and contractors, which is a testament not only to the ongoing commitment by Tate & Lyle to provide a safe and secure working environment for We believe that each member of the Board The Board is recommending a 5.3% We have no higher priority than must be able to demonstrate the skills, increase in the final dividend to 17.8p safety and are committed to experience and knowledge required to 2011 16.9p making a full year dividend providing safe andhealthy working contribute to the effectiveness of the Board.
of 24.9p 2011 23.7p per share, a 5.1% conditions for all our employees Subject to that principle we believe that increase on the prior year.
Subject to the Boards perspective and approach can and contractors.
shareholder approval, the proposed be greatly enhanced through gender, age final dividend will be due and payable and cultural diversity and it is our policy to on 3 August 2012 to all shareholders 26% in constant currency on the previous consider overall Board balance and diversity on the Register of Members at 29 June year, with Speciality Food Ingredients and when appointing new directors.
In addition to the cash dividend Bulk Ingredients delivering an increase of option, shareholders will continue to be 4% and 10% in adjusted operating profit offered a Dividend Reinvestment Plan Corporate responsibility and respectively.
Adjusted diluted earnings per DRIP alternative.
share increased by 23% 25% in constant risk management currency to 56.4p.
During the year we further strengthened Finally, I would like to thank all our our internal control arrangements employees who have worked immensely Net debt at the year-end stood at and reporting of environmental, social hard during a period of great change to 476 million, marginally higher than at the and governance matters.
We did this deliver this years good results.
end of the prior year 2011 464 million.
through the operation of the Boards The rise in net debt reflects an increase Sir Peter Gershon Corporate Responsibility Committee, in working capital following our decision Chairman the work of our Group Operational to secure corn supplies in the US against Efficiency and Sustainability function 30 May 2012 a backdrop of continuing tight market and the diligent work of our quality, conditions: investment in our business environmental and engineering transformation programme: and payments employees across the business.
made into our main pension schemes including 45 million in respect of the UK Our environmental management scheme following the conclusion of the improved in calendar year 2011.
made a step-change in improving our performance in the externally-assessed Carbon Disclosure Project, as a result Dividend of our increased understanding of and The Board recognises the importance actions on company-specific risks and of the dividend to shareholders and follows opportunities related to climate change.
a progressive dividend policy with the aim of growing the dividend over time taking into account the long-term earnings prospects Financial performance of the business.
Turning to financial performance: profit before tax, exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangible assets of 323 million represented growth of 23% Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11
