Governance: Directors Remuneration Report Bonus outcomes for the year ended 31 March 2012 The table below shows, for each metric, the performance required to achieve maximum bonus and the actual 2012 outcome relative to prior year performance.
The corresponding bonus outcome is noted.
All numbers are shown at constant exchange rates.
As at 31 March 2012 Performance required Actual 2012 Performance to achieve performance Performance factor maximum bonus outcome result Commentary PBTEA 22.0% 27.6% Above stretch Growth in PBTEA was driven by: 1 a solid operational performance level performance with steady growth within Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients supported by an exceptionally strong performance from co-products in the first half of the year: and 2 a reduction in the net interest charge.
Net sales 13.1% 15.7% Above stretch Good sales growth in both divisions was driven by: in Speciality less cost of performance level Food Ingredients, volume growth of 4% and the pass through of raw materials higher input costs: in Bulk Ingredients, the pass through of higher corn costs and improved pricing in industrial starches and isoglucose in Europe.
Cash conversion improve 7.5% worsen 9.4% Threshold not The lengthening of the cash conversion cycle was attributable to cycle achieved an increase in working capital including our decision to maintain full corn silos against a backdrop of continuing tight market conditions.
On the basis of these performance outcomes, an annual bonus was awarded by the Committee of 102% of base salary for the Chief Financial Officer and 102% of base salary for the Chief Executive.
Any bonus amount up to 100% of base salary is paid in cash.
Any excess above 100% of base salary is delivered in the form of deferred shares, with the right to receive a dividend equivalent between award and release.
The shares are released after two years subject to the executive remaining in service with the Company.
Both the cash and share elements are subject to claw-back, which means they may be recouped in whole or in part, at the discretion of the Committee in the exceptional event that results were found to have been misstated or if an executive commits gross misconduct.
Long-term incentive arrangements Performance-based long-term incentive plans LTIPs closely align executive directors and senior executives interests with those of shareholders, and are therefore an important component of the overall package.
During the year ended 31 March 2012, the Company made awards under the Tate & Lyle 2003 Performance Share Plan PSP.
Performance Share Plan PSP Shareholder approval for replacement plan Following detailed consultation with major shareholders in 2010, specific amendments to the 2003 Performance Share Plan were formally approved by shareholders at the 2010 AGM, to align the long-term incentive framework with the business strategy.
The 2003 Performance Share Plan will expire shortly when it reaches the end of its ten-year life.
Accordingly, shareholder approval is sought at the AGM to renew the arrangement.
The terms of the ongoing PSP are consistent with the current long-term incentive arrangements, save for the proposed introduction of a claw-back provision.
Further details are provided in the Notice of Meeting.
2009 PSP award PSP awards made in 2009 were dependent on relative TSR against a comparator group and Earnings Per Share EPS compound annual growth targets, with each condition applicable to half of the award.
The comparator group for the TSR condition is formed from the largest 50 to 130 FTSE listed companies at the beginning of the performance period.
Level of vesting Performance Proportion Performance for this element condition of total award outcome of the award Combined vesting outcome Relative TSR 50% 81st percentile 100% Based on the combination of TSR and EPS performance over the period, 99.6% of the PSP award made in 2009 may be released.
99.1% The Committee considers that the level of vesting as a result of these performance outcomes is justified in the context of the underlying financial performance of Tate & Lyle over the performance period.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 52 Governance For the 2009 PSP cycle, Tate & Lyles TSR ranked at the 81st percentile.
th th TSR performance over 2009 PSP cycle vs FTSE listed companies ranked 50 130 at the start of the performance period.
600% Tate & Lyle 500% 168.4% 400% 300% 200% 100% 0% -100% Bottom quartile Third quartile Second quartile Top quartile Source: Kepler Associates Maximum award level Following shareholder approval of the changes to the PSP at the 2010 AGM, the Committee has the flexibility to make awards to the executive directors and other senior executives of up to 300% of base salary where necessary to ensure market competitiveness, and taking account of Company performance.
Awards made in 2011 During 2011, the Committee consulted with major shareholders regarding the full implementation of the policy approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2010.
Following this consultation with shareholders, awards to executive directors in 2011 were made at 300% of salary.
Performance conditions 2011 awards The release of awards depends on the Groups performance during the three-year performance period beginning on 1 April in the year of the award.
For the 2011 awards, the performance conditions comprised two elements, consistent with the principles established following review and consultation with shareholders in 2010: a Adjusted diluted Earnings Per Share EPS 50% of total award Performance is measured by comparing the compound annual growth rate CAGR of the Companys adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations over the three-year performance period against predetermined targets.
The Committee selected this metric as it is a key determinant of shareholder value creation.
b Adjusted Return On Capital Employed ROCE 50% of total award Performance is measured by the adjusted ROCE on continuing operations achieved at the end of the three-year performance period against the predetermined targets.
The Committee selected this metric as it is a good indicator of the effectiveness of strategic investment decisions and of the quality of earnings generated.
Importantly the ROCE outcome would be adjusted downward in the event of any asset impairment, by adding this back into capital employed, this is to encourage a prudent investment strategy.
For this reason, in the event of there being an impairment of assets during the performance period, the ROCE outcome for PSP purposes can be significantly lower than the unadjusted ROCE number reported in the Companys accounts, and elsewhere in the Annual Report.
Shares awarded under the PSP in 2011 vest in accordance with the following schedule: CAGR of adjusted diluted EPS Adjusted ROCE at end during the performance period of performance period Percentage of award vesting 50% of award 50% of award 0% Below 6% Below 13.4% 1 15% 6% 13.4% 1 On a straight line between 15% and 100% Between 6% and 15% Between 13.4% and 16.4% 100% 15% or more At 16.4% or above 1 In accordance with the special arrangements that were put in place to facilitate the Chief Executives appointment, 25% of his 2011 award will vest at threshold performance: 15% will apply to future awards.
Before any shares are released, the Committee must also be satisfied that the level of vesting determined by performance against these targets is justified by the underlying financial performance of the Company.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53
