Governance: Corporate Governance The Board effectiveness review Risk assessment and evaluation form Accountability included a review of the Audit, Corporate an integral part of the annual planning Internal control Responsibility, Nominations and process.
Each business unit documents The Board has overall responsibility Remuneration Committees and each its strategic objectives and the significant for the Groups system of internal control, Committee also undertook an evaluation risks in achieving them.
The units report which is designed to safeguard the assets of its own work and effectiveness during regularly on progress towards fulfilment, of the Group and to ensure the reliability the year.
The results of the reviews were whilst the key risks are reviewed regularly of financial information for both internal discussed by the Board which concluded by the Board.
There is a comprehensive use and external publication and to comply that each Committee operated effectively budgeting and planning system for all with the Turnbull Committee guidance.
items of expenditure with an annual budget schedule of matters reserved to the Board approved by the Board.
Results are ensures that the directors control, among During the year, the non-executive directors reported against budget on a monthly other matters, all significant strategic, met without the Chairman, under the basis, with significant variances investigated financial and organisational issues.
chairmanship of the Senior Independent and the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Director, to appraise the Chairmans Responsibilities Officer undertake regular financial performance the Senior Independent The Board delegates to executive and operational reviews of the business Director having first sought the views of management the responsibility for units.
Given the significant business the executive directors.
In addition, the designing, operating and monitoring both transformation activity, in addition to regular Chairman held a private meeting with the the system and the maintenance of effective progress reports, the Board also receives non-executive directors to appraise the internal control.
Procedures are in place for reports from external specialists retained to Chief Executives performance.
identifying, evaluating and managing any review key elements of the transformation significant risks that face the Group.
Revised forecasts for the procedures are designed to manage rather The Board has agreed that all Directors financial year and financial projections for than eliminate risk, and can provide only shall seek re-election on an annual basis.
future years are prepared on a regular basis.
reasonable and not absolute assurance Directors conflicts of interest Financial reporting against material errors, losses, fraud or As permitted under the Companies The Company has in place internal control breaches of laws or regulations.
Mandatory Act 2006, the Companys Articles of and risk management systems in relation to written policies and procedural manuals Association allow directors to authorise the Companys financial reporting process exist for all businesses, compliance with conflicts of interest and the Board has a and the Groups process for preparation which is reviewed by the Board annually.
policy and procedures for managing and, of consolidated accounts.
They include These internal control procedures provide where appropriate, authorising, actual policies and procedures which provide: that all major projects require technical, or potential conflicts of interest.
Under financial and Board approval, while all that transactions and disposals of assets those procedures, directors are required capital expenditure within each project are accurately and fairly reflected: to declare all directorships or other requires senior management approval at reasonable assurance that transactions appointments to organisations that appropriate stages.
Adherence to internal are recorded as necessary to permit the are not part of the Group and which control procedures is ensured by a regular preparation of financial statements in could result in actual or potential conflicts reporting system that details both technical accordance with International Financial of interest, as well as other situations progress of projects and the Groups Reporting Standards: which could result in a potential conflict financial affairs.
All material joint ventures assurance that representatives of the of interest.
follow either the Groups formal systems businesses have certified that their of internal control, or internal control The Board is required to review directors reported information provides a true and procedures that are considered by the actual or potential conflicts of interest at fair view of the state of the financial affairs Group to be adequate, and their internal least annually.
Directors are required to of the business and its results for the control procedures are subject to review disclose proposed new appointments period: and by the Groups internal audit function.
to the Chairman before taking them on, that reported data has been reviewed and to ensure that any potential conflicts of reconciled.
interest can be identified and addressed appropriately.
Any potential conflicts of interest in relation to proposed directors are considered by the Board prior to their appointment.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 42
