Business Review: Innovation and Commercial Development The role of the Innovation and Commercial Development group is to identify and develop new business opportunities and to create and commercialise innovative speciality food ingredients and technologies, thereby providing long-term growth for Tate & Lyle.
Karl Kramer President In addition to the new centre in Chicago, Remit The new Commercial and ICD also maintains a research centre in Lille, The Innovation and Commercial Food Innovation Centre includes France.
These two centres are supported Development ICD group was established state-of-the-art focus group facilities by a global network of smaller regional on 1 June 2010 as a key enabler of which will allow us to gather insights applications laboratories in countries such Tate & Lyles growth strategy.
on a global basis more quickly and as China, Germany, Argentina, Australia, ICD brings together three areas new Brazil, Mexico and South Africa where our easily than before.
product development, global marketing, local applications specialists collaborate and platform management into one global with our customers to develop products team, to provide an integrated approach from a written brief to a finished prototype toward developing and commercialising at high speed, while ensuring the final innovative new products and technologies.
While ICD supports both of Tate & Lyles global business units, it concentrates Pilot plants particularly on growing the Speciality Food ICD also operates the Groups pilot Ingredients unit.
As a result, ICDs resources plant facilities, both laboratory scale and are predominantly focused on three broad within our manufacturing facilities.
Scaling areas within the global speciality food up and testing formulations and ideas ingredients market sweeteners, texturants at our pilot plants allows us to assess and health & wellness.
the flexibility of new processes, new products and new technology, ensuring This new centre features state-of-the Within ICD, there is a dedicated open we get them right before investing in art laboratories, a sensory testing innovation team which seeks to develop commercial-scale processes.
and evaluation facility, a commercial partnerships with universities, research scale culinary kitchen for customer institutions and start-ups specialising in Market Research demonstrations, and analytical and food science and novel ingredients, with We continue to leverage market research pilot plant facilities all of which provide whom we collaborate to bring their new to deliver actionable insights that drive our ICD with world-class facility designed technologies or products to market.
These insights originate from a to foster close working relationships example, over the past year we executed variety of sources including our customers, with our customers.
In this centre we an exclusive worldwide license agreement influencers in the food and nutrition industry, develop solutions to meet customers for a clean label salt reduction technology as well as the end consumer.
The new functional, formulation and nutritional with a subsidiary of The University of Commercial and Food Innovation Centre needs within short development cycles.
Nottingham, and secured rights from the in Chicago includes state-of-the-art focus Verenium Corporation for the exclusive use The move to Chicago and the creation of group facilities which will allow us to gather of one of its proprietary enzyme products in the new Commercial and Food Innovation insights on a global basis more quickly and the development of novel food ingredients.
Centre has allowed us to recruit staff in easily than before, providing us with the ICD from a wider and more diverse pool data necessary to offer tailor-made solutions Innovation Centres and of talent with the number of our scientists for our customers that we know will work in Laboratories with a Ph.
D increasing by 21% in the past local markets.
During the year, the ICD group has been 18 months and increasing the number of actively involved in designing, building and staff with an international education by staffing the new Commercial and Food 11 percentage points in the same period.
Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA.
This Centre opened March 2012 and now serves as the global headquarters for ICD.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 20
