Business Review A further 7 million reduction is attributable Sales from discontinued operations for Agreement.
These claims have not been to the charge we incurred in the prior year the year decreased to 72 million from fully quantified, but in large part also relate in relation to the unwinding of cash flow 590 million as a result of the sale of to the turbulence in the supply of raw sugar hedges.
This accounting impact will unwind EU Sugars and Molasses in the prior year.
to the EU during the period prior to closing completely in the first half of the year ending The operating profit from our discontinued and the increase in certain rolling re-export 31 March 2013. operations totalled 16 million, after commitments of the business.
The claims exceptional gains of 11 million 2011 loss notified by ASR, and the validity of the From the financial year ending 31 March of 45 million, after a net exceptional loss notification itself, are under review by our 2013 onwards, it is our intention to of 43 million.
exclude from adjusted earnings the impact of post-retirement benefit plans on the The exceptional gain for the year of Whitefox Technologies calculation of net finance expense to provide 11 million relates to the disposal of our The dispute with Whitefox Technologies, a more accurate measure of the underlying minority sugar holdings in Egypt and a supplier of certain equipment and performance of the business.
Excluding Saudi Arabia relating to the former technology intended for use in the Groups the impact of post-retirement benefit plans International Sugar Trading business.
ethanol production facilities in 2007 which in both periods, we expect net interest the Group believes was not fit for purpose Taxation on our discontinued operations expense in the year ending 31 March 2013 has been listed for a three-week jury trial in was a 15 million charge 2011 16 million to be broadly in line with the year ended the Supreme Court of the State of New credit reflecting an increase in the exceptional 31 March 2012.
Tate & Lyle is seeking tax charge in respect of outstanding tax damages from Whitefox of approximately matters associated with our former starch US$20 million and Whitefox is claiming Taxation facilities in Europe, which are in the process damages exceeding 100 million for breach The taxation charge from continuing of litigation.
The profit from discontinued of contract, damage to certain equipment operations before exceptional items and operations after taxation for the year was and other losses.
While we are confident in amortisation of acquired intangible assets 2 million 2011 loss of 29 million.
the merits of our legal position, given that was 55 million 2011 49 million as Sale of EU Sugars update on process this is a jury trial, the outcome is uncertain.
a result of higher pre-tax adjusted profit.
to agree post completion statements The effective rate of tax on adjusted In May 2011, we announced that the profit decreased to 17.1% 2011 18.5% Earnings per share process to agree post completion driven by the geographic mix of profits, in Adjusted diluted earnings per share from statements on the sale of EU Sugars to particular, reduced losses in the UK as continuing operations were 56.4p 2011 ASR was ongoing and that items totalling a result of the lower net finance expense.
45.7p, an increase of 23% 25% in 54 million were outstanding and were constant currency as a result of higher The underlying effective tax rate for the expected to be submitted for adjudication operating profits, lower net finance expense year ending 31 March 2013 is expected by an independent expert.
Those items and the reduction in the effective tax rate.
to be higher than this years effective tax related to the impact of major turbulence On the same basis, basic earnings per rate assuming that the geographical mix in the supply of raw sugar to the EU during share were higher by 24% 26% in constant of profits is in line with our expectations.
the period prior to closing which resulted currency at 57.5p 2011 46.5p.
In addition, stripping out the impact of in an increase in certain rolling re-export post-retirement benefit plans from the net commitments of the business arising under finance expense will add approximately the EU Sugar Regime.
The experts one percentage point to the effective tax decision, notified to the parties on 8 May rate on adjusted profit.
2012, strongly supported Tate & Lyles position and as a result, substantially all of Discontinued operations and the working capital adjustments proposed by ASR were reversed, and the loss on legacy issues disposal remains unchanged at 55 million.
Discontinued operations comprise our former Sugars division, principally the Separately, ASR has set out a number EU Sugars business which we sold in of claims it believes it has under certain September 2010, Molasses which we sold other provisions of the Sale and Purchase in December 2010, legacy contracts and investments from our International Sugar Trading business and our Vietnamese sugar interests, which are held for sale.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23
