Governance: Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report The Chief Executive, Executive Vice Dear Shareholder The Performance Share Plan PSP President Human Resources, Global was developed in close consultation Compensation & Benefits Director and I am pleased to present the Directors with shareholders during 2010 and Executive Vice President Company Remuneration Report for the year 2011, however, the plan itself will Secretary and General Counsel, who acts ended 31 March 2012. expire when it reaches the end of its as Secretary to the Committee, are normally Our approach to remuneration remains ten-year life.
Accordingly, we are invited to attend meetings to assist the a key part of the Companys business seeking shareholder approval at this Committee, although none is present or strategy, driving cultural change General Meeting to adopt a follow-on involved when his or her own remuneration towards a focus on performance and plan on consistent terms.
growth, to deliver enhanced value for with our largest shareholders as shareholders.
Significant share price part of this process, and this has Main responsibilities of the out-performance over the last three confirmed continued strong support Remuneration Committee years demonstrates the success to for our approach.
date of our strategic direction.
The Committees main responsibilities Evert Henkes include: At the same time, you will see from Chairman of the Remuneration our report that the Remuneration Committee setting the remuneration of the Committee has been mindful of the executive directors, the remuneration broader context that is relevant in of the Company Chairman in This report has been prepared in determining executive director consultation with the Chief Executive accordance with the requirements of remuneration in a number of respects: and the remuneration, including the Companies Act 2006 the Act and bonus, base salary, long-term Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Senior executive salary awards have incentives, benefits and terms Sized Companies and Groups Accounts been determined in the context of of employment, including those and Reports Regulations 2008 the our broader workforce and, as a upon which their service may be Regulations, the Listing Rules of the UK matter of principle, increases in terminated, of other members of Listing Authority and the UK Corporate director salaries have been no greater senior management in accordance Governance Code.
 than the average levels awarded to with the policy determined by LLP has audited such content as required other UK employees.
the Committee and agreed with by the Act the tabular information on Our results demonstrate strong the Board: pages 57 to 59.
A resolution to approve financial performance in the year assessing the competitiveness this report will be proposed at the AGM ended 31 March 2012.
At the same and appropriateness of executive on 26July 2012. time, actual bonus payments are remuneration, taking into account lower than they were last year.
data from independent consultants: Remuneration Committee This is a direct consequence of our setting performance targets for The Remuneration Committee the implementation of a robust incentive senior executives under the annual Committee comprises independent framework with balanced KPIs and bonus plan and awards under the non-executive directors and the Chairman genuinely stretching targets.
long-term incentive plan and of the Board.
The Committee met four Our Total Shareholder Return TSR reviewing performance against these times during the year.
Membership of performance ranked at the 81st targets: and the Committee and their attendance percentile against our FTSE peer reviewing the broader operation during the year were as follows: group over the three-year period to of the annual bonus and long-term Number of 31 March 2012.
Awards under the incentive plan, including participation Directors as at Number of meetings Performance Share Plan made in 31 March 2012 meetings attended and overall award levels.
2009 and which are measured Evert Henkes at 31 March 2012 are due to vest at Chairman of the close to maximum, reflecting a The Committee usually meets before Committee 4 4 combination of strong market and each Board meeting, and has a formal Sir Peter Gershon 4 4 financial performance.
calendar of items for consideration.
William Camp 4 3 We remain committed to maintaining The minutes of each meeting are circulated Robert Walker 4 4 the quality of our reporting, which to those non-executive directors who are we know is valued by our investors not members of the Committee.
Dr Ajai Puri joined the Board on 1 April 2012 and is a from feedback we receive on our member of the Remuneration Committee.
As he did The Committees full terms of reference not serve during the year under review, he is excluded Annual Report.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 48
