Governance More online: Read key announcements, financial reports and other information at www.
com Monitoring effectiveness The Board confirms that no significant Annual General Meeting AGM The Board receives reports from the Chief weaknesses were identified in relation to The 2012 AGM will be held at The Executive, Chief Financial Officer, business the review conducted during the year and Honourable Artillery Company in London, unit presidents and other senior executives accordingly no remedial action is required.
Full to enable it to assess on an ongoing basis details are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
Further information on risk is on pages the effectiveness of the systems of internal 27 to 29.
Shareholders who attend the AGM have control and risk management.
The Audit the opportunity to put questions to the Committee periodically reviews the Board on matters relating to the Groups Remuneration effectiveness of the system of internal operations and performance.
All resolutions The Board has delegated to the control through reports from the internal are decided by means of a poll and the Remuneration Committee responsibility for audit function.
The Corporate Responsibility votes received in respect of each resolution, agreeing the remuneration policy for the Committee reviews effectiveness of the together with the level of abstentions, are Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial controls within its remit.
The internal audit notified to the London Stock Exchange Officer and senior executives.
The Directors function follows a planned programme of and published on the Companys website.
Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 59 reviews that are aligned to the risks existing Shareholders are offered the choice of contains full details of the role and activities in the Groups businesses and reports receiving shareholder documentation, of the Remuneration Committee.
It has the authority to review including the annual report, electronically any relevant aspect of the business and a or in paper format as well as the choice of Relations With Shareholders duty to report on any material weaknesses.
submitting proxy votes either electronically Shareholder communications 2012 review of effectiveness or by post.
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Officer and Group VP Investor Relations Committee and Corporate Responsibility maintain a regular programme of visits Committee, conducted an assessment and presentations to major institutional of the effectiveness of the systems of risk shareholders both in the UK and overseas.
management and internal control during During the year, the Chairman undertook the financial year and up to the date of this separate visits to major institutional annual report.
The review, which covered shareholders and the Senior Independent financial, operational and compliance Director also met with a number of controls and was co-ordinated by the institutional shareholders.
Feedback on internal audit function, included a interaction with major shareholders is Group-wide certification that appropriate provided to all directors.
internal controls were in place to facilitate The Investor Relations department the Boards review of effectiveness.
provides the Board with a report on The internal audit function monitored and any meetings with major institutional selectively checked the results of this shareholders at each scheduled Board exercise, ensuring that the representations meeting.
All directors receive copies of made were consistent with the results of its analysts reports on the Company and the work during the year.
Where weaknesses Board receives regular briefings from the have been identified, remedial action plans Companys external advisers on investors were also reported.
The results of this perceptions of Tate & Lyle and its investor exercise were summarised for the Audit relations activities.
The non-executive Committee, Corporate Responsibility directors are encouraged to attend the Committee and the Board.
full-year and half-year results presentations.
This assessment is carried out every year.
The Company aims to present a balanced In the event that any significant losses were and clear assessment in all its public to be incurred during any particular year reports as well as in those to regulators.
as a result of a failure of controls, a detailed Key announcements, financial reports analysis would be provided to the Audit and other information about the Group Committee, Corporate Responsibility can be found on the Companys website Committee if appropriate, and the Board.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43
