Governance Annual bonus scheme Three performance factors determine the annual bonus.
These are shown in the table below: Performance factor Definition Rationale PBTEA Profit before tax, exceptional items and amortisation.
Measures the underlying profits generated by the business and whether management is converting growth into profits effectively.
Net sales less cost Gross sales net of associated selling costs, less the costs Measures whether management is growing the business.
of raw materials of raw materials used in production.
Growth is taken after cost of raw materials to better reflect value added.
Cash conversion cycle The number of days between disbursement of cash and Measures whether the business is managing its working collection of cash, taking account of inventory, payables capital and converting profit into cash effectively.
Based on the average of the four quarter-end numbers.
Limited adjustments to these metrics are permitted on an exceptional basis, reviewed and approved by the Committee to ensure that the results are a true reflection of the actual performance.
Performance is assessed on the Groups continuing operations and on the basis of constant exchange rates.
The bonus structure described here has applied for the year ended 31 March 2012, and is proposed to be retained for the year ahead.
How the bonus is determined For each performance factor there is a corresponding multiplier, which varies between threshold, target and stretch levels of performance.
Before any bonus is payable, a minimum level of profit has to be achieved, regardless of performance against other metrics.
To achieve the maximum payout, performance against all three factors must be at or above the stretch level.
Target bonus PBTEA Net sales Cash Bonus % of base performance less cost of conversion achieved salary multiplier raw materials cycle as % of Chief Executive performance performance base salary X X X 75% multiplier multiplier Chief Financial Officer 50% Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Relative weighting of bonus metrics The multipliers for the PBTEA factor are more heavily geared than for the other two factors, reflecting the fact that PBTEA is the most important of the three metrics.
The multipliers are agreed by the Committee when targets are set at the start of the year and the relative weightings reflect the importance of each of the metrics in the context of the progress made against the long-term strategy.
The following charts illustrate the relative weighting associated with each metric at threshold, target and stretch levels of performance: Threshold Target Stretch 1 1 1 3 3 2 2 1 Profit 2 Net sales growth 3 Cash conversion Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51
