Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 e u l a v g n i Chief Executives review continued Our business model The table provides a description of each component of Components of the value cycle the value cycle, and how each is important to our strategy Selecting land to create and deliver enhanced value and quality.
It also Land is the critical raw material for our highlights the progress we have made in 2012 and our business and the ability to purchase the right priorities for 2013. sites in the right locations at the right price and We monitor several Key Performance Indicators KPIs which at the right point in the cycle is a key driver of we derive from our value cycle and which we use to measure shareholder value.
See page 17 for more information Managing the planning and community engagement process Designing a sustainable community that meets the needs of local residents, is attractive to potential customers and provides attractive Caring about Selecting land our customers returns for shareholders requires a consultative and iterative process of community engagement.
See page 18 for more information Simply the best people Getting the homebuilding basics right We work with selected sub-contractors and build using carefully sourced materials to ensure that Getting the Managing the the homes that we sell are of a high quality and homebuilding planning and basics right community are built safely, efficiently, cost effectively and with engagement minimal impact on the environment.
process See page 18 for more information Caring about our customers See page 16 for more information on our KPIs Buying a home is a significant financial and emotional investment.
We aim to make buying, moving into and living in a Taylor Wimpey home as easy as possible for our customers.
See page 20 for more information Optimising value Developing sustainable homes and communities is a time-consuming process, but this provides us with the opportunity to undertake regular reviews over the life of each development to identify potential improvements.
See page 21 for more information Simply the best people This value cycle requires significant input from skilled and committed people to deliver aspirational, high-quality homes and communities for our customers.
See page 21 for more information 8 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 s i m i t p O Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 33.9 65,409 3.36 55.3 65,264 53.1 28.6 3.44 63,556 47.2 22.9 4.18 389 93.2 10 65,409 33.9 33.9 10 65,264 28.6 92.1 28.6 378 9 63,556 22.9 87.1 22.9 557 Our UK operational KPI Our strategy to deliver enhanced value Progress in 2012 Priorities for 2013 Key Performance Indicators We are highly selective with regard to the types of sites that Added 14,172 plots to the short term Continue to manage Owned and Contribution per we buy, focusing on the quality of the land rather than the landbank on favourable terms.
Average our investments and controlled plots legal completion number of plots acquired.
We employ dedicated land teams selling prices increased for 2012 to 181k landbank in line with the with planning k in each of our 24 regional businesses, who use their expertise 2011: 171k primarily as the result of cycle.
We aim to source and local knowledge to identify potential high-quality, enhanced locations which contributed to 30% of completions from 65,409 33.9 sustainable sites.
Our regional businesses are also supported the increase in contribution per legal strategic land over the by our strategic land teams who operate throughout the UK completion to 33.9k from 28.6k in 2011. next three years.
and are tasked with identifying areas where population Also added 14,104 plots to the strategic growth, or other local demand, could create opportunities to landbank which stood at 100,340 plots as promote land through the planning system.
24% of 2012 we place on effective partnerships, along with our expertise completions were from strategically and track record for delivering planning consents, makes us sourced land, up from 17% in 2011.
We believe that a positive and structured approach to working Contributed over 175 million to our local Monitor the use of tools Contribution per Owned and with others is at the heart of a successful scheme.
Residential communities via Section 106 and Section provided in the community legal completion controlled plots development is a local business and we work in partnership 75 planning obligations 2011: 130 million.
engagement manual and k with planning with the communities in which we build to deliver homes that seek detailed feedback Introduced a new set of community meet their requirements and aspirations.
We have rolled out a from regional businesses.
33.9 65,409 engagement tools and continued to continuous process of community engagement over the Further develop the About provide engagement training for employees.
lifetime of each development, which will enable us to identify Taylor Wimpey Web site Continued to maintain the About Taylor the best use of each site to meet the needs of local residents, and develop our approach Wimpey Web site.
Ranked in joint first to deliver appropriate financial returns for our shareholders, to to on-line community place on the Impact on Society and ensure that we have a mix of homes that meets local market engagement.
Economy section of the 2012 demand and that the site is optimised for safe, efficient and NextGeneration benchmark.
2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 We are committed to providing a safe place in which our Developed a new training programme on Decrease the number of Health and safety Waste generated employees and sub-contractors can work.
We are also adopting a collective responsibility for RIDDOR reportable injuries incident rate per 1,000 square committed to high standards of environmental management.
health and safety and delivered training to to 2011 levels.
feet built tonnes The building process is carefully managed by our site-based over 500 individuals from senior managers Provide a minimum of two and regional production teams to ensure quality, minimise to Board directors.
389 3.36 days HSE training for our disruption to residents in the surrounding areas and to Our ReUSE programme was Highly site management and protect and enhance the value of each site.
33.9 Commended in the waste category of operational staff.
the Constructing Excellence National Awards 2012.
Awarded Housebuilder of the Year and Best Product for our innovative PresRoof at the 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Housebuilder Awards in November 2012.
Further reduced the construction waste produced as a result of our activities to 2 3.36 tonnes in 2012 per 1,000ft built 2011: 3.44 tonnes.
No matter what the size or price of a property, for each Awarded the HBF five star rating in March Continue to focus on Customer Forward order book satisfaction score as a percentage customer the home that they are buying is aspirational to 2012, the highest rating, reecting our providing an excellent of completions % % them.
We will maintain our focus on delivering high-quality commitment to customers.
Customer Journey homes and a consistently excellent Customer Journey to all for our customers.
Customer satisfaction increased to 93.2% 93.2 55.3 of our customers.
We continue to make improvements to our in 2012 2011: 92.1%.
Launch our new Taylor on-line capabilities, including our Web site and use of social Wimpey Web site.
Launched the Taylor Wimpey Sales Academy.
media such as Facebook and Twitter.
2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 We look to optimise the value of each site not only during Migrated 15 businesses to our new Complete roll out of our Contribution per legal completion the initial acquisition process, but throughout the planning IT system.
new IT system to all our k and development stages so that the original value is not only business units.
Continued to review every site through our protected but enhanced.
We achieve this by undertaking a value improvement meetings.
Continue to actively 33.9 series of thorough reviews of each site at all stages of its review every site and lifecycle, using our value improvement and tracking processes optimise new sales outlets to ensure that we are continually optimising and delivering prior to opening.
the value within our land portfolio.
2010 2011 2012 Employee We want to be the residential developer of choice for Conducted an employee survey and Draw up action plans to turnover employees.
We want to attract and retain the best people undertook an audit of the diversity of improve areas highlighted % by having a culture that people identify with, where they our employees.
can realise their full potential and achieve success and Develop a modular training 10 satisfaction.
We will continue to seek a balance of internal programme for production and external appointments, in order to combine career and technical employees.
development with the introduction of new perspectives and innovative approaches.
co. uk 9 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Chief Executives review continued Group Management Team The Group Management Team GMT is responsible for the day to day running of the Company and comprises: Pete Redfern Ryan Mangold James Jordan Fergus McConnell Chief Executive Group Finance Director Group Legal Director and Divisional Chairman, North Company Secretary Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities As head of the GMT, my responsibilities Ryans role covers all areas of Finance, Responsibilities Fergus oversees the 10 regional include key strategic and operational including tax and treasury, as well as James is responsible for our Company businesses within our North Division.
decisions, corporate responsibility and Information Technology.
Ryan also Secretariat department, as well as Heis also the project sponsor for our health and safety.
plays an active part in our Investor overseeing all legal matters from plot new IT system.
Peter Truscott Peter Andrew Maria Pilfold Divisional Chairman, South Director of Land and Planning Group Human Resources Director Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Peter heads our South Division, which Peter oversees our Strategic Land Maria has responsibility for all areas contains 14 regional businesses, and team and is leading our response to of Human Resources, including also has responsibility for our business the evolving UK planning system.
recruitment, benets, talent and in Spain.
External recognition I would also like to take this opportunity to reiterate Kevins words and We are committed to delivering high-quality homes for all of our say thank you to our employees who have implemented the strategy customers.
During 2012, Taylor Wimpey won a number of awards, and delivered this great result with such enthusiasm.
recognising excellence across various areas of the business, including Outlook Housebuilder of the Year and Best Product for our innovative It is too early to predict the market for the year and we believe that PresRoof at the Housebuilder Awards in November.
We were mortgage availability will remain the key constraint on the market, particularly pleased to win 66 NHBC Pride in the Job Quality Awards although we have seen improvement over the last few months and 2011: 65, representing 21% of our active sites, 16 Seals of Excellence hope that this will continue.
This, combined with a tentative 2011: 18 and a further two 2011: two Regional Awards, which are improvement in consumer confidence, gives us grounds for cautious based on build quality and site management excellence.
optimism in the short term.
People and culture Our strategy focuses on building and applying our key competencies: Our employees are critical to our success and provide us with a margin performance: land investment and management: continuously sustainable competitive advantage that can neither be easily, nor adding value: people: and an active approach to managing the market quickly, replicated.
Our results already show the benefit of the successful implementation of our strategy, while our high-quality land During 2012 we conducted our first employee survey for a number of portfolio, increased order book and strong balance sheet give us years.
We were particularly pleased to note that 99% of our employees confidence to target further progress in 2013 and beyond.
agree we take health and safety seriously and 94% of our employees are proud to work for Taylor Wimpey.
Following the roll out of our strategy to all employees in 2011, the survey also highlighted that 98% of employees understand how their work ts into Taylor Wimpey, 97% understand what Taylor Wimpey wanted to achieve in 2012, and 97% are clear about what is expected from them on a day to day basis.
This buy in and understanding makes a big difference.
Importantly, this survey also highlighted areas for improvement and we intend to focus on these during 2013.
10 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Risk Management & Mitigation Our approach to risk management As with any business, Taylor Wimpey faces a number of risks and uncertainties in the course of its day to day operations.
It is only by effectively identifying and managing these risks that we will be able to deliver on our strategic priorities of improving operating margin, return on net operating assets and net asset value.
Principal Risks & Uncertainties Group Material Risk Register BU & Central Risk Registers BU & Central forecast and planning process Our risk assessment and management process The Board oversees the risk and control framework of the Group The successful management of risk is essential to enable the Group and the Chief Executive is responsible for implementing any necessary to deliver on its strategic priorities.
The risk management and internal improvements with the support of the GMT.
In line with our report control framework define the procedures that manage rather than last year and consistent with the UK Governance Code, the Board eliminate the risk facing the business and can only provide reasonable increased the frequency of its formal risk reviews to half yearly and in and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
addition the GMT conducts a detailed review as part of the business planning process.
The risk management framework consists of risk registers at all organisational levels which detail the risk faced by the Group, its At its half year and year end meetings the Board reviewed the risk operating companies and the central service teams.
The registers prole of the Group and the significant risks with the mitigating factors.
identify key operational and financial risks while strategic risks are At the year end meeting in February 2013 following the annual review identied as part of the business planning process although it is by the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal controls and a expected that strategic risks will be included on risk registers.
The risk formal assessment of risk, which included a detailed risk assessment registers take into account the signicance of environmental, social by the GMT, the Board completed its annual assessment of risks for and governance matters of the Company and use a standardised the year end 31 December 2012.
The key risks affecting the Group methodology for the assessment of risk.
were identied and agreed with the Board together with processes for their elimination or mitigation and actions required to reduce the The standard methodology used in risk management requires likelihood of each risk to the Group.
each risk identied to be assessed and ranked according to a risk matrix which accounts for the likelihood and impact of each risk.
More information on risk management and internal control is contained The risks identied are assessed for potential effect on the Companys within the Audit Committee Report on pages 37 to 40. short and long term value.
The completion of risk registers is iterative and refreshed on an ongoing basis.
The risk registers feed into a formal half yearly risk assessment that identies the principal risks see pages 12 and 13 and allows the Board to re-evaluate the identied strategic risks facing the Group.
