Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Board of Directors The strength, balance and depth of our Board adds value to the effective control, direction and leadership of the Company.
Kevin Beeston Baroness Dean of Thornton-le-Fylde Chairman Independent Non Executive Director Appointed to the post of Chairman in July Appointed as a Non Executive Director 2010, Kevin chairs the Nomination Committee in July 2007, Brenda is a member of the and is a member of the Remuneration Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
He was appointed Chairman of She is a member of the House of Lords and Equiniti Group Limited in September 2011. is active in a number of public areas, Kevin also chairs two further private including the House of Lords Appointments businesses: Partnerships in Care Limited and Commission.
Brenda is a Partnership Director Domestic & General Limited.
He was formerly of National Air Trafc Services.
Previously Chairman of Serco Group plc and a Non Brenda was Chairman of the New Covent Executive Director of IMI plc.
Garden Market Authority, a Non Executive Director of George Wimpey Plc and a Non Executive Director of Dawson Holdings PLC.
Pete Redfern Chief Executive Appointed as a Director and to the post of Robert Rowley Chief Executive in July 2007.
Pete is a Independent Non Executive Director member of the Nomination Committee.
In and Senior Independent Director addition he has full day-to-day operational Appointed as a Non Executive Director in responsibility for the UK Housing division.
He January 2010 and as Senior Independent was previously Group Chief Executive of Director in April 2010, Rob is Chairman of George Wimpey Plc and before that the Audit Committee and a member of the successively held the posts of Finance Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Director and Chief Executive of George He was previously a Director of Reuters Plc, Wimpeys UK Housing business.
He is a Deputy Chairman of Cable and Wireless plc director of the Home Builders Federation and and a Non Executive Director of Prudential plc a Trustee of the homelessness charity Crisis.
and Taylor Nelson Sofres plc.
He is a Non Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of both Intu Properties plc Ryan Mangold formerly named Capital Shopping Centres Group Finance Director Group plc and Moneysupermarket.
com Ryan was appointed as a Director and to the Group PLC.
post of Group Finance Director in November 2010 having previously held the post of Group Financial Controller since April 2009.
Before Anthony Reading MBE Independent Non Executive Director joining Taylor Wimpey, Ryan was Group Financial Controller of Mondi Group for five Appointed as a Non Executive Director in July 2007, Tony is Chairman of the years, prior to which he held a number of senior finance roles with the Anglo American Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
He was previously a Director of Tomkins Plc and Chairman and Chief Executive of Tomkins James Jordan Corp. USA, a Non Executive Director of Group Legal Director and Company Secretary Spectris Plc and was a Non Executive Director Appointed Group Legal Director and of George Wimpey Plc prior to its merger Company Secretary in July 2011, James, with Taylor Woodrow.
He is a Non Executive a solicitor, was previously Group Company Director of Laird Plc and e2v Technologies plc.
Secretary and General Counsel of George Wimpey Plc from February 2002 until July 2007 when he was appointed to the same position with Taylor Wimpey plc.
Before joining the Group, James held senior legal and company secretary roles in industry which included positions with The Rugby Group Plc Top to bottom and English China Clays Plc.
Kevin Beeston Pete Redfern Ryan Mangold James Jordan Baroness Dean of Thornton-le-Fylde 28 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Mike Hussey Board tenure Independent Non Executive Director Appointed as a Non Executive Director in July 2011, Mike is a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
He is Chief Executive of Almacantar, a private property investment and development company which he founded in February 2010.
He has held a number of senior roles in the property sector, most recently as an Executive Board Director of Land Securities plc.
Prior to that position, Mike was Head of Leasing and Marketing for Canary Wharf Group plc, a partner at Knight Frank, Chairman of the Regeneration and Development Committee of the British Q 1-4 years Property Federation and a Trustee of Q 4 years LandAid, the property industry charity.
Kate Barker CBE Independent Non Executive Director Appointed as a Non Executive Director in Board composition April 2011, Kate is a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
She is a business economist and is presently a Senior Adviser to Credit Suisse and a Non Executive Director of Electra Private Equity plc and the Yorkshire Building Society.
Previously, Kate was a member of the Bank of Englands Monetary Policy Committee MPC from 2001 until May 2010.
During this period, she also led two major policy reviews for Government, on housing supply and on land use planning.
Before joining the MPC she was Chief Economic Adviser at the CBI.
Kate was awarded a CBE in 2005 for services to social housing.
Q Chairman Q Independent Non Executive Directors Audit Committee Current members: Q Executives Rob Rowley Committee Chairman, Kate Barker, Mike Hussey and Tony Reading.
For more information see page 35 Top to bottom Robert Rowley Nomination Committee Current members: Anthony Reading MBE Kevin Beeston Committee Chairman, Kate Barker, Brenda Dean, Mike Hussey, Tony Reading, Pete Redfern Mike Hussey and Rob Rowley.
Kate Barker CBE For more information see pages 34 and 35 Remuneration Committee Current members: Tony Reading Committee Chairman, Kevin Beeston, Brenda Dean and Rob Rowley.
For more information see page 35 Taylor Wimpey plc plc.
