Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Statutory, regulatory and other formal information Introduction Qualifying third party indemnity This section contains the remaining matters on which the Directors The Company has granted an indemnity in favour of its Directors are required to report each year, which do not appear elsewhere in and ofcers and those of its Group companies against the financial this Directors Report.
Certain other matters required to be reported exposure that they may incur in the course of their professional duties on appear elsewhere in the Report and Accounts as detailed below: as Directors and ofcers of the Company and or its subsidiaries afliates.
The indemnity has been put in place in accordance with t a list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings, including section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of which the branches outside the UK, principally affecting the profits or net Company took advice from Slaughter and May.
assets of the Group in the year appears on page 110: Audit and auditor t changes in asset values are set out in the consolidated balance sheet Each Director has, at the date of approval of this Report, on page 64 and in the Notes to the accounts on pages 67 to 109: confirmed that: t the Groups profit before taxation and the profit after taxation and t to the best of their knowledge there is no relevant audit information minority interests appear in the consolidated income statement on of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and page 62 and in the Notes to the accounts on pages 67 to 109: and t they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a t a detailed statement of the Groups treasury management and Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit funding is set out in Note 19 on page 86. information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Directors The following Directors held ofce throughout the year: This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Kevin Beeston, Chairman: Deloitte LLP have confirmed their willingness to continue in ofce Pete Redfern, Chief Executive: as auditor of the Company and a resolution to re-appoint them will Ryan Mangold, Group Finance Director: be proposed at the AGM.
James Jordan, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary: It is the Companys general policy that its auditors will not carry out non-audit services except where it is appropriate to do so and Kate Barker CBE, Independent Non Executive Director: in accordance with the Companys formal policy for the carrying out Brenda Dean, Independent Non Executive Director: of such work.
Deloitte LLP provided non-audit services to the Group during the year within the policy framework as described in the Mike Hussey, Independent Non Executive Director: Corporate Governance Report, details of which are set out in Tony Reading MBE, Independent Non Executive Director: Note 5 on page 75.
Rob Rowley, Independent Non Executive Director and Senior Annual General Meeting Independent Director.
The AGM will be held at 11:00 am on 25 April 2013 at The British Medical Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, The Directors together with their biographical information are shown London, WC1H 9JP.
Formal notice of the AGM including details of special business is set Retirement, election and re-election out in the Notice of Meeting on page 112 and on the Companys Web The Company has determined that in accordance with the UK site plc.
Voting on all resolutions at this years AGM Corporate Governance Code, all Directors should seek re-election will again be conducted by way of a poll as the Board believes this at this years AGM as explained in the Notes to the Notice of Meeting gives as many shareholders as possible the opportunity to have their and on page 33 of the Corporate Governance Report.
votes counted, whether their votes are tendered by proxy in advance Each of the Directors proposed for re-election at the AGM is being of, or in person at the AGM.
unanimously recommended by all of the other members of the Web communication Board.
This recommendation follows the completion of the annual With shareholders consent, the Company has adopted Web performance evaluation process, which included a detailed appraisal communication.
The benets of Web communication are that it: of the Board, its Committees and in respect of each Director.
Further information relating to the evaluation is set out below and in the t enables the Company to signicantly reduce its printing and Corporate Governance Report on page 33. postage costs: The Articles of Association of the Company further regulate the t enables shareholders to access information faster, on the day appointment and removal of Directors, as does the Companies documents are published on the Companys Web site: and Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Companys Articles of t reduces the amount of resources consumed, such as paper, Association may be amended by special resolution of the and lessens the impact of printing and mailing activities on shareholders.
The powers of the Directors are described the environment.
in the Corporate Governance Report.
Shareholder communications including the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts are available electronically through the Companys Web site.
The Company provides hard copy documentation to those shareholders who have requested this and is, of course, happy to meet any such requests.
co. uk 57 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Statutory, regulatory and other formal information continued Registrar Substantial interests in the Companys shares as at The Companys registrar is Capita Registrars.
Their details, together 28 February 2013 Number of Percentage of with information on facilities available to shareholders, are set out in shares held issued voting the Shareholder Facilities section on page 120.
Name millions share capital Capital structure Schroders plc 353.2 10.93 Details of the Companys issued share capital, together with details of BlackRock Inc 181.0 5.62 the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are shown in Note 22 on page 94.
J. P. Morgan Asset Management Holdings Inc 159.6 4.99 The Company has two classes of shares: Ordinary Shares of 1p, each of which carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Third Avenue Management LLC 125.9 3.91 Company and such other rights and obligations as are set out in the Legal & General Group Plc 103.4 3.20 Companys Articles of Association: and Deferred Shares which carry no voting rights.
Standard Life Investments Limited 96.4 3.02 As part of the debt restructuring announced on 21 April 2009 the Dividend Company issued Warrants to certain of its lenders giving the holders Information relating to the recommended 2012 final dividend is set out the right, up to 29 April 2014, to subscribe for up to an aggregate of in the Chairmans Statement on page 4 and in the notes to resolution 2 approximately 58 million Ordinary Shares representing approximately on page 116 in the Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
5% of the Companys issued share capital at the time the Warrants were issued.
Warrants remain over approximately 1% of the current The Company will be operating a Dividend Re-Investment Plan, further issued share capital at the subscription price per share of 17.4473 details of which are set out on page 116 of this Annual Report.
pence 25 pence prior to the Placing and Open Offer.
The Warrants The right to receive any dividend has been waived in part by the are transferable and carry entitlement to subscription for three months Trustee of the Companys Employee Share Ownership Trusts over after the passing of a resolution for the winding-up of the Company.
those Trusts combined holding of 37,581,131 shares.
To date, aggregate exercises of Warrants have resulted in the issue of 33,877,396 new Ordinary Shares of 1p each.
Research and development During 2012 the Company began to build the new standard house The authority given by shareholders at the AGM held on 26 April 2012 type range in significant numbers.
This enabled us to validate the work for the Company to purchase a maximum of 321.5 million of its own that been undertaken in developing them.
Already we can see delivery shares remained valid at 31 December 2012.
The authority was not of the customer offering, urban design, cost and process benets that exercised during 2012 or prior to the date of this Report.
The Company had been targeted.
Feedback from customers and the Companys has no current intention of exercising the authority but will nevertheless regional business units will allow us to continue to rene the range and be seeking the usual renewal of this authority at the AGM.
The ensure we have the best house type range to support the business and Company currently holds no shares in treasury.
to provide customers with what they want.
To that end our continued There are no specic restrictions on the size of a holding, the exercise development work will look at ways of enhancing the homes and of voting rights, nor on the transfer of shares, which are governed by offering more customer choice as well as capturing best practice in the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are their use within urban design.
not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys With the 2013 changes to the building regulations still not nalised, shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or we have continued to evaluate the options available to us when, and on voting rights.
if further increases in energy efficiency are announced.
To this end we Details of employee share schemes are set out in the Remuneration continue to work with our supply chain to identify new products and Report on page 41.
The Employee Share Ownership Trusts generally techniques available to us and appraise them before they will be abstain from voting in respect of shares held by them.
We are also continuing to push our strategy of fabric first in meeting energy efficiency as well as evaluating carbon offset methods No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share of meeting allowable solutions on an individual site basis.
As an adjunct capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
to our R & D we continue to contribute to several industry working Substantial interests groups looking at energy efficiency, changes to building regulations and The persons set out in the table below have notied the Company standards and how to close the gap between design and performance.
pursuant to Rule 5.1 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of Taylor Wimpey sits on the Advisory Board of HOMBRE Holistic their interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
Management of Browneld Regeneration, a four year Seventh At 28 February 2013, no change in these holdings had been Framework EU funded research project looking at sustainable notied nor, according to the Register of Members, did any other browneld re-use.
We continue to work with WRAP Waste and shareholder at that date have a disclosable holding of the Resources Action Programme, most notably on their programme on Companys issued share capital.
Clay Bricks & Blocks Resource efficiency Action Plan REAP, and have provided time and a letter of support for a proposal for funding from the Directors interests, including interests in the Companys shares, University of Newcastle entitled Urban Carbon Capture: Engineering are shown in the Remuneration Report.
58 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Through CIRIA Construction Industry Research Information gender, sexual orientation, marital status, family connections, age, Association Taylor Wimpey personnel have contributed to Steering membership or non-membership of a trade union, or disability, unless Groups on asbestos in soils and quality control for the installation justifiable in exceptional circumstances, for example due to health and of gas proof membranes.
Instruction on equal opportunities is part of the induction programme.
Employee involvement and communication The Company is committed to ensuring open and regular Our Diversity Policy which can be found on the Companys Web site: communication throughout the Group on both business-related plc.
co. uk  Policies issues and issues of general interest.
There is a formal Employee Employment of people with disabilities Consultative Committee structure in place in all operations and It is our policy that people with disabilities should have fair consideration elected representatives meet with management to consult on for all vacancies within the Group.
Intranet systems are continually updated which provide a valuable communication tool across the Group and an The Company is therefore committed, where possible, to ensuring important facility for providing employees with access to a wide range that people with disabilities are supported and encouraged to apply of information.
Information is regularly cascaded throughout the Group for employment and to achieve progress once employed.
They will via e-mail including regular communications from the Chief Executive be treated so as to ensure that they have an equal opportunity to be and via verbal briengs and by management presentations.
In addition, every reasonable effort is made for disabled persons to be retained in the employment of the There is an internal forum on the Groups intranet inviting employees Group by investigating the possibility of making reasonable adjustments to comment and make suggestions on the Companys strategy and to the job, workplace or equipment.
its implementation with each one being read by the Chief Executive and responded to.
Charitable donations The Company has a Charity Committee, which operates within This is in addition to the continuing forum on the intranet called written terms of reference and charitable guidelines approved by Open Door which allows direct communication with the Chief the Board.
The Committees aims are to monitor and review charitable Executive on strategic areas of focus and other matters in order donations made by regional businesses as against the guidelines and to enable all employees to contribute and comment.
All employees to assess and administer larger donations centrally.
The members of are encouraged to participate and use the forum.
the Committee are the Group HR Director Chairman, Group Legal The Company promotes share ownership as widely as possible.
Director and Company Secretary, UK Land and Planning Director, One of the findings from our review during 2011 of the reward Group Investor Relations Manager and Group Financial Controller.
structure across the business was that many employees would value The Company and the Committee encourage non-financial the opportunity to exchange part of any cash bonus for exceptional contributions also and for employees to participate in performance, into shares of the Company.
This scheme was charitable causes.
introduced, for those not already participating in the STIA, for the During the year, Group companies donated 247,000 2011: 2012 cash bonus, payable for exceptional performance during 2011, 211,000 and an additional 476 hours of volunteer time to various offering a 20% enhancement to the value if taken entirely in shares charities in the UK.
with a holding period of 12 months.
This first offer of the scheme resulted in 934,516 shares 2011: Nil being acquired by 255 Further information on the Groups donations, activities and initiatives employees 2011: Nil.
can be found in the 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report which is available on the Companys Web site: plc.
co. uk In addition, the Company maintains all-employee share plans,  including the Save As You Earn share option plan and the Share Incentive Plan SIP, which are offered as widely as possible across Political donations the Group.
Almost half of our eligible employees 48.5% participate in The Company does not make donations to political parties and neither one or both plans.
The Company does support certain industry-wide organisations which directly assist the housebuilding industry such Each all-employee plan is nearing the end of the ten year period for as the Home Builders Federation and the CBI.
Whilst we do not regard which it was approved by shareholders at the 2004 AGM, and the this as political in nature, the Companies Act 2006 denition of political rules of each have been updated to take advantage of recent organisations and related terms is very wide and in certain changes in HM Revenue & Customs requirements for such plans.
circumstances a donation or a subscription to a charity or other Details of the proposed new rules for each plan and the associated organisation could retrospectively be categorised as a political trust deed for the SIP are set out in the notes to resolutions 18 and 19 donation.
Accordingly, the Company will be seeking the usual annual on pages 118 to 119 in the Notes to the Notice of Annual General dispensation at the Annual General Meeting as a matter of prudency.
Meeting, together with details of the changes proposed.
Each is again proposed to be approved for a further ten years.
Policy on payment of suppliers The nature of the Groups operations means that there is no single Equal opportunities Group standard in respect of payment terms to suppliers.
Generally, As set out in our Diversity Policy, we remain committed to equality of business units are responsible for establishing payment terms with opportunity in all of our employment practices, policies and procedures suppliers when entering into each transaction or series of linked across the Group.
To this end, within the framework of applicable law, transactions.
In the absence of dispute, valid payment requests are we are committed, wherever practicable, to achieving and maintaining met as expeditiously as possible within such terms.
Our standard a workforce which broadly reects that of the local catchment area framework agreements with contractors establish the due date for within which we operate.
No employee or potential employee will payment as 30 days from the later of the date of issue of the invoice receive less favourable treatment due to their race, creed, colour, or request for payment, or the relevant month end notied by the nationality, ethnic origin, religion, political or other opinion, afliation, employer, and for suppliers, the due date for payment is the end of the month following the month of receipt of the suppliers invoice for goods and or services delivered to the Company.
co. uk 59 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Statutory, regulatory and other formal information continued Trade creditor days for the Group for the year ended 31 December The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 2012 were 36 days 2011: 32 days.
This is based on the ratio of year records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys end Group trade creditors excluding sub-contract retentions and transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the unagreed claims of 38.9 million 2011: 31.2 million and land financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that creditors, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements to the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
The Company are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and had no significant trade creditors at 31 December 2012. hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Agreements Apart from a small number of borrowing agreements, pursuant to The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of which the Company borrows or is able to borrow money, which could the corporate and financial information included on the Companys potentially be terminated by the other party upon a change of control Web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation of the Company, there are no significant contracts or agreements and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement Important events since the year end The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: There have been no important events affecting the Company or any t the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant of its subsidiary undertakings since 31 December 2012. financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, Directors responsibilities statement liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law t the management report, which is incorporated into the and regulations.
Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements and performance of the business and the position of the Company for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, prepare the Group Financial Statements in accordance with together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by that they face.
the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have This Report of the Directors was approved by the Board of Directors elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in on 28 February 2013. accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
James Jordan In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors Group Legal Director and Company Secretary are required to: Taylor Wimpey plc t select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: 28 February 2013 t make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: t state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and t prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: t properly select and apply accounting policies: t present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: t provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and t make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
60 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
