Our business model continued Carrier-neutral data centres Network service providers effectively form internet or connectivity Carrier-neutral hubs in our data centres.
Such hubs are ideal locations for organisations who need access to a variety of connectivity services.
The connectivity providers install their network routers in the data centre, digital ecosystem enabling customers to connect into their services quickly and easily without the need for costly private networks outside of the data centre.
Depending on business needs, customers choose to use multiple carriers to build in redundancy and ensure resilience, or simply to secure the appropriate network performance required for their applications at the best price.
As our customers business needs grow they are able to switch In addition to providing space from one provider to another or add additional networks within the data centre with minimal disruption.
and facilities for customer IT Our customers demand exibility and control when choosing their IT infrastructure, carrier-neutral data service providers.
At TelecityGroup our carrier-neutrality means we do not have predetermined afliations with any specic network operators, centres provide organisations vendors or service providers, in fact these companies are our customers.
The wide range of network services available in TelecityGroup data with direct connections to the centres can meet the most extensive and diverse of connectivity needs, whether its specic geographical coverage, segment-specic or xed widest choice of networks, mobile and mobile services required.
operators, ISPs, Internet Exchanges, Evolving ecosystems driving value for customers and Content Distribution Networks TelecityGroup As the world becomes ever more connected the role of the highlyCDNs and other network service connected data centre as the enabling environment for the digital economy becomes more important.
providers, enabling them to build The diagram on the next page shows a typical set of intertwined commercial relationships that evolve between customers within and their own communication networks across TelecityGroup data centres.
Each circle represents a different to deliver the optimum end user customers infrastructure, and a description of the type of services beingprovided to other TelecityGroup customers within that experiences.
In this way each of our data centres become home to thriving and connected digital ecosystems generating value both for customers and TelecityGroup.
Our top 100 customers by revenue % The richness of connectivity in our data centres creates the ideal environment inwhich our network-hungry customer ecosystems can ourish.
2012 13.0 40.0 19.0 15.0 13.0 James Tyler, Group Director of Marketing and Communications 2011 12.0 45.0 21.0 11.0 11.0 Cloud and hosting Connectivity Internet content Financial Systems integrators 16 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 The data centre ecosystem: A case study This diagram shows a variety of interconnected commercial relationships between a small example set of customers in TelecityGroup data centres.
Network Network Network Network Cross-connect to Cross-connect to carrier providing carrier providing network to customer transit to offshore development site UK ofce Network Connects to cloud platform which hosts customer-facing website Information services Information services Cloud platform Network customer customer TelecityGroup data centre Manchester Network Cross-connect to trading partner Information services Network customer Trading partner global consumer retail site TelecityGroup data centre London Networks provide transit Connects to private to enable large-scale corporate telecoms network global access to website Key Information services customer Network Network Network Cross-connect TelecityGroup managed network TelecityGroup data centre Amsterdam TelecityGroup data centre London Connectivity Systems integrators Connectivity companies are telecoms operators, including xed line System integrators SI use TelecityGroup data centres to host their networks, mobile operators, internet service providers and content customers mission-critical IT infrastructure.
SIs specialise in the distribution networks CDNs.
These companies use our data centres provision of IT systems, services and applications and not, typically, data toconnect to internet exchanges, each other and their end customers, centres.
SIs require high quality, connected data centres where they can such as internet content companies.
scale their customers operations as they grow.
TelecityGroup is seeing significant growth from both global and local operators in this sector.
Internet content Internet content companies represent the next largest category of our Financial customers.
They are diverse in nature and include organisations that An increasingly diverse range of financial services companies choose provide digital media, such as internet video, music and gaming.
TelecityGroup data centres in which to locate their network-intensive ITinfrastructure.
These customer deployments support a wide range Cloud and hosting ofbanking and insurance services, trading platforms and also companies Hosting companies and cloud services operators provide technology in-house IT systems.
platforms and services that enable their customers to run their own IT inamore cost-efficient manner.
Services offered by these companies areoffered increasingly on an on-demand basis and can improve the IToperating performance of their end customers.
Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 17 Our business model continued Carrier-neutral digital ecosystem Harbour Exchange: One of the worlds most important peering locations The digital ecosystem TelecityGroups internet hubs enable the formation ofvarious ecosystems within the data centre, often formed around groups of sector-specic companies.
Ecosystems evolve due to organisations seeking to be colocated within the same facility in order to connect and transact with other community members and customers.
The diagrams on the next page demonstrate how such ecosystems develop in the data centre over time.
Each strand represents a physical Expanding in London connection between two different customers within the data centre.
In 2012 we opened 1.5MW of a 6MW expansion Over time, these physical links, or cross-connects multiply, creating programme at Harbour Exchange in Londons interconnected hubs of commercial, digital relationships.
The process undertaken by our Board in deciding on and monitoring expansion programmes is shown in the case study at the bottom of page 45 of our Governance review.
18 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 An engineer completes anew cross-connect Growth of the digital ecosystem in Harbour Exchange 2000-2012 Cloud and hosting Connectivity Internet content Financial Systems integrators Other 2000 2004 2008 2012 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 19
