Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report and audited financial statements of the Company and the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012.
This Directors report contains certain statutory, regulatory and other information and incorporates, by reference, the Overview and Strategic, Performance and Governance reviews included earlier in this document.
Business review Substantial shareholdings A review of the development of the Groups business during the year and its future prospects At 11 February 2013, the Company had been noti ed in accordance with the Disclosure and is included in the Overview, the Strategic review, Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority, or was aware, that the following held, or were the Performance review and Governance review bene cially interested in, 3% or more of the Companys shares at that date: on pages 2 to 67, which should be read in conjunction with this report, of which they form Number of shares Total voting rights % part.
The information in these sections, along with Norges Bank 17,186,022 8.53 this Directors report, comprises the Business Standard Life Investments Ltd 15,529,968 7.71 Review as required by Section 417 of the 1 Butter eld Trust 8,718,151 4.33 Companies Act 2006 the Act.
Legal & General Group PLC 7,967,897 3.96 Oppenheimer Funds 7,078,305 3.51 Principal activities BlackRock, Inc 7,065,529 3.51 The Group is the leading pan-European provider of carrier-neutral data centres providing 1 These shares are held by Butter eld Trust as trustee for trusts for the bene t of Oliver R. Grace colocation and related data centre services.
Jr and members of his family.
Mr Grace also has an interest in an additional 4,511,673 shares.
The principal activity of the Company is that of The Company received no noti cations of interests of shareholders indicating a different whole an investment company.
The principal activities percentage holding at 31 December 2012. of the Companys subsidiaries are contained in note 17 of the financial statements.
Such circumstances depend on the age, gender, race, colour, sexual orientation, achievement of performance conditions or the disability or marital status.
The Group gives full Results and dividends discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
and fair consideration to applications for The results for the year ended 31 December The Company does not have any agreements employment from disabled persons, having 2012are set out in the Consolidated Income with any Director or of cer that would provide regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
The Board has proposed compensation for loss of of ce or employment Appropriate arrangements are made for the a final dividend of 5p per ordinary share in resulting from a takeover.
continued employment and training, career respect of the year 2011: nil, payable on 19 April development and promotion of disabled persons The Group has facility agreements with its bank 2013 to shareholders on the register at the close employed by the Group.
If members of staff lenders which contain provisions giving those of business on 15 March 2013, giving a total become disabled the Group continues lenders certain rights on a change of control dividend in respect of 2012 of 7.5p per ordinary employment, either in the same or an alternative ofthe Company.
position, with appropriate retraining being given ifnecessary.
Financial instruments 2013 Annual General Meeting AGM The Group systematically provides employees Information on the financial risk exposure, The Companys AGM will be held at the of ces with information on matters of concern to management objectives and policies of the of Hogan Lovells International LLP, Atlantic them, consulting them or their representatives Group is set out in the Financial Review on House, Holborn Viaduct, London EC1A 2FG regularly.
This enables their views to be taken pages 34 to 37. at2.30pm on 16 April 2013. into account when making decisions that are likely to affect their interests.
Employee An explanation of the resolutions to Payment of suppliers involvement in the Group is encouraged, as beproposed at the AGM, and the The Companys policy, which is also applied isachieving a common awareness on the part recommendation of Directors in relation bythe Group, is to set terms of payment with of all employees of the financial and economic tothese, are included in the circular suppliers when agreeing the terms of each factors affecting the Group.
The Group accompanying this Annual Report to encourages the involvement of employees transaction, ensure that suppliers are made shareholders.
Resolutions regarding the bymeans of brie ng meetings as well as more aware of the terms of payment: and to abide authority to issue and repurchase shares informal communications.
The year end Group arecommented upon in the share capital trade creditors balance represented 82 days tableon the following page.
The creditor days gure Going concern isnot representative of the Groups underlying Comprehensive financial forecasts have been Corporate governance payment terms with suppliers due to the prepared and submitted to the Board for The Companys Governance Review inclusion of 21.8m 2011: 14.4m of capital review.
Based on the information contained iscontained on pages 38 to 67. creditors in the year end balance.
Adjusting for inthese forecasts and the assessment of the these capital creditors reduces the creditor Groups banking facilities, the Directors have a days for the current year to 23 2011: 25.
Change of control reasonable expectation that the Group and the TheCompany did not have any trade creditors In the event of a takeover, a scheme of Company have adequate resources to continue at 31 December 2012 2011: nil.
arrangement other than a scheme of in operational existence for the foreseeable arrangement for the purposes of creating a future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt newholding company or certain other events, Employment the going concern basis in preparing the unvested executive Director and employee The Group is committed to employment policies financial statements.
share awards may in certain circumstances that follow best practice and are based on equal become exercisable.
opportunities for all employees, irrespective of 96 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Directors Charitable and political donations The Directors of the Company who served during the year were: During the year the Group made charitable John Hughes Brian McArthur-Muscroft Sahar Elhabashi donations in cash and in kind amounting to Chairman Group Finance Director John OReilly 182,500 2011: 150,682.
Michael Tobin Simon Batey Individual donations of 2,000 or above Chief Executive Of cer Maurizio Carli comprised the following: Certain key matters in connection with the Directors are shown below: Action for Children 18,000 The business of the Company is managed by its Directors who may exercise all powers of the Co-operation Ireland 5,000 Company subject to the Articles of Association and UK legislation.
Directors of the Company Help for Heroes 10,000 are appointed either by the Board or by shareholders under the Companys Articles of Make a Wish 14,750 Association and may resign or be removed in a similar manner.
The Loomba Foundation 25,000 Biographical details of the current Directors are set out on pages 40 and 41.
The Directors The Princes Trust 46,150 interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company and any interests known to the The Bokemei Foundation 4,055 Company of their connected persons are set out in the Report of the Remuneration TPT UK Limited Committee on page 66.
Superstars 2,020 The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the bene t of its Great Ormond Street Directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities that they may incur in the course of acting Childrens Charity 31,475 as Directors of the Company or its subsidiaries, which remain in force at the date of this The Group made no political donations report.
No member of the Board had a material interest in any contract of signi cance with the Company or any of its subsidiaries at any time during the year, except for their interests in shares and in share awards and under their service agreements and letters of appointment disclosed in the Report of the Remuneration Committee commencing on page 60.
Share capital Certain key information relating to the The Group operates employee share plans At the year end, the Company had authority Companys shares is shown below.
as set out in the Report of the Remuneration exercisable by the Directors for the Committee on page 64 in note 28 of the purposes of Section 701 of the Act to make The Companys shares at the year end financial statements.
one or more market purchases within the comprised entirely ordinary shares of meaning of Section 693 of the Act of up to 0.002 each which rank equally in all In relation to the options granted at the 20,054,941 shares.
The Company will seek respects.
timeof the Companys IPO in 2007, and to renew this authority at the 2013 AGM.
theDirectors deferred bonus shares, an The rights attached to the shares, in addition Employee Bene t Trust EBT holds shares Further details of the Companys share capital to those conferred on their holders by law, pending employees becoming entitled are set out in note 26. are set out in the Companys Articles of tothem.
221,526 shares were so held as Association.
The EBT has an Association may only be amended by a independent trustee which has full Special Resolution of the shareholders.
discretion in relation to the voting of such There are no restrictions on the transfer shares.
Shares held in the EBT have any entitlement to dividends waived.
ofshares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, except: i where the Save as described above, shares acquired Company has exercised its right to suspend through the Companys employee share their voting rights or to prohibit their transfer plans rank pari passu with shares in issue following the omission of their holder or any and have no special rights.
person interested in them to provide the Company with information requested by At the year end, the Company had authority itinaccordance with Part 22 of the Act: or exercisable by the Directors to issue up ii where their holder is precluded from to66,849,500 shares subject to certain exercising voting rights by the FSAs Listing restrictions.
The Company will seek to renew Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and this authority at the 2013 Annual General Mergers.
Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 97 Directors report continued Directors responsibility statement Disclosure of information to Auditors The Directors have prepared the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with their responsibilities under applicable law and regulations.
Further details of this are Each Director in of ce at the date of this shownbelow.
report has con rmed that: Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
so far as he or she is aware, there is no As required by International Accounting Standards Regulations, the Directors have prepared relevant audit information of which the the Group financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Groups Auditors are unaware: and asadopted by the European Union and have also elected to prepare the Parent Company he or she has taken all the reasonable financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
steps that he or she ought to have taken The financial statements have been prepared, as required by law, to give a true and fair view of as a Director in order to make himself the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the pro t of the Group for the year.
orherself aware of any relevant audit In preparing these financial statements, the Directors con rm that to the best of their information and to establish that the knowledge they have: Groups Auditors are aware of and had access to that information and relevant properly selected and applied accounting policies and applied them consistently: employees.
made judgements and assumptions that are reasonable and prudent: This con rmation is given in accordance presented information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, with Section 418 2 of the Act.
reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provided additional disclosures when compliance with the speci c requirements in IFRS are insuf cient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
In accordance with the responsibilities of the Directors, the Group maintains adequate accounting records to record all transactions so that they disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Act.
They are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and have taken reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Auditors The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial  LLP, the Groups information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the auditors, have indicated their willingness to financial statements may differ from legislation in other preparation and dissemination of continue in of ce and, on the recommendation jurisdictions.
of the Audit Committee and in accordance withSection 489 of the Act, a resolution to Each of the Directors in of ce at the date of approval of this report con rms that to the best re-appoint them will be put to the 2013 AGM.
of their knowledge: By order of the Board The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t of the Group: and The Overview, Strategic review, Performance review and Governance review, along with the Directors report of which they form part, together include a true and fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group together Tony Hunter with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Company Secretary 12 February 2013 98 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012
