P Our Board age Title UK Code Principle: The board and its committees should have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
John Hughes, CBE Michael Tobin Brian McArthur-Muscroft Role Chairman, leading the Board of Directors Chief Executive officer, leading the Group Finance Director, leading the Report on page 42 and working with management of the Group and the planning and implementation of the management on strategic and other formulation and implementation of financial strategy of the Group and matters.
He is also Chairman of the itsstrategy: and Chairman of the CSR associated external nancing along with Nominations Committee Report on page Committee Report on page 50. itsnancial reporting, policies and controls.
56 and a member of the CSR Committee.
Appointment date October 2007 July 2007 with the Group since March 2002 July 2007 with the Group since January 2007 Experience More than 30 years experience leading Over 25 years experience in senior roles Over 25 years experience dealing with complex, high technology businesses across the telecommunications and financial strategy, with the last 20 operating at a global level.
Joined Redbus specialising in the telecommunications experience of managing growth companies, Interhouse a constituent part of the andtechnology sector.
especially those supplying complex Group in 2002 as Sales and Marketing Prior to joining the Group: Finance Director solutions and services to business Director, becoming Chief Executive officer of Viatel, a pan-European communications customers: of mergers and acquisitions: in 2003.
Subsequently led the merger with business: Eckoh Technologies plc, a ofinternational channel expansion: and TeleCity, the acquisition of Globix and the UK-listed telecommunications and Groups successful IPO in October 2007. ofdevelopment of leadership teams.
technology group: Cable and Wireless Held senior executive positions at Thales Prior to joining the Group: headed up HKTMultimedia: and Director of Risk Group, latterly executive vice president Fujitsus e-Commerce operations in Management for Cable and Wireless Asia.
Germany: ran ICLs Danish outsourcing andchief operating officer, responsible Qualied as a Chartered Accountant foran organisation with over 25,000 subsidiary out of Copenhagen: held senior  in London, people: Lucent Technologies where his positions based in Paris for over 11 years, specialising in business restructuring and responsibilities included being president including with International Computer turnaround assignments.
Responsible as ofits worldwide GSM and UMTS businesses: Group and Tricord Systems Europe: and interim CFO for the financial turnaround and Hewlett Packard.
was Managing Director ofGoupil UK.
Until 2010, non-executive chairman Career recognition: Lifetime Achievement Career recognition: Winner of the ICAEW ofIntecTelecom Systems plc, a nonAward for Contribution to the Data Centre FTSE 250 Finance Director of the Year 2012. executive director of Chloride Group plc, Industry in 2011 DCE Awards: 2010 Ernst & In addition, TelecityGroup won Deal of the and non-executive deputy chairman of Young Entrepreneur of the Year for UK IT Year at the 2011 ACT and CBI Industry Parity Group plc.
Previous recognition includes: Awards for its 200m five-year Senior Data centre Leaders Awards Industry DebtFacility.
Leader of the Year: techMARK Personality of the Year.
External Non-executive chairman of Spectris plc Non-executive director of Pacnet, Asia appointments andSepura plc.
Non-executive director Pacifics leading provider of integrated ofCSG Systems International, Inc. and network and technology solutions for TheVitec Group plc.
enterprise, service provider, and carrier customers.
Charitable and Ambassador for the Alzheimers Society.
Board member of Byte Night, which A member of the corporate development other raisesmoney for Action for Children: The board for the National Society for the Awarded the CBE for services to Technology Leadership Group and The Prevention of Cruelty to Children and the international telecommunications in the Internet & Media Leadership Group of the responsible officer for Hockerill Anglo Queens 2011 New Year Honours List.
Princes Trust: fundraising advisory boards European College.
Holds a BSc in Electrical and Electronic of Great Ormond Street Hospital and Make Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Engineering.
a Wish Foundation UK: and Chairman of the Accountants and holds a Law degree.
Has lived and worked in the US and Friends of The Loomba Trust.
Has lived and worked in Asia and Australasia mainland Europe as well as the UK.
Has lived and worked in mainland Europe as well as the UK.
40 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Simon Batey Maurizio Carli Sahar Elhabashi John OReilly Senior Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Audit Director, and a member of the Audit, Director, and a member of the Audit, Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Report Committee Report on page 47 and CSR, Nominations and Remuneration CSR, Nominations and Remuneration amember of both the Nominations Committees.
on page 60 and a member of both the andRemuneration Committees.
October 2007 May 2011 May 2011 October 2007 Over 20 years experience in senior significant experience of managing high Broad experience in the media sector Particular experience in eCommerce, finance roles with particular experience growth European organisations with having played a key role in helping build marketing, public relations, public in the construction and utility direct insight into cloud computing international media organisations over affairs, property and business industries.
Qualied Chartered Accountant, having Role at VMWare extends to strategic Previously, was chief operating officer Experience within the highly-regulated spent the first 12 years of his career at planning, business operations and the of Discovery Networks International betting and gaming sector includes Armitage and Norton now part of management of key functions including from 2007 to 2010, responsible for the being a founder director and former KPMG, latterly as a partner of the rm.
sales channels, services and marketing, day-to-day operations of Discoverys vice chairman of the Remote Gaming continuing to grow the region at international business, which Association.
distributed 17 media brands to finance director of United Utilities plc.
Until 2010, managing director of 877million subscribers globally.
From 2006 until 2007, chief financial Previously at Google on a short-term remote betting and gaming at officer of Thames Water Utilities assignment: spent five years at Prior to this, was at MTV Networks Ladbrokes, joining the Ladbrokes plc Limited.
From 1987 to 2000, worked Business Objects as senior vice International from 1992 to 2007, where board following the completion of the forAMEC plc, initially as deputy group president and general manager, EMEA, her responsibilities included managing sale of the Hilton International hotels finance director and then, from 1992, being responsible for sales, pre-sales, strategy, business development, digital division in February 2006. media, consumer products and asgroup finance director.
marketing, finance, customer support Led the Ladbrokes eGaming division and global services.
A non-executive director of Arriva plc from its establishment in 2001 Spent 19 years at IBM, latterly as vice Before joining MTV, worked as until2010, with responsibility for from 2003 to 2010 and has also served international development, including as a non-executive director of THUS president of software group for IBM aconsultant for the Boston Group plc.
EMEA and previously vice president ConsultingGroup.
Ladbrokes growing retail joint venture and general manager for IBMs Tivoli in Spain, and oversaw Ladbrokes core A member of the Postal Services Systems Division, and held sales and bookmaking function.
Commission, responsible for the sales management positions in the regulation of the UK postal services government, education and healthcare sector from 2010 until 2011. sectors for IBM Italy.
Non-executive director of Blackrock Senior vice president and general Executive vice president, chief Managing director of Coral Interactive, New Energy Investment Trust plc manager EMEA for VMWare, the global operating officer of Cond Nasts the online and telephone betting and since2010.
leader in virtualisation and cloud Entertainment Division.
This new gaming arm of Gala Coral Group.
infrastructure, responsible for division of Cond Nast is mandated managing the EMEA region.
with developing video content businesses based on its portfolio ofmagazine brands including Vanity Fair and Vogue.
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Holds a BSc in Electronic Engineering Holds an MBA from Columbia Business Holds a first class honours degree Accountants and holds an MA in from the Politecnico di Milano in Italy.
School and a BSc in Economics from inBusiness.
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
A native of Alexandria, Egypt and aUSresident and citizen.
Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 41
