Our business model continued Data centres for the digital economy Our data centres are large, industrial facilities, centrally located in Premium keyinternet hub cities across Europe.
They are built to the highest technological standards and supported by tried and tested resilience systems.
In this sense they are the non-virtual part of the digital economy.
infrastructure We understand that outsourcing mission-critical IT systems involves trust.
This governs the principles on which we design and maintain our data centres.
Data centre core fundamentals To ensure continuous operation, our data centres have access to Our data centres are the ideal redundant high-capacity power supplies, scalable for future expansion.
Every site has Uninterruptible Power Supply UPS systems and standby environment for organisations diesel generators capable of supporting the site indefinitely in the event looking to house their bandwidthof a failure of grid-power.
At the simplest level a TelecityGroup data centre will ensure resilient power, the appropriate environment for IT intensive IT hardware, providing hardware to operate most effectively e. g. cooling and humidity control, high levels of security and re protection.
scalability, security, power and This infrastructure is supported by the presence of round-the-clock engineering teams to manage the facility and provide customer support.
connectivity and also offering Customer equipment is connected to networks andother customers via cross-connects, physical cable connections between equipment.
All significant economies of scale.
cross-connects in TelecityGroup data centres are installed and managed by our engineers.
Energy efficiency and operational standards We are committed to excellence and setting the benchmark in our environmental strategy and quality standards.
We adhere to stringent industry standards, and we are recognised as a leader in the market in terms of environmental management and best practice.
We proactively monitor a wide range of environmental metrics to ensure our build and operations processes are managed to maximise efficiency and minimise waste.
Organisations choosing TelecityGroup demonstrate they are selecting an operator that puts energy efficiency and environmental management at the core of its business.
Twoexamples of this are in Powergate, London, with a new water conservation programme using rainwater to help cool the facility, and inAmsterdam 5 where we use ground water as a thermal energy store.
Why operational and quality standards matter International certications demonstrate that best practice and high quality processes are central to our business.
Customers can benchmark our commitment to quality through our adherence to established and recognised global standards.
Our data centres and management systems are certied to a wide range of international standards including: ISO 27001 for information security management: ISO 9001 for quality management: ISO 14001 for environmental management: and OHSAS 18001, the assessment specication for occupational health and safety management systems.
TelecityGroup engineers are highly skilled Other certications include BS 25999 transferring to ISO 22301 for in all aspects of the data centre, from business continuity management.
facilities management to mechanical More details about our energy management strategy and quality andelectrical engineering.
standards can be found in the CSR Committee report pages 50-55.
12 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 The data centre Battery racks supporting uninterruptable power The gurative diagram shows key elements of a typical data centre.
supply system Uninterruptible power Backup diesel Data hall Transformers supply system within air generators cooling units within power conditioned plant room distribution system Diesel Electrical Fire suppression storage distribution system tanks systems switch gear High efficiency cooling systems Secure, monitored single-person entry 24 7 365 manned security Data hall containing racks ofcomputer servers and other Security and network operations centre.
Our data IT equipment centres use computerised Building Management Systems BMS that monitor and remotely operate sensors covering electrical, mechanical, Customer redetection and leak detection systems meeting space Entrance and reception Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Westhaven Amsterdam Diemen Amstel Amstelveen Schiphol Our business model continued Premium infrastructure Amsterdam 5: Delivering a new and highly-connected, resilient, secure and energy efficient environment England Netherlands TelecityGroup is the Amsterdam Gyroscoopweg Germany France leading carrier-neutral A10 E35 provider in Amsterdam.
E22 A10 Science Park Amsterdam 5 AMS 5 Amstel Business Park opened in the first half of A4 E19 A2 2012.
Once fully built outit Southeast AMS 2 A9 Southeast AMS 5 will offer 9MW of customer A9 E35 power across 6,000 square metres of data Alexandra Schless, Managing Director, TelecityGroup is the leading connectivity Netherlands provider in Amsterdam centre oor.
Amsterdam 5 offers our customers a compelling 5 data centres in Amsterdam combination of technical and engineering excellence Over 200 connectivity options with huge connectivity choice.
This enables us to 22MW of planned and available customer capacity Watch a walk through of our attract high value customers to our new facility.
com ams5 14 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 An engineer surveys the cooling infrastructure inAMS 5 Resilient power and cooling AMS 5 uses Aquifer Thermal Energy Storage ATES, aninnovative technology which utilises the naturallyCloud and hosting stored groundwater found in Amsterdams unique river Connectivity delta-based geography.
The system works in harmony Internet content with the seasons by storing water in underground wells Financial which is warmed by waste data centre heat in the summer and cooled by the lower external Systems integrators temperatures in the winter.
This cold water is then Other pumped up in a closed circuit system and used to cool the data centre in the warm summer months.
Ecosystems Customer ecosystems are based around TelecityGroups connectivity hubs.
This example shows a customers cross-connects within the Amsterdam 2 AMS 2 data centre highlighted in red.
The blue lines represent all of the connections between each customer inthedata centre.
AMS 5 is connected directly to AMS 2 and offers a huge choice of connectivity.
Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 15
