Our business model continued Committed power pipeline TelecityGroup has 34 operational data centres in key internet hub cities across Europe and one further under construction.
Our data centres Ireland are located in areas with a high Germany 13MW 11MW concentration of communications UK networks.
58MW Building our presence across Europe France 2012 marked a year of major delivery of targeted new capacity across Europe 8MW with new data centres and major expansions opening in most of our markets.
Our demand-driven expansion programme will see customer power capacity increase from the 86MW that was available at the end of 2012 to 135MW, much of this to be delivered in the next three years.
Italy 5MW 85% Over 85% of our announced capacity build programme is expected to be delivered during the next three years.
Key: Our build programme by market MW Live and announced planned power capacity Ireland: strong international demand UK: leading the market France: consolidating strength Our three data centres in Dublin continued We added further expansions in Powergate, TelecityGroup France enjoys a strong to attract major international internet and the key internet hub, Harbour reputation in the Paris market.
Condorcet, businesses including several global Exchange, in Londons Docklands.
the third facility which opened in 2010, technology companies.
All three facilities InManchester we opened Joule House, continues to be regarded as the premium host INEX, the Irish Internet Exchange.
carrier-neutral data centre in the market.
Maurice Mortell Rob Coupland Stephane Duproz Managing Director, Ireland Managing Director, UK Managing Director, France 20 20 T Telecity Group plc Annual repor elecity Group plc Annual report and accoun t and accounts 2012 ts 2012 Finland: a new growth market In 2012 we acquired Academica and Tenue, two leading data centre and IT services Finland businesses in Helsinki.
Helsinki is an emerging internet hub offering access 9MW Sweden toNordic and Russian markets.
9MW Marko Vanninen Managing Director, Finland Netherlands 22MW Sweden: reinforcing market leadership TelecityGroup continued to build on its leading presence in the Swedish market, adding new capacity during 2012.
Stockholm is a regional data centre base for key internet companies and offers a dynamic and innovative local IT environment.
Systems integrators, connectivity and content providers were key growth drivers in2012.
Niclas Sanfridsson Managing Director, Sweden Netherlands: AMS 5 open TelecityGroup is the leading carrier-neutral Italy: strong demand data centre operator in Amsterdam with five Germany: strong position TelecityGroup continued its expansion facilities, and is the main location for AMS-IX, TelecityGroup is a premium provider in asthe key carrier-neutral operator in the Amsterdam Internet Exchange.
During theFrankfurt market and hosts fide-CIX, themarket, adding some important the year we strengthened our leadership theGerman internet exchange, in both data international customers during the year.
position with the opening of AMS 5, a new centres.
2012 saw 1MW of new expansion connectivity hub for the Netherlands.
Luca Beltramino Alexandra Schless Martin Essig Managing Director, Italy Managing Director, Netherlands Managing Director, Germany T Telecity Group plc Annual repor elecity Group plc Annual report and accoun t and accounts 2012 ts 2012 21 21 Our business model continued Committed power pipeline Finland: A new market forTelecityGroup offering exciting growth opportunities TelecityGroup Finland has four data centres inHelsinki, one of which opened in early 2013.
Afth facility, Hansa, Hansa willopen later in 2013.
Expanding our European platform Suvilahti data centre in Helsinki Helsinki is an emerging internet hub and an The Suvilahti data centre in Helsinki opened in 2012. important trafc route for telecoms networks inandout of Russia.
22 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 A data oor in the Suvilahti data centre inHelsinki Key investment criteria considered before TelecityGroups entry into a new market Demand Infrastructure Attractive competitive Macro economic and dynamics supply-side environment political environment Existence of large and Availability of power Lack of dominant Size and health growing internet hubs e. g. Telecoms networks marketleader oftheeconomy Key internet trafc growth penetration fideAbility of TelecityGroup Political stability investment mobile and broadband regulation enabling to leverage brand in Attractive inbound criteria penetration etc.
development of localmarket investment environment Prevailing strength of internethubs domestic demand for data Planning environment centres to support Ease of future potential inbound international data expansion centre demand Stage of development of domestic digital economy Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 23
