Report of the Board Membership of the Board The UK Code provides that independent non-executive Directors should comprise at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman.
Chairman independent on appointment Executive Directors Independent non-executive Directors Michael Tobin John Hughes Chief Executive Chairman officer Simon Batey Senior John Hughes, CBE Independent Chairman Director Brian McArthurMaurizio Carli Muscroft Group It is an essential part of the ongoing success of Finance Director any business that it should be led by directors with the relevant skills, knowledge and Sahar Elhabashi John OReilly experience to do so.
Their contributions shouldthen be maximised.
In addition, the Director of Marketing and Communications, the Group Financial Controller and the Country Manager of the UK This is what I aim for in TelecityGroup.
It is, and will remain key to the regularly attend and participate in Board meetings: ongoing success of our business.
One other country manager also generally attends most main As part of this, my colleagues on the Board: meetings to give specic presentations on their businesses so Contribute a wealth and range of knowledge, experience and skill sets thatthe Board meets most country managers during the year: tothe Board, our Committees and more widely in the Group: and At least one external speaker is invited to present at most main Have been appointed to our Board and Committees, over a period meetings, usually on a matter of strategic interest: and ofyears, ensuring their memberships are progressively refreshed.
External speakers are also invited to attend specic strategy Details of our individual Directors and when we were appointed to the meetings.
These may include customers, suppliers and specialist Board are shown in our biographies on pages 40 and 41.
A diagram professionals in aspects of the Groups industry.
showing the progressive timing of our appointments is included in my report as Chairman of the Nominations Committee on page 57.
The Specic objectives achieved in 2012 introductory sections of the reports of our Committees later in this Focussed on the Groups plans to grow and innovate: governance review show when their members were appointed.
Reviewed how technological change and innovation are transforming In this report, I summarise our activities in the past year as a Board.
the business landscape and impacting the Group: Enhanced the structure of Board reports and discussions: Developments during the year Following the output from our evaluation of the Board in 2011, we Obtained greater external input on strategic matters: and refreshed the structure of reports presented at our meetings, and our Considered short-term and long-term strategic issues separately, discussions on these.
Management reports on the business were, and including how to creatively enter new markets through developing remain, comprehensive, analytical and largely self-explanatory.
Recognising this, I agreed with my Board colleagues that we could focus our attention at each main meeting on higher level and strategic matters, whether arising from these reports or otherwise.
Specic objectives set for 2013 Continue to focus on the Groups plans to grow and innovate: This has included: Follow up on results of 2012 Board evaluation on discussion topics My discussions with the executive Directors at the beginning of the and investor expectations: year to agree an outline of the particular subjects we feel should beconsidered by the Board during the year: Continue to understand how technological change and innovation are transforming the business landscape and impacting the Group: A greater proportion of each meeting spent in open discussion on keymatters having reviewed and considered the more detailed reports Focus on asymmetric information risk and seek out dissenting in advance: views: and Presentations from external experts on at least one matter of strategic Obtain focussed external input on strategic matters.
interest at most main meetings, supplementing the discussions at our separate strategy meeting, and increasing our consideration of strategy throughout the year: UK Code Principles: Every company should be headed by an effective board which is Increased consideration of technological change and innovation within collectively responsible for the long-term success of the company.
the Group and more generally, in part through presentations by external speakers: and There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of thecompany between the running of the board and the executive Greater and separate consideration of both shorter and longer-term responsibility for the running of the companys business.
No one strategic matters, including the Groups plans to grow, innovate and individual should have unfettered powers of decision.
enter new markets such as it did during 2012 in Finland.
The chairman is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
42 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 As confirmed by the results of our Board evaluation in 2012 more fully At least twice each year, we meet at one of the Groups other locations, detailed in the report of our Nominations Committee on page 58, these where a major new data centre build is underway.
In 2012, we visited improvements have, I believe, further enhanced the effectiveness of our Dublin and Manchester, where we toured the existing facilities and those Board.
in the process of construction, as well as meeting local management.
We held an additional full day strategy meeting in 2012.
This took place Division of responsibilities ata non-Group location and included presentations by a number of Clarity of the responsibilities of, and constructive working relationships external speakers.
When appropriate for specic matters, we also amongst, our Directors are at the heart of our Board achieving its meet usually by telephone conference between main meetings.
Most important in these are the responsibilities We have a schedule of matters specifically reserved to the decision ofthe ofand clarity between the roles of Mike Tobin as Chief Executive officer Board.
We have designed this to ensure that the decisions of the greatest and me as Chairman.
As recommended by the UK Code, we have a clear signicance are considered by our Board as a whole.
written division of responsibilities between our roles.
In practice, though, the relationship between us is successful because of the constructive A high level summary of key matters considered and decided at each way in which Mike and I work together.
We often discuss matters before Board meeting and strategy meeting during 2012 is shown in the and after they are considered at Board meetings.
Where we are not Board Calendar on pages 44 and 45 initially in agreement, we debate matters to reach a mutual understanding The day-to-day management of our business is delegated to of each others views, at which point the way forward is generally clear.
management within dened authority limits.
This includes approval Asummary of our individual responsibilities, and those of our Senior ofcustomer and supplier contracts and routine capital expenditure Independent Director and Company Secretary, undertaken in 2012 within those limits.
Between Board meetings, Mike Tobin and I keep isgiven in the diagram below.
intouch on key matters, and we involve other Directors or the Board asawhole where either of us feel this is appropriate.
Board meetings The operation of the business is reported on to the As shown in the governance calendar for 2012 on page 39, we hold Board as set out on pages 44 and 45 sixmain Board meetings each year at two-monthly intervals.
Thesemeetings, together with any meetings of our Committees, aregenerally held at our ofces in London over a period equivalent toapproximately one day.
Division of Board responsibilities Chairman Chief Executive officer Agreed with the Executive Directors subjects for particular Worked with the Chairman in agreeing subjects for consideration by the Board during the year particular consideration by the Board during the year Led the Board in ensuring that Directors were able Led the business and the rest of the management team tomaximise their contributions Led the development of the Groups strategy with input Led the annual evaluation of the Board with the Senior from the rest of the Board Independent Director Led the management team in the Groups acquisitions Provided strategic insight from his wide-ranging business inFinland and in new build decisions experience and contacts built up over many years Was the principal public face of the Group with Provided a sounding board for the Chief Executive shareholders, customers, suppliers and the Ofceron key business decisions, challenging proposals industrygenerally where appropriate Brought matters of particular signicance or risk to the Met with major shareholders on governance matters and Chairman, for discussion and consideration by the Board was an alternate point of contact to the Chief Executive ifappropriate officer for shareholders on other matters as well Effective division of responsibilities and Board operation Company Secretary Senior Independent Director Secretary to the Board and each of its Committees, Worked with the Chairman on the annual evaluation reporting directly to their Chairmen oftheBoard Assisted the Chairman and Executive Directors in bringing Led the evaluation of the Chairman the matters they had determined appropriate for Provided input to management on business governance consideration during the year onto specic meeting agendas matters commented on further in the report of the Audit Assisted the Chairman and Senior Independent Director Committee as well as more generally inthe evaluation of the Board Reviewed governance processes in the construction Kept the Board and its Committees informed on governance ofakey new data centre matters, advising on these through their Chairmen Met with major shareholders on governance matters and Assisted in the ongoing development of Group policies was available as a further point of contact for shareholders on other matters as well Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 43 Report of the Board continued Board calendar for 2012 January March February April May June Reviews of: Ongoing discussions regarding Review and approval of Interim Review of expansion and Plans for the new structure of geographic expansion Management Statement, including acquisition opportunities Board agendas and discussions ongoing expansion plans Review of and changes to including in Finland Netherlands business presented committee memberships Comparison between by Netherlands country manager Reviews of: assumptions at IPO and current Post acquisition performance of UK new build alternatives Group position Data Electronics in Dublin Post acquisition performance Discussions relating to planned End-to-end acquisition processes ofUK Grid dividend Discussions regarding geographic French business presented Reviews of: expansion byFrench country manager Business cases for expansion in: Approval of proposals to be Finalisation of Board and Docklands submitted to the AGM Committee objectives for the year Paris Review and approval of annual External presentation on mobile IT in the Group results, including: telephony market Review of Irish business Report of the Audit Committee presented by Irish country Preliminary announcement manager including visit to Dublin: Investor presentation Existing sites Annual Report Potential expansion sites Plans for maiden dividend Approval of new Code of Ethics forthe Group External presentation on cloud computing Review and discussion of: Review of reports on: Risk management Acquisition opportunities Customer pipeline and forecast Health and safety updates Strategic considerations Environmental matters Site ll rates Trading results and KPIs Financing and accounting matters Current and planned new build projects and significant capital expenditure plans and progress UK Code Prin incip cipl le: The board shou h ld be be sup uppli ied ed in a timely manner er wi with inf forma ation n in a form and o d f a qu quality ty ap appro ropriate te to ena nable it to d disch c arge its d duties.
How the Board operates The Chairman, along with the executive Directors ongoing testing from the non-executive Directors.
clarification or amplication of reports is and Company Secretary, has established Board sought in advance of, or at, meetings as Group strategy is reviewed by the Board most processes designed to maximise its performance.
particularly at strategy meetings, with particular Key aspects of these are shown below: strategic matters being reviewed and updated Once goals have been set and actions agreed, The Chairman, executive Directors and as appropriate at each main meeting.
the Board receives regular reports on their Company Secretary meet towards the implementation.
Good working relationships also exist between beginning of each year to agree an overall non-executive Directors and non-Board Comprehensive management accounts with calendar of subjects to be discussed by the members of the senior management, which commentary and analysis are distributed to Board during the year.
are encouraged by the executive Directors.
the Board on a monthly basis.
Individual Board meetings are timetabled to Members of the senior management team The Board reviews risk management at each ensure adequate time for discussion of each draw on the collective experience of the Board, of its main meetings and challenges this agenda item for that particular meeting.
Board discussions are held in a collaborative Comprehensive reporting packs are provided The Board systematically visits the Groups atmosphere of mutual respect and open to the Board, which are designed to be clear, business locations both to review its discussion allowing for questions, scrutiny and accurate and analytical, whilst avoiding excess operations and new builds and to meet with constructive challenge where appropriate.
Full debates on key matters allow decisions Reporting packs are normally distributed four All Directors have open access to the Groups tobe taken by consensus although any working days in advance of Board meetings, key advisors as well as to management and the dissenting views would be minuted enabling them to be as up-to-date as possible Company Secretary.
whilst allowing sufficient time for their review Directors are also entitled to seek independent The development of strategy is led by the Chief and consideration in advance of the meeting.
professional advice at the Groups expense Executive Officer with the Group Finance should they consider this appropriate.
Director, with input, challenge, examination and 44 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 At specic meetings At each main meeting July September August October November December Visit to sites in Manchester Strategy meeting, including Appointment of Barclays and Initial reviews of: reviews of: Goldman Sachs as Corporate Actions from October strategy Reviews of: Macroeconomic landscape Brokers meeting Expansion plans for Dublin Market consolidation prospects Approval of acquisition of Finnish business post acquisition Public affairs matters across Academica Europe Where and how growth was Review and approval of 2013 expected to evolve Review and approval of interim budget Italian business presented by management statement, Italian country manager Equity market perspectives of Reviews of: including: theindustry Results of Board evaluation and Follow up review of French New capacity brought online agreement of actions from this business The Groups cost of capital Completion of increase in banking German business presented Discussions regarding potential Maintenance of ongoing growth facilities to 350m for ongoing byGerman country manager Finnish acquisitions and approval investment proposition expansion of acquisition of Tenue Shareholder and market Agreement of appropriate Acquisition of Academica considerations presented by Agreement of discussion topics for strategicactions theGroups Head of Investor strategy meeting Reviews of: Relations Review and approval of half year Swedish business presented Independent non-executive results, including: bySwedish country manager Director remuneration by the Report of the Audit Committee Proposed acquisition of Chairman and executive Announcement Academica Directors Investor presentation Proposed increase in banking facilities to 350m for ongoing Declaration of maiden dividend expansion External presentation on media External presentations regarding markets corporate structuring and market activity Review and discussion of: UK UK Cod Code Principle: l Investor relations and feedback Minutes of previous meetings A As s pa art of their rol o e as Corporate communications Reports on implementation of mem memb bers of a unitary actions agreed at previous meetings boa board, d non-executive d directors should con c structively challenge and a help develop pro p posals on strategy.
Case study: Implementing TelecityGroups growth strategy Harbour Exchange: Expansion in response to increasing customer demand The Board ensures successful execution of the Groups business strategy through appropriate monitoring and timing of key decisions.
The process for, background to, and execution of the expansion oftheGroups Harbour Exchange facilities highlighted on page 18 followed a cyclical model typical in such new builds by the Group: Board of Directors Monitoring ll rate Identication of Commitment to Monitoring of Opening of of existing capacity expansion options the new build new build new facility Contractors are engaged to From opening, the ll rate As an existing site lls, Once an expansion option As construction handle the construction of each of the Groups alternatives for expansion is selected, the property, approaches completion, process, progress in which facilities is closely to meet future demand necessary power and the results of the site is then reported to the monitored and reported whether at current or new planning permissions are testing are reported to the Board at each main tothe Board.
sites are reviewed and secured following approval Board and the site opens reported to the Board.
in phases to meet ongoing comprehensive business demand.
case presented by Group and country management.
Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 45 Report of the Board continued Maximising Director contributions Management of conicts of interest I seek to maximise the contribution of our Directors at and, My Board colleagues and I avoid conicts of interest with the Group as far whereappropriate, outside Board and Committee meetings aspossible.
Indeed, one of the criteria for our appointment as Directors was onanongoing basis.
that we were free from any such conicts.
Nonetheless, actual or potential conicts of interest can arise occasionally during a Directors tenure and the I chair our Board and Nominations Committee meetings in a way Board has a set procedure in place under the Companys Articles of thatensures full and open discussions, as my fellow Chairmen of Association to deal with these as follows: ourother Committees do with their meetings.
Actual and potential conicts of interest are notied to the Board before In addition, I ensure that appropriate training is available to all our they arise.
Such training covers the Group, its industry and governance matters more generally.
I review this annually as part of the evaluation On such notication, the other Directors consider whether to authorise ofthe Board.
During 2012, this training included attendance at seminars the actual or potential conict of interest and, if so, under what conditions.
by individual Directors: Such conditions could limit the distribution or use of information to Run by the Financial Reporting Council, the Institute of Chartered orby a Director or include the Director absenting themselves during Accountants, and major accounting rms: discussions on the relevant matter.
On financial reporting, executive remuneration and more general No Director notied any actual conict of interest during the year.
Decisions regarding transactions with Directors and their related parties It also included briengs from our Group Finance Director, Company arealways dealt with by other Directors.
For example, matters regarding the Secretary, Auditors, lawyers and investment bankers on subjects remuneration of the executive Directors and me as Chairman are handled including: bythe Remuneration Committee.
The UK Government consultation on executive remuneration inwhichour Remuneration Committee participated : The year ahead It was clear from the responses in our Board evaluation in 2012 that the The resulting Government reforms of executive remuneration: enhancements to our Board processes in the past year have been welcomed Updated guidance on remuneration from institutional by all Directors.
I want to build on these in 2013.
I have agreed with my Board shareholdergroups: colleagues the further actions arising from our 2012 evaluation summarised inmy report as Chairman of the Nominations Committee on page 58.
I have The Financial Reporting Councils revisions to the UK Code already met with the executive Directors to formulate these into a more andguidance for audit committees: and detailed agenda for the coming year.
I look forward to reporting on further Key financial reporting developments.
As outlined in our report in last years Annual Report which can be viewed on the Companys website, we also have a comprehensive induction process for the appointment of new Directors.
In line with the results of our 2011 Board evaluation, this process will be further enhanced when we next appoint a new Director after which I will report on it again.
John Hughes, CBE Chairman 12 February 2013 Dialogue with shareholders The Board recognises that it is managing the Group ultimately on behalf The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee consults with of its shareholders.
major shareholders before any significant changes in executive remuneration and reports the results to the full Committee, commented It undertakes this responsibility in such a way so as to maximise on further in the report of that committee commencing on page 60. shareholder value over the long-term and to advance the interests of all of the Groups stakeholders.
The Companys Annual Report and Notice of AGM are published as soonas the time required for their printing allows normally around the A mutual understanding of these objectives between shareholders and the beginning of March to provide the maximum time in advance of the AGM Board as a whole has been developed as set out below.
for feedback on these, which is shared with the relevant Directors.
The Chief Executive officer and Group Finance Director meet with A presentation is given to shareholders attending the Companys AGM institutional shareholder representatives regularly during the year to atwhich shareholder participation is encouraged, all Directors are discuss strategic and other matters as well as to give presentations on the presentand questions and feedback are invited.
Groups results copies of which are available on the Companys website.
Proxy votes of shareholders for the AGM are tabulated independently The Board receives reports from the executive Directors of feedback bythe Companys registrars, announced at the meeting and published from institutional shareholders at main Board meetings, as well as reports onthe Groups website shortly after the conclusion of the AGM.
from the Head of Investor Relations who is available to speak with shareholders at any time.
In addition, all Directors are able and available to meet with shareholders ifso requested.
In particular, the executive Directors, the Chairman and The Chairman and Senior Independent Director initiate and hold theSenior Independent Director are all available to discuss matters with meetings with a number of the Companys largest institutional investors shareholders at any time.
They can all be contacted through the Company on governance and other matters, key points from which are reported Secretary or the Head of Investor Relations.
Details of the substantial shareholders of the Company are set out in the Directors Report on page 96.
For more information contact us at ir@telecity.
htm UK Code Principles: There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
The board should use the AGM to communicate with investors and to encourage their participation.
All directors should receive induction on joining the board and should regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
46 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012
