Group performance and outlook Operational delivery TelecityGroup enjoyed another In terms of operational delivery, 2012 represented a landmark year for TelecityGroup.
The Group opened major capacity expansion projects excellent year of growth in 2012. across its European footprint, overcoming the challenges associated withopening data centre capacity in highly-connected urban areas.
TheGroup delivered strong financial Data centre openings in London Docklands, London Powergate, results, with significant growth in Manchester, Amsterdam, Frankfurt, Stockholm and Dublin provided 15MW of incremental capacity.
In addition to this, the Group acquired revenue, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted twobusinesses in Helsinki and a data centre in Milan, which together brought an additional 3MW of operational capacity.
EPS and operating cash ows.
This increased year end capacity to 86MW and 84,500 sq.
m. During 2012, TelecityGroup experienced incremental demand from a broad base of customer sectors, with the strongest demand coming During the year, TelecityGroup also secured further growth capacity fromthe internet content, connectivity, systems integrator and cloud which will be brought online in response to customer demand.
As in previous years, the majority of TelecityGroups organic end, total announced customer power, which includes bothoperational order book growth was driven by new or extended orders from its existing capacity and secured capacity expansion was 135MW 2011: 124MW.
1 Current trading and outlook Year end physical occupancy was 79.6% 2011: 83.5%, which reects Demand for carrier-neutral data centres remains robust across the substantial investments in new capacity made during the year.
TelecityGroups markets, with growth in customers requirements TelecityGroups capacity utilisation is a blend of fully utilised mature forcapacity being driven by a continuing increase in the use of the sitesand recently delivered growth capacity.
While it is in a strong internet by both consumers and businesses.
growthphase, the Group aims to continually bring new capacity online inresponse to customer demand, as its existing capacity in each market TelecityGroup entered 2013 with a strong recurring revenue base and reaches full occupancy.
available capacity in all of its markets.
The Group also has a largely stable 1 and predictable cost base.
As such, management are confident that the Revenue per occupied sq.
Group will deliver a strong earnings growth performance in 2013 in line This was due to a combination of factors including inationary price with market expectations.
increases, additional power sold to existing customers in existing space and increasing data centre power densities, partly offset by adverse TelecityGroup is expected to continue to generate substantial operating currency movements.
cash ows, which will be used to create further value for its shareholders.
Management plans to invest the majority of these discretionary cash The Group made strong progress with the delivery of its secured ows in its demand-driven, announced capacity expansion programme, capacityexpansion programme during the year, which is discussed in order to drive further organic growth and to support value enhancing inmore detail below in the Operational delivery section.
significant inorganic expansion, where opportunities arise.
The Group aims to returns on capital invested to date have been achieved and are expected continue to announce incremental capacity expansion projects in to grow as occupancy continues to increase on an expanding footprint.
response to customer demand to support its mediumto long-term These metrics are discussed in more detail in the Financial Review.
TelecityGroup also secured a leading position in the promising Finnish The Group intends to maintain its progressive dividend policy, with market during the year with the acquisitions of Academica and Tenue.
thegrowth in dividends expected to be at least in line with adjusted These acquisitions brought 2MW of operational capacity and 7MW earnings per share.
ofsecured growth capacity to the Group, in line with its strategy of looking for accretive acquisition opportunities to augment its organic growth platform.
1 A glossary of terms is included in note 38.
Premium infrastructure Carrier-neutral digital ecosystems Our infrastructure provides secure environments The high level of connectivity in our data centres for the IT and telecoms equipment which powers creates the ideal environments in which our the digital economy.
customers can build mutually beneficial .
32 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Segmental performance in 2012 TelecityGroup has a consistent business model and unied strategy throughout the Group.
However, for internal and external reporting purposes, we segment our results between the UK and the other countries of operation Rest of Europe, mainly due to the size of the UK and its different currency to the remainder of the Group.
A summary of each of the Groups reporting segments is given below.
United Kingdom UK TelecityGroups UK business encompasses In regard to capacity expansion, the Group Although the Group had some capacity leading positions in London and Manchester.
opened major new data centre projects in constraints during the earlier part of the year, London is one of the worlds primary internet each of its three UK locations of London it experienced good demand for data centre hubs and Manchester is the UKs second Powergate, London Docklands and capacity, with particular strength being seen largest internet hub.
Fitted-out space increased 13.4% from connectivity and internet content to 34,600 sq.
Year end occupancy TelecityGroup has enjoyed a strong year in year end available customer power was 34MW expressed in space terms was 85.0% 2011: theUK, in terms of operating performance, 2011: 27MW.
The total announced customer 92.6%, reecting the large amount of new financial results and the progress made to power for the UK division increased to 58MW capacity brought online in the second half underpin future demand-driven growth.
2011: 57MW, maintaining a strong pipeline ofthe year.
m Revenue increased 16.9% to 137.5m 2011: of24MW of future expansion.
117.6m and adjusted EBITDA increased Revenue per occupied sq.
assisted by increased sales of power within existing space.
Rest of Europe RoE TelecityGroups RoE business encompasses On an organic basis, the Group opened new The Group experienced good demand in all strong positions in Amsterdam, Dublin, capacity in Amsterdam, Dublin, Frankfurt markets, with particular strength being seen Frankfurt, Helsinki, Milan, Paris and Stockholm.
During the year the Group from the content and system integrator also established a leading position in the customer segments.
Year end occupancy As with the UK, TelecityGroup has enjoyed promising Helsinki market via the acquisitions expressed in space terms reduced to 75.8% agood year in RoE in terms of operating of Academica and Tenue and acquired a data 2011: 76.8% following the large amount of performance, financial results and the centre asset in Milan.
capacity that was delivered in the second progress made to underpin future demand halfof the year.
Due to foreign exchange driven growth.
Revenue increased 19.0% to Total tted-out space increased 22.3% to movements, revenue per occupied sq.
year end customer available power was 52MW Onacurrency neutral basis, revenue per 2011: 41MW.
The total announced customer occupied sq.
power for the RoE division increased to 77MW 2011: 67MW.
Michael Tobin Chief Executive officer 12 February 2013 Committed power pipeline We have a customer demand driven pipeline of future capacity which provides growth potential for existing and new customers alike.
Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 33
