Our business model A model designed We provide premium data centre to create value in infrastructure services the digital economy Customers choose TelecityGroup because of our high quality datacentre Secure environments for the IT infrastructure, service standards, connectivity options andcapacity to support their future growth.
and telecoms equipment that Each TelecityGroup data centre offers significant connectivity optionsand powers the digital economy we seek constantly to enhance the choice and availability ofnetworks to customers.
Customers are charged primarily for locatingtheir IT Todays data centres are highly complex facilities requiring equipment within the highly-connected and resilient environments that considerable engineering expertise to build, maintain and operate.
These charges are supplemented by additional fees for power usage, engineering support, connectivity and other IT Our core business is designing, building and operating such services.
connected and secure data centres to the highest industry standards to provide our customers with resilient, cost-effective and always-on As organisations online activities grow they need to deploy more IT environments.
andcommunications equipment in data centres which, in turn, drives ourgrowth.
Our reputation has been built on a track record of customer service and engineering excellence.
TelecityGroup removes the burden of A substantial amount of our growth comes from existing customers.
data centre management from organisations, enabling them to focus Wealso attract new customers, often due to advances in technology, on their core business activities.
which enable an increasingly wider range of applications to be migrated towards management and delivery over the internet.
Our growth strategy We aim to deliver controlled, sustainable and profitable growth by opening and selling data centre capacity in the key internet economy cities in Europe.
This enables us to meet the demand for highly-connected and resilient capacity that is being driven by the growth inthedigital economy.
Over fifteen years TelecityGroup has invested, and continues to invest, in data centres which offer direct connections to a large number of national and international network providers and internet exchange points.
These data centres require large power feeds and are located in centralareas in the major internet hub cities of Europe where multiple communications networks are congregated.
At the heart of our business is the concept of the digital ecosystem: a highly-connected environment inside each of our data centres which is an attractive marketplace for customers this is discussed in more detail on page 17.
We endeavour toconduct our business with integrity, and our business practices are shaped, at every level, by the guiding principles and targets laid out in ourCorporate Social Responsibility strategy see page 50.
See pages 24-25 for more information about our growth strategy.
Premium infrastructure Discover how these components Building and operating premium carrier-neutral data centres combine to deliver controlled, inEurope.
sustainable and profitable growth in todays digital economy.
See pages 12-15 for further details 10 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 enabling the creation with a committed ofcustomer ecosystems capacity expansion in the data centre pipeline Highly-connected environments, Our growth is enabled by the create attractive data centre continued introduction of new locations and, in turn, create new data centre capacity marketplaces for our customers We are adding capacity in all our markets by building new data centresand expanding existing facilities.
TelecityGroups data centres offer rich levels of connectivity to We sell new capacity to customers as they seek to expand the bandwidth-intensive customer infrastructure.
footprints of their computer hardware within our data centres.
Connected data centres attract organisations because of the choice Our facilities are strategically located in each city.
This gives proximity of connectivity, which in turn reduces costs and improves network to power, helps maximise connectivity options for customers and performance and efficiency.
makes visiting our data centres far easier.
As our data centres grow the larger the ecosystems become, and To enable uid customer expansion, new capacity is designed themore our customers benefit, developing new commercial andplanned to be brought online as it is required.
This expansion communities of interest and marketplaces within each facility.
programme is complemented by acquisitions in new and expanding market locations enabling us to capture revenue more quickly than itwould take to create the highly-connected data centre hubs fromscratch.
carrier providing network to customer UK ofce Network Connects to cloud platform which hosts customer-facing website mation services Information services Cloud platform Network customer customer ata centre Manchester Network Cross-connect to trading partner mation services Network customer Carrier-neutral digital ecosystems Controlled expansion through data centre build Hubs for content, connectivity and commerce.
and acquisitions Developing marketplaces for our customers.
See pages 20-23 for further detail on our committed powerpipeline See pages 16-19 for further detail on our carrier-neutral digitalecosystem Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 11
