Governance review introduction the highest standards of corporate governance guidelines.
As a result: Best practice in corporate We have increased the membership of our Corporate Social governance is best practice for Responsibility CSR Committee to include two of our independent non-executive Directors and an additional member of our senior business.
This ethos is an integral management: We expanded the membership of our Nominations Committee part of the way TelecityGroup bythe addition of our two most recently appointed independent non-executive Directors: and aimsto operate.
It is an essential Our Remuneration Committee now comprises solely independent factor inour ability to achieve the non-executive Directors, rather than also the Chairman of the Board.
Groups profitable growth on a The memberships of our Committees are shown in the introductory sections of their individual reports later in this governance review.
Our Board and Committees each set themselves specic objectives atthe beginning of the year.
These objectives were particular to last Itisafundamental element of year, ongoing from year to year, or to be developed over a number of years.
Achievement of these objectives in 2012, and those for the  value coming year, are summarised in the introductory sections of their overthe long term.
Our Remuneration Committee introduced a new long-term incentive What our ethos means in practice is that: plan for our senior executives.
This followed an extensive consultation with our shareholders, the vast majority of whom supported the final The great entrepreneurial drive and ambition in the Group operates proposals at our subsequent Annual General Meeting AGM.
Further within appropriate controls and processes: details of our new long-term incentive plan, and the process for its Directors lead from the top in setting the tone as well as the direction approval, are given in the Report of our Remuneration Committee ofthe Groups strategy and management: and commencing on page 60.
Implementation of our corporate governance is ever evolving and improving in a similar way to the implementation of the Groups UK Code compliance strategy itself.
The Company has complied throughout 2012 in all respects with all therelevant recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code This governance review, including the individual reports of our Board the UK Code.
We have included throughout this governance review andfour standing Committees, summarises our work in this area in allofthe main principles of the UK Code that apply to the Company.
Forreaders wishing to review the UK Code in more detail, it can be found on the Financial Reporting Council website at www.
Overview On behalf of the Board There have been four particularly notable developments in this area forTelecityGroup in 2012: We further enhanced the structure of the reporting and discussions atmain Board meetings, following on from the evaluation of the Board in 2011.
This has enabled us to increase our focus on those matters weconsider to be of greatest importance to the Group.
These enhancements were welcomed by the Board in our 2012 evaluation and are summarised in its report on page 42.
Both John Hughes, CBE Simon Batey evaluations are reported on in the report of our Nominations Chairman Senior Independent Director Committee on pages 58 and 59.
12 February 2013 We reviewed the memberships of our standing Committees to ensure they made the best use of the talent of our Directors as well as meeting Simon Batey John Hughes, CBE Senior Independent non-executive Director Chairman 38 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance calendar for 2012 The overall calendar of meetings of the Board and its Committees for 2012 is shown below: Full Report Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Board main meetings p42 Board conference calls p42 Strategy meeting p42 Audit Committee p47 CSR Committee p50 Nominations Committee p56 Remuneration Committee p60 AGM p60 Specic calendars for the Board and its Committees are shown in their individual reports within this review.
Meeting attendance by Directors in 2012 The attendance of Directors at the meetings of the Board and its Committees is shown below: Attended Conference call not attended due to unavoidable external commitment input provided in advance of the call Board meetings Audit Committee CSR Remuneration Nominations and calls meetings Committee Committee Committee John Hughes Michael Tobin Brian McArthur-Muscroft Simon Batey Maurizio Carli Sahar Elhabashi John OReilly As part of the review of Committee memberships in April 2012 commented on in the overview on the previous page: Maurizio Carli and Sahar Elhabashi were appointed to the CSR and Nominations Committees.
John Hughes stepped down as a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Michael Tobin does not attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee whilst it is considering matters in relation to his own remuneration.
All Directors attended the strategy meeting and AGM.
It is an essential part of the ongoing The Board established a CSR Committee The structure and levels of the success of any business that it should be in recognition of the importance it remuneration of the Groups executive led by directors with the relevant skills, places on these activities of the Group.
Directors and other members of its knowledge and experience to do so.
Michael Tobin, CSR Committee Chairman senior management are key elements John Hughes, CBE, Board Chairman inthe Group successfully achieving Read the full Report of the CSR andsustaining its strategic aims.
Read the full Report of the Board Committee on page 50 John OReilly, on page 42 Having the appropriate range of high Remuneration Committee Chairman The integrity of the Groups financial calibre Directors on our Board is key Read the full Report of the Remuneration results and the effectiveness of its risk todetermining and achieving success Committee on page 60 management and internal control inthe Groups strategic objectives.
systems are important both to John Hughes, CBE, For any reader wishing to obtain more detail on Directorsand to shareholders.
Nominations Committee Chairman the responsibilities of the Board Committees, Simon Batey, Audit Committee Chairman their terms of reference are included on the Read the full Report of the Nominations Groups website at: Read the full Report of the Audit Committee on page 56 Committee on page 47 www.
com investor Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 39
