Growth strategy In 2012 we maintained the strategic objectives which underpin our aim of controlled, sustainable andprotable growth.
Our approach As an infrastructure business we aim to continue to 1 generate strong returns on the capital we invest.
We do A focus on strong this by competing in the premium data centre market returns on capital where we can add value for our customers with high levels of connectivity, excellent infrastructure and high quality service.
We are able to leverage the value of our existing connectivity and customer ecosystems by opening new capacity close to our established sites.
We have an unrivalled multi-year, demand driven, 2 announced capacity expansion programme Building new across Europe.
capacity to This fully funded programme provides our growing meetdemand customer base with visibility as to how their needs asthedigital for capacity can be met now and in the future.
economy grows We aim to make acquisitions, either for the 3 purpose of entering new markets or to provide Expanding our growth capacity in existing markets, where our European growth data centres are fully occupied.
platform with This enables us to shorten the time to market for acquisitions growth capacity as the highly-connected internet data centre market is characterised by long lead times for new capacity.
24 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 What we did in 2012 Associated challenges page 30 In 2012 we grew our adjusted EBITDA margin Electricity pricing volatility risk I to45.8% and achieved a ROCE of 16.4%.
Environment & regulatory changes risk G Technology changes risk H Infrastructure failure risk F 45.8% Liquidity risk risk L EBITDA margin Interest rate volatility risk N 16.4% ROCE See page 36 for a discussion on ROCE in2012 In 2012 we built 16MW of new highly-connected Over-supply pricing risk D capacity and increased our announced capacity Lease expiration risk C pipeline to 135MW.
Electricity providers unable to match capacity requirements risk B New-build contractors cause delays risk E 16MW new capacity 135MW total announced capacity See page 32 for details of our build programme in 2012 In 2012 we acquired Academica and Tenue, Acquisitions do not deliver integration establishing the market leading carrier-neutral benets risk J data centre position in Finland.
Lack of suitable acquisitions risk A 2MW new capacity acquired 7MW additional growth capacity acquired See page 85 for details of our acquisitions in 2012 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 25
