OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board of Directors Principal risks and uncertainties General information Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Political and charitable donations Cash donations to charities All alleged breaches of the Code raised by suppliers this year have been amounted to 25,646,209 2011: 15,613,319.
Total contributions dealt with internally.
We have had no instance this year of a supplier to community projects including cash, cause-related marketing, initiating the Dispute Resolution Procedure set out in the Code.
gifts-in-kind, staff time and management costs amounted to The CCO submits reports to the Audit Committee, which considers 74,588,818 2011: 64,254,910.
There were no political donations that it retains effective oversight of our compliance with the Code.
During the year, the Group made contributions of 28,137 2011: 55,085 in the form of sponsorship for political Going concern The Directors consider that the Group and the events: Conservative Party 4,790: Labour Party 12,011: Liberal Company have adequate resources to remain in operation for the Democrat Party 6,636: Scottish National Party 4,700. foreseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Supplier payment policy Tesco PLC is a signatory to the Prompt Events after the Balance Sheet date On 5 March 2012, Payment Code in the UK.
More information about the Code can be found at www.
Payment terms and Ek-Chai Distribution System Co. Ltd. Tesco Lotus, announced the final offering price of the Initial Public Offering of Tesco Lotus conditions are agreed with suppliers in advance and the Group pays itscreditors in accordance with those terms.
Payment terms vary Retail Growth Freehold and Leasehold Property TLGF.
Tesco according to the type of product and territory in which the suppliers Lotus subscribed for 25% of the available units in TLGF.
Tesco PLC is a holding company and therefore has no trade commenced trading on the Stock Exchange of Thailand on creditors on its Balance Sheet.
Compliance with the Groceries Supply Chain Practices Market On 30 March 2012, the Company paid a contribution of 180 million Investigation Order 2009 and the Groceries Supply Code of into the UK defined benefit pension scheme.
Practice Code The Code came into force on 4 February 2010 in Auditors A resolution to reappoint  LLP the UK and places obligations on grocery retailers with a turnover asauditors of the Company and the Group will be proposed at the greater than 1 billion to build a compliance programme, which 2012AGM.
includes training staff and providing information to the OFT as requested.
In addition the Code sets out a number of provisions Directors statement of disclosure of information to auditors which relate to different aspects of the relationship between a Having made the requisite enquiries, the Directors in office at the date retailer and supplier.
of this Annual Report and Financial Statements have each confirmed that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information We are committed to treating our suppliers fairly and work in asdefined by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the collaboration with them wherever possible.
It is in our nature to Groups auditors are unaware, and each of the Directors has taken all treat compliance with the Code very seriously.
the steps he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself We have in place a Code Compliance Officer CCO supported by a herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that small team including an auditor.
We have developed an audit plan and theGroups auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation our approach enables us to identify any gaps in our processes so they is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions can be quickly fixed.
This approach is working well, as evidenced by our of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. having identified a gap relating to the information given to suppliers in connection with delisting.
We responded immediately by strengthening internal processes to ensure that all information provided to suppliers complies with the Code requirements in this area.
We also have in place an ongoing compliance training programme forour buying teams, and a comprehensive training course is provided for relevant new starters.
We identified some non-compliance with the Code relating to the training of some new starters within the period mandated by the Code.
We responded immediately by ensuring that all relevant personnel were trained by year end and strengthening internal processes to ensure that all new starters are trained within Code timelines.
Annual refresher training is provided via a bespoke e-learningprogramme.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 49 Corporate governance Introduction from the Chairman Governance provides the framework Our approach to governance begins with the recognition that it is not a set of rules but the framework supporting the core values which define supporting the core values which define what is and what is not acceptable.
It is an expression of the way we what is and what is not acceptable.
It informs want to conduct ourselves which informs actions and decisions whether or not there is a specific rule for the situation, and which supports the our actions and decisions and supports culture and behaviours that we wish to foster.
the culture and behaviours that we wish We are introducing a number of changes to our governance framework tofoster.
from the beginning of 2012 13 to keep it aligned with this vision and relevant to our growing business.
The main features of the new arrangements, which are described more fully below, are: Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman a revised definition of Matters Reserved to the Board: an updated delineation of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive: updated and expanded terms of reference for Board Committees: the elimination of a number of existing Committees and the creation of one new Committee to oversee Corporate Responsibility: and clarification of the role and structure of the independent Board of Tesco Bank and its relationship with the PLC Board.
A governance framework requires appropriate processes to support it, which achieve a balance between prompting thoughtful judgement when required and not stifling commercial behaviour through delay, risk aversion or rigidity.
The new governance framework has given us the opportunity also to review the processes which support and underlie it and we are introducing a number of improvements in 2012 13.
Governance also requires the active and committed engagement of Board and management.
The development of the Board, to ensure that its skills, balance and experience are optimum, is a continuous process IN THIS SECTION COMMITTEE INFORMATION and the developments of the past year are described more fully below.
50 Introduction from the 56 Nominations Committee The Executive Committee and its supporting governance framework Chairman and processes have also been developed during the year by the Chief 57 Remuneration Committee Executive, Philip Clarke.
58 Audit Committee GOVERNANCE STRUCTURES We believe that these changes will enhance the way that the Group 51 Governance structures MANAGEMENT OF THE GROUP operates.
Our aim is to ensure that the Group continues to benefit from 51 Compliance with the UK structures and processes which support effective strategic debate and 59 Executive Committee Corporate Governance Code questioning: appropriate monitoring of performance: the capacity to 60 Risk management and internal formulate the right questions: and the strength to hold difficult controls including Tesco Bank DIRECTORS AND BOARD questions on behalf of shareholders.
62 Whistle-blowing RESPONSIBILITIES 62 Anti-corruption 52 Board composition 62 Code of Business Conduct and independence 52 Election of Directors SHAREHOLDERS 52 Explanation of the roles 63 Relations with stakeholders of Chairman, CEO, SID, Non-executive Directors 63 The Tesco PLC AGM Sir Richard Broadbent and Company Secretary Chairman 53 Diversity 53 Board responsibilities 54 Board performance evaluation 55 Board attendance 50 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board of Directors Principal risks and uncertainties General information Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Governance structures Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Over the past few months, we have been reviewing and updating the The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code sets out the main Groups corporate governance framework, to ensure that it remains principles and specific provisions on how companies should be directed relevant to the business both today and in future and supports our and controlled to follow good governance practice.
The rules of the management in discharging their responsibilities.
Copies of all the Financial Services Authority the FSA require companies listed in the documents referred to below are available in full on the Companys UK to disclose, in relation to the Code, how they have applied those website at www.
com plc ir corpgov boardprocess.
principles and whether they have complied with the provisions throughout the financial year.
Where the provisions have not been The Matters Reserved to the Board and the delineation of responsibilities complied with, companies must provide an explanation for this.
between the Chairman and Chief Executive have both been clarified and updated to reflect best practice, while taking into account the Provision B.
1.2 of the Code requires at least half of the Board, needs of the business.
excluding the Chairman, to comprise Non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
Tesco has complied We have taken the opportunity to simplify the Board Committees.
with this provision except for the first four days of the financial year, There are now four committees: when it had one more Executive Director than Non-executive Audit: Directors excluding the Chairman.
However, following Sir Terry Leahys retirement and the appointment of Philip Clarke as his Remuneration: successor as CEO in March 2011, there has been at least an equal Nominations: and number of Non-executive and Executive Directors.
Prior to 2 March 2011 Philip Clarke was the Executive Director responsible for Asia, Europe & IT.
The remit of the Audit and Remuneration Committees is substantially unchanged, although the terms of reference of both of these Provision B.
6.3 of the Code requires the Non-executive Directors, Committees have been reviewed in line with best practice to ensure led by the Senior Independent Director, to evaluate the performance that they remain relevant to the business.
of the Chairman, taking into account the views of Executive Directors.
As the new Chairman, Sir Richard Broadbent, only assumed his role of The remit of the Nominations Committee has been broadened so that Chairman on 30 November 2011, it has been adjudged too soon in his it can deepen its focus on succession planning and the development tenure to make a fair and reasonable assessment of his Chairmanship.
of talent and, in addition, consider governance matters, including overseeing the structure and remit of the Board and its Committees.
The Board considers that Tesco PLC complied in all material respects The number of meetings is being increased to four a year.
with the Code for the whole of the year ended 25 February 2012.
Further information on Code can be found at www.
A new Corporate Responsibility Committee has been created to ensure that the Board maintains an adequate focus on corporate responsibility in its widest sense.
This reflects the importance to the Group of how it is perceived externally.
The new Committee is responsible for defining and overseeing the Groups corporate and social obligations.
We have also reviewed the governance framework for Tesco Bank which, in line with regulatory requirements, has an independent Board to ensure that the importance of robust, independent and competent challenge at the level of the Banks Board is balanced with appropriate alignment with, and oversight of, the PLC Board.
The structure of the Bank Board and its Committees remains unchanged and the Bank Board continues to have three Board Committees: Audit: Risk: and Remuneration.
The constitution of the Bank Board has, however, been revised and will now comprise a Non-executive Chairman, together with broadly equal representation of the Banks executive management, Tesco PLC Non-executive Directors and independent Non-executive Directors.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 51 Corporate governance Board composition and independence The Chairman and CEO As at 25 February 2012, the Board of Tesco PLC comprised the NonThere is a clear and effective division of accountability and responsibility executive Chairman, Sir Richard Broadbent, six Executive Directors between the roles of our Chairman and CEO and this is set out in writing.
and seven independent Non-executive Directors.
Sir Terry Leahy The Chairman leads the Board, ensuring its effectiveness whilst taking retired as Group CEO on 2 March 2011 and was replaced by Philip account of the interests of stakeholders and promoting the highest Clarke.
Sir David Reid retired as Chairman on 30 November 2011 standards of corporate governance.
The Chairman has regular one-toand was replaced by Sir Richard Broadbent.
David Potts stepped one meetings with the CEO and other members of the executive team down as a Tesco PLC Executive Director on 7 December 2011. and also has separate group and individual meetings with the Nonexecutive Directors.
The following changes have been announced since the end of the 2011 12 financial year: Deanna Oppenheimer joined the Board as a The CEO has executive responsibility for the day-to-day operations Non-executive Director on 1 March 2012 and Richard Brasher stepped and performance of the Group, making proposals to the Board for down from the Board of Tesco PLC on 15 March 2012.
Andrew the strategic development of the Group and ensuring effective Higginson will retire on 1 September 2012. communication to employees and shareholders.
Board development is a continuous process, but we believe that the Senior Independent Director size and experience of the Board is appropriate given the diverse Patrick Cescau was the Senior Independent Director SID throughout markets the Group operates in and the breadth of operations and the year.
Patrick was selected in July 2010 for the role because of his services offered by the Group.
experience and expertise, both as an Executive and as a Non-executive Biographies for the Directors can be found on pages 38 and 39 of this Director.
Patrick was Group Chief Executive of Unilever from 2005 to Annual Report.
Prior to that he was Chairman of Unilever plc and Vice Chairman of Unilever NV.
He has been a Non-executive Director of Pearson plc Changes to the Board since 26 February 2011 since 2002 and a Director of INSEAD since 2009.
Sir Terry Leahy Executive Retired as CEO on In his role as SID, Patrick Cescau is available to assist in resolving Director 2 March 2011 shareholder concerns should alternative channels be exhausted.
The Philip Clarke Executive Appointed CEO on SIDs role includes responsibility for Chairman appraisal and succession.
Director 2 March 2011 Sir David Reid Chairman Retired on 30 November 2011 Non-executive Directors Our Non-executive Directors have a wide range of skills and experience.
Sir Richard Chairman Appointed as a Non-executive They provide constructive challenge and help to develop our strategy.
Broadbent Director on 2 July 2011 The Non-executive Directors have satisfied themselves with regard to and as Chairman on the integrity of the Groups financial information, financial controls and 30 November 2011 risk management systems.
David Potts Executive Stepped down from the Director Board on 7 December 2011, The independence of each Non-executive Director is assessed annually retires on 30 June 2012 and the Board makes a careful assessment of the time commitment required from the Chairman and Non-executive Directors to discharge Changes to the Board since 25 February 2012 their roles properly.
Deanna Non-executive Appointed to the Board with Our Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial period of three Oppenheimer Director effect from 1 March 2012 years subject to a remaining independent: and b provision B.
7.1 of Richard Brasher Executive Stepped down from the the Code, which requires all directors to be re-elected by shareholders Director Board on 15 March 2012 annually.
The terms and conditions of appointment of our NonAndrew Higginson Executive Retires on 1 September 2012 executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys Director registered office.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in conducting their duties.
The Company Election of Directors provides insurance cover and indemnities for its Directors and Officers.
The Directors will comply with the requirement in paragraph B.
7.1 of the Code to each submit themselves for re-election every year, if they wish to continue serving, and are considered by the Board to be eligible.
The Companys Articles of Association require all new Directors to be submitted for election by shareholders in their first year following appointment.
Accordingly the whole Board will be proposed for re-election or election, as the case may be, at this years AGM.
52 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board of Directors Principal risks and uncertainties General information Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Diversity Length of service of each Non-executive Director At Tesco, we are proud to be a diverse business and we have always Date of Years in post valued the benefits which diversity brings.
Developing a more inclusive Non-executive Director appointment at 2012 AGM and diverse workforce, reflecting the communities in which we do Sir Richard Broadbent 2 July 2011 1 year business, supports our stated strategic priority to build a team to create more value than any other, and developing talent at every level in the Gareth Bullock 3 July 2010 2 years organisation has always been a core value for Tesco.
Patrick Cescau 1 February 2009 3 years 5 months We approach diversity in its widest sense, recognising that successful Stuart Chambers 3 July 2010 2 years world-class businesses flourish through embracing geographical, Karen Cook 1 October 2004 7 years 9 months ethnic, skill, age and gender diversity.
Within this context we accept the spirit and aspirations of the Davies Report, including the representation Ken Hanna 1 April 2009 3 years 3 months of women at the highest levels in the organisation.
The fact that women Ken Hydon 23 February 2004 8 years 4 months represent 60% of our workforce in the UK gives us a real opportunity Deanna Oppenheimer 1 March 2012 4 months to develop female leaders.
We have made significant progress in recent years in developing and bringing through senior women.
In the last Jacqueline Tammenoms 1 January 2009 3 years 6 months four years since 2007, the number of female directors at Tesco has Bakker increased by 45, an increase of nearly 76%, and we are working hard to help women succeed in senior roles more generally throughout the Company Secretary Company.
There are currently four women on our PLC Board 29% The role of the Company Secretary is to develop, implement and and women in senior management positions account for 31% across the Group as a whole.
sustain good corporate governance, including: keeping abreast of legislation, regulation and corporate governance We believe that the focus must remain firmly on understanding what it takes to develop women and to retain them in senior positions, and developments which impact the business and advising the Board accordingly: to help all of us create the necessary conditions both at home and overseas.
Senior roles are very demanding for all regardless of gender supporting the Chairman and other Board members as necessary, and we are determined to develop a culture and an environment including the management of Board and Committee meetings where our people can advance whilst having the time to be good and their evaluation: parents, partners and active members of their local community.
supporting the Board as necessary, including advising on Directorsduties: Participation in corporate governance discussions Outside the Boardroom there has been a substantial level of when appropriate, providing a discreet but challenging voice to discussion of corporate governance and remuneration issues over theBoard: the past year and we have been an active participant in the debate, ensuring that appropriate Directors and Officers insurance is responding to a number of consultations, including those carried inplace: out by the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills in relation to Narrative Reporting and Executive Remuneration, the EU Green ensuring that the granting of share awards is in accordance with Paper on Corporate Governance and the debate led by Lord Davies long-term incentive plans: on Women on Boards.
ensuring that the Board is kept informed of shareholder opinion: and Board responsibilities ensuring that the Company is compliant with statutory and regulatory governance requirements.
The Board held eight scheduled meetings during the last year.
It also held a strategy off-site meeting.
The Boards agenda is managed to ensure that shareholder value, societal issues and governance all play an appropriate part in its deliberations and judgements.
The Board delegates to management the day-to-day operation of the business, in accordance with appropriate risk parameters.
The Board monitors compliance with policy and achievement against objectives, by holding management accountable for its activities through regular updates.
In addition, each business unit within the Group is required to update the Board on a regular basis, giving the Board the opportunity to understand and explore issues in depth as appropriate.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 53 Corporate governance During the year ended 25 February 2012, the Board considered a wide The Board holds at least one in-depth session a year focusing on one range of issues, including: of the Groups key areas of business, with the aim of broadening and deepening the Directors understanding of that business.
In March receiving reports from key businesses within the Group: 2011 the Board spent several days looking at the US operations and receiving regular reports on the financial position of the Group and in March 2012 the Board carried out an in-depth review of our UK the various businesses within the Group: business.
Board trips allow the Directors to view first-hand the progress, development, challenges and direction of our businesses, as well approving the budget and long-term plan for the Group: as meeting our teams in those businesses.
approving interim and full-year results: Board performance evaluation discussing and approving Group strategy: The Board conducted an external Board evaluation during the year.
considering opportunities for business development: The review was led by an experienced facilitator and combined in-depth interviews with each Director and a questionnaire completed by discussing risk management and controls within the Group, including members of the Board.
a detailed review of the Key Risk Register: The results of the review were considered in detail by the Board.
The receiving reports from the Remuneration Committee, Audit review recognised that with both a new Chairman and a new Chief Committee and Nominations Committee and other key committees Executive appointed during the year this was a time of transition.
The within the Group including the Compliance Committee and Board welcomed the opportunity this presented to complete a broad Corporate Responsibility Committee: updating of governance and Committee structures.
Overall, the review receiving reports on governance issues affecting the Group: and suggested that there was good engagement between Board members and that Board processes including the performance of Committees, conducting a review of the effectiveness of the Board.
a new forward agenda and the quality of information flows were of a good standard.
There was a high level of alignment about the key Directors conflicts of interest strategic issues facing Tesco.
The Company has comprehensive procedures in place to deal with any situation where a Director has an actual or potential conflict of interest.
An important part of the review was establishing criteria against which Under these procedures members of the Board are required to: the future performance of the Chairman, the Directors individually and the Board as a team could be reviewed.
The Board endorsed a set of consider each conflict situation separately on its particular facts: criteria under these headings as follows: consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the rest of their Board performance evaluation criteria duties under the Companies Act 2006: Chairman Board leadership and management keep appropriate records and Board minutes demonstrating any authorisation granted by the Board for such conflict and the scope Coaching and development of any approvals given: and Ensuring accountability regularly review conflict authorisations.
Directors Strategic orientation Results orientation Training and development Collaboration All new Directors receive a personalised induction programme, tailored to their experience, background and particular areas of focus, which is Independence designed to develop their knowledge and understanding of the Groups Engagement culture and operations.
The programme has evolved over time to take Board Balance into account feedback from new Directors and the development of best practice, and will usually include a combination of meetings with senior Alignment management from across the Group, comprehensive briefing materials Resilience and opportunities to visit the Groups operations across the world.
The Chairman agrees the personalised induction plan for each new Energy Director and ensures that it meets the individual needs of that Director.
Openness Directors also receive a tailored induction in relation to those Board Efficiency Committees they will serve on.
The need for Director development is regularly assessed by the Nominations Committee and training sessions are arranged to help upskill the Directors on a variety of areas relevant to the Groups business, including social, environmental and ethical issues.
In the last year the Board received training focusing, inter alia, on recent corporate governance developments, risk reporting by Tesco Bank and the challenges and opportunities offered by the internet.
Further training in a number of key areas is planned for the coming year.
54 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board of Directors Principal risks and uncertainties General information Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Annual reviews of the performance of the Remuneration and Audit Board attendance Committees have been carried out, led by each Committees Chairman.
Full Board meetings These reviews have confirmed that each Committee continues to operate effectively.
For further details, please refer to the sections Number of possible Actual dealing with the Audit Committee on page 58 and the meetings meetings Remuneration Committee on page 57. attended attended Our CEO reviews the performance of each Executive Director and Non-executive Directors the outgoing Chairman has reviewed the performance of the CEO and each Non-executive Director.
Having completed these evaluations, Sir Richard Broadbent 4 4 the CEO and Chairman have confirmed that each individual whose Gareth Bullock 8 8 performance they have assessed continues to be effective and Patrick Cescau 8 8 committed to their role.
The new Chairman, Sir Richard Broadbent, only assumed his role on 30 November 2011, so it was judged to be Stuart Chambers 8 8 too soon for the Senior Independent Director to carry out a Karen Cook 8 7 performance assessment.
Ken Hanna 8 8 During the year, both the outgoing Chairman and the new Chairman Ken Hydon 8 8 met with the Non-executive Directors, without the Executive Directors present, to discuss Board issues and how to build the best possible team.
Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker 8 8 Executive Directors Board attendance Philip Clarke 8 8 The Board held eight scheduled meetings in the year ended 25February 2012, including the AGM, and ad hoc meetings were Andrew Higginson 8 7 also arranged to deal with matters between scheduled meetings as Tim Mason 8 7 appropriate.
It is expected that all directors attend scheduled Board Laurie McIlwee 8 8 and relevant Committee meetings, unless they are prevented from doing so by prior commitments, and that all Directors will attend the Lucy Neville-Rolfe CMG 8 8 AGM.
Where Directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive the Past Non-executives papers scheduled for discussion in the relevant meetings, giving them at date of Annual Report the opportunity to raise any issues and give any comments to the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
Sir David Reid Chairman Retired 30 Nov 2011 6 6 Following the meeting the Chairman briefs any member not present Past Executive Directors on the discussions and any decisions taken at the meeting.
Directors leave the meeting where matters relating to them, or which may at date of Annual Report constitute a conflict of interest for them, are being discussed.
None Sir Terry Leahy of the Executive Directors holds more than one FTSE 100 external Retired 2 March 2011 0 0 Non-executive Directorship and Philip Clarke resigned his position as David Potts Non-executive Director of Whitbread PLC effective from 1 March 2011, Stepped down 7 December 2011 7 6 immediately prior to taking up his role as CEO.
The other directorships held by the Non-executive Directors are set out in their biographies, Richard Brasher which can be found on pages 38 and 39.
Stepped down 15 March 2012 8 8 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 55 Corporate governance The Nominations Committee met once in the year to discuss the ongoing shape and capability of the Board.
There were also a number Nominations Committee of ad hoc meetings during the year to discuss Board succession matters, as well as reviewing the performance and development of the The Nominations Committee plays an Executive Directors and the senior executive levels below the Board.
In future, it is intended that there will be four scheduled meetings a essential role in leading the process of year of the Committee.
assessing the skills the Board needs to The remit of the Nominations Committee was expanded with effect discharge its duties competently.
It also from 26 February 2012, so that, in addition to its existing responsibility reviews the Boards composition, structure for reviewing the Boards structure, size and composition, identifying, nominating and reviewing candidates for appointment to the Board and size, to assist the ongoing development and putting in place plans for succession, the responsibilities of the of the Board over time me.. Committee will include: reviewing the leadership needs of the organisation, both executive and non-executive: Sir Richard Broadbent Nominations reviewing the Groups talent management programmes: Committee Chairman reviewing Board succession over the longer term, in order to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board: and monitoring of the Groups compliance with corporate governance guidelines.
The Committee was chaired by Sir David Reid during his tenure and is now chaired by Sir Richard Broadbent following his appointment as Chairman.
The Company Secretary attends meetings in his capacity Nominations Committee members as Secretary of the Committee.
Where matters discussed relate to Number the Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-executive Director chairs of possible Actual the meeting.
meetings meetings Members attended attended During the year consideration was given to finding an appropriate Sir Richard Broadbent member replacement for retiring Chairman, Sir David Reid.
The Nominations since 2 July 2011 and Chairman Committee considered the skills and experience that would be required since 30 November 2011 1 1 for this position and to create a detailed role description.
After a rigorous selection process, which was led by the Senior Independent Gareth Bullock 1 1 Director and included interviews with the Executive and Non-executive Patrick Cescau 1 1 Directors, Sir Richard Broadbent was chosen as the strongest candidate for Chairman.
Stuart Chambers 1 1 Karen Cook 1 1 The Committees revised terms of reference, which were approved by the Board on 14 February 2012, are available at www.
com plc Ken Hanna 1 1 ir corpgov boardprocess.
Ken Hydon 1 1 Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker 1 1 Philip Clarke 1 1 Past Committee members Sir Terry Leahy until 2 March 2011 0 0 Sir David Reid Chairman 00 until 30 November 2011 Note: the membership of the Committee has been revised with effect from 26 February 2012 and is now as follows: Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman, Patrick Cescau, Stuart Chambers and Ken Hanna.
56 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board of Directors Principal risks and uncertainties General information Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committees role is to determine and recommend to the Board the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and Remuneration Committee oversee the level and structure of remuneration of senior management, ensuring that the remuneration arrangements attract, retain and The Remuneration Committee assesses motivate the Executive Directors and senior management needed to run the Company successfully.
executive remuneration arrangements The Chairman of the Board, the CEO, Group Personnel Director and which are used to attract, retain and motivate external advisors normally attend meetings, although some part of senior management and provide appropriate every meeting is devoted to discussion among only the Non-executive alignment between reward and performance.
The Company Secretary attends in his capacity as Secretary of the Committee.
The Committee met five times this year.
The responsibilities of the Stuart Chambers Remuneration Committee and an explanation of how it applies the Remuneration Directors remuneration principles of the Code and other applicable Committee Chairman rules and regulations governing remuneration, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 64 to 86.
The Committee received training this year on a range of areas, including disguised remuneration, Department for Business, Innovation and Skills reporting requirements, ABI principles, market practice and trends in best practice.
The Committee conducted a review of its effectiveness during the year, which confirmed that the Committee operates effectively.
The Committee reviews its membership regularly to ensure that it is refreshed and that no undue reliance is placed on particular Remuneration Committee members individuals.
Deloitte are the appointed remuneration consultants and details of all connections with the Company are given on page 78: Number of possible Actual Remuneration Report.
Members all independent meetings meetings The Committee approved new terms of reference on 14 February 2012 Non-executive Directors attended attended and these are available at www.
com plc ir corpgov Patrick Cescau 5 5 boardprocess.
Stuart Chambers 5 5 Karen Cook 5 5 Ken Hanna 5 5 Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker 5 5 Note: the membership of the Committee has been revised with effect from 26 February 2012 and is now as follows: Stuart Chambers Chairman, Karen Cook, Ken Hanna and Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 57 Corporate governance Regular attendees at the invitation of the Committee include: Chairman of the Board: Audit Committee Chief Executive Officer: The Audit Committee plays a key role Chief Financial Officer and his team: in reviewing the effectiveness of the Head of Internal Audit: Groups internal controls, external auditors Executive Director Corporate and Legal Affairs : and internal audit department.
It also Other Executive Directors as appropriate: and provides assurance on the Groups risk External Auditors.
Ken Hydon The Chairman of the Tesco Bank Audit Committee attends the Audit Committee Committee twice a year to provide an update on the work of the Banks Chairman Audit Committee in overseeing the Banks internal control and risk assurance processes.
The Audit Committee structure requires the inclusion of at least one member with recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee Chairman and at least one other member fulfil this requirement, and all other Committee members have an appropriate understanding of financial matters.
The Audit Committees primary responsibilities include, to: consider the appointment of the external auditors, their reports to Audit Committee members the Committee and their independence, including an assessment of Number their appropriateness to conduct any non-audit work: of possible Actual Members all independent meetings meetings review the financial statements and announcements relating to the Non-executive Directors attended attended financial performance of the Company: Ken Hydon Chairman 5 5 review the internal audit programme and ensure that the Internal Gareth Bullock 5 5 Audit function is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing within the Company: Patrick Cescau 5 5 discuss with the external auditors the nature and scope of the audit: Ken Hanna 5 5 review, and challenge where necessary, the actions and judgements of management, in relation to the interim and annual financial statements before submission to the Board: review formally the effectiveness of the external and internal audit processes: consider managements response to any major external or internal audit recommendations: review the Companys coordinated plans for business continuity: and review the Companys plans for the prevention and detection of fraud, bribery and corruption.
While fulfilling the above responsibilities, during the year the Committee received detailed updates from several businesses within the Group, as well as discussing a number of topics, including: hWkZ h iai1 Xki d[ii Yedj dk jo WdZ Yh i i cWdW][c[dj1 m ijb[#Xbem d]1 heY[h [i Ikffbo 9eZ[ e FhWYj Y[1 fhef[hjo h iai1 WdZ ?J Yedjhebi$ 58 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board of Directors Principal risks and uncertainties General information Corporate governance Directors remuneration report A Board visit is organised each year to one or more of the Groups The Committee also regularly reviews its membership, to ensure businesses and the Committee takes advantage of these visits to meet that it is refreshed and that no undue reliance is placed on particular with local management and discuss how the Groups internal controls individuals.
It was felt unnecessary to make changes this year.
and risk management processes are embedded in those businesses.
The Committee considered the appointment of auditors and There were also regular meetings via videoconference with local recommended  LLPs PwC reappointment.
management in several of our international companies.
Their remuneration is disclosed in Note 3 of the financial statements.
The need for training is kept under review and the annual agenda The Committee has regular private meetings with the external auditors ensures substantial time is dedicated to technical updates, which are and the Head of Internal Audit during the year, at which an honest and generally provided by external experts.
This year training was provided, open working relationship is maintained and developed.
inter alia, on accounting standards, emerging issues, true and fair requirements and corporate reporting.
In addition, while in the US, The Committee approved revised terms of reference on 14 February training was given on US risk and control processes.
Training is also 2012, which are available at www.
com plc ir corpgov provided on an ongoing basis to meet the specific individual needs boardprocess.
The Committee carried out an effectiveness review during the year, which concluded that the Committee was effective and had been provided with sufficient resources to carry out its duties.
Management of the Group Executive Committee The CEO is supported in formulating and implementing the Groups strategic plan and in managing the Group by the Executive Committee, which is chaired by the CEO.
Membership comprises the Executive Directors and seven senior executives: 1 Gordon Fryett CEO Europe and Group Property Director Gordon Fryett joined Tesco in 1969 and has held a number of roles including Operations Director, International Support Director, 1 2 CEO of Republic of Ireland and UK Property Director.
He is a Non-executive Director of Severn Trent Plc.
2 Kevin Grace Group Commercial Director Kevin Grace joined Tesco in 1982 and has held a number of roles including Support Office Director, COO of South Korea, CEO of Poland and UK Property Director.
3 Alison Horner Group Personnel Director Alison Horner joined Tesco in 1999 as a Personnel Manager, moving to UK and Ireland 3 4 operations in 2003 where she held a number of line management roles including Operations Director.
4 Trevor Masters CEO Asia Trevor Masters joined Tesco in 1979 and has held a number of roles including Store Manager, Store Director, Operations Director for Extras, and CEO of Central Europe.
5 Mike McNamara Chief Information Officer Mike McNamara joined Tesco in 1998 and has held a number of roles in IT and 5 6 Operations Development.
6 Bob Robbins Group Business Improvement Director Bob Robbins joined Tesco in 1975 and has held a number of roles including CEO of Asia, CEO of Central Europe, Strategy and Development Director Asia and various retail, marketing and general management roles.
7 Ke n Towle Online Food and Internet Retailing Director Ken Towle joined Tesco in 1985 and has held a number of roles including various UK operations roles and President and CEO of Tesco China.
7 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 59 Corporate governance The Executive Committee has authority for decision-making in all Key to delivering effective risk management is ensuring that our people areas except those set out in the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the have a good understanding of the Groups strategy and our policies, Board, and meets formally on a regular basis.
The Company Secretary procedures, values and expected performance.
We have a structured attends in his capacity as Secretary of the Committee.
internal communications programme that provides employees with a clear definition of the Groups purpose and goals, accountabilities The Executive Committee is responsible for implementing Group and the scope of permitted activities for each business unit, as well as strategy and policy and for monitoring the performance and individual line managers and other employees.
This ensures that all our compliance of the business, drawing on the work of relevant people understand what is expected of them and that decision-making committees, and reporting on these matters in full to the CEO takes place at the appropriate level.
We recognise that our people may and by him to the Board.
face ethical dilemmas in the normal course of business so we provide The Committee has set up further subcommittees, focusing on clear guidance based on the Tesco Values.
The Values set out the Commercial, Compliance, Internet Retailing, People Matters, Property standards that we wish to uphold in how we treat people.
These are Strategy, Sustainability and Technology.
These subcommittees have supported by the Groups Code of Business Conduct, which offers as members an appropriate mixture of Executive Directors and senior guidance on relationships between the Group and its employees, management from relevant functions.
Risk management Risk Management and Internal Controls The Group maintains a Key Risk Register.
The Register contains the Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing business, our risk key risks faced by the Group, including their impact and likelihood, management systems are designed both to encourage entrepreneurial as well as the controls and procedures implemented to mitigate these spirit and also provide assurance that risk is fully understood and risks see diagram below.
The content of the Register is determined managed.
The Board has overall responsibility for risk management through regular discussions with senior management and review by and internal control within the context of achieving the Groups the Executive Committee and the full Board.
Executive management is responsible for implementing allows the degree of controllability to be taken into account when and maintaining the necessary control systems.
The role of Internal we consider the effectiveness of mitigation, recognising that some Audit is to monitor the overall internal control systems and report on necessary activities carry inherent risk which may be outside the their effectiveness to Executive management, as well as to the Audit Groups control.
Our key risks are summarised on pages 40 to 47 Committee, in order to facilitate its review of the systems.
of the Principal risks and uncertainties section of this Annual Report.
Background The risk management process is cascaded through the Group, with The Group has a three-year rolling business plan to support the delivery operating subsidiary boards maintaining their own risk registers of its strategy.
Every business unit and support function derives its and assessing their control systems.
The same process also applies objectives from the three-year plan and these are cascaded to functionally in those parts of the Group requiring greater overview.
managers and staff by way of personal objectives.
For example, the Audit Committees terms of reference require it to Risk matrix likelihood to impact Controllability factors The Company can totally control High risk this risk The Company can largely control this risk or influence the environment Significant risk The Company is one of a number of entities that can control the risk or influence the environment The Company can only marginally influence or effect control in this Medium risk risk environment The Company has no effective influence over the control of Minor Moderate Significant Substantial Catastrophic this risk Impact ratings over a one-year period 60 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Likelihood ratings over the next five years Highly Less than Even More Highly improbable likely chance than likely probable OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board of Directors Principal risks and uncertainties General information Corporate governance Directors remuneration report oversee the Finance Risk Register.
The Board assesses significant of the Audit Committee and the other Board committees are social, environmental and ethical SEE risks to the Groups short and distributed to the Board and each Committee submits a report long-term value, and incorporates SEE risks into the Key Risk Register for formal discussion at least once a year.
These processes provide where they are considered material or appropriate.
During the year assurance that the Group is operating legally, ethically and in the Board regularly reviewed the Risk Register and also undertook accordance with approved financial and operational policies.
an in-depth assessment of product safety.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee reports to the Board each year on its review of We recognise the value of the ABI Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure and confirm that, as part of its regular risk the effectiveness of the internal control systems for the financial year and the period to the date of approval of the financial statements.
assessment procedures, the Board takes account of the significance of SEE matters to the business of the Group.
We recognise that a Throughout the year the Committee receives regular reports from the external auditors covering topics such as quality of earnings and number of investors and other stakeholders take a keen interest in how companies manage SEE matters and so we report more detail on our technical accounting developments.
The Committee also receives SEE policies and approach to managing material risks arising from SEE updates from Internal Audit and has dialogue with senior managers on matters and the KPIs we use both on our website www.
It should be understood that such systems plc corporate responsibility and in our Corporate Responsibility are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against Review 2012.
To provide further assurance, the Groups Corporate material misstatement or loss.
Responsibility KPIs are audited on a regular basis by Internal Audit.
Internal Audit Internal controls The Internal Audit department is independent of business operations The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal controls and has a Group-wide mandate.
It undertakes a programme to and for reviewing the effectiveness of such a system.
We have a address internal control and risk management processes with Group-wide process for clearly establishing the risks and responsibilities particular reference to the Turnbull Guidance.
It operates a risk-based assigned to each level of management and the controls which are methodology, ensuring that the Groups key risks receive appropriate required to be operated and monitored.
Its responsibilities include maintaining the Key Risk Register, reviewing and reporting on the effectiveness of risk The CEO of each subsidiary business is required to certify by way management systems and internal control with the Executive of an annual governance return that the Groups governance and Committee, the Audit Committee and ultimately to the Board.
Internal compliance policies and processes have been adopted.
The returns Audit facilitates oversight of risk and control systems across the Group received from across the Group are reviewed and discussed by the through risk committees in Asia, Europe and Tesco Bank and audit Compliance Committee and the results of that review are also committees in a number of our businesses and joint ventures.
considered by the Audit Committee as part of the Annual Assessment The Head of Internal Audit also attends all Audit Committee meetings.
of Risk Management and Internal Controls, which is prepared by Internal Audit as part of the year end process.
For certain joint ventures, External audit the Board places reliance upon the internal control systems operating PwC, the Companys external auditor, contributes a further within our partners infrastructure and the obligations upon partners independent perspective on certain aspects of our internal financial boards relating to the effectiveness of their own systems.
control systems arising from its work, and reports to both the Board and the Audit Committee.
The engagement and independence of Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of external auditors is considered annually by the Audit Committee failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable before it recommends its selection to the Board.
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Company has a Non-audit services policy for work carried out by In respect of Group financial reporting, Group Finance is responsible PwC.
This is split into three categories as explained below: for preparing the Group financial statements, using a well-controlled consolidation process.
Group Finance contains a technical accounting pre-approved for the external auditors is predominantly the review team, which reviews external technical accounting developments, of subsidiary undertakings statutory accounts and is audit-related financial reporting and accounting policy issues.
It is also responsible innature: for the maintenance of the Groups accounting policy manual, which is work for which Committee approval is specifically required in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
Group transaction work and corporate tax services, and certain advisory Finance maintains its own risk register and assesses its own controls services: and systems.
This incorporates risks such as wrong or unclear accounting policies, ineffective financial close processes, inaccurate or incomplete work from which the external auditors are prohibited.
Group financial and management accounts, reputational risk, IT The Audit Committee concluded that it was in the best interests of the risks, fraud and people risks.
Group Internal Audit also reviews the Company for the external auditors to provide a number of non-audit effectiveness of controls operating in the Group Finance function.
services during the year due to their experience, expertise, and The results of Group Finances risk register review and Group Internal knowledge of the Groups operation.
Audits findings are reported to the Audit Committee on an annualbasis.
Auditor objectivity and independence was achieved by ensuring that personnel involved in the non-audit work were not involved in The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of internal the audit, and by ensuring that management took responsibility for controls and is satisfied that the controls in place remain appropriate.
Monitoring The fees paid to the Auditors in the year are disclosed in Note 3 to the The Board oversees the monitoring system and has set specific Group financial statements.
responsibilities for itself and the various committees as set out below.
Both Internal Audit and our external auditors play key roles in the PwC also follows its own ethical guidelines and continually reviews its monitoring process, as do several committees including the Compliance audit team to ensure its independence is not compromised.
PwCs Committee and the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
The minutes independence is also considered by the Audit Committee regularly.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 61 Corporate governance Tesco Bank All complaints made are treated as confidential and are investigated by the relevant department and where we know the individual, the callers The management of risk is an integral part of the Banks business.
Where there is a serious issue, this will be escalated to the Tesco Bank has established an Enterprise Wide Risk Management country CEO.
This policy is monitored by the Compliance Committees Framework, designed to support the identification, assessment, in country, by the Group Compliance Committee annually and by the management and control of the material risks that threaten the Group Audit Committee annually.
In addition the whistle-blowing line achievement of the Banks strategic business objectives.
The Bank has was previously internally audited in 2010 and will be audited again developed a risk strategy which is designed to support the successful during the current year.
delivery of strategic business objectives through clearly defined strategic risk objectives which support risk appetite.
The risk appetite reflects the Anti-corruption level and type of risks that the Bank is willing to take to deliver its strategic business objectives.
We maintain the highest standards of ethics and integrity in the way we do business around the world.
Bribery and corruption in all forms The Banks Board has overall responsibility for the Bank business.
It agrees is illegal and unacceptable.
It damages competition and markets, the strategy for the business, approves the risk appetite of Tesco Bank increases costs, reduces quality for customers and damages trust.
as well as specific high level policies and the delegated authorities.
The Banks Board monitors the risk profile of the Bank.
Wherever we operate we will always abide by the law.
Any act of fraud, bribery or corruption would be treated with extreme seriousness by Executive management is responsible for establishing an effective Tesco.
We expect our business partners to adopt the same approach.
control framework and ensuring all risks are identified and controlled Those breaking these laws are liable to be prosecuted.
Alleged within the risk appetite and policy limits.
The independent Risk function offenders who are UK citizens may also be prosecuted in the UK, is responsible for developing risk appetite and the policy framework and no matter where the offence was committed.
for independently monitoring the risk profile, providing assurance where required.
Risk also provides frameworks, tools and techniques In accordance with our Anti-corruption Guidelines, the CEO of each to assist management in meeting their responsibilities, as well as acting business is responsible for ensuring compliance with all local legislation as a central coordinator to ensure that enterprise wide risks are being and Company policies and report adherence to this to the Tesco Group effectively addressed.
Tesco Bank Internal Audit is responsible for the Executive Committee and the Group Compliance Committee.
To independent assessment of the effectiveness of the implementation of ensure the implementation of our bribery and corruption policy, a the risk and control measures across the business.
They assess whether message has been sent to staff from their CEO reminding them of both the internal control systems are effective both in design and practice.
our Values and our zero tolerance approach to all forms of bribery and corruption.
The policy is available on our Group Intranet and staff are The Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP is the made aware of it.
In addition, key staff across the business have Banks internal assessment of capital adequacy designed to address completed anti-bribery training, using an e-learning tool which includes the requirements under Pillar 2 of the Basel II framework.
The ICAAP training on the new Bribery Act, as well as our policy, and which also process considers all of the risks faced by the Bank, the likely impact requires them to pass an assessment.
The e-learning tool has been of them if they were to occur, how these risks can be mitigated and the translated into all of the principal languages used in the countries in amount of capital that is prudent to hold against them both currently which we operate.
There will be annual refresher training.
The Bank performs a full ICAAP regularly which is reviewed and approved by its Board.
Code of Business Conduct The Bank holds a liquid asset portfolio that its Board deem to be The Code of Business Conduct explains to staff their most important sufficient to cover potential future stressed cash outflows.
Through its individual responsibilities and obligations while working for Tesco.
Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment ILAA process, stress events All members of staff must comply with the Code of Business Conduct.
are simulated and the impact on cash flows, including any available Acting legally and following our Group and local policies and best contingency funding, is assessed and reviewed against the current and practice are some of the ways in which we ensure that we always do planned liquid asset portfolio.
The ILAA is reviewed and approved by our best for our customers and for each other.
The Code provides guidance on key issues which may arise as staff The Bank maintains a Key Risk Register, which is subject to regular work for Tesco and indicates who they should contact if they think review to enable management to identify all key risks, current and that they, or another member of staff, may have breached those rules.
As the risk profile shifts over time the potential impact on Key members of staff are required to provide an annual statement of the business is considered in terms of additional management action compliance with the terms of the Code.
Disciplinary action may result required and or possible extra capital or liquidity requirements.
The for breaches of the Code.
content of the Register is developed by the Risk function through ongoing discussion with senior management and is reviewed on a regular basis.
Whistle-blowing The Group operates a whistle-blowing policy which is reviewed annually.
In every business we operate a confidential telephone and email service which enables concerned employees to report, anonymously if they choose, any instances of inappropriate behaviour or malpractice within the business.
Such issues include unethical or illegal behaviour such as bribery and corruption, fraud, dishonesty and any practices that endanger our staff, customers or the environment.
During the year 2011 12 the majority of the calls related to personnel issues, which is common in most businesses, with a number of security issues also raised.
62 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
