OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board of Directors Principal risks and uncertainties General information Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Governance IN THIS SECTION All of our business activities 38 Board of Directors 40 Principal risks and take place within a governance uncertainties 42 General information framework, which supports our 50 Corporate governance 64 Directors remuneration report culture and our core Values: No one tries harder for customers and Treat people how we like to be treated.
This section starts with the Board because governance is built on the Boards active and committed engagement.
You will find further sections on risks to our strategy and how we manage them, on our approach to corporate governance and on executive remuneration.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 37 Board of Directors 3.
Tim Mason 54 Our Board currently comprises the Deputy Group CEO and CMO and CEO Fresh & Easy Tim Mason has been President and Chief Executive Officer, Fresh & Chairman, Sir Richard Broadbent, five Easy Neighborhood Market since January 2006 and became Deputy Executive Directors and eight independent Group CEO and Chief Marketing Officer in March 2011.
He was appointed to the Board on 16 February 1995.
Andrew Higginson 54 each of our Directors and our Company CEO Retail Services Secretary are set out below.
Andrew Higginson was appointed to the Board on 17 November 1997.
Prior to his appointment as Chief Executive of Retail Services in July 2008 he was Group Finance and Strategy Director.
Sir Richard Broadbent 58 of Tesco Bank until 26 February 2012 and will retire from Tesco PLC Non-executive Chairman on 1 September 2012.
He is a Non-executive Director of BSkyB plc.
Sir Richard Broadbent joined the Board of Tesco PLC on 2 July 2011 5.
Laurie McIlwee 49 and was appointed Chairman on 30 November 2011.
He started his Chief Financial Officer career at HM Treasury before joining Schroders in 1986.
In 2000, Sir Laurie McIlwee was appointed to the Board on 27 January 2009 as Richard was appointed Executive Chairman of HM Customs and Excise.
He began his career with Tesco in 2000 as UK He also joined the Management Board of the UK Civil Service, serving Finance Director and after four years, became Distribution Director.
In 2003 he was appointed to the Board of Prior to Tesco, Laurie worked for Pepsico in a variety of Finance and Barclays plc, becoming Senior Independent Director in September General Management roles in the UK, USA, Central Europe and 2004 and Deputy Chairman in 2010.
He stepped down from the Board the Middle East.
Laurie is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of of Barclays on 30 September 2011.
Sir Richard joined the Board of Management Accountants and a member of The Hundred Group Arriva plc in July 2004 and served as Chairman from November 2004 of Finance Directors.
He is also a trustee of the charity Relate.
Philip Clarke 51 Executive Director Corporate and Legal Affairs Group Chief Executive Lucy Neville-Rolfe was appointed to the Board on 14 December 2006.
Philip Clarke was appointed to the Board on 16 November 1998.
Prior She joined Tesco in 1997 from the Cabinet Office.
She is Deputy Chair of to his appointment as CEO in March 2011 he was Asia, Europe & IT the British Retail Consortium, a Non-executive Director of ITV plc and of Director.
Philip began his career with Tesco in store during 1974 and the Carbon Trust.
She is also a member of the London Business Schools continued to work part-time through school and university.
After Governing Body, the China Britain Business Council, the UK India graduating with a degree in Economic History, he joined the Tesco Business Council and the Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change.
Management Training Programme and then spent nine years in store management before holding a number of roles in commercial and 7.
In 1994 he was appointed Stores Director and a year later Senior Independent Director promoted to Regional Managing Director, before joining the Tesco PLC Patrick Cescau was appointed a Non-executive Director on 1 February Board as Supply Chain Director and a year later adding Information 2009 and became Senior Independent Director in July 2010.
He was Technology to his responsibilities.
Group Chief Executive of Unilever from 2005 to 1 January 2009, and prior to this he was Chairman of Unilever plc and Vice Chairman of Unilever NV.
He has also been a Non-executive Director of Pearson plc Committee membership from 26 February 2012 since 2002, becoming Senior Independent Director in April 2010, and Nominations Committee IAG International Airlines Group since September 2010.
Patrick was Audit Committee appointed a Chevalier fide la Lgion dhonneur in 2005.
In June 2009, Remuneration Committee CR Committee Patrick joined the Board of INSEAD.
10 7 4 8 13 11 2 38 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board of Directors Principal risks and uncertainties General information Corporate governance Directors remuneration report 8.
Ken Hydon 67 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Gareth Bullock was appointed a Non-executive Director on 3 July 2010 Ken Hydon was appointed a Non-executive Director on 23 February and will subject to approval by the FSA be appointed to the Board 2004 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He retired from the of Tesco Bank as a Non-executive Director.
He was Group Executive position of Finance Director of Vodafone Group Plc in 2005.
He is also Director of Standard Chartered PLC until his retirement in April 2010. a Non-executive Director of Reckitt Benckiser plc and Pearson plc, and He was also responsible for the Groups risk and special asset was a Non-executive Director at The Royal Berkshire NHS Foundation management function.
He is Senior Independent Director and Chairman Trust from 2005 until 2012. of the Remuneration Committee of Spirax-Sarco Engineering Plc.
Stuart Chambers 55 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Deanna Oppenheimer was appointed a Non-executive Director on Stuart Chambers was appointed a Non-executive Director on 3 July 1 March 2012 and will subject to approval by the FSA be appointed 2010 and will subject to approval by the FSA be appointed to the to the Board of Tesco Bank as a Non-executive Director.
Deanna held Board of Tesco Bank as a Non-executive Director.
He was Group Chief various senior roles between 2005 and 2011 at Barclays, initially as Executive of NSG Group from 2008 to 2009.
Prior to NSGs acquisition Chief Executive of UK Retail and Business Banking, Vice Chair of of Pilkington plc in 2006, Stuart was Group Chief Executive of Global Retail Banking and also as Chief Executive of Europe Retail Pilkington plc.
Previously he held a number of senior roles at Pilkington and Business Banking.
Prior to Barclays, she was Marketing Director plc and the Mars Corporation.
He is a Non-executive Director of Smiths and later President of Consumer Banking of Washington Mutual.
Group PLC, where he is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, She has also served as a Non-executive Director of Catellus and and of Manchester Airport Group PLC.
Stuart was appointed NonPlum Creek Timber.
executive Director of Rexam PLC on 1 February 2012 and Non- 14.
Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker 58 executive Chairman effective from 22 February 2012.
Karen Cook 58 Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker was appointed a Non-executive Non-executive Director Director on 1 January 2009.
She was a Director General at the Ministry Karen Cook was appointed a Non-executive Director on 1 October of Transport in the Netherlands from 2001 to 2007 and has held senior 2004.
She is a Managing Director of Goldman Sachs International and positions at Quest International, McKinsey & Co and Shell.
Jacqueline President of Goldman Sachs, Europe.
She is also a member of the firms is a Non-executive Director of Vivendi and was appointed a Chevalier European Management Committee and Partnership Committee.
fide la Lgion dhonneur in 2006.
Jonathan Lloyd 45 Non-executive Director Company Secretary Ken Hanna was appointed a Non-executive Director on 1 April 2009.
Jonathan Lloyd was appointed Company Secretary to the Board in He is Chairman of Inchcape PLC and a Non-executive Director of December 2006.
He joined Tesco as Deputy Company Secretary and Aggreko plc.
He was previously Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury plc Corporate Secretariat Director in April 2005 from Freshfields Bruckhaus until March 2009 and prior to that an Operating Partner of Compass Deringer.
Jonathan is also Company Secretary of Tesco Bank.
Partners and CFO and then CEO of Dalgety PLC.
He has also been CFO of United Distillers and Avis Europe plc.
1 5 14 9 12 3 6 15 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 39 Principal risks and uncertainties A successful risk management process balances risks and rewards Risk is an accepted part of doing business.
and relies on a sound judgement of their likelihood and impact.
The The real challenge for any business is to Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group has an appropriate approach to risk management and internal control within identify the principal risks it faces and to the context of achieving the Groups objectives.
Our process for identifying and managing risks is set out in more detail from page develop and monitor appropriate controls.
60 of the Directors report on corporate governance.
The table below sets out the principal risks faced by the Group, their movement during the year and examples of relevant key controls and mitigating factors.
The Board considers these to be the most significant KEY risks and, whilst they are not directly comparable, they have been ranked in terms of relative importance to the Group at this time.
Arrows: change in net risk They do not comprise all risks associated with the Group.
Additional assessment from 2010 11 risks not presently known to management, or currently deemed to be Net risk has increased less material, may also have an adverse effect on the business.
The Level of net risk is unchanged principal risks associated with operating Tesco Bank are considered separately in the section of the table below headed Tesco Bank Net risk has decreased Financial Services Risks.
Change from Principal risks 2010 11 Key controls and mitigating factors Board, Executive Committee and various operational committees meet regularly Performance risk to review performance risks in the business All business units have stretching targets based on the Steering Wheel balanced Risk that business units scorecard system: performance against budgets and KPIs are monitored continually including the UK underperform and reported regularly to Board against plan and against C lear goals and objectives set for subsidiary CEOs, with high proportion of reward competitors and our business based on achievement fails to meet the stated strategy Diversification strategy minimises impact of changes in economic climate in full.
Like all retailers, the business is susceptible to economic downturn affecting consumer spending Operational threats reviewed regularly by Board, Executive Committee, UK Trading Operational threats Group and various operational committees to the business Governance committees, including Compliance Committees, guide and Risk that the business fails to monitor policies maintain an optimum level All business units have stretching operational targets based on the Steering Wheel of investment in capital, revenue balanced scorecard system: KPIs are monitored continually and reported regularly or people and thus is limited to Board in its ability to serve customers C lear goals and objectives set for subsidiary CEOs, with high proportion of reward and grow based on achievement People Matters Group regularly reviews talent planning, appointments and new roles Diversification strategy minimises impact of changes in economic climate 40 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board of Directors Principal risks and uncertainties General information Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Change from Principal risks 2010 11 Key controls and mitigating factors Tesco Values embedded in how we do business at every level Reputational risk An embedded Group Code of Business Conduct guides our behaviour in dealing with Failure to protect the Groups customers, employees and suppliers reputation and brand could lead Stakeholder communication and engagement to understand their views and reflect them to a loss of trust and confidence, in our strategy a decline in customer base and Commitment to tackling societal and environmental issues through our Community Plan affect our ability to recruit and and activities retain good people Governance committees, including Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Compliance and Information Security Committees, guide and monitor policies Significant investment in training, development and incentives, including Executive People Committee Talent Cycle, Talent Planning, Leadership Development and succession Failure to attract, retain, develop planning for future needs of the business and motivate the best people Clear processes to understand and respond to employees needs through our People with the right capabilities at all Matters Group, staff surveys, regular performance reviews, involvement of trade levels could limit our ability unions in relevant markets and regular communication of business developments to succeed Pay, pension and share plan arrangements help us to attract and retain good people Diversification and pursuit of growth in emerging markets under our strategy is Business strategy reducing reliance on limited business areas If our strategy follows the wrong Regular review of strategic matters by Board and Executive Committee: Board direction or is not effectively dedicates two full days a year to Group strategy communicated or implemented Significant resource invested to communicate strategy effectively to those delivering it then the business may suffer Consistent Operational Plans developed throughout the Group to ensure delivery Steering Wheel balanced scorecard system helps monitor delivery Structured stakeholder engagement programmes Competition Competition and Strategy to have broad appeal on price, range and store format to allow us to UK, US compete in different markets consolidation and Asia Regular review of markets, trading opportunities and competitor activities, Failure to compete on areas including online including price, product range, Performance tracked against relevant KPIs and measures that customers tell us quality and service in increasingly are critical to their shopping experience competitive UK and overseas Constant monitoring of customer perceptions of Tesco and competitors to ensure retail markets could impact our Competition we can respond quickly as appropriate market share and adversely affect Europe Monitoring of legislative changes, legal framework and compliance the Groups financial results The consolidation of competitors, key geographical areas or markets through mergers or trade Consolidation agreements could also adversely impact our market share Regular review of strategy, risks and financial performance by Board and Executive Financial strategy Committee, with external advice as required Risks relate to an incorrect Consistent Operational Plans and Budgets developed throughout the Group to or unclear financial strategy ensure delivery or plans Steering Wheel balanced scorecard system helps monitor delivery Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 41 Principal risks and uncertainties Change from Principal risks 2010 11 Key controls and mitigating factors Appropriate procedures and controls, including segregation of duties, are set out and Fraud, compliance audited across the business to reduce fraud risks: Internal Audit and Loss Prevention & and internal controls Security undertake detailed investigations into all business areas and report their findings As the business grows in size and to the Audit Committee geographical scope, the potential Clear behavioural guidance given to employees through Tesco Values and the Group for fraud and dishonest activity Code of Business Conduct by our suppliers, customers and Compliance Committee formulates and monitors implementation of, and employees increases compliance with, relevant policies and procedures: annual governance returns completed by each business unit External Audit rotational coverage of areas and assessment of controls Updated policies and procedures for Bribery Act compliance Extensive controls and reviews to maintain integrity and efficiency of IT infrastructure IT systems and infrastructure and data Any significant failure in the IT Rigorous governance processes for new and modified systems implementations processes of our retail operations Processes to deal with significant IT security incidents would impact our ability to trade.
Sharing of systems across international operations to ensure consistency of delivery Failure to invest appropriately I nvestment in IT systems and innovations to improve business efficiency and in IT would constrain the growth customers shopping experience of the business and fail to Information Security Committee meets regularly to review the development and safeguard personnel, supplier implementation of IT policies or customer data Regular review of strategy, risks and financial performance by Board and Executive Group Treasury excluding Committee, with external advice as required Tesco Bank Financial risks relating to underlying business needs are mandated to our Treasury Risks relate to the availability of function which has clear policies and operating parameters and its activities are funds across the Group to meet routinely reviewed and audited business needs, fluctuations in Internal Audit reports on financial control systems interest and foreign exchange rates Development of cross-functional Eurozone Committee to monitor and manage and credit risks relating to the risk the risks associated with instability in the eurozone as a result of the depth of the of default by counterparties to financial crisis financial transactions.
The principal risks associated with operating Tesco Bank are covered in the Tesco Bank Financial Services Risks section below.
Further detail on the management of financial risks by the Group can be found in the Financial risks review section following this table and in Note 22 of the financial statements UK Property Acquisition and related committees closely control all aspects of property Property acquisition, planning and construction processes to ensure standards are met and Continuing acquisition and risks are minimised development of property sites Group and country Compliance Committees monitor legal and regulatory carries inherent risk: targets to compliance in property activities deliver new space may not be International China Property Company Board closely monitors property matters in China achieved: challenges may arise Mall management systems in place to assist tenant management in relation to finding suitable sites, obtaining planning or other consents and compliance with varying country design and construction standards 42 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board of Directors Principal risks and uncertainties General information Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Change from Principal risks 2010 11 Key controls and mitigating factors UK and US Detailed, established procedures, operating globally, to ensure product integrity Product safety Strict trading law and technical safety testing regime with regular reporting: Group Failures could damage customer Compliance Committee reviews compliance with laws and policies trust and confidence, impacting Partnering with suppliers for mutual understanding of required standards our customer base and therefore Monitoring of developments to respond to changing customer trends and legislation financial results International such as labelling and dietary responsibilities exc.
US Clear and tested crisis management processes Engagement with key stakeholders and experts in developing environmental policy, Climate change and sustainability including through the Sustainable Consumption Institute we endowed at Manchester University The main environmental risk Climate change strategy is part of our Community Plan and is reviewed regularly by we face is climate change.
It is our Sustainability Committee and Executive Committee and reported to the Board essential we work to mitigate it Targets are regularly reviewed as part of the Community segment of the Steering through energy efficiency, the Wheel balanced scorecard system sustainable management of other resources and waste minimisation.
We are also committed to supporting customers by giving them the information they need to make their own choices Economic External uncertainties carefully considered when developing strategy and Economic and political risks reviewing performance In each country where we Ongoing monitoring of developments through local CEOs operate, we may be impacted We try to anticipate and contribute to important changes in public policy wherever by legal, regulatory and tax we operate changes, increased scrutiny Political Engagement with governmental and non-governmental organisations to represent by competition authorities, views of our customers and employees political developments and Business development follows thorough due diligence work the economic environment Pension risks Diversified investment strategy with increased control and visibility through the appointment of an in-house investment team Our IAS 19 deficit could increase Changes to benefits proposed which will reduce the schemes life expectancy if returns on corporate bonds and inflation risks are higher than the investment Monthly review by Pensions and Treasury Directors return on the pension schemes External advisors and pension fund trustees fully engaged to consider deficit assets.
There are also increasing and fund performance and legislative and regulatory changes and their impact risks of legal and regulatory changes introducing more burdensome requirements Appropriate contingency plans Activism and terrorism Security systems and processes that reflect best practice A major incident or terrorist event could impact on staff safety or the Groups ability to trade Operation of stringent processes that reflect best practice: policies are monitored and Health and safety audited regularly Failure to provide safe KPIs across the business help prevent incidents with quarterly reporting of performance environments for our staff and against KPIs customers could lead to injuries Group Compliance Committee and business unit Compliance Committees regularly or loss of life monitor compliance with laws and internal policies Lucy Neville-Rolfe is the Executive Director responsible for health and safety issues Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 43 Principal risks and uncertainties Tesco Bank Financial Services Risks Tesco Bank the Bank primarily operates in the UK retail financial services market offering savings products, unsecured consumer lending products and general insurance products as well as travel money and ATM services.
The section below sets out principal risks relating specifically to the Bank.
The Banks Enterprise Wide Risk Management Framework identifies the main controls and actions.
There are a number of key components of the framework common to all of the major risk categories, including the following: Component Description of the component Independent Risk function Reporting to the Chief Risk Officer CRO and responsible for designing and implementing risk management frameworks and for independently monitoring the risk profile, providing oversight and challenge to the business Three lines of defence Line managers are responsible for establishing an effective control framework within their area of operations and for identifying and controlling all risks within risk appetite and policy limits first line of defence.
The second line of defence is the independent Risk function.
Internal Audit is the third line of defence and is responsible for the independent assessment of the effectiveness of the implementation of the overall risk and control measures Policy framework Risk is responsible for the policy framework, with the Banks policy documents providing the rules and guiding principles that define the approach to specific subjects and covering all aspects of risk Integrated risk reporting Reporting is provided monthly to senior governance committees.
Exposures are monitored against triggers and limits on a daily, weekly or monthly frequency as required.
Exceptions are reported monthly to the Banks Asset & Liability Management Committee ALCO, the Risk Management Committee RMC and to each meeting of Board Risk Committee BRC Stress testing Stress testing is the process under which the Banks business plans, capital and liquidity are subjected to severe adverse impacts.
Stress testing is a mandatory requirement of the FSA who require that banks implement their own stress testing processes.
Stress testing is essential to effective risk management and is a key component of the Banks Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment ILAA processes The table below sets out the principal risks currently faced by the Bank, their movement during the year and provides examples of relevant key controls and mitigating factors.
The Banks Board considers these to be the most significant risks but has not set them out in any order of priority.
They do not comprise all risks associated with the Bank.
Additional risks not presently known to management, or currently deemed to be less material, may also have an adverse effect on the business.
Change from Principal risks 2010 11 Key controls and mitigating factors There is strong programme governance in place with a tiered committee structure Transformation risk headed by the Banks Executive-level Project Assessment Committee PAC The Transformation Programme The Bank operates standard project management disciplines which are employed is a significant change programme to deliver effective programme and risk and issue management designed to develop platforms and processes to enable the Bank to conduct banking and insurance business independently of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group RBS.
The key remaining component of the Transformation Programme is the migration of the credit card portfolio In addition, the Bank has well-developed plans for launching mortgages, subject to FSA approval 44 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board of Directors Principal risks and uncertainties General information Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Change from Principal risks 2010 11 Key controls and mitigating factors The Banks credit risk appetite is based on lending responsibly to manage the Credit risk external credit risk profile of its portfolio within agreed parameters environment Credit portfolios continue to be closely monitored with changes made to The downside risks to the UK acquisition and limit management strategies to mitigate, as far as possible, economy remain high, including downside economic risks fragile consumer confidence, The Bank has minimal direct exposure to non-UK sovereigns and proactively a squeezing of real incomes, monitors and manages the non-retail portfolios to reduce exposure to specific increasing unemployment and names or geographies some consumers increasing borrowing and switching to variable rate mortgages On the wider economic front subdued UK growth, continued fiscal austerity and the continuing eurozone debt crisis is impacting confidence and may impact the ability to sustain debt servicing and repayment in the event of an economic shock The Banks aim is to meet all legal and regulatory requirements by maintaining Legal and regulatory an effective control framework compliance risk A dedicated risk team is responsible for the identification of regulatory risks, Legal and regulatory the management and oversight of policies and processes and the provision of compliance risk is the risk of assurance in relation to regulatory risk and compliance consequences arising as a result of non-compliance with the laws and regulations affecting the Banks governance, prudential arrangements, business activities, risk management and its conduct with customers Conduct risk The Banks Treating Customers Fairly Board and the Banks Board reviews There remains significant and challenges delivery of fair outcomes for customers regulatory focus in relation A programme to proactively remediate disadvantaged PPI customers has to Conduct risk or Treating commenced Customers Fairly.
Specifically there has been continued industry-wide focus on provision of redress in relation to past sales of Payment Protection Insurance PPI The Banks aim is to actively manage insurance risk exposure with particular Insurance risk focus on those risks that impact profit volatility The Bank defines insurance risk Regular, independent reviews of reserves are undertaken with reporting to the as the risk we accept through our Banks RMC, Audit Committee, BRC and Board insurance products in return for The Bank uses reinsurance to limit exposure above pre-determined limits a premium.
These risks may Risk appetite and a suite of risk policies are in place to manage risk in TU or may not occur as expected The Banks Insurance Risk function provides independent oversight of TU and the amount and timing of which is appropriate to the Banks role as key shareholder these risks are uncertain and determined by events outside of our control The Bank is exposed to insurance risks through its historic distribution arrangement with RBS, which is expected to terminate in quarter four of 2012, and through its ownership of 49.9% of Tesco Underwriting Limited TU Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 45 Principal risks and uncertainties Change from Principal risks 2010 11 Key controls and mitigating factors The Bank aims to have a conservative Balance Sheet structure with prudent risk Funding liquidity risk appetite supported by explicit targets and metrics which enable it to meet its Liquidity risk is the risk that the financial obligations, including under stressed conditions Bank has insufficient cash The Bank holds a significant and diversified stock of highly marketable liquid assets, resources to meet its obligations in excess of internal and regulatory requirements as they fall due or can do so only The Banks significant retail deposit base means that there is currently less reliance at excessive cost on wholesale markets as a source of funding and historic practice indicates that such deposits tend to be relatively stable Funding risk is the risk that the Bank does not have sufficiently stable and diverse sources of funding or the funding structure is inefficient External market conditions continue to exhibit signs of stress with wholesale funding markets constrained and significant competition for retail deposits The Group relies on significant amounts of on demand retail funding The Banks aim is to minimise all operational risks and reputational impacts Operational risk A Risk and Control Self Assessment process is used by the business to identify, Operational risk is the potential assess, quantify, monitor and report its operational risks and managements error, loss, harm or failure caused effectiveness in mitigating them.
Regular reporting is provided to RMC and by ineffective or inadequately remedial actions taken as required defined processes, system failure, improper conduct, human error or from external events The Procurement policy provides consistent and robust standards for supplier Outsourcing risk A significant number of services sourcing and selection The Banks Strategic Relationship Management process enables the monitoring and processes are provided by third party service providers of the performance of third-party outsourcers and suppliers against agreed service level agreements, the management of the relationships and the improvement of and a key operational risk is the failure of an outsourced supply or termination of contract where appropriate service provider People risk The Banks People Matters Group, an Executive committee of the Bank, Increased market demand for oversees key aspects of people risk, including talent management, performance specialist personnel could result management, retention and succession planning in increased costs of recruitment and retention or reduced organisational effectiveness if a sufficient number of skilled staff cannot be employed The Bank has no trading book Market risk There is low appetite for exposure to interest rate risk in the banking book IRRBB Market risk is defined as the and other market risks, such as credit spreads, which are monitored and reported risk that the value of the Banks through ALCO and RMC assets, liabilities, income or costs might vary due to changes in the value of financial market prices: this includes interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads and equities 46 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board of Directors Principal risks and uncertainties General information Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial risks review Statement of compliance The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to the availability The Business Review contained within this document has been of funds to meet business needs, fluctuations in interest and foreign prepared in accordance with the requirements for a business review exchange rates and credit risks relating to the risk of default by under the Companies Act 2006.
The intent is to provide information counterparties to financial transactions.
The management of these to shareholders and this document should not be relied on by any risks is set out below.
Details of the main financial risks relating to other party or for any other purpose.
Tesco Bank and the management of those risks can be found in the principal risks and uncertainties table above and in Note 22 to the Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking financial statements on page 126. information Where this document contains forward-looking statements, these are Funding and liquidity The Group finances its operations by a made by the Directors in good faith based on the information available combination of retained profits, disposals of property assets, longto them at the time of their approval of this report.
These statements and medium-term debt capital market issues, short-term commercial should be treated with caution due to the inherent risks and paper, bank borrowings and leases.
The objective is to ensure continuity uncertainties underlying any such forward-looking information.
The policy is to smooth the debt maturity profile, to arrange funding ahead of requirements and to maintain sufficient undrawn The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors, committed bank facilities and a strong credit rating so that maturing including those in this document, could cause actual results to debt may be refinanced as it falls due.
Tesco Group has a long-term differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking rating of Astable from Fitch, Baa1 stable from Moodys and Astatement.
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed stable from Standard & Poors.
New funding of 2.5 billion was under Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 40 to 47 of this arranged during the year, including a net 1.1 billion from property Annual Report.
disposals and 1.4 billion from long-term debt.
At the year end, net debt was 6.8 billion 2011: 6.8 billion.
Interest rate risk management Our objective is to limit our profit and loss downside from rising interest rates.
Forward rate agreements, interest rate swaps, caps and floors are used to achieve the desired mix of fixed and floating rate debt.
Our policy is to fix interest rates for the year on a minimum of 40% of actual and projected debt interest costs of the Group excluding Tesco Bank.
At the year end the percentage of interest bearing debt at fixed rates was 90% 2011: 71%.
The remaining balance of our debt is in floating rate form.
The average rate of interest paid on an historic cost basis this year, excluding joint ventures and associates, was 4.8% 2011: 5.4%.
Foreign currency risk management Our principal objective is to reduce the effect of exchange rate volatility on operating margins.
Transactional currency exposures that could significantly impact the Group Income Statement are managed, typically using forward purchases or sales of foreign currencies and purchased currency options.
At the year end, forward foreign currency transactions, designated as cash flow hedges, equivalent to 1,944 million were outstanding 2011: 1,615 million as detailed in Note 21.
We translate overseas profits at average foreign exchange rates which we do not currently further manage.
We only hedge a proportion of the investment in our international subsidiaries as well as ensuring that each subsidiary is appropriately hedged in respect of its non-functional currency assets.
During the year, currency movements decreased the net value, after the effects of hedging, of the Groups overseas assets by 22 million last year decrease of 344 million.
Credit risk The objective is to reduce the risk of loss arising from default by parties to financial transactions across an approved list of counterparties of good credit quality.
The Groups positions with these counterparties and their credit ratings are routinely monitored.
Insurance We purchased assets, earnings and combined liability protection from the open insurance market for higher value losses only.
The risk not transferred to the insurance market is retained within the business with some cover being provided by our captive insurance companies, ELH Insurance Limited in Guernsey and Valiant Insurance Company Limited in the Republic of Ireland.
ELH Insurance Limited covers Assets, Earnings and Combined Liability, while Valiant Insurance Company Limited covers Combined Liability only.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 47 General information Principal activity, business review and future developments Companys shareholders The Company has been notified of The principal activity of the Group is retailing and associated activities the following significant holdings ofvoting rights in its shares as at in the UK, China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Republic of Ireland, 25 February 2012 and as at the date ofthis report: India, Malaysia, Poland, Slovakia, South Korea, Thailand, Turkey and % of issued share % of issued share the US.
The Group also provides retail banking and insurance services capital as at capital as at the date through its subsidiary, Tesco Bank.
The Group is currently in the process 25February 2012 of this report of disposing of its Japan operations.
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. 5.08 5.08 Group results Group revenue excluding VAT rose by 4 billion to Blackrock, Inc. 4.96 4.96 64.5 billion, representing an increase of 6.8%.
Group profit before Norges Bank No notification 4.01 taxincreased by 194 million to 3,835 million.
Profit for the year was Legal & General Investment 3.99 3.99 2,814 million, of which 2,806 million was attributable to equity Management Limited holders of the parent company.
Dividends The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association of 10.13p per ordinary share, to be paid on 6 July 2012 to members on may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting the Register at the close of business on 27 April 2012.
Together with of the shareholders.
the interim dividend of 4.63p per ordinary share paid in December Directors and their interests The Directors who served during the 2011, the full year dividend will be 14.76p compared with 14.46p for year were: Richard Brasher: Sir Richard Broadbent: Gareth Bullock: the previous year, an increase of 2.1%.
Patrick Cescau: Stuart Chambers: Philip Clarke: Karen Cook: Ken Fixed assets Capital expenditure excluding business combinations Hanna: Andrew Higginson: Ken Hydon: Sir Terry Leahy: Tim Mason: amounted to 3.8 billion compared with 3.7 billion the previous year.
Laurie McIlwee: Lucy Neville-Rolfe CMG: David Potts: Sir David Reid: In the Directors opinion, the properties of the Group have an open and Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker.
The biographical details of the market value well in excess of the book value of 27.7 billion which present Directors are set out on pages 38 and 39 of this Annual Report.
hasbeen included in these financial statements.
The interests of Directors and their immediate families in the shares of Share capital and control of the Company Details of the Companys Tesco PLC, along with details of Directors share options, are contained share capital, including changes during the year in the issued share in the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 64 to 86. capital and details of the rights attaching to the Companys ordinary At no time during the year did any of the Directors have a material shares, are set out in Note 27 on page 136.
No shareholder holds interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its securities carrying special rights with regards to control of the subsidiaries.
A qualifying third-party indemnity provision as defined Companyand there are no restrictions on voting rights.
inSection 234 of the Companies Act 2006 is in force for the benefit During the financial year, the Company purchased and cancelled ofeach of the Directors and the Company Secretary who is also a 70.8million ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of the Company, Director of certain subsidiaries of the Company in respect of liabilities representing 0.9% of its issued share capital as at 25 February 2012, incurred as a result of their office, to the extent permitted by law.
In fora total consideration of 290 million including expenses.
The respect of those liabilities for which directors may not be indemnified, shares were purchased in order to offset dilution resulting from the the Company maintained a directors and officers liability insurance issue of shares in connection with the Companys employee share policy throughout the financial year.
The Company was subsequently authorised by Employment policies The Group depends on the skills and shareholders at the 2011 AGM to purchase its own shares in the commitment of its employees in order to achieve its objectives and market up to a maximum of approximately 10% of its issued share we strive to ensure that our company Values are reflected in our capital.
No shares were purchased under that authority during the policies.
Ongoing training programmes seek to ensure that employees financial year.
The Company is seeking to renew the authority understand the Groups customer service objectives and strive to at the forthcoming AGM, within the limits set out in the notice of achieve them.
The Groups selection, training, development and that meeting.
promotion policies ensure everyone is welcome and equal Shares held by the Companys Employee Share Incentive Plan Trust, opportunities for all employees regardless of factors such as gender, International Employee Benefit Trust, Tesco Ireland Share Bonus marital status, race, age, sexual preference and orientation, colour, Scheme Trust and Tesco Employee Share Scheme Trust rank pari creed, ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability or trade union affiliation.
passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
Voting rights All decisions are based on merit.
Internal communications are designed and rights of acceptance of any offer relating to the shares held in to ensure that employees are well informed about the business of the these trusts rests with the trustees, who may take account of any Group.
Employees are encouraged to become involved in the financial recommendation from the Company.
Voting rights are not exercisable performance of the Group through a variety of voluntary schemes, by the employees on whose behalf the shares are held in trust.
principally the Tesco employee profit-sharing scheme Shares in Success, the savings-related share option scheme Save As You Earn The Company is not party to any significant agreements that would and the partnership share plan Buy As You Earn.
take effect, alter or terminate following a change of control of the Company.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or Officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the Companys share plans may cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest on a takeover.
48 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
