TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Who we are TRAVIS PERKINS PLC Travis Perkins plc, is the UKs The origins of Sandell Perkins largest supplier to the building and can be traced back over 200 years construction market, one of the most to 1797 when a carpentry company economically significant activities was first established in London: in the UK.
Travis and Arnold was initially The present day Company was formed as a partnership in 1899. formed in 1988 out of a merger During the early to mid 20th Norman Bell Carol Kavanagh between Travis and Arnold plc, a century both businesses expanded Group Development Group Human Director Resources Director company with strong Midlands before eventually becoming listed and Northern based business, and public companies, Travis and Sandell Perkins plc, a company with Arnold was the first to the market an equivalent strength in the South in 1964, followed 22 years later by of England.
Martin Meech Andrew Pike Group Property Company Secretary Director and General Counsel Robin Proctor Jean-Jacques Van Oosten Supply Chain Director Chief Informatioin Officer Group reorganisation On 1 January 2012 we reorganised the business into four divisions, General Merchanting, Specialist Merchanting, Consumer and Plumbing & Heating.
It is on the new divisional structure described in this section that we have prepared the Annual Report.
7 OVERVIEW GENERAL MERCHANTING DIVISION Our general merchanting division, network expansion, entry into new trades nationally through the Travis market segments and exploitation Perkins brand and comprises four of multi channel opportunities.
geographically organised individual The Best Practice programme is businesses.
It has 636 branches, designed to enhance our overall supplying building materials to service to trade customers and professional building companies, covers all of their key requirements: Kevin Appleton Phil Gransden contractors and tradesmen even though all four general Divisional Chairman MD South East throughout Great Britain.
merchanting businesses are already Kevin Appleton, who joined the operating to high standards in Group in 2011, leads the General these areas they have stretching Merchanting business in his role as targets in place to deliver further Divisional Chairman.
Directors of the four businesses Network expansion will be are Kieran Griffin Travis Perkins concentrated on identifying prime Midlands and the North West, Phil locations through brownfield Kieran Griffin David Kelman Gransden Travis Perkins South openings and small acquisitions.
MD Midlands and MD North North West East, David Kelman Travis Perkins In addition, store projects and North and Mark Nottingham framework agreements will continue Travis Perkins South West and to be expanded with Local Authorities Wales.
The customers of the four and Housing Associations.
general merchanting businesses are primarily professional tradesmen, ranging from sole traders to national housebuilders, whose key Mark Nottingham requirements are product range and MD South West and Wales availability, competitive pricing and customer service.
The strategy of the general merchanting business aims to increase market share through implementation of our best practice programme, ongoing branch 8 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 SPECIALIST MERCHANTING DIVISION The specialist merchanting business In 2006 Benchmarx became the consists of three separate businesses first group brand to be created as trading from 203 branches under a completely new business within the following brands: Keyline, CCF a market adjacent to the markets and Benchmarx.
We also have an already served by the Group.
The interest in an associate company, business is a leading supplier of Rinus Roofing Supplies which has kitchen and joinery products to the Arthur Davidson Andrew Harrison 12 branches.
Arthur Davidson is trade through its competitive pricing, Divisional Chairman MD Keyline the Divisional Chairman.
He has quality products and knowledgeable worked in merchanting for over staff.
Benchmarx is led by Chris thirty years having joined Keyline Larkin, formerly a Regional Director prior to its acquisition by the Travis within Travis Perkins South East, Perkins Group.
who became Managing Director in Andrew Harrison, the Managing July 2009.
Director of Keyline has been with Rinus Roofing Supplies, an the Group since 1989.
Keyline is associate company in which the Chris Larkin Howard Luft a specialist merchant supplying Group holds a 25% interest, is MD Benchmarx MD CCF heavy building materials and a supplier of roofing materials.
civils and drainage solutions to the The Group has entered into a construction industry throughout development agreement with Rinus the UK.
Keyline is known for its aimed at creating a new competitor knowledgeable staff and excellent in this adjacent market.
the Group sells many of the products CCF is a leading supplier of available through Rinus, specialist interior building products to the roofing contractors prefer using construction industry.
It operates specialist distributors in this market.
throughout the UK, offering a one-stop-shop to its customers from its nationwide branch network.
CCFs Managing Director is Howard Luft, formerly managing director of Buck and Hickman, which was sold by the Group in September 2011.
9 OVERVIEW CONSUMER DIVISION The consumer division comprises terms of service, quality and price.
three businesses: Wickes, a national The business meets its customers chain of DIY retail outlets, Tile expectations by offering a focussed Giant a ceramic tile merchant range of high quality, primarily own acquired in 2007 and Toolstation a brand, competitively priced home multi-channel operator, which was improvement products, such as acquired by the Group on 3 January timber, building materials, tools and Jeremy Bird Neil Carroll 2012.
We have 458 branches in the decorative materials.
In addition, Divisional Chairman MD Toolstation consumer division.
Wickes stores offer a range of The Chairman of the Consumer kitchens and bathrooms, which are Division is Jeremy Bird who joined sold through both in-store showrooms Wickes 19 years ago and has held and 11 standalone specialist kitchen a number of senior positions in the and bathroom stores.
Group including that of Managing In 2007, Travis Perkins acquired Director of Wickes.
The present its seventh brand, Tile Giant.
The managing director of Wickes is brand is now trading from 106 Simon King Andy Morrison Simon King who joined the Company stores.
Under the leadership of MD Wickes MD Tile Giant at the end of 2011 and has fulfilled managing director Andy Morrison, various external retail roles including the brand offers a strong pipeline for chief operating officer of Asda.
Wickes, which opened its first The Group first took a minority store in the UK in 1972 at Whitefield investment in Toolstation, a direct in Manchester, was acquired by retailer of lightside products, during Travis Perkins in 2005 and the 2008 before acquiring the remaining Company now operates from 224 shares in 2012.
Since then, led by stores nationwide.
its founder Mark Goddard-Watts, Wickes stores are designed to with support from the Group, this appeal to tradesmen, who undertake multi-channel retailer of lightside general repairs, maintenance and products has rapidly expanded improvement projects for households its trade counter network and and small businesses, and to serious now occupies 123 trade counters DIY customers, who undertake throughout Great Britain.
It also more complete DIY projects.
These operates a very successful catalogue customers are more demanding in based internet business.
10 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Direct Heating Spares PLUMBING AND HEATING DIVISION The new plumbing and heating plumbers, independent merchants division was established on 1 and industrial end users through January 2012 under the leadership a network of 397 branches.
395 of its Chairman, Paul Tallentire.
branches are located in the United The division consists of the original Kingdom and two in the Republic plumbing business of the Travis of Ireland.
Perkins group, City Plumbing PTS operates from 314 branches Paul Tallentire Ian Church Supplies together with the and supplies a wide range of Divisional Chairman MD PTS Group businesses of The BSS Group, which customers from national contractors were acquired on 14 December 2010. to sole trading plumbers and heating It is now the leading plumbing and engineers.
heating business in the UK operating The industrial, commercial, from 587 locations.
process, construction and warehouse City Plumbing Supplies, run by markets are serviced through a managing director John Frost, is a network of sixty two branches of BSS major nationwide plumbing and Industrial in the UK and Ireland.
Frank Elkins John Frost heating merchant serving both the Birchwood Price Tools is a MD BSS Industrial MD City Plumbing contract market and the general wholesaler of power tools and plumbing and heating market from accessories, hand tools, safety wear 189 branches.
The business offers and general consumables and F&P high quality products and expert Wholesale supply heating, plumbing service to the trade.
In 2010, a new and sanitaryware to smaller operation was formed, City Heating merchanting businesses.
Spares, the spare parts division of City Plumbing.
Paul Nieduszynski The ex-BSS businesses are MD Birchwood Price Tools leading distributors of plumbing and heating products to specialist trades.
Their principal activities are the distribution and sale of heating, ventilation and plumbing products, tools and industrial supplies to, amongst others, industrial contractors, domestic 11 OVERVIEW
