Chief Executives Review of the Year Geoff Cooper Chief Executive FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 drivers of our improved financial performance coming Introduction The Group made good progress in 2012, despite a from: Toolstation, for which we acquired the remaining challenging construction industry background resulting 70% of its share capital on 3 January 2012: the 13 new from a combination of continuing economic uncertainty, ex-Focus stores which were opened in the autumn of the wettest weather conditions in living memory and 2011: and our BSS synergy programme.
continued reductions in public sector activity and weak Having acquired Toolstation in 2012 and previously consumer confidence.
having acquired BSS, we chose to limit other network Action in both like-for-like LFL and expanded expansion to tidying up the estate and a few high operations has enabled the Group to achieve increases returning projects.
However, the economic environment in turnover, adjusted operating profits, profits before tax, also presented us with a few other opportunities.
In 2012 earnings per share and to recommend a 25% increase in we saw a small, but clearly discernible worsening in the the full year dividend.
outlook for a number of competitor companies in our Construction activity in 2012 fell by about 9%, whilst sector.
Our Specialist division benefited from the slow the materials distribution market fell in volume by demise of the leading civils and heavyside distributor about 4%.
during the second half of the year and a number of We have continued to execute trading tactics finely company administrators and independent owners tuned to the current environment with the aim of offered to sell us small businesses.
In most cases we maximising operating profits and operating margin.
This declined the opportunity, preferring to let the capacity has meant that for most of our businesses and branches fall out of the market, but we were able to agree terms to we have focussed on gross margin protection, which acquire the trade and assets for five businesses.
Overall has caused us to turn away some unprofitable sales, this expansion has increased our turnover by 2.8%.
balancing cost control with protecting service levels and On 1 January we established our new Plumbing carefully managing working capital.
and Heating division under the chairmanship of Paul By focussing more on gross margin we have Tallentire.
He has been closely involved with our BSS fide-emphasised our goal of out-performing markets integration programme which has seen a restructuring on a LFL basis, reducing our previous rate of sales of the PTS management team, the roll out of a new out-performance.
For the year as a whole we have point-of-sales system with enhanced functionality sustained our market share and a market position into PTS and the closure of several poorly performing consistent with our objective of trading sensibly in a branches.
Further work remains in the BSS integration disappointing market.
programme, however a significant value of synergies Against contracting market volumes, our trading has been achieved, and many of the organisational and stance and our continued programme of self-help technology changes have been implemented.
initiatives has increased profits by 4.5%, with the main The BSS synergy programme has continued to 20
