Corporate Responsibility Statement FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 The Company has not produced a separate corporate responsibility Employees statement in the report and accounts since it believes these Deputy Chief Executive, John Carters review of the year: and matters are sufficiently important to receive the personal attention of individual directors rather than risking less focus through the Community relations exercise of collective responsibility.
Instead, full details of those areas Chief Executive, Geoff Coopers review of the year.
normally covered by such a report are contained either in the reports of the directors responsible for such matters, or in a separate report, The Board takes into account, environmental, social and governance as explained below: matters in its conduct of the Companys business.
The Board believes that it has adequate information to identify and assess the major Environment environmental, social and governance risks and as part of the system CEO, Geoff Cooper, responsibility - Environmental report on pages of internal control receives reports on the risks associated with these 46 to 49. matters.
The Board has received briefings on such matters during 2012.
Health & safety NED, Andrew Simon, responsibility - Health & Safety report on pages 50 to 52.
Robert Walker Supply chain Chairman Deputy Chief Executive - John Carters review of the year.
Committees and Professional Advisers Secretary: A. S. Pike Company Secretary & General Counsel A. S. Pike R. D. Proctor Group Supply Chain Director P. Tallentire Chairman, Plumbing & Heating Division Audit Committee: J. J.
Van Oosten Chief Information Officer C. J. Bunker Chairman, R. Anderson, J. Coleman Investment Bankers Advisors: Remuneration Committee: HSBC Bank plc.
Nomura International plc A. H. Simon Chairman, C. J. Bunker, J. Coleman, P. Jansen, R. Walker Corporate Broker: Nominations Committee: Citibank, Credit Suisse R. Walker Chairman, C. J. Bunker, J. Coleman Bankers: Health & Safety Committee: The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
Barclays Bank plc A. H. Simon Chairman, R. Anderson, J. P. Carter, R. Walker Lloyds TSB Bank plc Executive Committee: Solicitors: G. I. Cooper Chief Executive and Committee Chairman Linklaters LLP, London.
Clifford Chance LLP, London J. P. Carter Deputy Chief Executive A. Buffin Finance Director with effect from 8 April 2013 Auditor: K. Appleton Chairman, General Merchanting Division Deloitte LLP, London N. G. Bell Group Development Director J. Bird Chairman, Consumer Division Registrars: A. J. Davidson Chairman, Specialist Merchanting Division Capita Registrars, Beckenham C. Kavanagh Group HR Director M. R. Meech Group Property Director 56
