Directors Robert Walker Geoff Cooper John Carter Paul Hampden Smith Chairman Deputy Chief Executive Robert Walker was appointed as a non-executive John Carter joined Sandell Perkins as a management director in September 2009 and became Chairman in trainee in 1978.
He held a number of regional May 2010.
He is chairman of Enterprise Inns plc and management positions, before being appointed Americana International Holdings Ltd, and a senior Managing Director, Operations in 1996, and a director independent director of Tate & Lyle PLC He was of Travis Perkins plc in July 2001.
He became Chief previously chairman of W H Smith PLC, Williams Lea Operating Officer in February 2005 and was appointed Group Ltd and BCA Europe and Group Chief Executive of Deputy Chief Executive in December 2011.
He spent over 30 years with Procter & trustee of the Building Research Establishment.
He is a Gamble, McKinsey and PepsiCo and has also served as a member of the Health & Safety Committee.
non executive director on a number of FTSE 100 and 250 boards.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee Finance Director and a member of the Remuneration and Health & Safety Paul Hampden Smith served as Finance Director Committees.
throughout 2012 and retired from the Board on 28 February 2013.
Chief Executive Tony Buffin is to be appointed as Finance Director Geoff Cooper joined the Company in February 2005 on 8 April 2013.
He is a chartered accountant and joins and was appointed Chief Executive in March that year.
us from the Coles Group in Australia where he was Chief He is a chartered management accountant and had Financial Officer from 2009.
He was formally Chief a career in management consultancy before joining Financial Officer of the Loyalty Management Group.
Gateway as Finance Director in 1990.
In 1994 he became Finance Director of UniChem plc, subsequently Alliance UniChem plc which later became part of Alliance Boots plc, where he was appointed Deputy Chief Executive in 2001.
He is non-executive Chairman of Dunelm Group Plc, and Chairman of the Construction Products Association.
He is Chairman of the Executive Committee.
54 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Ruth Anderson Chris Bunker John Coleman Philip Jansen Andrew Simon O.
B. E. Ruth Anderson was appointed as a non-executive Philip Jansen was appointed as a non-executive director in 2011.
She is a chartered accountant and held director in April 2009.
He is Chairman of Brakes Group, a number of positions in KPMG UK from 1976 to 2009, Group Chief Executive of Worldpay and a senior advisor being a member of its board from 1998 to 2004 and Vice to Bain Capital, the private equity group.
She is a non-executive director trustee of the charity, Wellbeing of Women.
She is a member of the Audit and Health & previously been Group Chief Operating Officer and Chief Safety Committees.
Executive of Europe for Sodexo, Chief Operating Officer of MyTravel plc and Managing Director, Consumer Chris Bunker was appointed as a non-executive director Division of Telewest Communications PLC.
He is a chartered management accountant also held senior positions with Procter & Gamble and was Finance Director of Thames Water plc, from and Dunlop Slazenger Group.
He is a member of the 2000 until March 2004.
He was previously Finance Remuneration Committee.
He will be retiring from the Director of Tarmac PLC and Westland Group PLC.
He is board in May 2013. a non-executive director of D S Smith Plc and formerly was a non-executive director of John Mowlem & Co plc, Andrew Simon O.
B. E. was appointed as a non-executive Baltimore Technologies plc and Xansa PLC.
He is a non-executive director of Senior Independent Director until January 2013 and is Finning International Inc. Canada, Management Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Consulting Group plc, SGL Carbon SE Germany, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
He will be Exova Group plc, Icon Infrastructure Management retiring from the Board in October 2013.
Limited Guernsey and British Car Auctions.
He was previously Deputy Chairman of Dalkia plc, Chairman John Coleman was appointed as a non-executive and or Chief Executive of Evode Group plc and has director in 2005.
He is a chartered management also held non-executive directorships with Severn accountant and Chairman of AGA Rangemaster Group Trent Plc, Ibstock PLC, Laporte Plc, Associated British plc.
He has previously been Chairman of Holiday Ports Holdings PLC, and Brake Bros Holdings Ltd.
He Break plc, Chief Executive of House of Fraser plc and is chairman of the Remuneration and Health & Safety Chief Executive of Texas Homecare and of a number Committees.
of businesses within Burton Group PLC.
He succeeded Chris Bunker as Senior Independent Director in January 2013, and is a member of the Remuneration, Audit and Nominations Committees.
