TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Delivering our Strategy The table below shows how we approach the various distributing goods effectively and recruiting and retaining dimensions of our strategy, how we judge progress and the best people.
We operate a strong and well-resourced how our strategy is integrated with our management of shared service model, which enables branches to the principal risks faced by the Group, which are set out concentrate on delivering excellent customer service, on pages 44 and 45. whilst allowing the central teams to concentrate on Successful execution of our strategy is dependent innovation and leadership across the Group.
upon maintaining our IT capabilities, purchasing and STRATEGIC APPROACH KEY PERFORMANCE PRINCIPAL DIMENSION INDICATORS RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Devolving authority to managers to allow them to compete in the People market, but without weakening our control environment.
Colleague Recruiting and developing people with attributes that support our core Colleague engagement.
retention and Operating a performance management system closely aligned to succession.
Coaching, guiding and holding people to account for their attitude as much as their performance.
Meeting our corporate social responsibilities in areas such as health and safety, environmental and community relations.
Exploiting economies of scale from growth to improve our proposition, Competitive Sales and gain further market share and improve operating margins.
margin Centralising purchasing to increase the benefits of common purchasing.
Gross margin gains from sourcing Improving our supply chain capabilities.
projects, less margin investment in Supplier Expanding our global sourcing activities to support our own brand proposition.
direct sourcing Adjusted operating profit margin.
Continuously improving our customer and supplier proposition.
operational Harmonising product specifications across our businesses.
Exploiting the economies of scale delivered by growth and centralisation Information Cost control Group overheads to sales ratio.
to improve our operating margins.
and asset Colleague productivity ratio.
Defined benefit management pension scheme Adjusted ROCE.
Operating a well resourced and innovative property function to improve funding.
asset turn, lower property costs and realise surplus assets.
Using our superior financial performance to expand our branch network Expansion Shareholder Value created from so ensuring we penetrate all catchments in the UK.
expansion projects at individual Information Extending our multi-channel capabilities.
site and whole business level.
Adding additional channels or creating businesses to serve all segments of the UK building materials market where we can achieve synergies.
Developing and owning trade parks and multiple brand sites.
Lease adjusted net debt to EBITDAR.
Achieving market leading returns on sales and returns on capital Market conditions.
Reducing debt through cash generation.
Increasing adjusted earnings per share.
