TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Our Business Model Travis Perkins is a multi-channel operator selling a wide range of building materials through four divisions to the trade and consumer primarily through a network of mainly UK branches.
Source products Stock and then Sell goods and from over distribute goods services to over 10,500 suppliers from 1,890 branches 190,000 account and 24 warehouses and countless cash using a fleet of over customers 2,300 vehicles Our business model is based upon: Being the number one or number two distributor in A technology approach, where retaining control the markets in which we operate: by writing our own systems delivers lower cost, more flexibility and higher matched functionality, Achieving growth through investing in organic particularly in areas such as logistics, supply chain initiatives and acquisitions that leverage our fixed and multi-channel: and central costs to deliver further benefits from increasing economies of scale: An organisation Incentivisation structures that are linked to structure, which devolves responsibilities to those performance and encourage improvement: colleagues close to our customers whilst providing A strong culture, which extends to the types of the benefits of shared central services: people we employ and the values and leadership Thorough performance management monitoring behaviours we encourage.
systems and processes: In delivering our product Our products are distributed to We strive to provide our solutions we... the end user through a supply customers with the highest levels chain network which of service possible by Are committed to ensuring that we Operates from 24 central Employing the best available people buy quality goods and materials warehouses, enabling us to buy and investing in their training and from responsible and ethical goods in bulk and distribute them to development.
sources, at prices that are fair to all.
our branches in smaller quantities.
Ensuring branches maintain high Purchase a broad range of over Utilises a distribution fleet of levels of stock availability in full 100,000 products from UK and 192 vehicles to transport product project quantities.
overseas manufacturers and between warehouses and branches.
Offering advice and building related distributors.
Makes around 350,000 branch services that support our customers Stock a wide range of own brand deliveries p. a. needs.
products, particularly in our Engages over 1,650 colleagues to Using a fleet of 2,300 vehicles to consumer business, as well as ensure the efficient movement of provide an efficient, on-time-in branded goods supplied by market stock throughout our organisation.
full, local delivery service, where leading companies.
customers have chosen not to Improves branch efficiency by Achieve economies of scale by collect goods from our sites.
ensuring we have an appropriate focussing our purchases towards a mix of suppliers delivering either Making credit available for limited number of key suppliers.
direct to our branches or to our approximately 80% of customer Neil Ives, Are the largest or second largest central warehouses.
purchases in our merchanting P & H Product customer for a considerable number businesses.
Leader and Gives customers the opportunity of our suppliers, many of whom Danny to transact with our multi-channel Ensuring our prices reflect both the have forged close relationships with Mackintosh, businesses through a nationwide quality of the goods we sell and the the Group over a long period of time.
Branch branch network, via the telephone or service we provide, whilst remaining Supervisor, over the internet.
City Plumbing 17 OVERVIEW Chairmans Statement Robert Walker FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 Chairman Introduction Holland.
More recently, in January 2013, we acquired Travis Perkins is the UKs largest supplier of materials to Solfex, an important and fast-growing distributor of the building and construction markets.
environmental products and building materials.
This We aim to grow the business by providing the widest will add significantly to the Groups eco-building range possible range of products and materials, coupled with and environmental credentials.
Good progress continued the highest levels of consumer service: and in so doing, in integrating the former BSS businesses, and both provide our shareholders with growing and sustainable cost synergies and progress on systems integration are returns, based on market leading margins and return ahead of our original targets.
We also added additional on capital.
branches across the rest of the Groups trading formats, We reacted quickly to the start of the downturn five bringing the total number of operating branches at the years ago by managing costs and trading margins year end to 1,896. through the worst construction downturn in living memory.
Since then we have transformed the Group, Results through acquisitions and strong organic growth, to The markets that our businesses operate in remain become the leading player in the sector today.
Our very competitive, having contracted in volume terms trading businesses have market leading propositions for the fifth year running.
Against that background, our that provide a platform for further growth through revenue increased by 1.4% to 4.9bn 2011: 4.8bn with network expansion: supported by value adding, shared adjusted pre-tax profits rising by 1% to 300m: adjusted central functions.
In the past year, we have made good earnings per share were up by 2.1% to 95.1 pence.
progress in strengthening our senior executive bench A continued focus on cash generation has reduced through recruitment and management development, debt by a further 131m to 452m at 31 December 2012 and are well positioned for the next phase in the after allowing for the 24m paid to acquire the 70% of Companys growth story.
Toolstation shares we did not already own.
2012 was a year of consolidation and steady progress Our integration of BSS has made good progress and for many of the Groups businesses and trading formats.
our excellent work to realise synergies has resulted in Progress was achieved despite some very difficult 32m being recognised in 2012, 7m higher than our trading conditions, particularly during the unusually original expectation for 2013. wet summer months and the disruption and distraction We are pleased with the performance of the caused by the London Olympics.
Toolstation business in its first year of our ownership Despite this, we were pleased to complete the and have added a further 20 branches to its portfolio acquisition of Toolstation, adding further branches and during 2012. taking initial steps to test the validity of the concept in 18 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Progress was achieved despite some very difficult trading conditions, particularly during the unusually wet summer months.
Dividend had held that position for the previous four years.
Chris Supported by good operational delivery and having has been Chairman of the Audit Committee since April carefully considered the current condition of the market 2004, and will step down from this role during 2013. in which the Group operates the Board has decided it is appropriate to continue increasing dividends ahead Employees of earnings growth, reducing dividend cover towards its Difficult trading conditions always seem to bring the previously stated target range of 2.5 times to 3.5 times.
best out of our colleagues in the business.
Once again, The Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend they have produced good results in the most difficult of 17 pence per share, payable to shareholders on the of circumstances.
I would like to pass on my thanks on register on 3 May 2013, which will give a total dividend behalf of both the Board and our Shareholders.
With a proposed 25% increase in full year dividend, dividend cover for the year Outlook based on adjusted earnings per share is now 3.8x 2011: We anticipate difficult conditions in the first half year, 4.7x.
The total cash outflow for dividends declared in but there are reasons to be more optimistic about the 2012 will be 60m.
second half, when recent rises in mortgage and housing transactions should feed into improved volumes.
We will Board of directors continue to monitor these lead indicators and trends In September, we announced that Paul Hampden Smith, carefully, and expect that our next move will be to a our Group Finance Director for the past 16 years, had more expansionary stance on volume, whilst continuing decided to retire from the Board in March 2013.
It is our restrained approach on costs, further benefitting impossible to overestimate the contribution that Paul from overhead gearing and improving operating margins.
has made to the Groups success during his years as Finance Director and everyone in the Group will want to join me in wishing Paul every success for the future.
In replacing Paul, we have recruited Tony Buffin as Group Finance Director, who will join us on 8 April 2013.
He was previously Group CFO for Coles, the substantial Australian supermarket chain and had previously Robert Walker worked for Groupe Aeroplan, Loyalty Management Chairman Group, and Alliance Boots.
In January 2013 John Coleman was appointed as our Senior Independent Director replacing Chris Bunker, who 19 REPORTS
