Our Investment Case Market prospects are good for the medium term On-going expansion Prospects for growth in our markets in the medium term There is still significant scope to grow the existing are strong.
Construction activity is at unsustainably branch network by extending our multi-channel and low levels when compared to long run trends.
It is clear geographic coverage further in the UK.
Our estimates that there is a significant requirement for more housing suggest that sufficient opportunities exist for us to across the UK to address household composition and extend our operations to around 3,000 locations, backed for significant upgrading and repair of infrastructure, up by an increasingly sophisticated national supply domestic and public buildings.
Climate change concerns chain network.
We have a significant and popular multialso indicate the value of the building materials market channel capabilities across the Group, led by Wickes will increase significantly.
and Toolstation, with sales now growing at over 25% p. a. UK market leadership allows economies of scale Potential to enter new market adjacencies Travis Perkins is the largest supplier of building There is large untapped potential in specialised building materials in the UK, a position it has achieved through materials distribution market segments where the Group major acquisitions, the roll up of smaller operators does not have a presence.
The Group has successfully and the organic development of new branches.
Our size established itself in six specialist channels since 1999, allows us to benefit from economies of scale through with BSS, Toolstation and Tile Giant being the most both our centralised back office, business services and recent examples.
The Group has a history of producing like-for-like and total market share gains in competitive trade and consumer markets.
It has achieved this by focussing its operating management on offering a compelling customer proposition in the market segments in which it trades.
12 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Strong customer proposition and brand identity Attracting and retaining the best people at all levels greater focus for each business We have a high quality team, with huge experience of Travis Perkins trades through sixteen national brands our industry that has consistently delivered a strong via a network of nearly 1,900 locations.
Each brand profit performance regardless of the economic climate has developed an overall proposition and customer it faces.
We attract and retain the best people in our experience, which recognises the requirements of its sector and operate at high levels of engagement having customers, and has defined a brand essence and values a culture of continuous improvement, which encourages by which each business will operate.
This approach colleagues to develop new skills that allow them to excel has improved customer loyalty and its continued in their jobs.
deployment is key to growing both our customer base and operating margin.
All of our businesses are challenged to achieve a best in class rating by customers and a best in class operating margin ahead of any comparable business, Best practice leading operational efficiency We have a strong track record of improving our operational efficiency through the automation of systems and processes designed to increase productivity, improve availability, reduce the cost of buying and holding stock and manage our property portfolio to reduce costs and leverage value in our assets.
Our objective is to ensure that each enhancement will deliver improved returns for shareholders going forward.
