2 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Group overview TUI Travel overview Our vision Making travel experiences special.
Who we are TUI Travel PLC TUI Travel or the Group is one of the worlds leading leisure travel groups operating in approximately 180 countries worldwide and comprising over 240 brands.
We serve more than 30 million customers across 31 source markets making us a global player in a growing industry.
Headquartered in the UK, we employ approximately 54,000 people and operate six airlines consisting of 141 aircraft.
Through our global brand portfolio and our travel expertise we are focused on delivering a wide variety of leisure travel experiences designed for our customers ever changing needs.
The Group reported through four business Sectors until 30 September 2012: Mainstream, Specialist & Activity, Accommodation & Destinations and Emerging Markets.
As of the 1 October 2012, the Group will be reporting in a new structure which you can review in the How we do it: Our new structure section of this Annual Report and Accounts.
TUI Travel is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is a member of the FTSE 250 and FTSE4Good Indices with the ticker code TT.
For more information visit www.
com TT11 | AR 2012 | 20 12 2012 | Proof 5 Group overview TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 3 Group overview Where we operate TUI Travel is a global business operating across 31 key source markets in 180 countries worldwide.
Our 31 key source markets are: Australia Mexico Austria The Netherlands Belgium New Zealand Brazil Norway Canada Poland China Russia Czech Republic Singapore Denmark Slovenia Finland Spain France Sweden Germany Switzerland Hungary Thailand India Ukraine Ireland United Kingdom Italy United States Luxembourg Our featured brands TUI Travel operates over 240 brands which are available to view on our website www.
A selection of our featured brands includes: In Germany TUI is one of the best Thomson has been selling holidays Fritidsresor is the leading tour operator Jetair is TUI Belgiums master brand.
It known consumer brands and the from the UK for over 50 years.
It is one and retail business in the Swedish is a tour operator which offers a range favourite holiday brand for consumers of the UKs most well-known holiday source market offering package tours of air and car holidays and city trips.
It has brands, delivering unique and modern to destinations worldwide including www.
In 2013, 90% of the Mediterranean, Canary Islands hotels in its brochures will be exclusive and Thailand.
co. uk airtours is a luxury holiday brand which, LateRooms.
com offers a large array Hotelbeds is the leading global Intercruises Shoreside & Port Services for more than 40 years, has offered of accommodation across the UK accommodation wholesaler, is an experienced global business the most comprehensive, individual and worldwide from B&Bs to castles supplying over 50,000 hotels offering first class ground handling and exclusive holidays in the German to hotels to apartments to chalets.
across 147 countries to travel and port agency services to the speaking market.
agents, airlines and tour operators.
ocean and river cruise industry.
com The Moorings is the worlds leading For over 20 years, Quark Expeditions TUI Netherlands operates Arke, the With over 30 years experience, Crystal yacht charter company with over has been the leading provider of polar leading B2C travel brand in the Dutch is the UKs number one ski operator 650 yachts in 27 cruising destinations adventure travel.
With its diverse fleet source market and a household name.
taking customers to more of the worlds worldwide.
The Moorings offers a of specially equipped vessels and Besides tour operating, it operates best snow resorts than anyone else.
collection of memorable getaways seasoned expedition leaders, it offers 130 travel shops, a call centre and the From self-catering apartments to cosy, from hands-on sailing or power travellers unparalleled access to the website Arke.
Arke is an important friendly ski chalets.
yacht vacations to all-inclusive most remote regions on earth.
supplier of passengers to the airline www.
co. uk private luxury crewed yachts.
ArkeFly, also operated by TUI Netherlands.
