4 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Group overview Our structure During the financial year ended 30 September 2012 TUI Travel was organised and managed through four business Sectors: Mainstream, Accommodation & Destinations, Specialist & Activity and Emerging Markets.
Business Sectors Underlying operating Mainstream Sector profit mix by Sector before central costs and Emerging Markets The Mainstream Sector makes up the largest part of our Group in terms of financial performance, scale, scope and number of employees.
This Sector incorporates our familiar power brands such as our tour operators with circa 1,800 retail stores across Europe and six airlines consisting of 141 aircraft throughout our key source markets.
Previously it has been structured in the following regions: Northern The Northern Region comprises the distribution, tour operating businesses and airlines in the UK & Ireland, Canada, the Nordic Countries Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Finland and the Hotels division consisting of hotel management companies and joint ventures in hotels.
Central Europe Central Europe comprises distribution, tour operating businesses and airlines in the source markets 79% Mainstream Sector of Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Poland.
Germany is the largest market in terms of customer 12% Accommodation numbers and TUI is the market-leading brand, both here and in Austria.
& Destinations Sector 9% Specialist & Activity Sector Western Europe Western Europe comprises the leading tour operators and airlines in the Netherlands, Belgium and France and two smaller tour operators in Italy and Spain.
Accommodation & Destinations Sector Accommodation & Destinations A&D Sector is a global provider of accommodation and inbound travel services.
Its businesses provide hotel accommodation, transfers, excursions and tours, meetings and events and cruise handling services to the travel trade, corporate clients and direct to customers worldwide.
A&D competes in fast-growing areas of the travel sector through three business lines: Accommodation Wholesaler: Accommodation OTA online travel agent and Inbound Services.
It has market-leading brands including the global brands Hotelbeds, Intercruises, Destination Services, Worldcome and Pacific World and leading local brands including LateRooms.
com and, from 23 September 2012, MalaPronta.
Specialist & Activity Sector If you can dream it, we can take you there.
Thats the ethos of our Specialist & Activity Sector.
Comprising more than 100 global travel businesses, the Sector offers a wide range of unique activity and experiencebased holidays that truly capture the spirit of adventure to provide long-lasting holiday memories.
Skiing, sailing, safaris and nature, polar expeditions, sports tourism, volunteering, cycling and trekking holidays, cultural tours, canal boating, family activity, sustainable travel and educational travel: this Sector brings a diverse and exciting range of holidays to 1.5m customers from around the world.
Emerging Markets Sector The Emerging Markets Sector works closely with the senior management across the Group to develop and implement our participation strategies in the emerging markets.
Through a combination of organic and acquisitional growth our objective is to establish a leading position in these developing economies, delivering long-term growth and optimum shareholder value.
