WHAT WE DO MON ETISING ASSETS ACROSS THE PORTFOLIO Our exploration-led strategy, changing external dynamics and the scale of our business require ongoing attention to portfolio management and monetisation options across our assets.
This helps to ensure capital is allocated appropriately to achieve high-value growth and to enhance shareholder value.
LICENCE AWARD EXPLORATION SURVEYS THE OIL LIFE CYCLE The oil life cycle describes the stages an In order to explore we must first be Stakeholder engagement with local oil exploration and production company granted a licence by the government communities begins to manage goes through from its initial entry into of the country we wish to invest in.
expectations of what the presence a country, through to when natural We identify those countries through of the oil industry will mean.
We collect hydrocarbon reserves are produced careful evaluation of geological and seismic data and other geophysical and then depleted.
data to produce 2D and 3D pictures We look for hydrocarbons in regions of what lies beneath the surface.
The where we have proven expertise as interpretation of seismic data allows well as new, unexplored territories.
us to gather geological information on the structures beneath us without drilling.
After extensive analysis we plan exploration campaigns to try and discover oil and gas in these structures, or more strategically, open up new basins.
OPPORTUNITIES TO MAXIMISE VALUE At various stages in the exploration Introducing a new joint venture process, Tullow has the opportunity partner or farming out a percentage At each stage of the oil life cycle there to farm out a percentage of its of licences to other companies not is the opportunity to maximise value licences or sell its interest to only shares the geological risks through monetisation of assets.
associated with exploration activity, but also reduces Tullow's costs.
A farmout or sale of interests could be completed when acquiring a licence, following seismic collection, or during after exploration drilling is completed and commercial quantities of hydrocarbons are found.
OUR ACTIVITIES Our activities are spread across most of 150 FOUR the oil life cycle.
We have an extensive licences in 25 countries, across three core plays in focused geographies annual E&A programme.
We have three regional businesses Tullow is focused on exploration in Africa major development projects underway, Tullow entered five new countries in 2012, and related geological plays in South two in Ghana and one in Uganda.
We adding over 30 licences to our global America and the Atlantic Margins.
currently have key producing assets portfolio of assets.
10 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts BUSINESS REVIEW More information 56 Exploration & Appraisal overview 58 Development & Operations overview 1 60 Operations review PRODUCTION OF OIL & GAS EXPLORATION DRILLING DEVELOPMENT OF DISCOVERIES We drill an initial well to establish the We begin work on a Plan of Development The ultimate goal of any successful presence of oil or gas.
If there is none, PoD once we have confirmed that development is to achieve production or if it will not be commercially viable, the oil discovery we have made is in a safe, environmentally conscientious the well is abandoned.
The PoD involves more and cost effective way.
Operationally it is a significant discovery, we drill a series extensive stakeholder engagement important to maintain the highest levels of appraisal wells and possibly further and must consider environmental, of safety as an operator, with a strong exploration wells to determine the size social and economic and technical regard for the environment and with and quality of the discovery and the operational issues.
These plans are attention to the local communities who extent of the geological structure over approved by governments and regulatory may be affected by our work.
authorities and their implementation is Production can last decades, however carefully monitored.
Making a discovery does not mean that oil all natural resources are finite.
When and gas will be extracted.
The commercial production ceases, facilities are viability of the discovery must be assessed decommissioned and the location before a decision to develop is made.
is remediated and reinstated to its original state.
Monetising a discovery early on When a commercial discovery is Successful developments will creates cash proceeds to reinvest made, Tullow has to decide whether result in oil or gas production in finding more oil through to sell the oil or gas in the ground that can be sold to the market, value transforming wells and or to develop the asset.
generating sales revenue to opening basins.
Cash proceeds or carried interests Following unsuccessful exploration from selling the oil in the ground Non-core producing assets can drilling, other companies with can be reinvested in further be divested and sold to other different expertise or strategies exploration or portfolio operators, generating income may wish to farm-in to the licence, management activities, used to from the sale of these assets.
which reduces Tullows exposure offset future development costs, to risks and costs.
or be distributed to shareholders.
ONE THREE 86 92,000 billion boe E&A resources targeted major development projects in Africa boepd production guidance for 2013 in 2013 In Ghana we continue to progress Tullow currently has producing assets The total net unrisked mean volumes Phase 1A of the Jubilee field and await in 11 countries which provide valuable being targeted during the 2013 E&A approval of the TEN PoD.
We continue revenues to support our exploration programme total around one billion to work with our partners and the activities.
Tullow is operator of the barrels of oil equivalent.
We plan to drill Ugandan Government on the Lake Jubilee field in Ghana, which is the over 40 wells, and 45% of 2013 capital Albert development plan in Uganda.
highest contributor to Tullows production.
expenditure will be allocated to E&A activities.
