OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Results and dividends Shareholders rights The profit on ordinary activities after taxation of the Group The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares for the year ended 31 December 2012 amounted to are as follows: $666.2 million 2011: $689.0 million.
Dividend rights holders of the Companys ordinary shares An interim dividend of Stg 4p 2011: Stg 4p per ordinary share may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends but may not was paid on 4 October 2012.
The Directors recommend a final declare dividends in excess of the amount recommended dividend of Stg 8p 2011: Stg 8p per ordinary share which, by the Directors.
The Directors may also pay interim if approved at the 2013 AGM, will be paid on 16 May 2013 dividends.
No dividend may be paid other than out of profits to shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members available for distribution.
Subject to shareholder approval, on 19 April 2013. payment or satisfaction of a dividend may be made wholly or partly by distribution of specific assets: Subsequent events Voting rights voting at any general meeting is by a show Since the balance sheet date, Tullow has continued to progress of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On a show its exploration, development and business growth strategies.
of hands every shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting and every proxy or corporate In January 2013, Tullow has completed the farm-in announced representative appointed by a shareholder and present in November 2012 to gain a 40% operated interest in the at a general meeting has one vote regardless of the Hyperdynamics Corporations oil and gas exploration licence number of shares held by the shareholder or represented offshore Guinea.
by the proxy or corporate representative.
If a proxy has On 11 December 2012, the Group announced the acquisition been appointed by more than one shareholder and has of 100% of Spring Energy Norway AS Spring, a Norwegian been instructed by one or more of those shareholders to vote exploration company.
The acquisition of Spring added a portfolio for the resolution and by one or more of those shareholders of 28 offshore licences across Norways Continental Shelf in to vote against a particular resolution, the proxy shall have North, Norwegian and Barents Seas, and enables the Group one vote for and one vote against that resolution.
On a poll, to rapidly build a strong platform for future growth in Norway.
every shareholder who is present in person has one vote The transaction had an effective date of 1 September 2012 but for every share held by that shareholder and a proxy has completed on 22 January 2013 and this is therefore the one vote for every share in respect of which he has been acquisition date.
appointed as proxy the deadline for exercising voting rights by proxy is set out in the form of proxy.
On a poll, a corporate Share capital representative may exercise all the powers of the company As at 12 February 2013, the Company had an allotted and fully that has authorised him.
A poll may be demanded by any of paid up share capital of 907,771,903 ordinary shares of 10 pence the following: a the Chairman of the meeting: b at least each with an aggregate nominal value of 90,777,190.30. five shareholders entitled to vote and present in person or by proxy or represented by a duly authorised corporate Substantial shareholdings representative at the meeting: c any shareholder or 1 As at 12 February 2013, the Company had been notified in shareholders present in person or by proxy or represented accordance with the requirements of section 5.1.
2 of the UK by a duly authorised corporate representative and holding Listing Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules shares or being a representative in respect of a holder of of the following significant holdings in the Companys ordinary shares representing in the aggregate not less than oneshare capital.
tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders entitled Shareholder Number of shares % of issued capital to attend and vote at the meeting: or d any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy or represented BlackRock Inc 90,154,669 9.93% by a duly authorised corporate representative and holding Genesis Asset shares or being a representative in respect of a holder of Managers, LLP 46,199,514 5.08% shares conferring a right to attend and vote at the meeting on which there have been paid up sums in the aggregate IFG International equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sums paid Trust Company up on all the shares conferring that right: Limited 38,960,366 4.29% Legal & General Group plc 35,414,975 3.90% 1.
As at 31 December 2012, BlackRock Inc held 98,186,225 shares representing 10.82% of the issued share capital : Prudential plc group of companies held 53,007,299 shares representing 5.84% of the issued share capital and Genesis Asset Managers, LLP had not notified the Company of any interests.
There have been no other changes to the Companys substantial shareholders.
122 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4 US$100 million secured Revolving credit facility agreement Return of capital in the event of the liquidation of the between, among others, the Company and certain Company, after payment of all liabilities and deductions subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, Bank of America, taking priority, the balance of assets available for distribution N. A. HSBC Bank plc, Standard Chartered Bank, Lloyds TSB will be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares Bank plc and Crdit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank according to the amounts paid up on the shares held and the lenders specified therein pursuant to which each by them.
A liquidator may, with the authority of a special lender thereunder may demand repayment of all outstanding resolution, divide among the shareholders the whole or amounts owed by the Company and certain subsidiaries of any part of the Companys assets: or vest the Companys the Company to it under the agreement and any connected assets in whole or in part in trustees upon such trusts for finance document, which amount will become immediately the benefit of shareholders, but no shareholder is compelled due and payable, in the event that any person or group of to accept any property in respect of which there is a liability: persons acting in concert gains control of the Company: Control rights under employee share schemes the US$165 million finance contract in respect of a senior Company operates a number of employee share schemes.
secured Revolving credit facility agreement between, Under some of these arrangements, shares are held by among others, the Company and certain subsidiaries of trustees on behalf of employees.
The employees are not the Company and International Finance Corporation and entitled to exercise directly any voting or other control the lenders specified therein pursuant to which each lender rights.
The trustees will generally vote in accordance with thereunder may demand repayment of all outstanding employees instructions and abstain where no instructions amounts owed by the Company and certain subsidiaries of are received.
Unallocated shares are generally voted at the the Company to it under the agreement and any connected discretion of the trustees: and finance document, which amount will become immediately Restrictions on holding securities there are no restrictions due and payable, in the event that any person or group of under the Companys Articles of Association or under UK law persons acting in concert gains control of the Company: and that either restrict the rights of UK resident shareholders US$500 million secured Revolving credit facility agreement to hold shares or limit the rights of non-resident or foreign between, among others, the Company and certain shareholders to hold or vote the Companys ordinary shares.
subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, Crdit Agricole There are no UK foreign exchange control restrictions Corporate and Investment Bank, Standard Chartered Bank on the payment of dividends to US persons on the Companys and HSBC Bank plc and the lenders specified therein ordinary shares.
pursuant to which each lender thereunder may demand repayment of all outstanding amounts owed by the Company Material agreements containing change of control provisions and certain subsidiaries of the Company to it under the The following significant agreements will, in the event of a agreement and any connected finance document, which change of control of the Company, be affected as follows: amount will become immediately due and payable, in the event that any person or group of persons acting in concert US$3.235 billion or up to US$3.735 billion in the event gains control of the Company.
that the Company exercises its option to increase the commitments by up to an additional US$500 million and Under the terms of each of these agreements, a change of the lenders provide such additional commitments senior control occurs if any person, or group of persons acting in secured Revolving credit facility agreement between, among concert as defined in the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers others, the Company and certain subsidiaries of the gains control of the Company.
Company, BNP Paribas, Bank of America, N. A. HSBC Bank plc, Standard Chartered Bank, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and Contractual or other arrangements Crdit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank and the The Group does not have any contractual or other arrangements lenders specified therein pursuant to which each lender that are essential to the business of the Group as described thereunder may demand repayment of all outstanding by section 417 5 c of the Companies Act 2006. amounts owed by the Company and certain subsidiaries of Directors the Company to it under the agreement and any connected The biographical details of the Directors of the Company finance document, which amount will become immediately at the date of this report are given on pages 90 to 92. due and payable and, in respect of each letter of credit issued under the agreement, full cash cover will be required Details of Directors service agreements and letters immediately, in the event that any person or group of of appointment are set out on page 106 and 107.
Details of persons acting in concert gains control of the Company: the Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company and in the Groups long-term incentive and other share option schemes are set out on pages 111 to 114 in the Directors remuneration report.
com 123 OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED Directors indemnities and insurance cover articles of association or given by its shareholders in general As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more than which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, five years.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the Company may to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006, against also not allot shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to claims from third parties in respect of certain liabilities arising an employee share scheme without first making an offer out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, on a pre-emptive basis to existing shareholders, unless duties and responsibilities as Directors of the Company or any this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the of its subsidiaries.
The Directors are also indemnified against shareholders.
The Company received authority at the last the cost of defending a criminal prosecution or a claim by the Annual General Meeting to allot shares for cash on a non Company, its subsidiaries or a regulator provided that where the pre-emptive basis up to a maximum nominal amount of defence is unsuccessful the Director must repay those defence 4,529,751.
The authority lasts until the earlier of the Annual costs.
The Company also maintains Directors and Officers General Meeting of the Company in 2013 or 30 June 2013: Liability insurance cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
Repurchase of shares subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company may purchase its Conflicts of interest own shares in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
A Director has a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she Any shares that have been bought back may be held as has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, treasury shares or must be cancelled immediately upon or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Group.
The Company does not currently The Board has satisfied itself that there is no compromise have shareholder authority to buy back shares: and to the independence of those Directors who have appointments on the boards of, or relationships with, companies outside the Borrowing powers the net external borrowings of the Group.
The Board requires Directors to declare all appointments Group outstanding at any time shall not exceed an amount and other situations that could result in a possible conflict equal to four times the aggregate of the Groups adjusted of interest and has adopted appropriate procedures to manage capital and reserves calculated in the manner prescribed and, if appropriate, approve any such conflicts.
in Article 105 of the Companys Articles of Association, unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of the Powers of Directors Companys shareholders.
The general powers of the Companys Directors are set out in Article 104 of the Articles of Association of the Company.
Appointment and replacement of Directors It provides that the business of the Company shall be managed The Company shall appoint disregarding Alternate by the Board which may exercise all the powers of the Company Directors no fewer than two and no more than 15 Directors.
whether relating to the management of the business of the The appointment and replacement of Directors may be Company or not.
This power is subject to any limitations made as follows: imposed on the Company by applicable legislation.
It is also limited by the provisions of the Articles of Association of the The shareholders may by ordinary resolution elect any Company and any directions given by special resolution of the person who is willing to act to be a Director: shareholders of the Company which are applicable on the date The Board may elect any person who is willing to act to be that any power is exercised.
Any Director so appointed shall hold office only until the next Annual General Meeting and shall then be Please note the following specific provisions relevant to the eligible for election: exercise of power by the Directors: Each Director is required in terms of the Articles of Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares the holders Association to retire from office at the third Annual General of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under the Meeting after the AGM at which he or she was last elected or Articles of Association of the Company.
However, the ability re-elected although he or she may be re-elected by ordinary of the Directors to cause the Company to issue shares, resolution if eligible and willing.
However, to comply with the securities convertible into shares or rights to shares, principles of best corporate governance, the Board intends otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, that each Director will submit him or her self for re-election is restricted under the Companies Act 2006 which provides on an annual basis: that the directors of a company are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without express The Company may by special resolution remove any authorisation, which may be contained in a companys Director before the expiration of his period of office or may, by ordinary resolution, remove a Director where special notice has been given and the necessary statutory procedures are complied with: and 124 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4 There are a number of other grounds on which a Directors Auditors and disclosure of relevant audit information office may cease, namely voluntary resignation, where all the Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors other Directors being at least three in number request his are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined or her resignation, where he suffers physical or mental by section 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the incapacity, where he or she is absent from meetings of the Companys auditors are unaware and each Director has taken Board without permission of the Board for six consecutive all steps that ought to have been taken to make him or her self months, becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that creditors or is prohibited by law from being a Director.
the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Employees with disabilities A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys Tullow is committed to eliminating discrimination and auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
encouraging diversity amongst its workforce.
Tullows aim is that Annual General Meeting its workforce will be truly representative of all sections of society Your attention is drawn to the Notice of Meeting accompanying and each employee feels respected and able to give their best.
this Annual Report which sets out the resolutions to be Decisions related to recruitment selection, development or proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The meeting will be held promotion are based upon merit and ability to adequately meet at Haberdashers Hall, 18 West Smithfield, London EC1A 9HQ the requirements of the job, and are not influenced by factors on Wednesday 8 May 2013 at 12 noon.
This Directors Report such as gender, marital status, race, ethnic origin, colour, comprising pages 4 to 125 and the information referred to therein nationality, religion, sexual orientation, age, or disability.
Tullow has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: commits to provide equal opportunities for all.
Tullows Code of Business Conduct and Equal Opportunities Policy provide guidelines on fair employment practices and fair treatment.
All employees are helped and encouraged to develop their full potential.
Tullow aims to provide an optimal working Graham Martin environment to suit the needs of all employees, including General Counsel and Company Secretary the needs of employees with disabilities.
For employees who 12 February 2013 become disabled during their time with the Group, Tullow will provide support to best accommodate continuous employment.
Tullows EHS Function actively seeks to keep people safe, whatever their needs.
Charitable and political donations The Group made charitable, social and communityrelated donations during the year totalling $19.9 million 2011: $11.6 million.
In line with Group policy, no donations were made for political purposes.
Corporate responsibility The Group is fully committed to high standards of environmental, health and safety management.
A review, together with an outline of the Groups involvement in the community, is set out in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 74 to 83.
In addition, Tullow publishes annually a separate Corporate Responsibility Report which is available on the Group website: www.
com Supplier payment policy It is Company and Group policy to settle all debts with creditors on a timely basis and in accordance with the terms of credit agreed with each supplier.
The Company had no trade creditors outstanding at 31 December 2012. www.
com 125 12 34 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 OUR OPERATIONS IN UGANDA Tullow Team We have a well-established and completed certified courses 1.
Cathy Adengo experienced team at our office with the TTE Training Group in 2.
Joseph Odong in Kampala and on the shores Middlesbrough, UK.
David Muwonge of Lake Albert that is responsible, Stakeholder Engagement Officers 4.
Vincent Kisembo along with our partners, for and Supervisor in Uganda play 5.
Dave More delivering the next phase of a key role in communicating with 6.
In Uganda, local people, educating about the 7.
Robert Ssemwanga over 88% of our total workforce oil and gas industry, explaining 8.
A number of the opportunities available to 9.
Karen Atugonza graduate employees have them and gaining the necessary 10.
Andy Oliver been given the opportunity for cooperation for our operations 12.
Fatuma Basalirwa additional training and have to take place safely.
5 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 128 Statement of Directors responsibilities 129 Independent auditors report for the Group financial statements 130 Group financial statements 168 Independent auditors report for the Company financial statements 169 Company financial statements 180 Five year financial summary Supplementary Information 181 Commercial reserves and contingent resources summary 182 Licence interests 188 Shareholder information 189 Contact details 190 Index 192 Glossary
