CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CREATING SHARED PROSPERITY Creating Shared Prosperity brings together eight aspects of how we run our business in support of our commitment to ensure host nations benefit from the presence of the oil and gas industry.
In 2012, we made good progress towards this goal.
SOCIAL PERFORMANCE LOCAL CONTENT Our spend on social projects increased by 72% this year.
One An Enterprise Centre was opened in Hoima, Uganda, to of our key investments is the Tullow Group Scholarship Scheme, help support the development of local capacity through which provides scholarships in postgraduate degree, technical business training in finance, marketing, legal and IT, training and vocational studies.
In 2012, scholarships were among other business-related subjects.
Funded by awarded to 90 people across seven African countries.
Tullow and managed by our not-for-profit partner, Traidlinks, it is the first centre Tullow has supported.
9 MILLION FIRST SOCIAL INVESTMENT EXPENDITURE ENTERPRISE CENTRE OPENED PEOPLE ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH & SAFETY ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH & SAFETY Employing nationals from the country Malaria is one of the key risks our In 2012 we achieved a significant we operate in is a core pillar of how we employees and contractors face decrease in CO emissions, largely as create shared prosperity.
It helps us working in African countries.
In 2012 a result of decreased flaring on Jubilee develop committed and motivated we reduced the malaria frequency rate in Ghana where we injected over 80% gas employees, who are strong ambassadors with 0.07 instances of malaria per produced back into the field.
The revised for Tullow and the oil and gas industry 1,000 exposures over the 12-month Tullow Oil Environmental Standard toes, and whose diversity reflects that of the period, representing a 79% reduction re-launched in 2012, requires each local communities we operate in.
relative to 2011. project from 2013 to develop a project flaring strategy for normal steady state production with the goal of eliminating flaring during normal operations.
80% 79 % 62 % LOCAL NATIONALS REDUCTION IN INSTANCES REDUCTION IN EMPLOYED OF MALARIA CO EMISSIONS 74 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY More information 17 Special feature: Clear progress 86 Chairmans introduction to 3 corporate governance Creating Shared Prosperity is both a commitment to ensure under scrutiny because of the distortion oil revenues can our host nations benefit from the presence of oil and gas and a create both to local economies and the political processes dedicated component of our business model.
The eight aspects of host countries.
Revenues from natural resources can and which define how we do this are also integrated across our should have a transformative effect on the economies of business model and strategic priorities.
We are therefore supportive of initiatives commitments in each of these areas ensures we earn and to improve transparency and disclosure as a means of providing maintain our licence to operate.
Each of our Executive Directors a countrys citizens with information to enable them to hold their has direct responsibility for our key CR risks and commitments.
The cornerstone of shared prosperity is to be a successful and That is why we are corporate supporters of the Extractive profitable company.
It enables us to fund exploration-led growth, Industries Transparency Initiative EITI.
In addition, we believe and invest in selective development projects.
Through a solid that publication of our payments to the Government of Ghana, financial performance we can meet our commitments to in line with International Finance Committee IFC requirements, employees and suppliers and generate returns for shareholders.
provides useful information to a wide range of stakeholders.
The industry and governments however, have rightly long been Creating Shared Prosperity Our strategic objective Why its important Financial This is the Groups core strategic priority and Deliver returns to shareholders and providers of capital.
enables us to continue to create and share wealth.
Governance To maintain our good reputation and manage Manage our business ethically and with integrity.
bribery and corruption risk effectively.
Stakeholder engagement The outcomes of stakeholder engagement shapes Engage with and respond to all our stakeholders.
our operating environment and plays a vital role in our continued commercial success.
Environment, Health & Safety To consistently achieve top quartile EHS Keep people safe and minimise our environmental footprint.
People Builds the pool of talent we need to deliver our Create a rewarding, challenging and great place to work.
major development projects and manage our growing portfolio of assets.
Sustainable supply chain Adds value and protects the business through strong Build long-term sustainable supplier relationships.
contracting strategies and competitive markets.
Local content Encourages local participation in the oil industry.
Create real opportunities for local people and local enterprise development.
Social performance Ensures our projects run on time and on budget Manage our business in a way that respects local communities and builds a positive reputation that strengthens and the impact our business has on them.
