OPERATIONS REVIEW SOUTH & EAST AFRICA UNLOCKING POTENTIAL IN SOUTH & EAST AFRICA Tullow considers its South and East Africa region to have great potential for exploration and development.
In 2012, the Group made a significant discovery in Kenya, continued its development plans in Uganda and farmed-in to frontier acreage in Mozambique.
2012 was an important year for Tullow in East Africa.
The SOUTH & EAST AFRICA successful conclusion of Tullows $2.9 billion farm-down of its Regional information 2012 Total Lake Albert Rift Basin interests to CNOOC and Total in February Countries 6 2012 was followed by major basin opening exploration success in Kenya.
In Uganda, Tullow and its partners are working with Licences 16 the Government to decide on the best development plan for the Acreage sq km 139,473 future of the Lake Albert Rift Basin discoveries.
In Kenya, the Total production boepd Ngamia-1 wildcat well made a significant oil discovery and this success has been followed by the discovery of oil at the Twiga Total reserves and resources mmboe 441.6 South-1 well.
The Kudu development was written down in July Sales revenue $million 2012 but announcements by the Government of Namibia in the fourth quarter of 2012 suggest the project may make 2012 investment $million 433 progress in 2013.
Successful E&A wells 16 21 wells 76% Uganda Development wells On 3 February 2012, Tullow signed two Production Sharing Agreements PSAs relating to the Lake Albert Rift Basin with 2013-2015 Regional Business plan the Government of Uganda.
This enabled Tullow and its new Complete exploration programme and progress partners, CNOOC Limited and Total, to complete a farm-down Lake Albert Development Plan in Uganda: of two thirds of Tullows interests in Uganda on 21 February 2012 for a headline consideration of approximately $2.9 billion.
Achieve commercial threshold for development in As a result, all Partners now have a one-third interest in each Kenya and Ethiopia: of the Exploration Areas: Exploration Area-1 EA-1, Exploration Deliver Front End Engineering Design FEED Area-2 EA-2 and the Kingfisher production licence.
Operating in Namibia: and responsibilities within the basin are divided between the Selective high-impact exploration and new ventures Partners: Total operates EA-1 and Tullow operates EA-2.
In the former Exploration Area-3A, CNOOC Limited operates the Kingfisher production licence.
Following completion of the farm-down, the Partners also each held a one-third interest in the Kanywataba prospect area, also located in the former Exploration Area-3A, but in August 2012 this exploration licence expired and the associated PSA terminated.
In March 2011, Tullow was designated by the Ugandan Revenue Authority URA as agent to the transaction between Tullow and Heritage.
This designation required Tullow to pay, as agent on behalf of Heritage, $313 million to the URA.
This sum is equivalent to the Capital Gains Tax that the Ugandan Government believes it is owed by Heritage.
Separately, Ethiopia E Tullow has commenced proceedings against Heritage in the Uganda ED High Court in London to recover this sum under the terms of the Sale and Purchase Agreement with Heritage.
The case is Kampala Kenya E due to be heard in March 2013.
Tanzania E Namibia D Madagascar E Mozambique E Cape Town 64 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts OPERATIONS REVIEW 2 Tullow has also been assessed by the URA for Capital Gains Exploration and appraisal success Tax on the farm-down to CNOOC and Total.
The assessment Country E&A well success in 2012 Seismic activity in 2012 of $473 million is disputed by Tullow.
Following the payment of Ethiopia $142 million to the URA on account being 30% of the assessed amount that Tullow was required to pay under Ugandan law in Kenya 3 3 order to dispute the assessment the case will be heard before Madagascar the Tax Appeals Tribunal in Kampala.
A decision is expected in the second half of the year.
On the advice of leading counsel, the Mozambique Group believes it has a strong case under both international and Tanzania 0 1 Ugandan law and currently views the most probable outcome to Uganda 13 17 be that any liability will be at a similar level to the amount already paid on account.
Seismic activity: Acquisition Processing Airborne Following a hiatus in which the PSAs and farm-down were agreed, a significant appraisal and testing campaign commenced in EA-1 in 2012.
This campaign includes over pay, which is currently under evaluation and re-mapping.
20 appraisal wells, extensive well-testing and 3D seismic A significant amount of outstanding exploration and appraisal acquisition over the course of 2012 and 2013. drilling activity remains in 2013.
In the Tullow-operated EA-2 block, successful appraisal drilling Tullow, CNOOC Limited and Total presented a joint development and testing activities in the Kasamene-Wahrindi and Kigogole plan concept for the Lake Albert Rift Basin to His Excellency Nsoga Ngege Ngara areas continued throughout 2012. the President of Uganda and the Government of Uganda in In the Kanywataba prospect area, in the southern part of the July 2012.
A Committee was then set up by the Government Lake Albert Rift Basin, the Kanywataba-1 exploration well of Uganda comprising representatives of key ministries and operated by CNOOC Limited spudded in May 2012.
However, the three operators to discuss the remaining issues in order the reservoir proved to be water bearing.
This was the last to progress the Lake Albert Rift Basin development plan with exploration well in the southern part of the basin and the a view to harmonising plans for the development during the Kanywataba prospect area exploration licence expired in first half of 2013.
Kenya and Ethiopia Four wildcat exploration wells were drilled in EA-1 up to Tullows acreage in Kenya and Ethiopia includes Blocks 10A, December 2012 to help delimit the ultimate basin potential 10BA, 10BB, 12A, 12B & 13T in Kenya and the South Omo Block ahead of potential relinquishments.
Riwu-1 tested far in Ethiopia which together cover around 100,000 sq km.
Tullow northwestern limits, Raa-1 tested northern extent and Til-1 operates all seven of these blocks and has a 50% interest in tested far northeastern limits did not encounter commercial six of them.
However, the Lyec-1 well encountered oil The K900 rig during drilling operations in Block EA-1, Uganda.
Drill floor of the Weatherford rig during drilling operations on the Paipai -1 well, onshore Kenya.
com 65 OPERATIONS REVIEW SOUTH & EAST AFRICA CONTINUED In July 2012, Tullow completed the acquisition of an additional The discoveries at Ngamia and Twiga South demonstrate that 15% interest in Block 12A, taking its interest in that block to substantial oil generation has occurred in the South Lokichar 65%.
Tullow also has a 15% interest in Block L8, offshore Kenya, Basin, one of more than 10 Tertiary Rift Basins in the Kenyawith an option to increase this equity by a further 5%.
Ethiopia acreage, each of which is similar in size to the Lake Albert Rift Basin in Uganda.
To build up our knowledge of the The onshore acreage covers over 10 Rift Basins in Kenya and natural variance in reservoir performance, and to assess Ethiopia, which have similar characteristics to the Lake Albert deliverability and reserves, a series of flow tests will be Rift Basin, and include a southeast extension of the geologically conducted on both wells.
older Sudan Rift Basins trend.
Exploration drilling in the Kenya Rift Basins commenced in January 2012 with the drilling of the Four flow tests have so far been carried out on the Twiga Ngamia-1 wildcat well in Block 10BB.
The well was drilled to a South-1 well in January and early February 2013 and a fifth test total depth of 2,340 metres and made a significant oil discovery is ongoing.
A cumulative rate of 2,351 bopd was recorded from of over 100 metres of net oil pay, across multiple reservoir zones two separate sands in the Auwerwer formation.
One test flowed within a 1.1 km thick gross oil bearing interval.
naturally without pumping at a maximum flow rate of 1,860 bopd of 37API oil and the other flowed at a rate of 491 bopd using Exploration activity continued with the Twiga South-1 well which a Progressive Cavity Pump PCP.
The final flow test in the spudded in August 2012 and is located, on-trend, 22 km from Auwerwer formation is ongoing using a PCP and we anticipate Ngamia-1 in Block 13T.
In November 2012, the Group announced that the zone will flow over 500 bopd, taking the total combined that the well had encountered 30 metres of net oil pay in the rate to over 2,850 bopd for the well.
Two deeper tests were also Auwerwer formation and an additional tight reservoir rock completed on the tight reservoir rock at the bottom of the well section with hydrocarbon shows over a total gross interval and, as anticipated, both produced at sub-commercial flow rates of 796 metres.
Moveable oil, with an API greater than 30 and reconfirmed the presence of moveable oil.
degrees, was recovered to surface from all sections, during a sampling programme.
These tests provide the first potentially commercial flow rates achieved in Kenya and provide real encouragement for the Ngamia test.
With the conclusion of the Twiga South-1 testing programme, the Weatherford-804 rig will move to Ngamia-1A Rift basins in Kenya and Ethiopia to re-enter the well and perform four flow tests.
These tests N are expected to deliver rates similar to Twiga South-1.
A Full Tensor Gradiometry FTG Gravity Survey has been Turkana Omo West Omo completed across most of the Kenya-Ethiopia licence area and Chew Bahir over 100 leads and prospects have currently been identified.
Three drilling rigs are currently operational along with two Sudan Ethiopia seismic crews.
Given the positive results to date, work is under way to secure further operational capacity to accelerate the exploration and appraisal campaign: this will include a further North Lokichar light rig for flow testing activities, and a 3D seismic capability to appraise the now proven hydrocarbon potential of the Turkwel Anza Lokichar basin.
Twiga South - 1 In 2013, Tullow plans to drill up to 11 exploration and appraisal wells and carry out up to five well tests to fide-risk further basins Ngamia - 1 and to understand the potential scale of the South Lokichar discoveries.
Whilst both the Ngamia and Twiga South discoveries Kaisut Kerio have exceeded expectations and substantially fide-risked further South Lokichar prospects in the South Lokichar Basin, it will require considerably more exploration and appraisal activity to be completed before Uganda the commercial threshold for the basin is achieved.
Kenya Paipai-1 has been drilled to a total depth of 4,255 metres.
Kerio Valley Suguta Light hydrocarbon shows have been encountered while drilling through Lower Cretaceous sands.
We have been unable to obtain samples conventionally due to difficult hole conditions.
The well is now being cased to enable sampling and the measurement 0 150km Nyanza of reservoir properties over a narrow zone of interest.
We plan to evaluate and report on the conclusions drawn from this activity by the end of March 2013.
On completion of operations at Paipai-1 Tullow acreage Basin Oil discovery 66 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts OPERATIONS REVIEW 2 the Sakson PR-5 will mobilise to Kenya Block 10BB to spud the of the project will commence with a target of reaching a final Etuko-1 well in the Lokichar basin.
The well is expected to spud investment decision in the first quarter of 2014.
Although Kudu in the second quarter of 2013. remains written down, this projects status will be reviewed as progress is made.
The Sabisa-1 prospect in the South Omo block in Ethiopia commenced drilling in January 2013.
This well is a high-risk Mozambique wildcat, testing for an entirely new petroleum system in the In August 2012, Tullow farmed into two blocks in the southern undrilled South Omo Basin.
The rig is expected to drill up to part of the Rovuma Basin, Blocks 2 and 5 offshore Mozambique, two further wells in Tullows Ethiopian rift basin acreage operated by Statoil.
Tullows interest is 25%, Statoil retains 65% during 2013. while Empresa Nacional fide Hidrocarbonetos ENH, the national oil and gas company of Mozambique, holds a 10% carried In Block L8, offshore Kenya, the Mbawa-1 well encountered interest.
The blocks are located in a frontier area with a water 52 metres of net gas pay in the shallower primary targets.
This depth varying between 300 and 2,400 metres and covering was the first hydrocarbon discovery, offshore Kenya and clearly 7,800 square kilometres.
The partnership plans to drill two demonstrates a working petroleum system.
The well has been wells in the licence, starting with the Cachalote well which is plugged and abandoned but the results will be instrumental in scheduled to commence drilling in the second quarter of 2013 deciding the next steps on this highly prospective licence.
using the Discoverer Americas rig.
Namibia Madagascar Tullow acquired an interest in the Kudu gas field through Following the completion of a field programme in the first half of the acquisition of Energy Africa in 2004.
Numerous initiatives 2011, 560 km of good quality 2D seismic data was then acquired have been pursued over the intervening years.
The rift basin trend covered by the Petroleum Agreement was signed in October 2011 and a 25- seismic data has already proven successful for light oil in year Production Licence was issued by the Minister of Mines Block 3113, directly to the south.
Based on encouraging data, & Energy in November 2011.
However, in the first half of 2012, Tullows intention is to acquire further seismic and use this data Tullow wrote down its interest in Kudu following the regular to pick potential wildcat well location to commence drilling in six-monthly review of assets.
A farm-out process will commence in early 2013, with the intention of reducing Tullows equity from 100% to 50%.
In late 2012, a Namibian Cabinet resolution indicated its support for Kudu as a strategic energy generation project for Namibia.
Tanzania A Cabinet sub-committee is facilitating further discussions to The Ntorya-1 well commenced drilling in December 2011. solicit the assistance of the World Bank, in an effort to improve Tullow decided not to participate in the final section of the well the project structure and minimise Government exposure.
Tullow, having completed its well obligations meantime, negotiations resumed with NamPower to finalise the in the northern part of the onshore Rovuma Basin without Project Development Agreement and Gas Sales Agreement commercial success, subsequently relinquished its equity heads of terms.
Signature of these agreements is awaiting in the licence and has now exited the country.
NamPower board approval, at which point the FEED stage Contractors on Rig 804 at the Twiga South-1 well, Kenya.
Tractor drilling rigs during seismic operations, Ethiopia.
