CLEAR PROG RESS SPECIAL FEATURE What we want to do is build a business Success will be long-term sustainable Our vision is to be the leading that has an unrivalled competitive value growth for Tullow that delivers global independent exploration position that is differentiated from our substantial returns to shareholders and and production company and peers.
We will do this through having shared prosperity to all our stakeholders.
we have a clear and consistent We recognise that our exploration-led a balanced yet diversified portfolio of exploration-led growth strategy to strategy, the scale of our business and high-impact exploration, selective the dynamic environments within which achieve this.
This special feature developments and material production.
we operate require disciplined and We will fund the growth and development is a performance report of the ongoing strategic attention to continue of our business by cash from operations, progress we have made towards to deliver a robust, well-funded business.
monetisation of assets and access to our strategic priorities in 2012. debt and equity markets.
18 18 T Tull ullow Oil pl ow Oil plc 2012 Annual R c 2012 Annual Report and Ac eport and Acc counts ounts H O W E U W L E A V R E U T N A O E OUR BUSINESS MODEL We create value in two simple ways.
We Our approach to running our business Our business model has two find oil and we sell oil.
We find oil through reflects the most material issues for dimensions aligned to how our high-impact exploration programme, our continued success and delivery of we create value and, equally strategic acquisitions and New Ventures.
These include importantly, how we run We sell oil by farming-down or divesting strong and effective risk management, our business.
at any point in the oil life cycle or by maintaining high standards of developing our discoveries through to governance, transparency and antiproduction.
This generates cash flow for corruption, developing a multi-disciplined investment in our exploration-led growth and diverse entrepreneurial team and strategy and supports a range of funding making a positive and lasting contribution options to ensure we have a strong where we operate.
balance sheet and financial flexibility.
2 Safely manage and deliver all major projects and production operations increasing cash flow and commercial reserves.
2 3 Manage financial and 1 Execute selective highDEVELOPMENT impact Exploration business assets to & OPERATIONS & Appraisal enhance our portfolio, programmes.
replenish upside 1 3 potential and support funding needs.
EXPLORATION FINANCE & & APPRAISAL PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABLE LONG-TERM VALUE GROWTH 7 4 SHARED RISK 7 Nurture long-term 4 Ensure safe PROSPERITY MANAGEMENT relationships with people, procedures local governments, and operations communities and and minimise 6 5 key stakeholders.
& CULTURE & VALUES 6 Build a strong 5 Achieve strong unified team with governance across excellent commercial, all Tullow activities and technical and financial skills continue to build trust and and entrepreneurial flair.
com om 19 19 U R R C B E U W S I W N O E S H S I NDUSTRY LEADING SUCCESS IN EXPLORATION EXPLORATION & APPRAISAL Our strategic priority for E&A is to In 2012, our exploration success ratio We have found oil in four new execute selective high-impact E&A was 74%.
This compares to 74% in 2011, basins in recent years, which is programmes and in 2013 we have an 83% in 2010, 87% in 2009 and 77% in an exceptional success rate and ambitious 40 well campaign planned.
Total resources discovered track record compared with The performance indicators for E&A amounted to 865 mmboe during the our peers.
are exploration success ratio, resource period, mainly in four new oil basins in growth and portfolio renewal and West Africa Ghana, East Africa Uganda high-grading.
and Kenya and South America French Guiana.
Each year we seek to renew our The principal long-term risk associated portfolio by acquiring new acreage in with this area is sustained exploration highly prospective areas and we added failure.
acreage in five new countries in 2012.
20 20 T Tull ullow Oil pl ow Oil plc 2012 Annual R c 2012 Annual Report and Ac eport and Acc counts ounts Our focus is on finding high-value light oil in material commercial quantities and we concentrate on a limited number of geological plays stratigraphic traps, rift basins, salt basins and carbonates where we have proven expertise.
We follow this geology in focused geographies in Africa and the Atlantic Margins.
com om 21 21 M ATERIAL PRODUCTION & OPERATIONAL CASH FLOW DEVELOPMENT & OPERATIONS The principal long-term risk is key D&O is also focused on the early We have transformed our development and or production failure.
commercialisation of our exploration production profile to high-value oil D&O is also responsible for EHS and discoveries to ensure we maximise the and continue to build our offshore security, which is on page 26 of this value of exploration success.
Progress in and onshore operational capability.
this area in 2012 includes the submission of the Plan of Development for TEN in Our strategic priority for D&O is to safely In 2012, the production focus for Tullow Ghana, commercial declaration of the manage and deliver all major projects was the successful and lowest-cost Banda gas project in Mauritania and and production operations, increasing resolution of productivity issues in the steady progress with the partners on cash flow and commercial reserves.
Output is a basin-wide development plan for The performance indicators for D&O now largely back on track and Jubilee the Lake Albert region.
are working interest production and is approaching its full potential.
Group timely delivery of projects.
working interest production is forecast to be 86,000 to 92,000 boepd in 2013.
22 22 T Tull ullow Oil pl ow Oil plc 2012 Annual R c 2012 Annual Report and Ac eport and Acc counts ounts www www.
com om 23 23 WELL FUNDED BA LANCE SHEET & F INANCIAL FLEXIBILITY 24 24 T Tull ullow Oil pl ow Oil plc 2012 Annual R c 2012 Annual Report and Ac eport and Acc counts ounts FINANCE & PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT Our strategic priority for Finance & Key long-term risks are insufficient We have strong operating Portfolio Management is to manage liquidity or inappropriate financial cash flow, low gearing and Tullows financial and business assets strategy, cost and capital discipline, a well-funded balance sheet.
to fund our major E&A programmes oil and gas price volatility and supply We are well placed to fund and selective developments, to replenish chain failure.
our growth strategy and upside potential and to support funding In 2012, Tullow completed the needs for New Ventures and acquisitions.
partial farm-down of assets in Uganda, Finance & Portfolio Management has refinanced $3.5 billion of debt, acquired a wide range of performance indicators Spring Energy of Norway, entered based around capital and cost into five new countries and delivered management, debt profile and capacity, $1.8 billion operating cash flow.
gearing and operating cash flow.
com om 25 25 STRONG & EFFECTIVE R ISK MANAGEMENT P ROTECTS OUR BUSINESS RISK MANAGEMENT Our strategic priority in Risk The key performance indicator for our We take a dynamic, actionManagement is to ensure safe people, strategic priority in Risk Management orientated approach to identify, procedures and operations and to is our new EHS scorecard, which evaluate and mitigate the risks minimise environmental impacts.
While comprises nine leading and lagging we face, turning many into we face a broad range of technical and indicators that are focused on prevention opportunities for our business.
non-technical risks in our activities, rather than redress or remediation after this strategic priority encompasses all an incident.
aspects of how we need to protect our The key long-term risk is an important business, our people and our reputation.
EHS failure or security incident.
This It also ensures that we safeguard the aspect of risk management is closely communities and the environments aligned with and managed by D&O.
In we work within and as a result enables total, Tullow has identified 13 long-term us to develop good, long-term performance risks.
relationships with host governments and business partners.
26 26 T Tull ullow Oil pl ow Oil plc 2012 Annual R c 2012 Annual Report and Ac eport and Acc counts ounts In 2012, the EHS scorecard was 22 out of a potential 27 points.
The main area of non-performance was five small loss of containment incidents.
We also see an opportunity for further improvement in visible EHS leadership throughout Tullow, to drive a consistent top quartile EHS industry performance.
com om 27 27 HI GH STANDARDS OF GOVERNANCE, ANTI-CORRUPTION & TRANSPARENCY 28 28 T Tull ullow Oil pl ow Oil plc 2012 Annual R c 2012 Annual Report and Ac eport and Acc counts ounts GOVERNANCE & VALUES Our strategic priority in Governance & certification, full investigation of any We maintain high standards Values is to achieve strong governance concerns raised and maintaining the of governance and believe across all Tullow activities and to integrity of our systems and governance we have a part to play in continue to build trust and reputation framework.
increasing transparency with all stakeholders.
Oil companies Key risks relate to bribery and corruption, in our activities and have to lead by example and being a supply chain failure and information and good corporate citizen is a necessity, government revenues.
By the end of 2012, over 60% of our For a company like Tullow that has staff had attended Code awareness worked in Africa for decades, we have training, our anti-bribery and corruption a clear supporting role to play in forming programme has been independently the foundations of economic growth assessed and 16 investigations have been and social development, and in completed in relation to 18 complaints.
demonstrating accountability and We also conducted supply chain industry strong ethics.
Key performance indicators are the In addition, several initiatives are under percentage of staff who have attended way to further embed our values Code of Business Conduct training, in our growing organisation to ensure percentage Code of Business Conduct that they are meaningful to our people.
com om 29 29 SKILLED MULTID ISCIPLINARY TEAM FOCUSED ON SUCCESS ORGANISATION & CULTURE Our entrepreneurial culture is part of our competitive advantage and is in the DNA of Tullow.
It is reflected in our values, the way we work and our track record of success.
Our strategic priority in Organisation & Culture is to build a strong unified team with excellent commercial, technical and financial skills and entrepreneurial flair.
This enables us to attract and retain highly skilled people from different cultural backgrounds, in a competitive and tight industry employment market.
The key performance indicators in Organisation & Culture are staff turnover, localisation and diversity.
We also incorporate employee engagement indicators from our global employee and contractor survey, which is conducted every second year.
The key risk associated with this area is loss of key staff and succession planning.
In 2012, our staff turnover was 2.9%, despite a 17% increase in employee numbers during the year.
72% of our new recruits in 2012 were local nationals, demonstrating our strong commitment to building local capacity through our localisation strategy.
We employ 57 different nationalities and 29% of our employees are women.
Approximately 50% of our employees are based in Africa and in total, over 80% of our staff in Africa are local nationals.
30 30 T Tull ullow Oil pl ow Oil plc 2012 Annual R c 2012 Annual Report and Ac eport and Acc counts ounts www www.
com om 31 31 TANGIBLE ECONOMIC & SOCIAL BENEFITS WHERE WE OPERATE CREATING SHARED PROSPERITY In 2012, we made further progress Creating Shared Prosperity is in Creating Shared Prosperity.
our commitment to contribute Highlights include the opening of to economic and social our first Enterprise Centres in Africa, development, in line with increased social investment and local our operations and business content expenditure, the award of 90 scholarships for study in Europe and activities, in host countries.
comprehensive socio-economic Our strategic priority in Creating Shared research undertaken in Ghana.
Prosperity is for Tullow to contribute to ensuring that the success of our industry brings tangible benefits to local people and national economies where we operate.
32 32 T Tull ullow Oil pl ow Oil plc 2012 Annual R c 2012 Annual Report and Ac eport and Acc counts ounts www www.
com om 33 33 U NRIVALLED CO M PETITIVE ADVANTAGE SUSTAINABLE LONG-TERM VALUE GROWTH This means that we can access the We are establishing an unrivalled best exploration acreage available in competitive position which is the market and that year-on-year we are being built on a new type of able to drill just the top 10% of prospects business model for the industry.
within our exploration and appraisal inventory and deliver world-class Today, Tullow has many attractive and exploration success.
This, in turn, important attributes track record, size, generates a wealth of opportunity focus, entrepreneurial culture, offshore to monetise assets across the oil life and onshore operational capability, cycle and builds sustainable long-term funding and a commitment to shared value growth.
Host governments highly value these attributes in decision-making processes around licence awards, qualification as an operator and approval of partnerships or acquisitions.
34 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts
