EXPLORATION & APPRAISAL OVERVIEW COMMERCIAL LIGHT OIL THROUGH CONVENTIONAL EXPLORATION We have had tremendous exploration success in Africa and are following these geological plays throughout the Atlantic Margins.
Tullows exploration strategy is to explore for high-value light oil in commercial quantities, in conventional geological core plays.
Once a discovery is made this valuable asset can be readily monetised by selling oil in the ground, or by selectively developing oil for production revenues.
Focusing on oil rather than gas delivers a much higher-value reward, but for a higher technical risk.
We mitigate these risks through the rigorous application of geoscience by a highly qualified inter-disciplinary team and through the use of innovative exploration technologies.
We have had tremendous exploration success in Africa and are following these geological plays throughout the Atlantic Margins.
A simple, repeatable, scalable strategy that delivers Our focus on Africa and the Atlantic Margins was reflected in our 2012 E&A programme and our portfolio management activities during the year, which high-graded the prospectivity of our exploration portfolio.
We had a 74% exploration success ratio in 2012, building on our strong track record of oil discoveries.
The highlight of the year was the basin opening discovery in Kenya.
This discovery has also benefited our activities in Uganda with the prospect of building-up a regional resource hub in East Africa.
Our New Venture activity combined farm-ins, licence awards and an acquisition.
This activity has given us access to an exciting new acreage position in five countries, Angus McCoss Exploration Director which enhances both our existing portfolio of assets and our future exploration prospects.
R eturns for Tullow can be realised at A disciplined approach We continuously replenish, high-grade and rejuvenate our any point throughout the life cycle of portfolio of geological plays and prospects.
Every quarter the a licence and the decision is based inventory gets ranked by Tullows Global Exploration Leadership Team GELT, in collaboration with experts from Tullows on optimising our portfolio and commercial, corporate planning, EHS, development and maximising value.
We typically drill the top 10% of the inventory in any one year and some leads and prospects will be removed to make way for higher-value, higher-quality opportunities.
Our licences also have regular contractual commitments to relinquish acreage.
All of these factors mean that the inventory needs proactive and ongoing management, as well as frequent additions of new prospective acreage.
We also prepare very thoroughly before acquiring new acreage.
We gather detailed Watch Angus video interview online technical and competitive information which is combined with to find out more about Tullows local and regional data to rank and compare the many basins exploration strategy and within Africa and the Atlantic.
In addition, we assess the campaign approach.
non-technical risks, including EHS, before making recommendations to the Board.
com ARA2012 E&A overview 56 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts OPERATIONS REVIEW More information 10 What we do 14 Chief Executives review 2 38 Financial review Our e xploration track record together with our ability to work across an extensive and high-quality portfolio offsets risk and is a significant competitive advantage.
An operator with high-equity positions significant programme of follow-up prospects to drill-out.
When trying to open new basins and access under-explored Such an event triggers another important business opportunity areas, our preference is to initially enter as the operator with to monetise not just the discovery but also the prospectivity a high-equity position.
This approach allows us to set up the that has been unlocked by the success.
right exploration and business strategies.
We then progress Realising value at any point in the life cycle into what we call the incubation phase.
During this phase the Where we choose to retain and develop the asset, exploration exploration opportunity is matured through the acquisition and activity continues through drilling bold step-out and exploratory interpretation of geophysical and geological data.
This informs appraisal wells to help delineate the limits of the fields.
Once our decision making, and the discussion around it, which will discoveries have been delineated, appraised and tested oil, range between exiting the acreage through to building it a major decision point is reached for Tullow.
We either make quickly into one of our core campaigns.
a final investment decision to sanction a selective development Strategic partnerships in core campaigns or we decide to sell all, or part, of the oil in the ground.
Once we have decided to ramp up exploration activity we will We review each of these exploration and appraisal events consider bringing in a strategic partner for the core campaign.
considering the value, risk, remaining upside potential and Bringing in a strategic partner allows us to share the risks the practical development and production options.
Once all and to leverage complementary capabilities.
This triggers commercial options have been evaluated, a decision based an opportunity for Tullow to realise value from the incubation on maximising value and optimising Tullows portfolio is taken.
and acreage building phase as we can earn cash for past costs, This clearly demonstrates that value for Tullow can be realised gain a carry of our ongoing costs or gain agreed bonuses for at any point throughout the life cycle of a licence.
Monetising prospectivity that we unlock A wildcat well discovery, which is a successful exploration well drilled in an area not known to have oil, is a significant event.
A successful wildcat well further increases the value of the Norwegian Continental Shelf We are commencing our first exploration campaign, particularly if it opens a new basin or exploration campaign offshore proprietary geological play for Tullow.
Due to the way we build Norway in 2013 material acreage positions, a discovery usually sets up a North Atlantic West African Transform FOCUSED CAMPAIGNS IN 2013 Margin Expanding westwards from Ghana with a particular Central Atlantic We manage exploration risk by running parallel focus on Cte dIvoire Margin Initiating a major new exploration exploration campaigns across a spread of basins campaign in Mauritania and countries.
Whilst we aim for every campaign Central Atlantic East African Rift Basins to succeed, the low chance of success of individual High-impact programmes planned in Kenya and Ethiopia wells in frontier areas means that working across Guyanas Transform an extensive and high quality portfolio offsets risk Margin Following-up on initial success in Equatorial Atlantic and is a significant competitive advantage.
This French Guiana spread of risk and the breadth and depth of our portfolio can be seen in our planned 2013 exploration campaign and activity.
South Atlantic East African Transform Margin Basin-opening campaign to commence in Mozambique www.
