MARKET OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING THE INDUSTRY IN WHICH WE OPERATE In 2012 the market environment for our industry continued to be framed by global economic, political and demand uncertainty but, despite fluctuations throughout the year, oil prices and equity markets remained broadly unchanged by year-end.
An uncertain economic and political world Changing competitive landscape 2012 was characterised by uncertainty driven by a mixed set of East Africa became a competitive centre of focus in 2012 economic indicators and geo-political circumstances around the following a basin-opening oil discovery by Tullow in Kenya globe.
In the Euro-zone, the fiscal crisis continued and a doubleand major gas finds offshore Mozambique and Tanzania by dip recession threatened the UK and other major European other operators.
Licence bid rounds globally have also become economies.
Economic growth began to slow moderately in China, increasingly competitive, particularly in South America where which impacted a fragile global economy.
In the US, despite being bid rounds in Uruguay and Brazil were heavily oversubscribed 1 overshadowed by the fiscal cliff, a slow and steady economic following Tullows success in 2011 off French Guiana.
Global economic uncertainty was increased interest and competition, we had a busy year for compounded by geo-political unrest around the world during business development and portfolio management.
The Arab Spring which began in late 2010 extended into we concluded the $2.9 billion farm-down in Uganda and entered 2012, most notably the ongoing civil war in Syria, naval exercises five new countries including the acquisition of Spring Energy off Iran and increased tension between Israel and Palestine.
Volatile equity markets Increased investment and costs across the industry There was a decrease in equity trading volumes in 2012, In 2012, upstream development capital outlay was approximately 2 particularly in the second half of the year, as cautious investors $550 billion and high levels of investment in the industry are waited for clearer macro-economic indicators.
The FTSE 100, likely to continue, in line with the medium-term prospects for 2 of which Tullow is a constituent, was volatile as it tracked major the world economy.
Demand for rigs and costs in the industry events around the globe.
By 31 December 2012 it was up 5.8 %, increased between 10-25%.
Cost inflation was most evident in compared with the 2011 year-end.
The FTSE oil and gas sector Australia, Norway, Canadian Oil sands and global deepwater.
was one of the worst performing, down 11.8% at the year-end Onshore rig demand was driven by the growth in complex and ranking 35th out of the 38 FTSE 350 sectors overall.
This was conventional drilling and the development of unconventional mainly due to the lack of major global exploration advances in reserves.
Offshore rig demand has been sustained by the price 2012, reflecting the deferral of investment in recent years by of Brent.
This high demand was also reflected in the challenge major oil companies, which caused a state of inertia in the of hiring appropriately experienced and skilled technical staff industry.
The most notable exploration successes in 2012 were across the industry.
Fortunately, Tullow continues to attract and in East Africa, including the basin-opening onshore oil discovery retain high-quality employees.
Staff turnover in 2012 was 2.9% in Kenya by Tullow.
Tullows share price ended the year at 12.61, down 10% compared with the year-end share price of 2011.
Equity markets Fluctuating oil prices and shifting demand drivers This graph shows the FTSE 100 throughout 2012 and how Tullow Brent crude started the year at $102.7 bbl and decreased and the oil and gas sector performed compared to the overall approximately 11% in the first six months of the year, reaching a FTSE 100. low of $90 bbl.
Oil price recovered over the course of the second half of 2012 to $109.9 bbl.
While the drop in oil price in the first 120 half was driven by doubt around economic growth, in the second half the recovery in price was motivated by heightened political 110 risk in key producing countries.
Realised oil price after hedging for Tullow in 2012 was $108.0 bbl, consistent with 2011 levels.
100 Overall, global oil demand grew marginally in 2012 from 88.7 million barrels a day to 89.8 million barrels a day.
A complex combination of abnormally high levels of global economic and 90 geo-political uncertainty is making the difficult job of forecasting oil demand and pricing even trickier.
At present, oil demand 80 growth is expected to be slow in 2013, while oil price forecasts are currently very divergent.
This is despite an outlook for steady supply underpinned by spare production capacity.
Tullow FTSE 100 FTSE 350 Oil & Gas 54 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts Jan Feb March April May June July Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec OPERATIONS REVIEW More information 14 Chief Executives review 44 Risk management 2 60 Operations review LONG-TERM RIG CONTRACTS and the Groups total workforce grew by 15%.
In 2012, Tullow has a long-term for our land-based East Tullow invested $1.9 billion capital expenditure in exploration, contract on the Seadrill West Africa portfolio.
appraisal, development and production activities.
Leo, which will be used for In addition, we will be looking operated activities in Ghana, Additional industry regulation to secure extra capacity for Cte dIvoire and Mauritania.
commencement in early 2014, Regulation of the oil and gas industry continues to increase.
Norway is covered by prior rig both to sustain our active The European Parliament is considering laws obliging companies commitments made by Spring exploration and appraisal to list all payments to governments, whether covered by Energy.
We are tendering to drilling programming and for confidentiality or not.
This mirrors the potential effect of the secure longer-term contracts the Guinea and Suriname areas.
USAs 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, which required the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC to draw up transparency rules for The c ontract for the Seadrill West Leo extractive industries.
An agreement on the extended disclosure obligations is ongoing.
Regulation in nascent oil and gas deepwater rig was driven by the industries is also developing as national parliaments, such as totality of our work programmes in in Kenya and Uganda, consider new laws.
In addition, the effects of the UKs 2010 Bribery Act continue to have an impact globally, West Africa.
This allowed us to adopt as energy companies implement rigorous internal procedures a long-term contracting strategy and work with host governments and suppliers to stamp out and to secure a five-year deal that corruption in an industry far more exposed to this risk than most other kinds of business.
In 2012, we made good progress optimises rig capacity utilisation in enhancing our anti-bribery and corruption programme across and achieves valuable efficiencies the Group and to date more than 60% of our employees have attended our Code of Business Conduct awareness training.
in a highly competitive rig market.
The fiscal cliff is the deadline put in place in 2011 to force political David Mooney Head of Supply Chain agreement on a 10-year federal US budget.
From Woods Mackenzie: Upstream Capital Spending how high can it go?, November 2012.
Demand for oil mmbo Oil and Gas prices This graph shows the global demand for oil This graph shows the market oil price over five years, as well over the past five years.
as Tullows realised oil and gas price for the same period.
