CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED LOCAL CONTENT 2012 HIGHLIGHTS Launch of the Enterprise Centre in Hoima, Uganda.
Tullows local content strategy supports local companies to enter the oil industrys supply chain.
Our mission is to maintain ain competitive advantage by making a real contribution to sustainable economic growth.
We work with local people and d businesses, building their capacity to provide competitive local al Visit: www Visit: www.
com su om supplier c pplier centr entre e goods, services and skills to international standards.
This in Over 1,000 companies have registered via the Supplier Centre, since its turn helps local companies to understand our contract criteria.
The Centre provides information on the safe working We also stipulate international suppliers should partner with conditions, human rights, ethical and environmentally responsible business practices we expect of all our suppliers.
Through this centre we aim to local suppliers where possible.
For Tullow, it helps us to drive up standards and share best practice by extending our high levels of better manage risk and cost by creating a good strong local international governance throughout our supply chain and to our industry competitive supply base.
It also helps to reduce supply chain partners.
Our actions, from our supplier criteria and contract strategies failure and environmental impacts.
to industry-leading supplier development programmes, demonstrate this commitment.
AGRI-SUPPLY REMOTE CHAIN MEDICAL SUPPORT TRAINING The Agri-supply chain camps.
Through our contract By building the capacity and our Ugandan EHS and local programme in Hoima, Uganda strategy, we have ensured local skills of local people, we content teams worked with is an example of a sustainable catering companies are ensure the benefits of our Frontier Medex, our remote supply chain in action.
sourcing their produce through industry have effects that site health services provider, to Partnering with Traidlinks, these local farmers.
We are are longer-lasting than the provide a training programme a not-for-profit specialist now able to buy local produce, presence of any one single oil to qualify Ugandan graduates in enterprise and market reducing the need to transport company.
In Uganda, Tullow in Advanced Life Support development, we set out to food in from miles away, and established primary health Services.
Following an build capacity and improve ensuring a ready supply of care facilities in its camps to extensive development the produce quality among quality food for our camps.
provide emergency medical programme, all Tullow fields the local farming community.
Over 1,000 local people are support to company operations are now run by highly trained Working closely with farmers, now supporting the growing in the field.
Medical support Ugandan doctors, employed we helped them move from and harvesting of crops for services operated from the by our contractors.
Through a subsistence livelihood to Tullow camps.
In addition, Lake Albert Basin were our sponsorship, training commercial production, together with Traidlinks, contracted to an international and development of local leveraging the three growing we have helped identify new medical company, run by Ugandans, Tullow has created seasons a year and ultimately markets for the farmers expatriate medical staff.
As a pool of expertise that is producing food for their own which include international part of our commitment to sustainable and applicable markets and Tullows Ugandan and local supermarkets.
develop Ugandan personnel, beyond Tullows needs.
82 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts
