Senior management Senior management biographies In addition to ABGs Executive Directors listed on the previous page, the Senior Leadership Team includes the following: Marco Zolezzi, age 57 Peter Spora, age 43 Andrew Wray, age 49 Chief Operating Officer Vice President, Exploration Head of Corporate Development andInvestor Relations Skill and Experience: Mr Zolezzi was previously Skill and Experience: Mr Spora was previously employed as Director of Technical Services for employed by Barrick, where he served as Skill and Experience: Mr Wray was previously Barricks Australia Pacific Region.
Prior to that, Principal Geologist, Africa, from 2006 to 2008 employed by JP Morgan Cazenove, where he Mr Zolezzi held a number of senior project roles and Exploration Manager, Africa, from 2008 to was a Director in the Corporate Finance team.
in the industry, including five years with Newcrest 2010.
Mr Spora has over 18 years of experience Mr Wray has over 14 years of experience in Mining, where he was General Manager at the as a geologist in Australia and Africa.
He holds advising a range of mining and other companies Telfer Mine, taking it from the project stage aBachelor of Applied Science in Geology in their capital-raising activities and in other through to full production, as well as 13 years Degree from the University of Technology, strategic objectives.
Prior to joining JP Morgan, with WMC Resources in a number of senior Sydney, Australia.
He is a member of the Mr Wray worked for the Kuwait Investment operational and technical roles.
In total, Mr Australian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy Office in London, dealing with their portfolio of Zolezzi has over 30 years of experience in AusIMM, a member of the Tanzanian investments in Spain.
Mr Wray holds a Bachelor complex open pit and underground operations Chamber of Minerals and Energy, a member of of Arts Honours Degree in Modern Languages in Australia and South Africa, with a variety of the Kenyan Chamber of Mines, and is a member from University College London.
operational, technical and project management of the Society of Economic Geologists.
In addition to Diplomas in Mining and Peter Geleta, age 49 Mechanical Engineering from Witwatersrand Katrina White, age 37 Vice President Organisational Institute of Technology in South Africa, Mr General Counsel and Company Secretary Zolezzi holds Bachelor Degrees in Applied Effectiveness Science, Mechanical from the New South Wales Skill and Experience: Ms White was previously Skill and Experience: Mr Geleta has extensive Institute of Technology and in Applied Science, employed by Barrick, where she served as experience on the African continent, having Mining from the Western Australian Institute Regional General Counsel and Company worked across a number of African countries ofTechnology.
Secretary for Barrick Australia Africa, invarious operational and corporate roles.
He subsequently Barrick Australia Pacific from joined Barrick in 2007, holding a number of 2005 to 2010.
Prior to joining Barrick, Ms White roles across the organisation, including Deodatus Mwanyika, age 50 was employed as a senior associate at Hunt & Organisational Effectiveness Director for Vice President, Corporate Affairs Humphry in Australia.
Ms White has an Barrick Africa, Human Resources Director for Skill and Experience: Mr Mwanyika was Honours Degree in Law from the University of the Australia Pacific Region and General previously employed by Barrick, which he Western Australia.
She is admitted to practice Manager for Barricks Cowal Gold Mine in New joined in 1999 as a Legal Consultant and where asa barrister and solicitor in Western Australia, South Wales.
Before joining Barrick, Mr Geleta he occupied various managerial positions over the High Court of Australia and the Federal worked for AngloGold Ashanti for 25 years, the last 12 years, culminating in his appointment Court of Australia.
where he held a number of roles including Head in 2008 as Executive General Manager, of Human Resources and Sustainability for Tanzania.
Mr Mwanyika holds a Bachelor of AngloGold Ashantis Africa Operations and Law Degree with Honours from the University General Manager of the Navachab Mine in of Dar es Salaam and a Masters in Law from the Namibia.
Mr Geleta holds an Executive MBA University of Cambridge.
Mr Mwanyika is a qualification from the University of Cape Town.
member of the Tanganyika Law Society and the East African Law Society.
