Board of Directors Director biographies 1.
Derek Pannell, age 66 Acting Chairman of the Board Skill and Experience: For the reporting period, Mr Pannell was Acting Chairman of the Board.
Mr Pannell is ametallurgical engineer with over 40 years of experience in the mining and metals industry.
He is former Chair of the Mining Association of Canada and a Board member of the International Council on Mining and Metals.
He holds several other Board appointments, including Agrium Inc, and is Chairman of the 3.
Board of Directors of Brookfield Infrastructure Partners LP.
Mr Pannell was formerly President, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Executive Officer of Noranda Inc, and Falconbridge Ltd. Mr Pannell holds a Bachelor of Science Degree in Engineering from Imperial College London, England, and is a professional engineer registered in Quebec and Peru.
He is also an Associate of the Royal School of Mines and a Fellow of the Canadian Academy of Engineers.
Greg Hawkins, age 44 Chief Executive Officer Skill and Experience: Mr Hawkins is the Chief Executive Officer of the ABG Group.
He was previously employed by Barrick, where since June 2006 he served as Chief Financial Officer ofthe Australia Pacific Business Unit.
From 1999 to 2006, Mr Hawkins served in finance management roles for Barrick Australia Africa and for Homestake Mining before its acquisition 7.
Mr Hawkins also previously held roles as the Finance Manager for Normandy Mining and as an Audit Manager for Deloitte.
He holds a Bachelor of Commerce Degree from the University of Western Australia.
He is a Chartered Accountant and a member of the Australian Institute of Company Directors.
Kevin Jennings, age 43 Chief Financial Officer 9.
Skill and Experience: For the reporting period, Mr Jennings was the Chief Financial Officer of the ABG Group.
He was previously employed by Barrick, where he served from August 2009 as Vice-President of Corporate Development.
Mr Jennings has held avariety of senior management positions in the mining industry over the last 14 years, including Director, Business Optimisation at Xstrata plc, Director, Strategic Business Analysis at Falconbridge Ltd, 56 www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information and Chief Financial Officer atAmerican Racing Manager for .
David Hodgson, age 65 Equipment Inc, a wholly owned subsidiary of holdsa Bachelor of Arts Degree in Accountancy Independent Non-Executive Director Falconbridge.
Mr Jennings holds a Bachelor of from Strathclyde University, is a member of Arts Degree in Economics from the University theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Skill and Experience: Mr Hodgson is an of Western Ontario and aBachelor of Scotland and is a Chartered Financial Analyst independent Non-Executive Director of the Administrative Studies, with Honours in Charterholder.
He was previously employed by Accounting from York University.
He is a theAnglo American and fide Beers group of Chartered Accountant.
companies for over 30 years and from 9.
Rick McCreary, age 50 November 2001 through to his retirement in Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Directors April 2005, he served as the Chief Operating Skill and Experience: Mr McCreary is a Officer of AngloGold Ashanti.
He has also held Non-Executive Director of the ABG Group and 4.
Andre Falzon, age 58 a number of previous non-executive public Senior Vice President, Corporate Development company directorships at Auryx Gold Mines, Independent Non-Executive Director of Barrick.
He joined Barrick in April 2011 and Moto Gold Mines Limited, Uranium One Inc Skill and Experience: Mr Falzon is an has overall responsibility for Barricks global and Goliath Gold Mining Limited.
Mr Hodgson independent Non-Executive Director of the Corporate Development activities, including is currently a non-executive director of Montero ABG Group.
He is a senior financial executive Corporate Development, Evaluations and Mining, a rare earth company.
Mr Hodgson with over 25 years of financial and management Special Projects.
Prior to joining Barrick, Mr holds a BSc in Civil Engineering from the experience within the mining industry, McCreary worked in mining investment University of Witwatersrand in Johannesburg, including a period as Vice President and banking for over 14 years culminating as Head South Africa, a BSc Mining Honours from the Controller at Barrick between 1994 and 2006. of CIBC World Markets Global Mining Royal School of Mines in London, and B Comm He is a Director of Aurizon Mines Ltd.
He holds investment banking group.
Prior to his career in majors in Economics and Business Economics a Bachelor of Commerce Degree from the mining investment banking, he worked in the from UNISA in South Africa.
He also attended University of Toronto, Canada and is a CGA Noranda Falconbridge organisation for 8 years an Advanced Management Program at Harvard Canada and a CPA, CA Canada.
in various areas, including metals marketing, University in the USA.
geophysics, geological engineering and technology development.
Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu, age 70 7.
A. in Finance and Strategy from McGill Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director University, and a M. Sc.
Hons in Geological Engineering from Queens University.
Skill and Experience: Ambassador Mwapachu is Skill and Experience: Mr Kenyon is an an independent Non-Executive Director of the independent Non-Executive Director of the ABG Group.
Ambassador Mwapachu has held ABG Group.
Mr Kenyon has more than 35 years 10.
Kelvin Dushnisky, age 49 anumber of senior positions in both the public of experience in the mining industry and is a Non-Executive Director and private sector of Tanzania and was geologist by training.
He is Executive Chairman appointed as Tanzanias Ambassador to France Skill and Experience: Mr Dushnisky is a of the Board of Directors at Detour Gold from 2002 to 2006.
He was the founding Non-Executive Director of the ABG Group and Corporation and Chairman of the Board of Secretary General of the Chamber of Senior Executive Vice President of Barrick.
Mr Directors at Troon Ventures Ltd.
He has Commerce, Industry and Agriculture and has Dushnisky joined the legal department of previously been President and Chief Executive served as Chairman of the Confederation of Barrick in April 2002 and presently has global Officer at both Canico Resource Corp and Tanzania Industries and Chairman of the East responsibility for the Government Relations, Sutton Resources Ltd, and a Director of African Business Council.
He has played a Permitting and Approvals, Corporate Cumberland Resources Ltd.
He holds a Master leading role in the regional integration of East Responsibility, Investor Relations and of Science Geology Degree from the University Africa, holding the position of Secretary General Communications functions.
Prior to joining of Alberta in Canada.
He was also the recipient of the East African Community prior to his Barrick, Mr Dushnisky was a Managing of the 2005 Developer of the Year award from appointment to the Board and currently holds Director at Altara Securities Inc. and has also the Prospector and Developers Association of the position of Global President of the Society served as Vice President of Sutton Resources Canada in recognition of his accomplishments.
Ambassador Limited and Vice Chair, General Counsel and Mwapachu holds a Bachelor of Laws Degree afounding Director of EuroZinc Mining with Honours from the University of East 8.
He has served on the boards of Africa, a post graduate Degree in International Non-Executive Director directors of a number of publicly listed Law from the Indian Academy, Doctorates in companies and trade associations.
Skill and Experience: Mr Galbraith is a Literature Honoris Causa from the University Dushnisky holds a B. Sc.
degree from Non-Executive Director of the ABG Group.
of Dar es Salaam, and Political Sciences theUniversity of Manitoba and M. Sc.
and J. D. Hehas been employed by Barrick since August Honoris Causa from the National University degrees from the University of British Columbia.
2000 in treasury and finance functions, and ofRwanda.
iscurrently Managing Director of Barrick International Barbados Corporation.
Mr Galbraith previously held the role of Audit Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57
