Directors report An overview of Directors appointments for the duration of the year under ABG is incorporated and registered as a public limited company review is provided below: in England and Wales.
Its headquarters are in London and it is Date of appointment Date of termination listed on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange and Aaron Regent 15 February 2010 6 June 2012 the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange under the symbol ABG.
Greg Hawkins 15 February 2010 N A Principal activities Kevin Jennings 12 January 2010 N A ABG is Tanzanias largest gold producer and one of the five largest gold James Cross 15 February 2010 8 March 2012 producers in Africa.
We have four producing mines, all located in Andre Falzon 15 February 2010 N A Northwest Tanzania, and several exploration projects at various stages of Stephen Galbraith 19 January 2010 N A development.
We have a high quality asset base, solid growth opportunities David Hodgson 19 October 2011 N A and a clear strategy to optimise, expand and grow our business.
Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu 14 July 2011 N A Our four mines are: Michael Kenyon 15 February 2010 N A Derek Pannell 15 February 2010 N A r Bulyanhulu: an underground gold mine, which began production in Rick McCreary 19 July 2012 N A April 2001: Kelvin Dushnisky 6 June 2012 N A r Buzwagi: an open pit gold mine, which began production in May 2009: r North Mara: an open pit gold mine consisting of three open pit deposits, Save for Mr Pannell and Mr Jennings, all Directors appointed as at year which began production in April 2002: and end will put themselves forward for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of Director re-election requirements are provided on page 62. r Tulawaka: an open pit gold mine, which has transitioned to an underground operation.
It began production in June 2005 and is Directors indemnity insurance scheduled to close in 2013.
In accordance with ABGs articles of association and to the extent Further details of ABG Groups activities are provided in the Overview and permitted by the Companies Act 2006, ABG may indemnify its Directors Performance sections of this report.
Details of ABGs registered office and out of its own funds to cover liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
business locations are provided on the back cover.
The relevant provision contained in the Articles can be categorised as a qualifying third party indemnity provision under the Companies Act 2006.
ABG has adopted Directors and Officers liability insurance.
This Business review provides insurance cover for any claim brought against Directors or The requirements of the business review are contained in the Overview officers for wrongful acts in connection with their positions.
The insurance and Performance sections of this report.
provided does not extend to claims arising from fraud or dishonesty and An overview of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the ABG itdoes not provide cover for civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed Group is provided as part of the risk management section of this report.
See the corporate responsibility section for information on Directors interests environmental, employee, social and community matters.
Details of the interests of Directors and their connected persons in ABGs shares or in related derivatives or financial instruments are outlined in the All of the matters above are incorporated by reference in this Directors Remuneration Report.
Employee share schemes Directors Details of ABGs employee share plans and long-term incentive plans are The names and biographies of the Directors serving as at 31 December contained on pages 80 and 81.
2012 are provided on pages 56 and 57.
Employees Information relating to employees is contained on page 115 in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements and the corporate responsibility section.
ABG abides by anti-discrimination legislation in all jurisdictions in which it operates.
These principles are also set out in ABGs Business Management Framework and Code of Conduct, which set out the framework in which ABG expects all staff to operate.
This is supported by anti-discrimination standards and training in offices and mine sites which identify the required standards and provide mechanisms to raise any concerns with management.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dividends Major shareholdings An interim dividend of US4.0 cents per share was paid to shareholders The following persons as at 1 March 2013 are interested in the following on24 September 2012.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final percentages of ABGs issued ordinary share capital.
dividend of US12.3 cents per Ordinary Share.
This represents a total Percentage of Number of issued share dividend of US16.3 cents for 2012.
Subject to the shareholders approving Name shares capital this recommendation at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 24 Barrick International Barbados Corp. 179,609,530 43.80 May 2013 to shareholders on the register at 3 May 2013.
The ex-dividend PDG Bank Limited 37,378,450 9.11 date is 1 May 2013.
ABG will declare the final dividend in US dollars.
Unless a shareholder has elected or elects to receive dividends in US PDG Sona Cayman Ltd. 86,258,970 21.03 dollars, dividends will be paid in pounds sterling with the US dollar Total 303,246,950 73.94 amount being converted into pounds sterling at exchange rates prevailing on or around 8 May 2013.
Currency elections must be made by return of All of these shareholders are members of the Barrick Group.
The deadline for the return of currency election forms is 7 May 2013.
Relationship with major shareholder An overview of ABGs relationship with Barrick and the relationship Annual General Meeting agreement that has been executed in respect of their ongoing relationship ABGs AGM will be held on 18 April 2013 at 2.00pm UK Time.
The is provided on page 63. notice of AGM and all accompanying details of business to be conducted there are included in a separate document accompanying this report: they Political and charitable donations are also available on ABGs website: www.
ABG does not make political donations.
Information as regards ABGs social and community contributions for the year is provided on pages 44 The right of a shareholder to participate in the business of the AGM shall and 45 and as part of our Financal review.
include without limitation the right to speak, vote on a show of hands, voteon a poll, be represented by a proxy and have access to all documents Creditor payment policy which are required by the Companies Act 2006 or the articles of It is ABG policy to settle all debts with creditors on a timely basis and association will be made available to the meeting.
inaccordance with terms and conditions agreed in advance with each creditor.
Further details on trade creditors are provided on page 128 Share capital inNote 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
As at 31 December 2012, ABGs issued share capital comprised 410,085,499 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each.
The voting rights of all Suppliers ABG shares are identical, with each share carrying the right to one vote.
It is ABGs policy that, subject to compliance with trading terms by the ABG holds no Ordinary Shares in Treasury and does not have any class of supplier, payments are made in accordance with terms and conditions share other than its Ordinary Shares.
Further details on voting rights and agreed in advance with the supplier.
rights relating to the transfer of shares are provided below.
As at 31 December 2012 the ABG Group had an average of 59 creditor ABGs articles of association provide the authority for ABG to purchase its days compared to 58 in 2011. own shares including any redeemable preference shares, provided that it complies with any applicable requirements contained in the Companies Policy on derivatives, financial instruments and financial Act 2006, the CREST regulations or any other applicable law.
As part of resolutions passed at the 2013 AGM, ABG obtained shareholder approval risk management to make market purchases of up to 41,008,550 of its Ordinary Shares, ABGs policies on financial risk management, derivatives, financial equivalent to 10%, of the issued share capital at the time of approval.
The instruments and information on its exposures to foreign currency, authority was granted subject to stated upper and lower limits in accordance commodity prices, credit, equity, liquidity and interest rates can be found with Listing Rule requirements and expires at the forthcoming AGM.
The in Notes 2, 25 and 29 to the consolidated financial statements contained authority was not exercised during the year under review.
An equivalent on pages 98 to 138 of this report.
shareholder resolution will be sought as a matter of ordinary business at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of ABGs issued share capital and any movements during the year are included on page 126 in Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 71 Directors report continued allcapital and operating costs associated with the Tulawaka mine are Material agreements containing change of control provisions funded by PGI and MDN on a 70:30 basis, and that PGI is contractually The Directors consider the following as material agreements and obligated to pay MDN an amount equal to 30% of the net cash arrangements for ABGs business and operations, which contain provisions generated by the Tulawaka mine, less any applicable withholding.
which alter or terminate on a change of control of ABG: r Mineral Development Agreements: each ABG Group operating mine r Services Agreement: as part of its IPO preparations, ABG entered into has a Mineral Development Agreement MDA with the Tanzanian aservices agreement with Barrick under which Barrick provides certain government.
The material terms and conditions of each MDA services to ABG and the other members of the ABG Group for the aresubstantially similar and include provisions governing royalty ongoing operation of the business.
These services include support for payments, taxes and other charges, banking arrangements, local information technology, technical services, security and other procurement obligations, and import rights.
The MDAs also provide administrative and corporate functions.
The services agreement for no expropriation or nationalisation rights.
Broadly these rights provides that the services were to be provided to the ABG Group for an provide that the Tanzanian government will not nationalise or initial period of 12 months and will continue in force unless terminated.
compulsorily acquire the whole or any part of ABGs interest in The agreements termination events include a basis for either party to theapplicable special mining licences or any of its property or its terminate the agreement with immediate effect in the event of specified contractors or subcontractors property used for the purpose of breaches of the agreement, insolvency or analogous events or a change mining operations or in relation to the applicable special mining of control.
Each MDA is governed by r Relationship Agreement: see page 63 of this report for an overview of Tanzanian law.
Adherence to the terms and conditions of the MDAs the Relationship Agreement.
isof significant importance to ABGs business, given the agreements overall importance to our operations.
r Credit Agreement: an overview of the credit agreement between, among others, ABG and Citibank International plc as administrative agent, is r TANESCO relationship: the North Mara, Buzwagi and Bulyanhulu provided on page 130, Note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
mines rely upon electrical power generated by the state power utility A change of control of ABG is a mandatory prepayment event under the company, TANESCO.
ABG has entered into a number of agreements credit agreement and, subject to certain exceptions, a termination event.
and arrangements with TANESCO in respect of power supply and purchase prices.
These agreements are reviewed on a regular basis.
ABGs mining concessions are held by its operating companies in Asnational electricity generation and transmission systems in Tanzania.
Under applicable law, a change of control of the operating Tanzania are limited, ABGs ongoing relationship with TANESCO companies requires the consent of the Minister of Energy and Minerals isofsignificant importance to its operations and business.
adversechange or development in this relationship could produce amaterial adverse effect on ABGs operations, performance and An overview of the provisions contained in Executive Director service financialcondition.
agreements as regards change of control is provided with the Directors Remuneration Report.
Special provisions also allow the early exercise of All other material contracts and arrangements are summarised above, awards made under ABGs Stock Option Plan and early vesting of awards under Material agreements containing change of control provisions.
made under ABGs Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, in the event of atakeover, reconstruction or winding up.
In such circumstances, the Going concern Compensation committee determines whether and to what extent options The Directors statement on going concern is contained on page 41 or awards become exercisable, by taking into account all relevant facts and ofthisreport.
circumstances including, but not limited to, satisfaction of any applicable performance condition.
Corporate governance compliance The statement on compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code When determining the vesting of LTIP awards or options, the for the reporting period is contained on page 66 of this report.
Compensation committee may proportionately reduce the award depending on the time which has elapsed between the first day of the performance period and the date of change of control.
Alternatively, Articles of association awards may be exchanged for new equivalent awards where appropriate.
The Companys articles of association may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Significant relationships ABGs relationship with Barrick as its majority shareholder is summarised Shareholder rights The rights and obligations attaching to the Ordinary Shares contained on page 63 of this report.
In addition to this relationship, the Directors consider the following contractual relationships and arrangements as inABGs articles of association are as follows: essential for the conduct of ABGs business: Voting rights r Tulawaka Agreement: although the Tulawaka mine is 100% owned and Subject to any special rights or voting restrictions contained in the articles operated by Pangea Minerals Limited, the economic interest in the mine of association for any class of share, at any general meeting every member is divided on a 70:30 basis following a 1998 contractual joint venture who is present in person or by proxy shall on a show of hands have one agreement between Pangea Goldfields Inc, an ABG Group company, vote and every member present in person or by proxy shall on a poll have PGI and MDN Inc MDN.
The Tulawaka Agreement provides that one vote for each share of which he or she is the holder.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information A resolution put to a vote of the meeting shall be decided on a show of The payment by the Board of any unclaimed dividend or other monies on hands, unless a poll is duly demanded.
Subject to the provisions of the or in respect of a share into a separate account shall not constitute ABG a Companies Act 2006, a poll may be demanded by the Chairman, by at trustee in respect thereof.
All dividends unclaimed for a period of 12 years least five members who have the right to vote at the meeting, by a member after having been declared or become due for payment shall be forfeited or members representing not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights and shall revert to ABG.
of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting, or by a member Transfer of shares or members holding shares conferring a right to vote at the meeting, being Subject to any applicable restrictions, each member may transfer all or shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than anyof his or her shares, which are in certificated form, by instrument of one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right.
transfer in writing in any usual form or in any other form acceptable to the Unless the Directors otherwise determine, a shareholder is not entitled to Board and may be under hand only.
Such instrument shall be executed by vote at a shareholders meeting, either in person or by proxy, or to exercise or on behalf of the transferor and in the case of a transfer of a share which any other right conferred by membership in relation to a shareholders is not fully paid up by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall meeting, unless and until all calls or other sums presently payable by him be deemed to remain the holder of such share until the name of the in respect of that share with interest and expenses if any have been paid transferee is entered in the register in respect of it.
to ABG or if he or any other person appearing to be interested in shares All transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form shall, unless the has been issued with a notice pursuant to Section 793 of the Companies CREST regulations otherwise provide, be effected on a relevant system.
Act 2006 requiring disclosure of interest in shares and has failed to provide the required information within 14 days from the service of The Directors may, in their absolute discretion and without giving any thenotice.
reason, refuse to register any transfer of a share in certificated form or renunciation of a renounceable letter of allotment unless: Dividend rights The Board may declare and pay dividends on any class of shares carrying i it is in respect of a share which is fully paid up: afixed dividend expressed to be payable on fixed dates and may from time ii it is in respect of only one class of shares: to time pay interim dividends as it thinks fit.
Final dividends shall be iii it is in favour of not more than four joint transferees: declared by ordinary shareholder resolution, in accordance with Board recommendations.
No dividend declared by shareholders shall exceed the iv it is lodged duly stamped if so required at the transfer office: amount recommended by the Board.
v it is accompanied by the relevant certificate for the shares to which Provided that the Board acts in good faith, it shall not incur any liability to itrelates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably shareholders for any loss that they may suffer by the lawful payment of any require to prove the title of the transferor and the due execution of fixed or interim dividend on any shares ranking after or pari passu with the transfer or, if the transfer is executed by some other person on his behalf, the authority of that person to do so: and those shares.
vi in the case of partly paid shares listed on the London Stock Exchange, Except as otherwise provided by the rights attached to shares, all dividends such refusal would prevent dealings in such shares from taking place shall be apportioned and paid proportionately to the amounts paid up on on an open and proper basis.
the shares during any portion or portions of the period in respect of which the dividend is paid, but if any share is issued on terms providing that it Unless the Board otherwise determines, a transfer of shares will not be shall rank for dividend as from a particular date, it shall rank for dividend registered if the transferor or any other person appearing to be interested accordingly.
No amount paid up on a share in advance of the date on which in the transferors shares has been issued with Section 793 shares in a call is payable shall be treated as paid up on the share.
respectof shares representing at least 0.25% of their class and the relevant information has not been supplied within 14 days.
This restriction on Payment of any dividend declared may be satisfied wholly or partly by transfer will not automatically apply if the member is not personally in thedistribution of specific assets, and in particular of paid up shares or default as regards supplying the information required and the proposed debentures of ABG, with shareholder approval.
transfer is only part of the members holding, provided that certain requirements are satisfied at the time of presenting the transfer The Directors may retain any dividend or other money payable on or forregistration.
inrespect of a share on which ABG has a lien and may apply the same towards satisfaction of the monies payable to ABG in respect of that share.
Division of ABG assets on a winding up Unless the Directors otherwise determine, the payment of any dividend or If ABG is wound up, the liquidator may, with the sanction of a shareholder other money that would otherwise be payable in respect of shares will be special resolution, divide the whole or any part of ABGs assets between withheld, and ABG shall have no obligation to pay interest on it, if such shareholders.
In such circumstances the liquidator may value any assets shares represent at least 0.25% of the nominal value of the issued share and determine how the division shall be carried out as between the capital of their class and the holder, or any other person appearing to be shareholders or different classes of shareholder.
Subject to certain interested in those shares, has been issued with a Section 793 notice and requirements, the liquidator may also vest any part of the assets in trustees has failed to supply the information required by such notice within 14 on such trusts for the benefit of the shareholders, but no shareholder shall days.
Furthermore, such a holder shall not be entitled to elect to receive becompelled to accept any assets on which there is a liability.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 73 Directors report continued Variation of rights ii Pre-emption rights were disapplied over new shares allotted for cashpursuant to the authority granted at i above but only: a in If at any time the share capital of ABG is divided into shares of different connection with a pre-emptive offer or rights issue: or b otherwise classes, rights attached to a class may only be varied in such manner if up to a nominal value of 2,050,427 equivalent to approximately any as may be provided by prescribed rights or, in the absence of any such 5%of the total issued ordinary share capital of ABG at the time of provision, either with the consent in writing of the holders of not less than passing the resolution.
three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the These authorities have not been exercised during the reporting period and holders of shares of the class duly convened and held.
will expire on the date of the forthcoming AGM.
Equivalent resolutions for a renewal of these authorities will be put to the shareholders at the Powers of Directors forthcoming AGM.
Managing the business ABGs business is managed by the Board, and the articles of association Appointment and replacement of Directors permit the Board to exercise all of ABGs powers in this regard.
These Shareholders may appoint any person who is willing to act as a Director by powers may be exercised by any meeting of the Board at which a quorum ordinary resolution and may remove any Director by ordinary resolution.
of two Directors is present.
The power of the Board to manage the business The Board may appoint any person to fill any vacancy or as an additional is subject to any limitations imposed by the Companies Act, the articles of Director, provided that they are submitted for re-election by the association or any directions given by special resolution of the shareholders at the AGM following their appointment.
shareholders applicable at a relevant time.
Specific conditions apply to the vacation of office, including cases where The articles contain an express authority for the appointment of Executive aDirector becomes prohibited by law or regulation from holding office, Directors and provide the Directors with the authority to delegate or oris persistently absent from Directors meetings, or if three-quarters of confer upon such Directors any of the powers exercisable by them upon appointed Directors request his or her resignation or in the case of mental such terms and conditions and with such restrictions as they see fit.
articles contain additional authorities to delegate powers and discretions tocommittees and subcommittees.
Barricks rights to appoint Directors are summarised on page 65.
Borrowing powers Related party transactions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the CREST Details of related party transactions undertaken during the year are regulations and any other applicable law, the Directors may exercise all contained in Note 32 on page 136 of the consolidated financial statements.
thepowers of ABG to borrow money, guarantee, indemnify, mortgage or charge its undertaking, property present and future and uncalled capital Post balance sheet events or any part or parts thereof and issue debentures and other securities, Particulars of any important events affecting the Company or the ABG whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation Group since the year-end are contained in Note 34 on page 138 of the of ABG or of any third party up to a maximum amount of two times the consolidated financial statements.
aggregate of the ABG Groups adjusted total equity, calculated in accordance with the procedure contained in the articles of association.
Borrowings in excess of this amount require prior shareholder approval.
Audit information Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors are aware New issues of shares thereis no relevant audit information as defined by Section 418 3 of the Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the CREST Companies Act 2006 of which the auditors are unaware and each Director regulations and every other enactment for the time being in force relating has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make to the Directors authority to allot shares and or the disapplication of himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the pre-emption rights and to any resolution of the Company in general auditors are aware of that information.
meeting regarding the same, the Directors may allot with or without conferring a right of renunciation, grant options over or otherwise Auditors dispose of them to such persons, at such times and on such terms as they ABGs auditors are  LLP PwC.
reappoint PwC as auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Refer to page 93 as part of the consolidated financial statements for the ABGs shareholders passed the following resolutions relating to the Independent Auditors report.
allotment and pre-emption right disapplications at the 2012 AGM: i The Directors have been granted an authority to allot new shares and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares up to a nominal value of 13,532,821, which was equivalent to approximately 33% of the total issued ordinary share capital of ABG at the time of passing the resolution, exclusive of treasury shares.
