Exploration and development review Progressing growth opportunities Overall, 2012 was a successful year of execution and delivery for both the Exploration and Projects teams across our greenfield and brownfield exploration and development projects.
ONGOING PROJECTS RESOURCE GROWTH Total Gold Reserves and Resources Moz Exploration Greenfield and evaluation r Nyanzaga costs US$m r Dett r West Kenya JV 45.6 2012 Brownfield r Bulyanhulu 2011 48.1 Upper East Expansion Buly Reef Extensions East & West 2010 27.1 r North Mara Gokona Expansion 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 Nyabirama Expansion Bulyanhulu Buzwagi North Mara Tulawaka Nyanzaga Golden Ridge At Bulyanhulu, Board approval was granted for the CIL Expansion project.
Overview of 2012 activities The project has progressed well with site works now underway.
Project During 2012, US$29.0 million of exploration and evaluation activities were commissioning is targeted for early 2014.
Additionally, the Bulyanhulu expensed, with a further US$16.6 million of capitalised exploration and Upper East Expansion project has now been expanded in scope to include evaluation activities taking place.
Key highlights include the addition of both of Reef 1 and Reef 2 and has the potential to add an average of 90 significant resource ounces at Nyanzaga, successful drilling results from thousand ounces of gold per year to production over the life of mine.
brownfield exploration programmes at North Mara and the acquisition ofthe West Kenya JV project.
Greenfield exploration Greenfield exploration is a key value driver, and when successful, it enables In early 2012 we announced an increase of over 3 million ounces of the business to generate future production ounces at competitive cost.
Indicated and Inferred in-pit resources at Nyanzaga and in April, following Therefore, significant focus in 2012 has been placed on identifying new further successful drilling of the Kilimani Zone, we added approximately 500 thousand ounces of gold to this resource.
The project subsequently greenfield exploration opportunities throughout Africa to strengthen our exploration portfolio.
Collectively, the greenfield exploration programmes returned a positive scoping study and has been moved into a pre-feasibility we have undertaken have further strengthened our portfolio of exploration study.
Exploration drilling in 2013 at Nyanzaga will continue to target the extensions of high grade zones intersected by deep drilling.
projects, with the potential to add significantly to our production profile over the medium term.
At the North Mara mine, brownfield exploration drilling programmes were completed below the Gokona and Nyabirama open pits targeting We have made good progress at our Nyanzaga project throughout the yearas noted above.
Elsewhere in Tanzania, during the year wide zones significant resource expansions with the aim of expanding the current oflower grade mineralisation have been intersected at the Dett prospect open pits and or developing underground resources.
Both programmes 45kilometres west of the North Mara mine.
Current drilling is targeting achieved their aims, with a trade-off analysis being completed to determine how we proceed with scheduling and mining the expanded higher grade zones within this mineralised system in order to further explore itspotential.
resources at Gokona and a scoping study now underway at Nyabirama.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 8 1 2 6 EXPLORATION PIPELINE Production Scoping & Feasibility Studies Advanced Exploration & Resource Development Drill Testing Target Delineation Grassroots Programme Tanzania Kenya 2 2 5,969 km 2,833 km In addition, initial exploration programmes conducted on the West Kenya the existing resource as well as confirming grade continuity within JV Project following completion of our acquisition of AMKL have already reserveareas.
Further drilling is scheduled for 2013 to expand the Reef 2 started to yield positive results at several prospects within the 2,800 square resource in deeper areas of the mine to enhance future planning and life kilometre land package.
In 2013, we will continue our focus on advancing ofminescheduling.
grassroots and other early stage prospects on this project to drill ready In 2013 there will be a significant focus on realising resource expansions status.
At the same time, we will continue to advance opportunities at drill around our Bulyanhulu and North Mara operations.
testing and advanced exploration stages of the exploration pipeline toward tangible resource projects.
Brownfield exploration In 2012, near mine brownfield exploration successfully identified extensions to known resources.
The main focus was Gokona and Nyabirama depth extensions at North Mara where drilling returned excellent results from infill and step-out resource drilling.
At Gokona, we intersected significant high grade mineralisation up to 300 metres below the current final open pit depth, further supporting the opportunity for a significant high grade underground resource.
At Bulyanhulu, we undertook a small programme of infill drilling around the planned Reef 2 Upper East underground.
The drilling was successful at delineating extensions to known high grade shoots around the margins of Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29 1 10 7 2 26 Exploration and development review continued Core growth projects Growth project Progress in 2012 Priorities for 2013 r Detailed engineering design r Completion of Bulyanhulu CIL Expansion 85% complete engineeringdesign This project will expand the current CIL circuit at Bulyanhulu to 2.4 million metric tonnes r EPC contract awarded to r Receipt of approvals for per annum in order to re-treat historic tailings, and increase production by approximately MDM Engineering to thelife of mine tailing 40 thousand ounces of gold per annum for the first six years of operation.
The project manage the project storagefacility hasbeen progressing according to plan, with commissioning on track for early 2014.
Inconjunction with this, we have now submitted the Environmental and Social Impact r Project financing arranged r Substantial completion Assessment to the Tanzanian Government, as required for the extension of the existing for the provision of an ofconstruction ahead of tailings storage facility at Bulyanhulu.
export credit facility for commissioning inearly 2014 US$142 million r Expansion of the scope of r Complete the development Bulyanhulu Upper East Expansion the project to include Reef 2 of a test stope and successful This project was previously solely based on the 1.2 million ounces of gold reserves located as well as Reef 1 completion of trial mining in Reef 1 of the Upper East Zone: we have now completed a positive scoping study to r Development of test r Receipt of Board approval incorporate the 900 thousand ounces of gold which currently sit in reserves in Reef 2. stopeand completion toproceed with project Weare progressing pre-feasibility and feasibility work on Reef 2 with the aim of ofrehabilitation of execution completing a combined feasibility study for both reefs.
Production from the Upper East maindecline Zone is targeted to commence in late 2014 and is expected to average in excess of 90 r Continue exploration drilling thousand ounces of gold per annum over the life of mine.
r Board approval to order to expand Reef 2 resource certain long lead items r Significant exploration r Complete feasibility study Gokona Expansion, North Mara intersections demonstrating Drilling programmes in 2012 targeted extensions to the Gokona mineralised system good grade continuity atdepths below the current planned open pit.
The aim of the drill programmes was to r Gokona underground expand the potential underground resource in order to complete a detailed feasibility resource increased to study.
Drilling has been successful in demonstrating that high grade mineralisation approximately 900 extends to significant depths below the Gokona pit and studies are currently underway thousandounces todetermine the optimal way of integrating the underground and surface resources inorder to maximise the life of mine return at North Mara.
r Completion of metallurgical r Completion of study into Golden Ridge drilling programme to update incorporating Golden Ridge Golden Ridge is a satellite deposit, approximately 35km from Bulyanhulu.
During 2012 resource model into the Bulyanhulu life we completed a metallurgical drilling programme and incorporated the findings into our ofmine r Initiation of study into toll existing model.
We continue to examine the opportunity to use Bulyanhulu as a potential milling ore at Bulyanhulu processing facility and this will progress on completion of the technical review process currently being conducted at Bulyanhulu as a part of the Operational Review.
r Exploration drilling r Complete the Nyabirama Nyabirama Expansion, North Mara intersected extensions to resource update Brownfields exploration drilling around the Nyabirama open pit during 2012 has targeted current resources indicating r Complete scoping study opportunities for open pit expansions and underground extensions.
Drill results during the system is robust at depth onpit expansion and 2012 demonstrated that gold mineralisation continues to significant depths below current underground potential and future open pit depths and that further drilling is warranted to assess the size potential of the Nyabirama system.
The results from the 2012 drilling have been incorporated into ascoping study that is expected to be completed in early 2013. r Expansion of in-pit r Successful completion of the Nyanzaga resourceto in excess of pre-feasibility study in the Following a highly successful drilling programme we were able to increase the size of the 4.6millionounces first half of 2013 in-pit resource at Nyanzaga by more than 3.5 million ounces and it now stands in excess r Positive exploration results r Optimisation of the capital of 4.6 million ounces of gold.
We have successfully completed the scoping study for the showing higher grade zones and operating costs if moved project and have now moved into the pre-feasibility stage where we will examine different both at surface and depth into a feasibility study options for developing the in-pit resource.
In order to ensure an appropriate mix of upfront capital and future cash flows we will examine a range of options for the size of r Project moved from r Drilling of deep theprocess plant up to 8 million metric tonnes per annum.
scopinginto pre-feasibility explorationholes to target studystage undergroundpotential 30 www.
"com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information UGANDA Kampala West Kenya JV Kisumu KENYA Lake Victoria North Mara Mwanza Nyanzaga TANZANIA Bulyanhulu Tulawaka Golden Ridge Buzwagi Key Mine location Feasibility study Scoping Pre-feasibility study Brownfield Project execution Greenfield Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31 Exploration and development review continued Entry into Kenya UGANDA KENYA Lake Victoria TANZANIA 2012 Progress West Kenya Joint Venture Project r ""DRVJTJUJPOPG8FTU, FOZB  In October 2012 we announced the acquisition of AMKL from Aviva Corporation."
Through the acquisition of AMKL, ABG now owns a 51% r % interest, with the potential to move to 75% in a joint venture with Lonmin BSPVOEUIF, BLBNFHB%PNF plc, and AMKLs right to earn up to a 75% interest in a second joint r OJUJBMIJHIHSBEFHPME[ venture with Advance Gold Corporation.
The acquisition of the interestsBLF:POF PME$BNQ provides an opportunity for ABG to enter an under-explored region with multiple styles and types of gold prospects in a country with solid transport 2013 Priorities infrastructure and synergies with Tanzania.
"r ""#VTIJBOHBMB 3PTUFSNBOBOE The licence areas, which have only seen limited previous exploration, JNJOHJOJBSPVOEUIF, BLBNFHB%PNF$BNQ contain multiple large-scale gold anomalies and cover five contiguous r %."
"BTVNCJ ""CJNCP licences over a land package in excess of 2,800 square kilometres of the, :POF$BNQ highly prospective Ndori Greenstone Belt in Kenya, which forms part of r "" the Tanzanian Archaean Craton."
The Ndori Greenstone Belt has all the UIFQSPKFDU geological characteristics of the highly productive greenstone belts of the Abitibi region of Canada and the Eastern Goldfields of Western Australia.
r  Colonial and artisanal mining and prospecting has identified in excess of130 prospects and targets across the licensed properties.
Sporadic historic and current exploration activities have identified a large number of targets that justify extensive follow-up, and ABG intends to implement asystematic and focused gold exploration programme.
These targets represent a significant addition to the grassroots and target delineation segments of our exploration pipeline.
During 2013 we will focus on advancing our knowledge of the Ndori Greenstone Belt geology and structure through regional programmes, including drill testing of the more advanced stage targets.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information ROSTERMAN BUSHIANGALA KIMINGINI BUMBO KAKAMEGA DOME CAMP MASUMBI RAMULA NAIROBI HILL Key Major reactivated syn Late faultstectonic extensional faults KITSON Artisanal Colonial Anticline ABIMBO workings Syncline Prospects LAKE ZONE CAMP for 2013 is to drill up to 50,000 metres of aircore, reverse circulation and kilometre roughly east-west corridor of gold in soil anomalies.
This diamond drill core, and to collect more than 15,000 auger and soil samples programme will be aimed at delineating targets for deeper drill testing.
Drilling to date has revealed excellent results, indicating that the systemsremain open at depth and that strike extensions can be expected.
Generally, we expect to see the West Kenya JV project develop over Additional deeper drilling will be undertaken at Bushiangala and Kimigini thecoming year through an expansive programme of early stage to further explore this opportunity.
reconnaissance work and later stage drill testing with the aim of identifying several projects to move into resource definition drilling.
Lake Zone Camp The Lake Zone Camp has over 60 gold occurrences from historic To take this forward, we have divided the licensed properties into two exploration and prospecting activities.
Exploration over the past ten years large-scale gold camps, the Kakamega Dome Camp in the east and the has included soil sampling, ground and airborne geophysical surveys and Lake Zone Camp to the west, in order to focus our exploration activities limited shallow percussion drilling.
and teams to ensure we are advancing the best targets.
Activities in the Lake Zone Camp during 2012 focused on core drilling of Kakamega Dome Camp several projects to investigate the style and controls on gold mineralisation The Kakamega Dome Camp has over 70 known gold occurrences from at several prospects.
At one such prospect, known as Ramula, results from historic exploration and prospecting activities.
drill programmes have been positive and we have already intersected significant gold mineralisation in diamond drill core when testing a 600 Exploration over the past ten years has focused on soil sampling, ground by400 metre gold in soil anomaly with some associated artisanal mining geophysics and drilling.
The majority of recent exploration activity activity.
Drilling on the project will be accelerated in early 2013 and a undertaken prior to ABGs acquisition of AMKL was focused on the second rig will be brought in to test greater depths.
Bumbo VMS Cu-Zn-Ag-Au deposit in the south of the camp and at the Bushiangala and Kimingini prospects on the south side of the interpreted Ongoing exploration programmes in the Lake Zone Camp will focus Kakamega Dome.
ondeveloping a number of drill ready targets, while at the same time completing extensive regional programmes to generate new targets for Reconnaissance aircore drilling in 2013 will focus on the Liranda prospecting activities.
Lineament on the south side of the Kakamega Dome, which is a feature observed in airborne magnetic surveys, and is co-incident with a 15-20 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33 SL123 - NDORI SL213 - SIAYA
