OPTIMISE THE EXISITING ASSET BASE ABG Group progress in 2012 ABG Group priorities for 2013 r Increased production levels and improvements in the grade profile at r Finalising and implementing our Operational Review North Mara, following the access to higher grade zones in the Gokona r Resolve paste fill plant issues, increase availability of higher grade stopes pit in the second half of the year and stabilise workforce at Bulyanhulu r Improvements in recovery rates at North Mara, as a result of the positive r Sustain increased level of mining rates and continue to operate at impact of the gold plant upgrade nameplate capacity in the process plant at Buzwagi r Continued progress in mining and processing activities at Buzwagi, r Maintain increased mining rates, continue to deliver improved increasing consistency in the operational performance of this operation, recoveries and progress land acquisitions and relocations at North Mara particularly during the second half of the year r Harvest high grade pillars, progress discussions on closure divestment r Commencement of operational initiatives at Bulyanhulu to address options for Tulawaka paste fill delays, lower than planned availability of high grade stopes and lower equipment availabilities 16 www.
com Case study: Gold Plant Project at North Mara North Mara has been undergoing a substantial optimisation programme processing and treatment procedures.
The increased residence time will both in the mining operations and in the process plant.
Improvements in allow for improved recoveries and a reduction of gold residue in tailings.
our mining fleet and practices have positioned us to be able to efficiently We expect the project to increase gold recoveries by up to 4% as a result move increased volumes of tonnes in 2013.
In tandem with this, we have ofthe combined measures.
In addition to the improved recovery rates, invested over US$25 million into process plant infrastructure in order to as a part of the project we installed further cyanide detoxification capacity improve recovery rates, something which should increase production and in line with compliance standards under the International Cyanide Code help to mitigate cash cost increases.
and our commitment to manage our tailings responsibly.
The gold plant upgrade has involved improving the grinding efficiency of the mills and adding oxygen into the circuit to improve the responsiveness of ore to cyanide leaching.
We have converted two tailings thickeners into pre-leach thickeners and have also installed additional leach tanks so that ore may be exposed to cyanide for a longer time period as part of G o online to find more information www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 EXPAND THROUGH NEAR MINE PROJECTS ABG Group progress in 2012 ABG Group priorities for 2013 r Engineering, procurement and construction contract awarded and r Substantially complete construction of Bulyanhulu CIL project financing arranged for Bulyanhulu CIL Expansion project Expansionproject r Expansion of the scope of the Bulyanhulu Upper East Expansion r Receive Board approval to proceed with Bulyanhulu Upper projectto include Reef 2 as well as Reef 1 EastExpansion project and continue exploration drilling to expand Reef2 resource r Continued progress of drill programmes around the Nyabirama openpit at North Mara r Complete feasibility study for the Gokona Expansion at North Mara r Gokona underground resource at North Mara increased to r Complete the Nyabirama resource update at North Mara approximately 900 thousand ounces of gold 18 www.
com Case study: Bulyanhulu Upper East Expansion As part of our drive to expand our assets, ABG has been examining opportunity.
If these studies are successful, we should be able to progress options to increase mining rates at the Bulyanhulu mine to bring the project so as to commence gold production from the Upper East Zone production more into line with the scale of its resource base.
The in late 2014. acceleration of mining from the Upper East Zone is one of our key The incorporation of Reef 2 significantly enhances the Bulyanhulu Upper expansion projects aimed at achieving this.
East Expansion project, which is now expected to produce 90 thousand Previously, the Bulyanhulu Upper East Expansion project was solely based ounces of gold per annum once fully ramped up and will deliver life of on the 1.2 million ounces of gold reserves located in Reef 1 of the Upper mine production of 1.9 million ounces of gold over the next 20 years.
We have now completed a positive scoping study to incorporate Theproject is expected to require approximately US$100 million of an additional 900 thousand ounces of gold which currently sit in reserves pre-production capital, to be spent in 2013 and 2014. in Reef 2 of the Upper East Zone.
We have ordered certain long lead items and are now progressing with further technical studies to explore this G o online to find more information www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19 GROW THROUGH GREENFIELD OPPORTUNITIES AND ACQUISITIONS IN AFRICA ABG Group progress in 2012 ABG Group priorities for 2013 r Completion of the West Kenya JV project acquisition r Continue regional grassroots exploration across West Kenya JV project r Expansion of Nyanzaga in-pit resource to in excess of 4.6 million ounces r Advance drill testing stage targets around the Kakamega Dome Camp of gold and successful completion of scoping study for the project of the West Kenya JV Project r Completion of metallurgical drilling programme to update resource r Delineate potential for new discoveries around the Lake Zone Camp of model at Golden Ridge the West Kenya JV Project r Progression of exploration drill programme at Dett prospect r Complete the pre-feasibility study for the Nyanzaga project and continue drill programmes to explore underground potential for this project 20 www.
com Case study: West Kenya Joint Venture Project In late 2012 we acquired the entire issued share capital of Aviva Mining in Tanzania.
The licences held under the Kenyan joint venture structures Kenya Limited AMKL, the assets of which include a 51% interest in contain multiple large-scale gold anomalies in areas of historic colonial ajoint venture with Lonmin plc, which may be increased to 75% subject to mines and prospects, and cover a land package in excess of 2,800 square satisfaction of certain conditions, and a right to earn up to a 75% interest kilometres.
Sporadic, historic and current exploration activities have in a second joint venture with Advance Gold Corporation.
Together, these identified a large number of targets that justify follow-up and we intend to joint venture arrangements provide ABG with an interest in a number of implement a systematic and focused gold exploration programme in 2013 exploration licences located within the Ndori Greenstone Belt in West and beyond.
This acquisition represents our first step in expanding our footprint In addition to the interests in the exploration licences and properties, the outside of Tanzania and is an important addition to the grassroots and acquisition of AMKL provides ABG with a strong Kenyan based exploration target delineation segments of our exploration pipeline as we look to team, continuity of project history and knowledge, as well as existing local secure medium to long-term growth and diversification of our asset base.
andcountry government and ministry relationships.
The Ndori Greenstone Belt is a highly prospective area and one of several greenstone belts in Kenya.
It has multiple styles and types of gold prospects that are comparable to those found in the Lake Victoria Greenstone belts G o online to find more information www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 RESPONSIBLE MINING MAINTAINING OUR LICENCE TO OPERATE ABG Group progress in 2012 ABG Group priorities for 2013 r Achieving a 30% improvement in our Group Total Reportable Injury r Achieving a further 10% improvement in Group TRIFR Frequency Rate TRIFR r Completing the commissioning of the North Mara Water Treatment r Obtaining Bulyanhulus recertification under the International Cyanide Plant for the lifting of the Environment Protection Order and obtaining Management Code a discharge permit for the site r Execution of Village Benefit Agreements and Village Benefit Implementation r Implementation of social management plans at Buzwagi and North Agreements with North Mara local communities Mara and development of a social management plan for Bulyanhulu r Improving national employment levels by 2%, to 91% of our r Achieving a workforce localisation target of 93% across our operations operations workforce r Progressing dialogue on law and order, particularly at North Mara, r Increasing training on Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights withour wider stakeholder group across ABG stakeholders 22 www.
com Case study: Sungu-Sungu Clinic North Mara is located in a remote part of Tanzania and as such block and further wards.
In addition to this, we are improving access to infrastructure in the region is limited.
In line with our commitment to power and water by installing additional water wells and a connection to community development, throughout the year we have continued to invest thenational electricity grid.
For the time being, we have installed a diesel in upgrading local infrastructure to help improve transportation links and generator and we are trucking clean water from the mine to the clinic to access to water, education and healthcare.
One of our core community provide for key utilities while we complete these elements of the project.
infrastructure projects is the rehabilitation of the Sungu-Sungu Clinic in In early 2013 we will commence the second phase of the clinic upgrade, for Nyamongo, one of the villages located in the vicinity of the North Mara which we aim to invest a further US$200,000 in clinic improvements.
The clinic is the sole source of local medical care outside of the mine investment will principally be used to further equip the hospital with vital for those living in the mines seven local communities.
Unfortunately, the diagnostic equipment, with the aim of bringing the clinic up to a national clinic is not currently eligible for central government funding due to its standard in order for it to receive ongoing government funding and provision size, so ABGs support is critical.
As the first phase of the upgrade, ABG has invested approximately US$350,000 in the clinic in order to refurbish maternity and paediatric G o online to find more information www.
com wards, laundry facilities and basic amenities and to construct an outpatient Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23
