E C N E L L E C X E L A N O I T A R E P S O T R O N G F I N A N C I A Strategy and business model A model to deliver performance Our business model focuses on the creation of a high performance organisation, something that is fundamental for the realisation of our long-term strategy.
INDUSTRY EXPERTISE OPTIMISE our asset base PEOPLE & QUALITY MANAGEMENT ASSET BASE EXPAND through near mine projects LICENCE GOVERNANCE & TO OPERATE RISK MANAGEMENT GROW through greenfield opportunities 14 www.
com L P E R F O R M A N C E G N I N I M E L B I S N O P S E R People and management An organisation is only as good as its people.
It is for this reason that we are committed to promoting and developing the skill set of our Establishing solid foundations workforce for the benefit of our business and our industry in general.
We At the heart of our business model lie the foundations which ensure that we fairly compensate our employees for their contributions, provide meaningful performance feedback to them and offer them we believe embody our commitment to excellence.
Together, professional development and training opportunities to develop employee these foundations form the base structure for the creation of potential and reward best performance.
Industry expertise We believe that industry and regional knowledge and expertise are critical in order to drive performance.
As such we place a premium on Developing key strengths our existing experience of acquiring, financing and building mines in Tanzania and the collective experience of the mining industry and the When combined, the foundations of our organisation create African region held between our Board members and ourcore standards, which in turn create and develop key managementteam.
strengths in operational and financial performance.
They alsosafeguard and help to promote our responsible mining Quality asset base practices.
All of these factors are fundamental qualities of Our long-life, high-grade reserve and resource base and the expansion opportunities that are available through near mine projects at our a high performance organisation.
existing operations provide us with a solid basis on which to develop Operational excellence and grow our business within the African gold mining industry.
We believe that the alignment of our operational and governance standards with industry and peer group best practice provides us with the Governance and risk management framework to achieve the highest possible levels of productivity, safety and Effective governance and controls are crucial for the realisation of efficiency within our operations, all being components of operational ourbusiness strategy.
For this reason our business management excellence that drives business performance.
framework allocates responsibilities for the monitoring, review andmanagement of our business and strategy throughout our Strong financial performance organisational structure, ensuring that accountability for performance Our business and operational processes are focused on the achievement is shared across our governance functions.
We use the same approach oftargets while maintaining a strict cost discipline, optimising capital for risk management to ensure that business risks are identified, efficiency and maintaining a conservative balance sheet.
This supports mitigated and controlled as appropriate for our operating environment.
theproduction of strong financial results required for the development ofourbusiness.
Licence to operate Our business conduct reflects our commitment to excellence, forthe Responsible mining benefit of all stakeholders as a whole.
We ensure that our community Bymining in a responsible manner for the benefit of our people, the relations, environmental, health and safety, human resources and environment and the host countries in which we work, we are able to security functions work closely together and with the management maintain our reputation as a good corporate citizen in the eyes of all teams at each of our operations to ensure that all key components of relevantstakeholders.
In turn, this allows us to progress our business responsible mining are addressed throughout the exploration and on the basis of common expectations and objectives.
mining cycle and across all of our locations.
