Business and strategic review People and culture People and culture People and culture is one of our five strategic priorities.
It forms Diversity a central part of our sustainability agenda.
We are a global business see page 6 with employees and stakeholders from a wide range of cultures and backgrounds.
A key element to creating long term shareholder value is our Allowing diversity to ourish fosters greater innovation.
ability to attract, develop and retain the most talented people It enables the business to respond more effectively to the rapidly at all levels.
We do this in a variety of ways.
It also helps us meet the range of diverse customer needs, and it enhances our creativity.
During 2012 we employed, on average, 6,666 people around the world.
The charts below highlight the diversity of our people.
We have developed a range of procedures and practices to help our employees to achieve their full potential regardless of % gender, age or background.
These include equal opportunities % 55 policies and programmes that ensure people are selected 56 Female employees and promoted solely on the basis of their skills and abilities.
of executive appointments in 2012 in 2012 were female We have a number of initiatives to help our talented female employees achieve their career aspirations and to increase the number of women in senior leadership roles over time and between January 2011 and December 2012 the number of women in divisional leadership roles rose from 33% to 42% excluding Delta businesses.
Executive During 2012 we expanded our Executive Womens Forums, Womens Forums which enable participants to share experiences, build networks and learn from external educators.
The forums, held in London, New York and San Francisco, were attended by 75 female 75 senior and middle-line managers.
participants We also developed workshops on Building an Inclusive Culture at UBM, which will be rolled out to 500 managers during 2013.
Gender diversity Manager breakdown Ethnic breakdown Male Female Male Female Caucasian Asian Latin African Hispanic Caribbean Other As at 31 December 2012 the UBM plc Board of directors included two women 22% 2011: one woman 11%.
Our focus was on alumni events 70 12 28% C-LDP China 24 China & Hong Kong 37 2 9% E-LDP Europe 24 UK, Holland & France 65 7 33% A-LDP Americas 25 USA & Brazil 25 1 n a In December 2012 the Association of British Insurers ABI Internship programme highlighted our work on building an inclusive culture at UBM Against the backdrop of increased youth unemployment, in as an example of best practice.
2012 UBM offered six 6-month graduate internships in London.
In addition to supporting young people in their efforts to We have embedded strong succession planning and talent enter paid employment, we also sought to attract high review processes into the fabric of our business management potential interns from socially disadvantaged backgrounds.
During 2012 we launched a new American The internships are paid at the London Living Wage, to ensure Leadership Development Programme A-LDP to complement that pay is not a barrier to accepting an internship.
All three of our other regional programmes the China Leadership the interns due to nish during 2012 have secured full-time Development Programme C-LDP and the European positions with UBM, while the other three interns will complete Leadership Development Programme E-LDP.
In 2013, we will be extending of our leadership programmes is above.
the programme by offering a further six internships in both Some non-executive directors continued to mentor potential London and New York.
One of our 2012 interns will manage executives in 2012.
We expanded and developed our the programme.
International Exchange Programme, under which employees spend several weeks living and working in a team in another Health, welfare and benets country to learn new skills, teach diverse techniques, Our objective is to ensure that all employees in all locations are and continue their leadership development.
treated fairly and we aim to follow best employment practices within local markets.
We have detailed employment policies Flexible working across our business, covering recruitment, training, exible We offer a wide range of exible working policies to enable working, paid leave including maternity, paternity, adoption, employees to balance the demands of work and their personal carer and sabbatical leave, diversity, data protection and lives and responsibilities.
These include working from home, anti-malpractice whistle-blowing.
exible hours, sabbatical leave, enhanced parental leave, We are serious about taking care of our employees and part-time working, job-sharing and a compressed working offer a wide range of initiatives.
These include gym health club week.
In our employee engagement survey 71% of employees reimbursement: Cycle2Work and secure parking for bikes: agreed that they were able to manage their work responsibilities wellness clinics: private medical cover: health checks: free in order to maintain a healthy balance between work and home.
eye tests and discounted prescriptions.
We recognise the specic needs of individuals and, in particular, ensure that appropriate adjustments are made to enable us to employ disabled people.
Should employees become disabled during employment we make every effort, through appropriate training or other adjustments, to accommodate their disability and enable them to continue their career with us.
% 87 % 71 of employees feel treated of employees happy with respect with work-life balance 23 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business and strategic review People and culture continued Year-on-year we remain signicantly above benchmark in areas Communication such as: We foster an open, entrepreneurial and innovative business culture which allows individuals to excel.
Clear and open t Feeling valued, recognition for good work communication with employees is fundamental to achieving t Being treated with respect our business aims.
t Feeling part of a team Employee engagement t Trust in management By actively listening to our employees we make UBM a better t Support for innovation and collaboration place to work.
Participation in ubmVOICE, our employee We are continually seeking to improve and identify areas engagement survey, continued its upward trend in 2012. of focus.
For example, while the area of Growth and Over 5,000 employees 80% participated and, in a new feature Development is up 6% since 2010, the 2012 results have for 2012, an impressive 56% of participants left a comment, highlighted that this is an area where we still need to improve, illustrating our open culture and our employees confidence that and we will be taking action as a result of the survey results the survey will result in action being taken to address feedback.
Participation % 2010 60 2011 77 2012 80 UBMS online community the Hub A key way in which UBM employees communicate, connect and collaborate is via our online community, the Hub.
This is a vibrant social business platform which enables our employees around the world to share ideas, knowledge, expertise and experiences in an open and collaborative environment.
It supports and complements face-to-face communication and consultative forums, such as town hall Our online community creates a welcoming place where meetings.
It enables divisional senior management to host positive culture thrives, both mirroring and reinforcing our webinar and Q&A sessions to give updates on progress, in-person culture.
We openly share successes, and admit strategy and management thinking.
The CEO also provides mistakes, which is crucial to increasing quality and innovation.
Decision-making, planning and execution are enhanced In place for over four years, the Hub is a mature or accelerated, particularly on cross-border community where we see continued high levels of collaboration projects.
The Hub also allows us to respond more rapidly and t Contributing activity rose 16% innovatively to unexpected events.
In the aftermath of t The number of contributors rose 10% Hurricane Sandy in October 2012 it was the sole means t Responses rose 88%, on everything from answers through which some employees were able to keep in touch.
to specic questions, to help with strategic challenges It facilitated calls to action or offers of help in ways and in or feedback on new ideas response times previously not possible.
As well as business needs, the Hub enabled us to meet the personal needs of t 2.6m pages views employees experiencing hardship.
Although we have over 6,600 employees across over 32 different countries, our online community is bringing our dispersed company closer together than ever before.
We have an established culture of sharing and learning and our employees can tap into the experience and expertise of their colleagues.
24 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Responsible business We are committed to ensuring that we engage positively with society and to minimise negative and social impacts from our operations.
Acting with respect is central to the way we ISO20121 do business.
Sustainable Event % Environment Management 10 In 2010 we set a target of reducing our absolute carbon reduction in emissions by 5% by the end 2012.
By December 2012 we had carbon emissions reduced carbon emissions by 10%, despite having grown the business and increased our headcount by 8%.
We reduced electricity emissions by 4% from 2010, gas emissions by 6% and carbon emissions per head by 17%.
Zero waste to landll Global carbon emissions progress from 20102012 tonnes from our London 2010 10,741.0 Head Ofce 2011 10,359.8 2012 9,620.1 Several factors have helped us to achieve such a significant reduction, including: 2012 environmental successes t The dedication and hard work of our global Green Teams t UBM Live Amsterdam achieved the ISO20121 accreditation around the business, each of which is sponsored by our for Sustainable Event Management for five events divisional CEOs see page 26 t Increased employee awareness and engagement, plus an t UBM won the Best Environmental Initiative Award at the 2012 inter-business competition with all global ofces competing Production and Environment Awards, for our Zero to Landll to reduce wasted energy, and encourage energy efficiencies.
waste initiative our Head Ofce in London The winning ofces creating energy savings of over t Our London ofces switched to a Green Energy Tariff 25%perperson electricity supplied from 100% renewable sources t Proactive energy management across our global ofces, t 54% of our waste is recycled including the use of smart meters that increase the accuracy of our data and our ability to influence consumption.
t UBM improved its scoring in the FTSE 350 Carbon Disclosure Index, rising to 75%, and a B in the Carbon Performance 2012 global carbon footprint index 2011: 59%, D The charts below, illustrating our 2012 v 2011 carbon footprint, t UBM won the Carbon Trust Standard again, for reducing show the reductions we made across all key areas in 2012: carbon in UK ofces by 8% over the last three years t UBMs San Francisco ofce achieved the Green Buildings LEED Platinum Award, scoring more than any other Carbon footprint commercial interior in San Francisco 2011 t We are rolling out improved recycling systems, decreasing 2012 waste sent to landll and increasing the percentage of waste sent to Energy from Waste facilities in the US and UK Commuter Electricity Business Gas Company Waste to Water We will be setting further carbon reduction targets for 2013 travel ights cars landll and beyond.
These are currently under review in light of the proposed sale of the Data Services businesses and we will shortly be providing an update on our website http: sustainability.
com environment 25 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business and strategic review Responsible business continued Sustainable events As a leading organiser of events around the world we aim sufficient resources have been allocated to meet our for excellence by conducting our business operations in commitments.
In 2012 we appointed an Event Sustainability a sustainable manner.
At our events we strive to raise Champion within our operations teams in each key region awareness of sustainability issues among our suppliers, of USA, EMEA and Asia.
Their responsibility is to share our customers and the owners of the venues we use.
knowledge, to monitor sustainability development at our events and to propose, manage and deliver new initiatives.
Building on our success in achieving BS8901 accreditation for three of our events, during 2012 we became one of the first UBM Live Amsterdam was recognised in September 2012 by global companies to achieve the third party accreditation of UFI, the global association of the exhibition industry, for its ISO20121 standard for Sustainable Event Management for: systems management approach to sustainable development.
t Business4Better UK, CPhI Worldwide, Fi Europe, HiEurope NI NuW and the Protection and Management UBM Live has demonstrated an unusual Series IFSEC, Facilities Show, Safety & Health Expo and understanding of what Sustainability is Firex, as well as UBMs Amsterdam ofce.
and how to embed it in its organisation, We also have systems in place to minimise negative impacts considering all the Sustainability pillars of our business activities.
These include clear objectives and in a balanced and holistic way.
A truly targets relating to reducing energy usage, water usage and inspiring example for the Events Industry!
waste: training for employees: promoting health and safety of employees, exhibitors and visitors: promoting sustainability in ISO20121 Auditor.
the stakeholder supply chain: monitoring the sustainability performance of suppliers and contractors: ensuring that The Series is also supported by PR Newswire, which in 2012 Community provided free distributions, PR and marketing support to UBMs Community Engagement Series promote the various events, worth a total of 13,473.
Previously known as our NGO Events, our Community Pro bono work Engagement Series comprises a set of unique, free events that We offer complimentary or discounted services to bring together charities, NGOs, social enterprises, private sector not-for-profit entities: companies, and CSR professionals to network, share best practice and build partnerships.
They are UBMs most significant t In June 2012, PR Newswire waived fees for all news releases community investment, in terms of time, money and resources.
from organisations offering aid to victims of the Colorado They harness UBMs commercial resources, and the expertise res, worth $10,200 and experience of our staff in a not-for-profit environment.
t PR Newswire continued its long-standing support for The Series has the personal commitment of our CEO, the Clinton Global Initiative Conference by providing David Levin, who is its sponsor at Board level.
complimentary news releases to all charities and NGOs Launched in Brazil in 2009, the Community Engagement declaring commitments at the 2012 Conference, Series now encompasses India, the UK and, from 2013, the US.
worth 45,000 In 2012 over 800 charities exhibited and there were more t Via its partnership with 3BLmedia, PR Newswire provided than 15,000 visitors to the events in India, Brazil and the UK.
expanded distribution to media, analysts and stakeholders The total cost to UBM of the Series during 2012 was 502,276 to any PR Newswire member that has a CSR or Sustainability 2011: 397,365. communication initiative You can nd further details of each event at the links below: We also donate computer and other equipment to schools, and at our events we donate stands to NGOs to enable them UBMs Community Engagement Series 2013 to get closer to specic industries.
Our events in the US t Business4Better, US, www.
org coordinate with venues and local not-for-profit agencies to t NGO India, www.
org organise food donations from events to local soup kitchens t Business4Better UK, www.
br We raise money for charity at many of our events, and our Awards events raised 96,866 during in 2012.
26 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Volunteering and employee fundraising Our ofce-based employees undertake annual online H&S UBM employees are encouraged to undertake volunteering training courses and workplace risk assessments.
activities and are given paid time off each year to volunteer.
Suppliers We blend our volunteering and pro bono activities with our We aim to do business in a consistent, responsible and events, pioneered by UBM LLC Foundation, our community appropriate manner.
We work closely with venues, suppliers foundation in the US.
In this way we deliver UBM resources and contractors to encourage sustainability and environmentally to charities and not-for-profit entities, from expertise to free responsible activities.
Through regular communication we exhibitor space.
In 2012 we grew our events-based partnership ensure that our partners meet the same high standards that with Year Up www.
org, a US not-for-profit organisation we set ourselves, including adherence to local laws and dedicated to closing the opportunity divide through education best practice.
UBM employees offer their time and skills from mentoring students at the ofce to hosting them Sustainability is a key part of our procurement process.
We ask at events such as Cloud Connect, Interop and Enterprise 2.0. suppliers to explain their companys sustainability initiatives, sustainable product offerings and to report their use.
We review We also operate a matched giving scheme through which their responses and include them in a weighted scoring matrix UBM matches the fundraising efforts by its employees, together where sustainability has an equal weighting to that of customer with a payroll giving scheme that matches regular donations service.
In larger tender processes, suppliers are also required by employees.
to present in person and to demonstrate how they are able to In addition to our commitments around the Community meet the requirements involved in delivering against their Engagement Series, in 2012 we also made cash donations responses, including detailed sustainability practices.
In total we committed For example, a recent large tender process relating to our cash, resources and services of 719,347 which includes events included the following commitment to UBM by the Community Engagement Series 2011: 943,675. our supplier: Health and Safety t Always use eco-friendly products and material as the We recognise that providing a safe working environment for first choice our employees, and for the exhibitors and visitors to our many t Provide a sustainability co-ordinator for every UBM show, events, is an essential responsibility of our management and responsible for: employees at all levels.
UBMs Health and Safety H&S policy lies with the Board and each divisional CEO is Working with UBM on setting sustainability goals responsible for making sure that their business operates safely, Working with venues and internal operations on and in compliance with relevant legislation and procedures.
sustainability processes Divisional CEOs also undertake H&S training.
In December Co-ordinating donations 2012, 30 UBM global operations leaders met for the first time Tracking and reporting sustainability results on every to discuss common challenges, to showcase best practice, relevant UBM show.
and to build a co-ordinated plan to implement H&S best practice at our events worldwide.
Our principal H&S issues relate to the operation of our events Community which had over 1.7m visitors in 2012.
While local legal Engagement Series requirements may vary, we aim to set benchmark standards Community for managing H&S at our events around the world.
We make Engagement Series contractors and exhibitors aware of our demanding 800 requirements with detailed guidance.
Most contractors have charity exhibitors either undertaken formal training or plan to do so because 502k we demand it.
We seek to apply the highest standards at each committed of our events, taking account of local regulations and norms but also applying our own standards.
We carry out risk assessments at our events and a H&S manager is on site throughout the event.
UBM works closely with external experts to undertake regular independent audits of our events and we continually seek to improve and share best practice.
Our Internal Audit department reviews H&S issues at our events, with particular emphasis on those in Emerging Markets.
27 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
