Understanding our markets attractive for advertising.
The Outsell 2012 Study estimates that Summary of key marketplace trends almost 43% of B2B spend in the US is on digital, and There is growing recognition of events as effective advertisers are expected to have increased this line of spending media for B2B lead generation by 10% during 2012.
The graphic below highlights the effectiveness of different sorts of media in generating leads.
In this survey by industry analysts The importance of content is growing Outsell, Live events are deemed the most effective for B2B In the digital environment the distinction between paid, earned advertisers, followed by company-owned websites.
PR is also and owned media is blurred, particularly now that social and identied as a highly effective method of generating leads owing mobile straddle all three.
to the apparent strength of earned media see the importance The popularity of social networking and accelerating mobile of content is growing to the right.
usage are changing B2B spending habits.
According to Outsell, An integrated marketing approach is highly effective although companies own websites receive 48% of B2B digital Outsells annual US Advertising and Marketing Study 2012 spend, this large base is no longer growing as quickly as other Outsell A&M Study also highlighted that advertisers rate marketing methods such as social network advertising, cross-media campaigns much more highly for effectiveness in webinars and even email marketing.
generating leads than campaigns that rely on a single medium.
The increasing importance of earned media For some sectors, print remains an effective medium for Customer validation through social media channels is perceived communicating with an audience, and forms part of an to be increasingly powerful and therefore desirable.
For large companies the effect on lead party distribution, known as earned media, raises visibility generation of having a multimedia campaign print, digital across digital media channels and can promote trafc to the and events is a 46% enhancement.
paid and owned marketing assets that the advertiser wishes The attractions of digital media are amplied as to promote.
Within this trend, the quality of content is crucial to software and data together enable advertisers to maximising the value of the earned media network available.
become more efficient The ability of marketers to see the return on their investment using data analytics, coupled with the improved sophistication Outsell Inc, www.
of lead generation and nurturing makes online and digital media Which media generate leads?
Key UBMs primary products and services 80 3 1.
Custom Print 30 40 50 60 70 80 Effectiveness with B2B Source: Outsell annual US Advertising and Marketing Study 2012.
11 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Effectiveness with consumers
