08 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Ultras four strategies for growth Strategic objectives In order to outperform the market, and thereby improve the Groups ranking in the FTSE index, Ultra must add shareholder value and increase its market capitalisation more rapidly than other companies.
This is facilitated by an above-average rate of revenue growth.
Ultra constantly strives to increase its share of the high growth sectors of the markets in which it has positioned itself.
The four main strategic objectives that support this target growth are: 1 2 Increase the Groups portfolio of Augment the number of long-term specialist capability areas platforms and programmes on Ultra concentrates on providing its customers with capabilities and which Ultras specialist capabilities systems using the Groups electronic and software solutions for are specified niche markets in defence & aerospace, security & cyber, transport and energy.
Within these market sectors Ultra focuses on Ultra positions these specialist capabilities on a long list of developing specialist capabilities that provide differentiated international platforms and programmes.
This breadth of solutions to customers requirements.
Across Ultras businesses platform and programme coverage creates a ywheel effect that there are more than 180 of these specialist capability areas.
drives Ultras performance year after year, despite market uctuations.
Ultra is positioned on more than 350 such platforms and programmes.
Excluding the Oman Airport IT project, no single programme contributes more than 5% of Ultras revenue in any one year.
In 2012 In 2012 Ultra added 9 new specialist the Groups specialist capabilities capability areas to its portfolio.
were specified on 9 new platforms and programmes.
Strategies in action Strategies in action The acquisition of BeMac brings to Ultras portfolio of Ultras PMES business is part of a joint team with Babcock and UK MoD that is now under contract to fit Ultras new main-static specialist capabilities: convertor equipment to the UK Vanguard class submarines, baseline-grade cryptographic equipment which will continue in-service beyond the next decade.
key management services secure financial transaction systems BeMacs capabilities are provided to UK Government, military, law enforcement agencies and the finance sector.
BeMacs proprietary products are accredited by CESG GCHQ, the UK governments national technical authority for secure electronic communications.
BeMac has been integrated into Ultras AEP Networks business to form a centre of excellence for baseline and enhanced grade cryptographic and secure communication products and services.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 58% 19% opening rm order cover compared increase in sales to countries to analysts consensus forecast for outside Europe and North America 2013 revenue 2011: 54% 111.2m 2011: 93.2m 3 4 Broaden the Groups customer base Widen Ultras geographic footprint Ultras independence allows it to sell its wide portfolio of specialist Ultra has pursued a strategy of gaining access to the two largest capabilities to a broad range of customers around the world.
Ultra addressable defence budgets in the world.
Despite the recent supplies to a wide range of different project ofces, integrated budget reductions, the US still spends more more on defence project teams and platform teams within its customers, the largest each year than the rest of NATO nations combined.
The majority of which include: US DoD, UK MoD, Rolls-Royce, BAE Systems, of Ultras acquisitions have been in North America and the point Lockheed Martin, Raytheon and Boeing.
has now been reached where the Group has a transatlantic capability and derives more of its revenue from the US and Canada than it does from the UK.
Ultras revenue from the Middle East and Asia Pacific regions are capable of expansion.
The Groups growing presence in Australia, and the Middle East regions indicates Ultras intent in this regard.
In 2012 In 2012 Ultra won business with the Group was successful in 19 new customers.
Strategies in action Strategies in action Ultras Nuclear Controls business, a strategic supplier of Ultras Card Systems business, through its Magicard product, nuclear-qualified instrumentation and control systems, has provided the physical access control and attendee registration signed a Memorandum of Understanding with AREVA that will at the G20 summit in Los Cabos, Mexico.
open the way for a future partnership in power generation and the build of two new nuclear reactors in the UK.
The collaboration could also extend to other reactors including those planned at Sizewell.
Ultras 3eTI business has been extremely successful with providing virtual perimeter fence and EnergyGuard capabilities to the US Navy to protect and manage its buildings and infrastructure.
Building on this success, 3eTI has now started to deliver similar capabilities to the US Army and large US Air Force estate infrastructure.
