12 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Why were different Business model Ultra focuses on developing specialist Products capabilities that provide differentiated What we do solutions to customers requirements Capabilities The Group is constantly seeking to Ultra businesses constantly Throughout the Groups businesses there increase the number of specialist innovate to create solutions to are more than 180 of these specialist capabilities in narrow market niches and customer requirements that are capability areas across Ultras broad market to increase the number of long-term areas of: platforms and programmes on which different from and better than Ultras specialist capabilities are specified.
those of the Groups competitors.
Defence & Aerospace Ultras ever broadening range of specialist Solutions market capabilities coupled with its Security & Cyber By applying these differentiated solutions increasing presence on long-term to a wide range of international platforms Transport and Energy programmes and platforms drives the and programmes, Ultra has built an Groups growth momentum.
exceptionally broad portfolio of specialist The expansive spread of specialist Revenue by capability capability areas.
Where the Group has a capability areas mapped onto so many number of complementary capabilities it platforms and programmes provides can also combine these to offer broader resilience to Ultras financial performance solutions.
In other words, the products, and reduces the Groups risk profile.
capabilities and the associated domain expertise uniquely position Ultra to be able to meet sub-system and system requirements.
These solutions are underpinned by through-life support offerings that ensure the capabilities are 8 delivered and sustained in-service.
core capability areas Defence & Aerospace 56% Support Ultra offers support to its customers Security & Cyber 24% through the design, delivery and support 180 Transport and Energy 20% phases of a programme.
Ultras deep specialist capabilities understanding of its specialist capability areas combined with knowledge of the customer environment is a key factor in 350 Ultra provides these specialist capabilities delivering innovative solutions to meet the platforms & programmes on more than 350 long term multi-year customers through-life needs.
Excluding the Oman Airport IT project, no single programme contributes more than 5% of Ultras revenue in any one year.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Ultra has more than 180 specialist capability areas across the Groups broad market areas of Defence & Aerospace, Security & Cyber, Transport and Energy The diagram below shows how the 180 specialist capabilities relate to their major end customers and markets 7.
Introduction 14 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Why were different Business model continued Ultra focuses on constantly and continuously Markets positioning itself in areas of preferential Where we operate customer spend within its main markets Ultras customers Ultra is constantly repositioning US DoD Ultras independence allows it to work with itself in high growth sectors UK MoD the worlds major prime contractors in its within its main Defence & markets and to sell its wide portfolio of MOTC OMAN specialist capabilities to a broad range of Aerospace, Security & Cyber, ROLLS-ROYCE customers around the world.
The graphic Transport and Energy markets.
BAE SYSTEMS to the right shows the major customers for LOCKHEED MARTIN Market sectors the Groups 2012 revenue.
Within the Through its tried and tested strategic Groups top customers, such as the US RAYTHEON review process, the Group has Department of Defense DoD, the UK BOEING demonstrated a long track record of Ministry of Defence MoD and BAE AUSTRALIAN DoD identifying future high growth market Systems, the Group actually supplies to a GENERAL DYNAMICS sectors.
Ultra then invests to create wide range of different project offices, differentiated positions in these sectors.
THALES integrated project teams and platform Ultras ever broadening range of specialist teams.
Therefore, Ultra deals with a larger CANADIAN DND market positions and growing geographic number of different partners and customers TAIWAN MoD reach underpins the Groups growth.
than the graphic might first suggest.
EDF Ultra continues to focus on maximising UTC revenue from the largest addressable defence budgets in the world.
Within % 5 10 15 20 25 30 these markets, the Group continues to follow a strategy of identifying and pursuing areas of preferential funding.
The Group has expanded and developed a transatlantic capability and derives around half its revenue from North America.
The Middle East and Asia Pacific regions are capable of being larger markets for Ultra and the Group is focused on broadening its geographic reach in line with Strategic Objective 4 see page 9.
A full analysis of Ultra's markets is on pages 20 to 23.
Revenue by region Geographic reach Over the last two decades Ultra has expanded and developed its international footprint and now has significant operations in Europe, North America, Middle East and Asia Pacific.
Ultra has United Kingdom 30% businesses based in the countries shaded North America 48% light blue on the map above, and Mainland Europe 7% furthermore, conducts business in the countries shaded in dark blue.
Rest of the world 15% Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Ultra focuses on developing innovative Partnerships solutions that are delivered in close collaboration How we operate with partners, suppliers and customers Typical tier offerings In its specialist capability areas, Supply chain Tier 1 Platform provider Ultras understanding of the Responsible for being the prime contractor of the platform in question, examples being a naval vessel or customer environment and the a terminal at an airport.
projected capability gaps that the Tier 2 Sub-system integrator customer would like addressed Responsible for integrating equipment or components Tier 1 that will make up a functional element of the platform.
in short, its understanding of the Examples of sub-system integration that Ultra has Tier 2 customers problem statement completed include integrated sonar systems and wing ice protection systems.
Tier 3 Tier 3 Equipment supplier Ultra businesses constantly innovate to Tier 4 Ultra has a large presence at this level of the create solutions to customer requirements supply chain, supplying equipment such as data links, that are different from and better than those Platform provider Tier 1 cryptographic equipment and large electrical transformers.
of the Groups competitors in a way that the Sub-system integrator Tier 2 customer values.
In identifying differentiated Tier 4 Component supplier Equipment supplier Tier 3 solutions, prime consideration is given not to Ultra also provides a broad range of smaller components onto many programmes worldwide, what Ultra would like to sell but to what the Component supplier Tier 4 including sensors for measuring the performance of a customer needs.
This flexibility covers not nuclear reactor and joysticks to control UAVs.
just the technical attributes of the product Investment or system but also the commercial package, The Group has a strategy to continuously the training and the support in which the Ultras position in the supply chain invest to strengthen its capabilities across customer is interested.
Within the definition of the supply chain its specialist niche markets.
shown in the graphic above, Ultras specialist The Group is agnostic as to the source of technology that is required to deliver capabilities are mainly at Tiers 3 and 4, solutions.
When proven technology that supplying equipment and components to Product and business meets customers requirements exists support Tier 1 and 2 subsystems and development spend 2012 outside the Group, Ultra is happy to form programmes.
The Group does undertake teaming partnerships to access it.
Ultra sees Tier 2 subsystem integration but does this these teaming arrangements as a source of mainly when integrating its own Tier 3 competitive advantage, allowing Ultra to offerings.
Ultra therefore understands the deliver differentiated solutions that meet Tier 3 detailed interfaces and so is able to customer needs efficiently.
It is important manage the risk inherent in sub-system that these teaming arrangements are of integration activities.
benefit to all parties by working together, Ultra has no strategic aim to be a Tier 1, top the team members are able to win level platform provider.
The Group is opportunities that would not be possible therefore non-threatening to the Tier 1 without teaming.
prime contractors such as BAE Systems or Group funded 6.5% Rolls-Royce and counts them amongst its Customer funded 12.9% largest customers.
They can rely on Ultra to Customer provide the specialist capabilities at which problem the Group is expert.
Concentrating on Tiers statement 3 and 4, rather than aiming to be a Tier 1 Ultra consistently invests over 5% of platform provider, means that, with the revenue in new product and business exception of the Oman Airport IT development.
In addition, over 10% of programme, no single platform or Group revenue is customer-funded product programme typically accounts for more development.
In total therefore over 15% Ultras than 5% of Group revenue for the year, so 3rd party of revenue spend is focused on augmenting solution technology the cancellation or curtailment of any single the portfolio of capabilities and programme programme is unlikely to have a significant positions that underpin further growth.
adverse impact on the Group.
Introduction 16 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Why were different Business model continued Ultra focuses on delivering agile and Flexibility responsive support to customers through a How we are high degree of operational autonomy organised Across the Group, there are no more than A key differentiator for Ultra is seven levels of seniority from shop-floor the agility that businesses in the operator or newly qualified engineer up to Group exhibit in their dealings the Chief Executive.
Flat management BOARD structures within the 28 businesses are with customers.
encouraged to facilitate agile behaviour at Ultras businesses have a high degree of all levels.
RESPONSIBLE FOR: operational autonomy so that they Ultra ensures that all of its businesses are provide exceptionally agile and responsive LEADERSHIP doing the right thing well managed, profitable and cash support to customers and partners GROWTH IN SHAREHOLDER VALUE generative.
This allows the Group to selfnormally associated with a smaller GROUP STRATEGY fund acquisitions that deliver positions business.
These benefits of customer RISK MANAGEMENT in new markets or additional niche focus and agility are augmented by the STANDARDS OF ETHICS capabilities.
Since the Groups formation, access to wider and complementary AND BEHAVIOUR Ultra has maintained a balance between technologies and expertise that lie organic and acquisition growth, having elsewhere in the Group or with partners, successfully integrated 48 acquisitions and by Ultras strong financial position.
The Board provides effective leadership The Group pursues four parallel strategies and direction in delivering the key RESPONSIBLE FOR: for growth that are explained more fully on corporate objective of reliable and MANAGEMENT doing things right pages 8 and 9. consistent growth in shareholder value.
At DELIVERING THE STRATEGY the operational level, the Executive Team Ultras business model and the four FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE has responsibility for running the Group strategies for growth are underpinned by TEAM DEVELOPMENT and for delivery of strategy, financial eight strategic tenets see pages 18 and performance and team development.
These strategic tenets provide 28 guidance for the implementation of the AUTONOMOUS strategy as well as forming the basis of Ultras culture and behaviours, more BUSINESSES details of which can be found on pages 35 to 37.
ORGANISED INTO 3 DIVISIONS With around 4,700 employees in its 28 businesses, the number of staff at Ultras head office is fewer than 30.
This gives a clear signal about how it wants the Group to run.
Objective Delivered Underpinned through by Strategies for growth Strategic tenets see page 08 see page 18 To outperform the market in terms of annual increases in shareholder return Robust business model Culture see page 12 see page 36 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Balance How we reduce risk Ultras strategy is constantly to broaden its portfolio of Focus on autonomy products and services that are As much authority and responsibility as possible is devolved to the positioned on a large number Managing Directors and Presidents of Ultras individual businesses of international platforms and and their management teams.
Ultra wants these teams to maintain programmes in the defence, the agility and sharp focus externally on customer requirements security, transport and that are typical of owner-managed businesses.
management processes address four main areas.
These are: The Group has an increasingly broad customer base worldwide with sales compliance outside the UK now representing 70% of ensuring that the businesses comply fully with all laws Group revenue.
Ultra is constantly repositioning itself in high growth sectors and regulations of all the countries in which they operate within its main defence, security, transport and that they demonstrate the high standards of integrity and energy markets.
and ethical behaviour The Group remains committed to its strategy of continued investment in its portfolio of strategy differentiated specialist capabilities to ensure agreeing and then delivering five-year plans focused on that the business is well positioned to meet future market demand.
positioning for growth in target markets through innovation Ultra has over 180 specialist niche that generates differentiated solutions to customer capabilities requirements for each of Ultras specialist capability areas Ultra is positioned on over 350 long-term, More on pages 8 and 9 multi-year programme and platforms That with the exception of the Oman financial performance Airport IT programme, no one programme is more than 5% of Ultras managing the main processes for example, winning new revenue in any year business, execution of contracts, production and support so The above factors, that the businesses meet or exceed the agreed financial budgets.
Across all Ultra businesses the focus is mainly on cash generation combined with Ultras as an indicator of the high quality of earnings growth market agility More on pages 24 to 34 and organisational flexibility results in a developing people for each business developing the team and its individuals so that stable and well they so that they grow with the business and do not become a balanced business that constraint on the development of the Group.
Ultras right people brings robustness and are its most important asset and great focus is placed on resilience to Ultras ensuring that the right people are in the right roles financial profile and More on pages 36 and 37 reduces the Groups risk.
More detail on Ultras approach to risk management can be found on pages 40 to 43.
