Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Making a difference The Board recognises that the long-term success of the Group will be enhanced through fair and positive relationships that make a difference to all its stakeholders including shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees, local communities and the environment.
This reinforces Ultras strategic tenets, described on pages 18 and 19, that define the values and behaviours of the Groups culture which is aligned with the achievement of Ultras prime objective.
Making a difference to shareholders to suppliers in the community Ultra aims to extend its long track record Supplier management is critical to the The Group recognises that each of its of delivering above average shareholder continued success of the Group as it businesses has an important role to play in returns.
The Groups primary objective is to depends upon its suppliers to help to the communities in which they operate.
continue to outperform the market in terms deliver the complex products and services Many of Ultras businesses have formed of annual increases in shareholder value by which are typically safety or performancespecial relationships with schools in their delivering above average increases in critical in their application.
Ultra is focused surrounding communities, hosting earnings and by communicating effectively on delivering innovative and differentiated company visits, helping with school science with shareholders and the financial solutions that can only be generated fairs and providing work experience community.
Ultras strategy is constantly to through working in partnership with opportunities.
Each operating business has increase its share of the markets in which suppliers and customers.
This is its own locally held charity budget, is able it has positioned itself.
The Group focuses encapsulated in the seventh strategic tenet to support selected charities and is on those specialist sectors within the gain competitive advantage by internal encouraged to maintain and grow links markets where customers preferentially and external teaming.
Poor performance with its local communities.
The Group focus their expenditure.
or inappropriate behaviour by a supplier encourages and supports its employees could affect Ultras reputation or ability to who undertake voluntary work in the local meet its commitments.
community or at national levels.
to customers to employees to the environment Ultra aims to be an excellent and The success Ultra achieves in innovating to Ultra recognises that it is important, both strategic supplier to its customers, meet customer needs is based on the broad for its employees and the communities in reflecting its sixth strategic tenet.
This range of skills and capabilities of its which it operates, that effective measures can only be achieved through developing employees.
The Board understands this and are in place to minimise the environmental long-term relationships that are based on recognises that the Groups right people are impact of its activities as this will help to performance excellence, meeting its most important asset.
This is enshrined in secure the long-term future of the Group.
commitments and exhibiting the best the fifth strategic tenet which calls for an The Group has committed to substantial behaviours.
This enables the businesses efficient organisation with engaged and investments in manufacturing facilities that to build long-term, mutually beneficial competent people.
Ultra is committed to will, in addition to improving productivity, relationships with their customers, such developing people and securing the talent offer increased efficiencies and reduce that Ultras businesses become part of pipeline to ensure the continuing growth energy consumption.
One example of this the customers extended enterprise.
More detail on this can is Ultras facility above in Indiana US, be found in Developing Ultras People on where Ultra has the second largest natural pages 36 and 37. heating and cooling system in the state.
