30 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Performance Tactical & Sonar Systems Ultras common core high-grade cryptographic product offers increased security, exibility and interoperability.
The reprogrammable nature of the device means that it can be upgraded to meet future needs in UK and export markets.
In 2012, the Information Assurance team within Ultras Communication & Integrated Systems business further secured its position as a world-leading cryptography provider after capturing a number of additional development and study contracts that will lead to future production.
This builds on a contract with the UK MoD to provide a wide range of high-grade cryptographic products.
Ultras offering is based on an innovative, compact, reprogrammable core cryptographic module.
This recongurable common core crypto is tted into specic adaptors to provide a form-t-function replacement to previous cryptographic devices, and has resulted in the UK MoD being able to save considerable costs through minimising platform integration activities.
Pictured above, front row from L to R: Finbarr Alpesh Kavia, Principal Hardware Engineer: Back row ODonoghue, Product Engineer: Aftab Haider, Mechanical L to R: Jonathan Blogh, Firmware Design Authority: Jim Team leader: Laurence Dixon, Chief Engineer, IA Product Haywood, ILS Manager: Colin Rowe, Principal Test System Development: Andrea Lee, Project Manager: Andy Frew, Engineer: Stewart Murray, Software & Firmware Team Head of Programmes, Information Assurance: Leader: Mark Weston, ECU ITEA and I&I Team Leader.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Revenue m Underlying operating profit Order book m 298.0m 46.4m 350.0m % % % % of group % of group % of group 39 38 39 -3.4% -23.3% 5.8% 2011: 308.6m 2011: 60.5m 2011: 330.7m Number of employees Revenue in Tactical & Sonar Systems reduced by 3% to 298.0m 2011: 308.6m.
The divisions 1,739 underlying operating profit reduced by 23% to % % of group 46.4m 2011: 60.5m.
1.4% 2011: 1,715 US ground force reductions, budget constraints and planned phasing of a US Army tactical radio programme led to a 50% reduction in radio sales compared with 2011.
Elsewhere, the division saw good revenue growth in the Groups crypto and sonobuoy businesses.
US sonobuoy orders remained buoyant as the US shifts focus to the AsiaPacic theatre.
In secure communications the Group continues to enjoy an active interest and demand in its portfolio of encryption and key-management capabilities.
Ultra also achieved substantial sales in perimeter surveillance and power monitoring systems.
Underlying operating profit was impacted by restructuring costs and maintenance of investment for future growth, reducing the divisions underlying operating margin to 15.6% compared to 19.6% last year.
Features of the divisions performance Strategy in action in the year that will underpin future performance included: 4.
Widening Ultras geographic footprint an End Cryptographic Unit Replacement Ultras Sonar business was successful in being selected to provide torpedo defence Programme ECU-RP contract was systems for the Turkish Navys two new Landing Ship Tank LST platforms.
The successfully negotiated following the selection of Ultra to provide this capability was built upon the existing and proven volume adjustments to reect the UKs industrial relationships with Turkish industry that were forged while delivering two defence review systems under the MILGEM programme.
For the MILGEM programme, Ultra teamed orders for additional Litening advanced with Turkish industry to adapt a version of Ultras Sea Sentor torpedo defence system targeting pods and associated support to meet the Turkish Navys specic needs.
The success of this programme and of the for the RAFs Typhoon aircraft, following relationships has allowed Ultra, working closely with local industry, to win the excellent performance during operations contract for the LST.
in Libya, further strengthening Ultras position for opportunities linked to Typhoon exports a further contract for a torpedo defence For details on Ultras strategic system to Turkey for its Landing Ship Tank objectives see pages 8 and 9. programme, building on recent success for similar systems for the Turkish Navys MILGEM corvettes see f oso ete no fo te oto nn otp eao gn e i1 nside front cover Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 27 7.
