18 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic tenets Ultras enablers Ultras growth momentum has Focus on defence, Through-life product been sustained by successfully and services portfolio security, transport pursuing its strategies for The Group values any position within the and energy growth see pages 8 and 9. supply chain that is held by any particular The Groups core competencies, domain niche.
Frequently, more attractive margins Underpinning these strategies knowledge and market positions give it can be generated by providing are eight core strategic tenets.
particular credibility in these four sectors components than by supplying entire worldwide.
Core competencies include: They have been used systems.
Where the Group has a number market positioning through an of complementary niches, it does combine consistently by the Group over understanding of customer needs, enabling these to offer sub-systems, systems and many years.
They help shape the responses to complex invitations to tender through-life management solutions to or requests for proposals: managing culture, defined as values and satisfy customer requirements.
Generally, complex development programmes where however, Ultra prefers to retain a leading behaviours that drive results, risks need careful identication and control: niche position rather than constantly that is encouraged in Ultra.
manufacturing and aftermarket support pursue the supply of systems with the over long timescales and the discipline to hope of higher added value.
The scope of meet our commitments.
The strategy is to Ultras offering is determined after a enhance the capability of the Group to rigorous strategic review.
allow adjacent market sectors that exhibit growth to be served.
Niche player Organic and Within the Groups 28 businesses, more acquisition growth than 180 niches can be identified where Ultra businesses are expected to contribute the aim is to sustain competitive to the organic growth of the Group as well advantage.
These niches enable Ultra to as identifying well-matched acquisition achieve world-leading positions and result targets.
To ensure that an appropriate rate in the potential for superior financial of organic growth is maintained, performance.
This broad spread gives the businesses produce annual five-year Group low dependency on any single strategic plans that target specic contract and provides resilience in the opportunities.
The focus on cash face of technological changes or funding generation is a key driver to the cut-backs.
affordability of suitable acquisitions to augment the Groups growth rate.
The Groups acquisition strategy is summarised as being the pursuit of bolt-on and bolt-in acquisitions that enable Ultra to successfully pursue its four main strategies for growth.
The normal size of acquisitions, as measured by annual revenue, is currently about 30m to 100m for bolt-ons and up to 15m for bolt-ins.
Larger acquisitions will be considered where the case is compelling.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 efficiency and Teaming Teaming, internally within the Group or Market Analysis competence externally with other companies, broadens Ultra seeks to maximise efficiency Ultras analysis of the defence, security, offerings by combining niche products or throughout its organisation.
The levels of transport and energy markets can be linking domain knowledge.
It attains commitment and competency of business found on pages 20 to 23. competitive advantage by accessing management teams is continuously off-the-shelf technology at lower cost, assessed through strategic, budget, allowing timely delivery while avoiding organisation, succession and regular expensive development costs and high business performance reviews.
Increasingly, Ultra teams with places a high degree of trust in, and has international, world-class partners to high expectations of, its senior staff and access best of breed technology and supports their development and Teaming undertakes specialist system and improvement activities.
Ultra empowers sub-system design and integration, Further details on Ultras approach to management teams to run their respective ensuring customers sovereign operational partnering and teaming can be found businesses to deliver agreed strategies, independence where required.
on page 15. meet budgets and continuously develop their people.
Ultra constantly develops its people and structure through a rigorous annual organisation, succession and development planning process.
Strategic supplier Commitments Ultra businesses are expected to maximise Ultra has built a reputation for meeting its Strategic Supplier their relationships with customers for the commitments.
This reputation is not only Further details on how Ultra drives long-term, through a close understanding based on businesses meeting their long term relationships can be found of customer needs leading to sustained obligations, but also by establishing a on pages 35 and 36. on-time delivery of high quality products culture within the Group which is based and services.
Many of the Groups niche on this principle.
Ultra believes that this offerings involve the design and supply of reputation is one of its dening and complex products and services which are most valuable characteristics.
Behaving in typically safety or performance-critical in this way fosters long-term relationships.
This creates a shared dependency from the customers Commitments perspective and encourages a long-term strategic relationship where Ultras More information on Ultras businesses become part of the customers commitment to developing sustainable extended enterprises, to mutual benefit.
and long-term business can be found on pages 38 and 39.
