44 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Board of Directors For the year ended 31 December 2012 Douglas Caster CBE BSc MIET Rakesh Sharma BSc MBA MInstP CPhys Chairman Chief Executive Time with Ultra: Time with Ultra: 19 years 2 months 19 years 2 months Time in position: Time in position: 1 year 8 months 1 year 8 months Douglas Caster is a highly experienced engineer and manager of Rakesh Sharma has managed businesses and divisions across the electronics businesses.
He has a long track record of driving growth full range of Ultras wide portfolio, with consistent success in through effective acquisition and superior financial performance in driving growth in the Group.
Combining business and technical the companies he has led.
insight, he ensures Ultra businesses maintain a competitive advantage in the Groups specialist market sectors, while delivering Douglas Caster started his career as an electronics design engineer with the superior financial performance.
Racal Electronics Group in 1975, before moving to Schlumberger 1986 and then to Dowty as Engineering Director of Sonar & Communication Systems Rakesh Sharma started his career as an electronic design engineer at in 1988.
In 1992, he became Managing Director of that business and, after Marconi in 1983 before moving to Dowty as Chief Engineer of Sonar & participating in the management buy-out that formed Ultra Electronics, Communication Systems in 1989.
He was appointed Marketing Director of joined the Board in October 1993.
In April 2000, he was promoted to the that business in 1993 when Ultra Electronics was formed.
From 1997 to position of Managing Director of Ultras Information & Power Systems 1999 he worked in the US as Ultras Operations Director, North America.
After returning to the UK he was Managing Director of PMES and then of division.
In April 2004 he was appointed Chief Operating officer and became Chief Executive in April 2005.
He was appointed deputy Chairman Sonar & Communication Systems before taking his first divisional role in 2005 as Managing Director, Tactical & Sonar Systems.
In 2008 he moved in April 2010 and became Chairman of Ultra in April 2011. to run the Groups Information & Power Systems Division before being appointed Chief Operating officer in January 2010.
He was appointed to the Board in April 2010 and became Chief Executive in April 2011.
Christopher Bailey FCA MCT Martin Broadhurst OBE MA C. Dir FIoD FRAeS Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Time in position: Time in position: 7 years 11 months 5 months Chris Bailey is a highly experienced, large plc Finance Director who Martin Broadhurst has a wealth of valuable experience in the brings valuable specialist and general management expertise to defence and aerospace markets, having run a large engineering Ultras Board.
He has a knowledge and expertise in the organisation organisation within the sector for fifteen years.
He has demonstrable of operations in all of Ultras main geographic markets.
expertise and skill in growing international business and in expanding capabilities.
Chris Bailey was appointed to the Board in January 2005.
He was Group Finance Director of Aggregate Industries plc until 2004.
Before this he was Martin Broadhurst OBE was appointed to the Ultra Board in July 2012.
He the Finance Director of the precursor companies of Aggregate Industries joined Marshall Aerospace as a Management Trainee in 1975 and, from 1984 until its formation in 1997.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of following a number of roles with the company including Production Chartered Accountants of England & Wales and is also a Member of the Director and Director of Programmes, was appointed as Chief Executive in Association of Corporate Treasurers.
During his time as Chief Executive he served on the Group Holdings Board and was Chairman of a number of subsidiary companies.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Paul Dean MA FCMA Mark Anderson CB BSc Finance Director Group Marketing Director Time with Ultra: Time with Ultra: 4 years 1 year 7 months Time in position: Time in position: 4 years 8 months Paul Dean is a broadly experienced plc Finance Director whose Mark Anderson brings a broad customer perspective, operational background, including participation in the buyout from Burmah experience from recent conicts and collaboration with close allies.
His oversight of Ultra's strategic process will benefit from this broad understanding of the customer need.
Paul Dean joined Ultra in January 2009 having been Finance Director of Foseco from 2001 until its acquisition by Cookson plc in April 2008.
He Mark Anderson joined the Royal Navy in 1974 as a weapon system was a key part of the team that led the 2001 management buy-out from engineer before switching career path to achieve both nuclear submarine Burmah Castrol of five specialty chemicals businesses to form Foseco and ship command.
His MoD staff appointments include policy roles in two Jersey Ltd which was oated as Foseco plc in May 2005.
From 1989 to strategic defence reviews and equipment customer responsibility for all 2001, Paul held a number of senior finance roles in Burmah Castrol plc, underwater programmes.
He has worked closely with the US throughout including Finance Director of Castrol UK Limited, Chief Financial officer of his career, including sensitive roles within the US Joint Staff.
Promoted to the Fosroc Division, Group Financial Controller and then Corporate Rear Admiral, he commanded all Fleet Operations and headed the UK submarine service up to the end of his 36 years service in June 2011.
He Treasurer for Burmah Castrol plc.
He was appointed to the Board in April 2009.
Paul has been approached to take a Finance Director role outside of then joined Ultra in a divisional strategy role before being selected to succeed Andy Hamment and joined the Board in April 2012. the defence and aerospace sector and will leave Ultra on 31 March 2013.
Sir Robert Walmsley KCB, FREng Sharon Harris LLB Company Secretary & General Counsel Non-Executive Director Time with Ultra: 1 year 1 month Time in position: Time in position: 8 months 3 years 11 months Sir Robert Walmsley brings to Ultras Board solid experience in the Sharon Harris brings corporate legal expertise to the Board role, defence, security, energy and transport sectors, core markets in together with plc experience in corporate governance, with a which the Group is investing for growth.
He has deep knowledge strong knowledge of the management and protection of of all of Ultras main geographic markets and a substantial intellectual property.
Sharon Harris was previously Group Legal Director at EMAP Ltd Sir Robert Walmsley was most recently Chief of Defence Procurement at and Head of Legal & Estates Deputy Company Secretary at Britvic plc.
the UK Ministry of Defence MoD, a post which he held from 1996 until She has a law degree from Kings College, London and completed her his retirement from public service in 2003.
Prior to his MoD appointment, Law Society exams at Chester College of Law.
She joined Ultra in Sir Robert had a distinguished career in the Royal Navy, where he rose to November 2011 and was appointed Company Secretary in April 2012. the rank of Vice Admiral in 1994 and served for two years as Controller of the Navy.
Sir Robert Walmsley is Chairman of the Board of the Major Projects Association, a Non-Executive Director of Cohort plc and of the General Dynamics Corporation.
He is also a senior advisor at Morgan Stanley International plc.
He was appointed to the Board in January 2009.
Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committee member Executive Director NOTE: All details correct as at 31 December 2012 Non-Executive Director Company Secretary & General Counsel 7.
