20 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Market analysis In demanding markets, Ultra provides a growing portfolio of highly differentiated, specialist capabilities and innovative technologies to meet particular customer need.
Ultras clear focus on areas of preferential spend, increasing market access and product diversity provides resilience in a period of budget adjustment in core markets.
Working closely and effectively across the Group, and with partners, Ultra offers the comprehensive, tailored and proven solutions the customer is seeking.
would apply across all programmes, until Defence negotiations on priority spend could be Within Ultras core markets, defence forces agreed by the Department of Defense.
are readjusting to the end of long-running These cuts would add another $500bn to land campaigns in Iraq and Afghanistan, the existing $487bn defence funding Military forces will against the backdrop of significant and reduction over the next 10 years, as already continuing government scal uncertainty.
be asked to do more announced in the Fiscal Year 2013 FY13 Defence budgets are under pressure, yet budget.
A further downward correction to international tensions are undiminished with less.
the US defence budget seems inevitable and the demands for military presence and with some programmes being curtailed or focused intervention remain high, driven by cancelled.
While the breadth of Ultras threats from terrorism, insurgency and portfolio and focus on areas of preferential regional competition.
As a result, military and continuing spend provides a strong forces will be asked to do more with less, degree of resilience, this market remains leading to a greater dependency on difficult as budget uncertainty translates unmanned systems, greater use of into an unwillingness to commit to normal intelligence-led, Special Operations and contract volumes, while funding remains quick-reaction forces, and improved subject to additional scrutiny and situational awareness and networking for vulnerable to further cuts.
These effects are the lower number of troops on the ground.
most evident in land warfare programmes C4ISR, defence IT and cyber will receive as the strategic emphasis shifts back priorities while projecting fewer boots on toward expeditionary warfare capabilities.
Increased mobility and exibility will improve the utility of these smaller Recent US strategy will see the focus formations, relying upon high-capacity, return to the Asia-Pacic region, with a secure data links and wideband, mobile 60-40 force split between East and West communications delivering data down to coast forces favouring the Pacic by 2020. the individual soldier for improved The strategy has a strong focus on situational awareness.
Each of these undersea dominance, with the new P-8 specialist capabilities plays to the established Anti-Submarine Warfare ASW patrol strengths of Ultras portfolio.
aircraft, new Littoral Combat Ship stationing and submarine force allocations US prioritised to counter the growing In the US, Ultras largest defence market, Asia-Pacic submarine threat.
Over 80 new budget uncertainty will continue through submarines will be commissioned within 2013.
Sequestration under the 2012 the region in the next 10 years, largely to Budget Control Act has now been undertake area denial anti-access roles enacted and an extension of the current amongst the contested waters that offer Continuing Resolution is judged more competed access to critical resources and likely than not as US deficit pressures command regional influence.
Sequestration C4ISR is command, control, communication, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 A further downward Portfolio strength New markets correction in the and focus on provide growth US defence market preferential spend opportunities.
long-standing expertise in all aspects of and position as a leading provider of sonar underwater capability leave it well systems to the Turkish Navy, while positioned to exploit this resurgence of encouraging interest in the Groups wider focus on ASW capability, with both the US portfolio of capabilities.
Ultra is applying and regional maritime forces.
the lessons from Turkey to establish new relationships in India, now the largest UK defence importer in the world.
India is In the UK the defence equipment budget investing heavily in defence and has been reset around a dened core specifically in improving its blue water programme, providing some welcome relief naval capability, with a build programme from the damage of overspend on major of some five or six new ships a year for the projects impacting across the programme next ten years.
There is strong interest in as a whole.
Further defence budget cuts Ultras sonar capabilities and expertise in appear likely in the next Comprehensive armoured ghting vehicle electronic Spending Review as the UK Government architectures, on top of the Groups struggles with its own deficit problem, but long-standing engagement in army radio there are signs that the equipment systems.
While Australia has implemented acquisition budget will remain stable in the short-term defence cuts as a contribution short-term.
The UK Ministry of Defence to deficit reduction ahead of the next continues to provide valuable opportunities general election, the long-term in areas covered by Ultras specialist programme provides further opportunities capabilities, such as ISTAR, data links, force in Ultras areas of strength.
The Group also protection and crypto management.
Ultra remains well positioned in the Middle East also benets from a more stable and has an emerging set of opportunities commitment to the submarine ret and in Brazil: both regions of continuing high build programme.
Rest of the world Elsewhere in Ultras target markets a general upward trend of defence spending US focus on Asia-Pacic plays to Ultras longcontinues with a focus on the acquisition of established and proven, high end standing expertise in all aspects of underwater systems while protecting and building an indigenous defence industrial capability.
Turkey, Ultra has established a strong reputation for successful teaming with Turkish industry, including the secondment of several Turkish engineers under new visa arrangements to develop the next generation of ship torpedo defence.
This engagement has secured Ultras reputation 7.
Introduction 22 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Market analysis continued Solutions need to be comprehensive and fully integrated with mature, proven technologies that can be tailored to the customers specic need.
to offer comprehensive solutions tailored Security & Cyber to individual customer needs.
The security & cyber market now represents 24% of Group revenue, targeting the The Group now enjoys a comprehensive preferential customer spend arising from range of established crypto-capabilities terrorism, organised crime, drug trafcking that span from the highest levels of and cyber-security threats.
Governments government security through to are responding with demands for commercial and  integrated solutions, which combine applications.
These augment Ultras surveillance and protection capabilities with unique key management and remote improved intelligence and effective C3 keying capabilities that remain in strong systems.
Ultra has demonstrable expertise demand.
The Group also has a wide range in all of these areas.
of lawful intercept and data analysis products to offer, together with the Border security and critical national identication and access management, infrastructure protection remain key secure communications, networks and opportunities in both core and emerging command & control systems to enable their markets.
Solutions need to be effective employment.
comprehensive and fully integrated, with mature, proven technologies that can be tailored to customers specic needs.
The ability to access best of breed capabilities through close partnership is a further requirement.
Ultra is well positioned to meet these demands in both the large US market and in other areas of high interest, such as the Middle East.
Within both government and private sectors, there is a growing understanding of the scale and potential threat from individual and state-sponsored cyberattacks on critical national and commercial infrastructures.
Ultra is seeing an increased demand for tailored solutions in the Groups core markets of the US and UK, as well as new opportunities in the Middle East and Australia.
A well-established portfolio of specialist capabilities in the security and cyber areas, enhanced by recent acquisitions and teaming with leading providers in the eld, allows Ultra Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 A growing emphasis on reactor plant life extension plays well to the Groups safety system experience and specialist sensor provision.
Germany, Switzerland, Taiwan have since Transport and Energy Continuing growth turned away from nuclear power, while Population growth, shifts in global trade others have suspended or delayed in air trafc is driving and the proliferation of low-cost airlines construction plans as a result of safety worldwide is driving demand for civil new opportunities for concerns or economic stagnation: as a aircraft and infrastructure investment in result nuclear power accounted for just mass passenger transport systems.
11% of worldwide electricity production in established economies, infrastructure 2012.
Nevertheless, the imperative to investment is upgrading capabilities and deliver low-carbon energy remains high.
In emerging the US, despite the focus on indigenous economies, such investment is being used shale oil production, the government to secure growth, build national capacity approved four new-build Westinghouse and deliver prestigious projects.
reactors, each of which uses Ultras Passenger trafc gures continue to specialist sensors.
The Groups involvement exceed carrying capacity, with growth in continues in Chinas civil nuclear reactor commercial aircraft manufacturers build programme, by far the largest in the revenues expected to reach record levels in world.
Production levels will exceed 1,000 growing emphasis on reactor plant life aircraft per year for the third consecutive extension as new builds are delayed: this year and backlogs continue to grow.
This plays well to the Groups safety system long-term, worldwide increase in air travel experience and specialist sensor provision.
drives investment in infrastructure, Whilst investment decisions in some including airport IT systems where Ultra countries may be slowed by economic has a strong capability.
Ultras ability to concerns, demand remains strong in the secure and deliver as a master systems worlds high-growth economies.
Ultra integrator, for the Muscat and Salalah continues to win business in these airports in Oman, has clearly established transport and energy areas, which now the Groups capability in this market, with represent 20% of Group revenue.
further opportunities expected within the region in the following years.
The investment in ground transport systems and specifically rail infrastructure is predicted to exceed airport investment over the next decade: an opportunity which should benefit Ultra with its established and specialist trackside power capability.
Reports on the Fukushima disaster underwrote the need for high-integrity safety systems and remote monitoring in civil nuclear power.
