WINNING THROUGH CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT 20 Report of the Directors About Unilever Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our continuous improvement programme significantly and reducing vehicle aims to deliver sustainable, profitable Leveraging entire value chain kilometres by 175 million over the next growth by seeking to add value at every three years in Europe alone cutting costs step in the value chain by enhancing and emissions while improving service.
product quality and customer service, By working across the entire value and rolling out innovations faster.
This chain from sourcing, manufacturing Driving return on marketing and approach, combined with our global scale, and logistics through to innovation, capital investment generates significant savings that we advertising and promotions, and pricing Completing the value chain picture, invest back into our brands and factories we can use our global scale to add we focused on getting the best return to fuel growth and fulfil our ambition value, reach new markets and meet on marketing investment for every brand to reach more consumers.
Its also our sustainability targets.
in every category, spending 6.8 billion helping us create new ways to source, on advertising and promotion in 2012. manufacture and deliver our products Working with global scale and local agility We reviewed our approach to marketing more sustainably.
Our procurement organisation now buys through our Crafting Brands for Life the majority of all materials and services programme, placing an emphasis on centrally some 35 billion in 2012. learning through continuous improvement.
This scale improves our buying efficiency By focusing on creating fewer but better and has made a considerable contribution advertisements, and using them in more towards our 1.4 billion supply chain places, we drove down advertising savings, double what we saved in 2007. production and fees globally, reducing our overall spend by over 41 million.
Our When it comes to production, our return on marketing investment delivered philosophy of design once, deploy over 175 million in savings in 2012, vital everywhere, enables us to maximise to fund our marketing programmes.
This ensures our world-class manufacturing network of over 250 factories delivers higher quality products and faster global innovation roll-outs.
In 2012, we also increased cross-border sourcing by investing in 1.
4 b i l li o n large regional or global manufacturing in supply chain savings in 2012 bases, making better use of our capital.
Our global logistics network transports our finished goods over 1.5 billion 39 % kilometres each year.
This scale enables of all tea sourced comes from farms us to have global and regional distribution certified by the Rainforest Alliance hubs, improving operational efficiency TAKING PALM OIL IN HAND TIME FOR TEA SUPPLIER OF In 2012, three years ahead of schedule, we succeeded As part of our plan to THE YEAR in sourcing 100% of our palm oil sustainably.
Were source tea sustainably, In the UK, our supply one of the largest buyers in the world, purchasing for the last six years weve chain dramatically some 3% of the total volume produced.
worked with the Kenya Tea improved customer Development Agency to service through closer Importantly, this is just the beginning.
We also want educate its smallholder customer collaboration, to know exactly where it comes from, so were now farmers about sustainable a new planning process aiming to purchase entirely from traceable certified cultivation and Rainforest and a more responsive sources by 2020, which means well be able to track Alliance certification.
every tonne back to the certified plantation where it And its working many We were named the top was grown.
Well be helped in this by our 69 million certified tea farmers are multi-category supplier investment in a new palm kernel oil processing plant now achieving higher yields.
in the Advantage Group in Indonesia, which will bring us closer to the source.
Globally our programmes Survey and supplier of We are also actively considering similar joint venture have contributed to the year by the major investments in processing crude palm oil derivatives training 450,000 retailers including Asda, in South East Asia, India and West Africa.
OUR SUPPLIERS TO FIND OUT HOW WE PARTNER WITH SUPPLIERS TO MEET CONSUMERS AND CUSTOMERS NEEDS GO TO WWW.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors About Unilever 21 WINNING THROUGH CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT continued Local relevance with low-cost and incidents.
Consumer complaints business models Reaching more consumers were down by 29% in 2012 versus 2009, One of Unilevers particular strengths while product incidents were down by is our ability to combine global scale 75%.
In addition, we are making and with locally tailored solutions.
We have To meet our growth ambition we need designing better products.
In 2012, 57% identified several levers to improve our to reach more consumers.
We continue of our products scored higher than our gross margin over the long term, one to work hard to ensure our products are competitors in blind tests, compared of which is the application of low-cost always available wherever the consumer to just 21% in 2009. business models to parts of the business is shopping.
We expect a significant profitability uplift once these measures To reach different kinds of consumers we are implemented, enabling us to invest have developed segmented supply chains Fast, flawless execution back into the business, maintaining and across categories, portfolios, geographies accelerating the momentum of the and channels to deliver the right service virtuous circle of growth.
For example, in Indonesia, Our ability to deliver quality products, Ponds is a premium brand thats often innovate, and make better decisions Working in partnership with our suppliers sold by small specialist retailers with little quickly is critical to our sustainable Our scale also helps us to meet our space to showcase the entire range and as growth agenda.
For example, we have ambitious targets for sustainable sourcing.
a result they have a tendency to run out of almost halved the time it takes to launch In 2012, we sourced around one third of stock.
Following a successful trial, we now key innovations into the market place.
all agricultural raw materials sustainably, offer a daily delivery service, extending the New capabilities and centralised including 100% of our palm oil, our largest roll-out to Greater Jakarta experiencing processes are making it possible to agricultural raw material, three years sales growth of more than 80%.
almost halve the time it takes to build new ahead of schedule.
Unilevers Global Engineering all the tea we source comes from farms We have been increasing on-shelf Services uses cookie cutter templates for certified by the Rainforest Alliance.
availability OSA, getting more products factories, design and suppliers, helping us Sourcing sustainably means that farmers more quickly on to shelves.
In 2012, stores to deliver consistent high quality products can improve their living conditions and in our OSA programme reduced empty wherever in the world they are made, as earn an income they can live on.
well as improving our speed to market.
helps maintain and improve soil fertility, enhance water quality and availability, In 2012, our customers rated us higher We are also investing for growth and and protect biodiversity.
According to the global are building world-class factories, Advantage Group Survey, we improved in enabling us to cater to the substantial However, we cannot achieve our 70% of our key markets and are in the top volume growth so far.
As well as sustainable growth agenda alone.
We third in ten out of 14 of our key markets.
increasing capacity and flexibility, work in partnership with our suppliers to our new plants create competitiveness support the growth and innovation we need.
We are also working hard to increase through manufacturing excellence Through our Partner to Win programme, product quality reducing both complaints and by using sustainable technologies.
we work with more than 150 strategic suppliers by sharing strategies and growth plans.
This enables us to build capacity and create new technologies.
Our suppliers are also key to generating new ideas and are partnering with us on over 65% of the deliverables in our medium and long-term innovation projects.
Improving eco-efficiency We are also focusing on improving sustainability in our manufacturing network.
Thanks to programmes to reduce, reuse, recycle and recover, over half our manufacturing sites now send zero non-hazardous waste to landfill.
We sourced 26% of our energy used in manufacturing from renewables, and reduced our CO emissions from energy by 2 838,000 tonnes in the period 2008 to 2012.
These efforts have contributed towards the recognition by the Dow Jones Sustainability ZERO WASTE Indexes, which named Unilever a global TO LANDFILL super-sector leader in 2012.
Over half of our 252 manufacturing sites across waste in the factories.
We also reduced, reused, the world, from Costa Rica to Japan, send no recycled and recovered waste.
For example, in non-hazardous waste to landfill, up from 74 at Russia, Unilever recycles tea bags to make animal the start of the year.
100% of our sites send zero bedding or wallpaper.
waste to landfill in 18 countries, the equivalent of removing over 1 million household bins of waste More at: www.
This has been achieved by eliminating 22 Report of the Directors About Unilever Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Operational excellence such as sales, merchandising and store Enterprise Support, Unilevers global auditing are connected to Unilevers shared services, is transforming our information systems.
They use mobile internal operations.
By simplifying our devices to help them carry out sales internal processes, it is helping us both transactions and record and upload reduce costs and, by enabling us to act up-to-date market data.
This lets us faster and with greater agility, improve monitor how our products are being our service to customers.
presented to shoppers in over 4 million stores in our Perfect Stores programme In Finance Services, for example, we see page 17. have simplified our reporting processes, systems and tools, reducing our reporting Its not just customers who are benefiting time from 25 working days in 2010 to 19 we are talking directly to consumers today.
We aim to reduce this still further.
too through our digital hub which is connecting them securely with our brands In IT we are leveraging technology across across multiple digital channels.
For Unilever which is helping us manage our example, we launched our Dove digital growing business more efficiently.
We presence in 30 countries in just 30 days MAKING have simplified 200 local IT transaction just one of 650 brand activations across WHEEL SPIN systems by replacing them with four 50 countries.
global systems, managed as one for speed and resilience.
This is delivering many Bringing it all together, in May 2012 As part of our low-cost business model benefits, for example helping us integrate we opened a global operations centre strategy, we analysed every link in the value acquisitions swiftly both Alberto Culver in Bangalore, tapping into the talent chain for Wheel, our value washing powder in India.
As a result of technology and productivity and the Sara Lee personal care brands and mindset of emerging markets.
improvements in manufacturing as well as were integrated in just over six months.
This is the heart of our global shared distributing the product from our factory direct services operations, and will support our to the customer, we delivered savings right across the value chain, ensuring our products We are also using technology to improve end-to-end IT, Finance and Information are affordable to people on low incomes and our service to customers.
More than Management across the whole of Unilever.
50,000 of our representatives in areas More at: www.
co. in wheel Product incidents down 7 5 % in 2012 versus 2009 Reduced CO emissions from 2 energy from factory operations between 2008 and 2012 by, 8 3 8 000 tonnes Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors About Unilever 23
