WINNING IN THE MARKET PLACE 16 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION There are 2 billion consumers who use During 2012, we continued to focus on our products on any given day and we Reaching more consumers building our premium portfolio across want to reach many more.
We do this categories to deliver growth and better by addressing different consumer needs margins.
For example, in January 2012, with relevant innovations at different Market development is a key driver we launched the Dove hair range in the price points, rolling them out fast of our growth and built around the Philippines, and it became the markets across all markets, and increasing the following approach: number three brand in just six months.
availability and visibility of our products reaching up encouraging more Similarly, in May we launched the Clear through our growing Perfect Stores affluent consumers to use our brand into the US, the largest haircare programme.
At the heart of our winning premium brands : market in the world, proof that we can in the market place strategy is a desire to reaching down offering value products grow through premium brands in achieve growth in the most cost-effective for consumers on lower incomes in developed markets too.
emerging and developed markets : and reaching wide being first and fast to Its not just in Personal Care that we are take our brands into what we call white driving premiumisation.
Magnum, our spaces, namely new geographies like premium ice cream brand, is growing Central Africa and Myanmar, emerging faster than the category average and consumer segments like male became a 1 billion brand in 2012. grooming, and new channels like You can now buy Magnum in more than e-commerce.
40 countries, including the Philippines, Pakistan and Thailand, following the 2012 Premiumisation roll-out of the brand in these countries.
By 2020, 1.8 billion more consumers, mainly from emerging markets, will move Offering affordable brands up the ladder and become more affluent.
There remain many less affluent Reaching up is therefore a critical growth consumers in emerging markets who opportunity for us.
can benefit from our affordable brands.
However, reaching down is not simply about expanding into these markets: it is also about offering affordable products to shoppers struggling in tough 5 mi ll i o n economic conditions across Europe and the US.
This year, for example, 46 million Perfect Stores across 75 markets people in the US used food stamps.
1 1 9 million people reached with Lifebuoy handwashing programmes since 2010 A PERFECT WAY TO SHOP DOVE FLIES INTO WASH THOSE Making our products easy for shoppers to find and THE PHILIPPINES GERMS RIGHT OUT buy is at the heart of our Perfect Stores programme In 2012, the Dove hair OF MY HANDS which went from strength to strength in 2012.
How range was introduced On 15 October 2012, do we do it?
By translating the marketing knowledge into the Philippines people in 42 countries and expertise weve gained from building our brands as a premium haircare took part in Lifebuoys into improving the experience for shoppers in-store.
Its launch included fifth Global Handwashing A better shopping experience leads to improved sales post-wash products like Day.
Each year, over growth, as shoppers purchase our products more conditioners and 200 million people hear frequently.
The programme has led us to develop treatments.
Within six about it through the media.
our understanding of what works in different channels months, the Dove hair We aim to change the and store formats, and also encouraged us to develop range had become the behaviour of 1 billion a range of new IT systems to facilitate measurement number three brand people across Asia, Africa of key parameters, thats improving the way we do in the market and we and Latin America by 2015 business and helping us stand out from the competition.
achieved our highest and reduce diarrhoea and share of the haircare respiratory disease.
OUR CUSTOMERS TO FIND OUT HOW WE WORK WITH CUSTOMERS SO OUR PRODUCTS REACH SHOPPERS GO TO WWW.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors About Unilever 17 WINNING IN THE MARKET PLACE continued Local jewels are offering good value to In 2012, we successfully integrated two consumers and our business.
Responding acquisitions, Kalina, the Russian personal Leveraging entire value chain swiftly to the economic crisis in Greece, care company, and Alberto Culver, the in less than six months from development global hair and skincare company, and both we launched Elais, a new value-for-money are now experiencing double digit growth.
Reaching more consumers is also food brand, which offers consumers a about partnering with our retailers to high quality product range positioned for In November 2011, the TRESemm brand encourage shoppers to buy our brands lower incomes.
was launched into Brazil just six months so that we can grow sustainably together after the Alberto Culver acquisition was across the value chain.
We estimate And its not just new or local brands.
We have since launched the that 68% of our greenhouse gas impact In 1894, William Lever launched an brand in Indonesia, India, Thailand and comes from consumers using our affordable soap called Lifebuoy.
Today, the Philippines, proving our organisational products, so we help customers engage building on its legacy, the global soap capability to roll out a brand with speed with shoppers and consumers to adopt brand is helping to raise hygiene and agility.
Moreover, it demonstrates more sustainable lifestyles.
standards in emerging markets through our ability to transform an acquisition into the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan a growth opportunity by swiftly launching USLP.
Lifebuoy has reached 119 million its brands into new territories.
people with handwashing programmes since 2010, while helping the brand We are also looking to reach wide experience double digit growth in the by accelerating our presence through last three years.
three important channels which have all demonstrated high growth for us in Growing in white spaces 2012: drug stores: e-commerce: and We are continuing to fill white spaces, out of home selling for consumers taking our brands into new markets consumption away from home.
In drug and expanding into emerging consumer stores, for example, we recorded our segments, to create new growth highest underlying sales growth of opportunities.
Today, people can buy 11% in 2012 in this channel.
Dove and Axe products in more than 70 countries: Cif in more than 60, following its expansion into China and Mexico in 2012: Knorr Jelly Bouillon in almost 40: and Clear in more than 40, after its successful 2012 launch in the US, Australia and Canada.
THE NEW ECONOMY The economic crisis in Greece has led consumers to switch to cheaper, local brands.
Using our trusted brand, Elais named after the goddess of olive oil, we created a range of value-for-money food products to tap into consumer needs.
Our supply chain, customer, finance, sales and marketing teams collaborated swiftly to develop and launch within six months eight new economy products from olive oil to mayonnaise.
At launch, the range was stocked in promotional displays to boost awareness and encourage people to buy.
The new Elais range is one of the fastest growing recent launches in Greece.
gr elais 18 Report of the Directors About Unilever Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION For the last three years, we have worked the next generation of the programme, on A Better Future Begins at Home, Fast, flawless execution Perfect Store 2.0, aimed at improving a joint shopper programme with retailer the way we market our brands to Tesco, to encourage sustainable behaviour.
shoppers, improving shelf stand-out It combines advice with promotions As well as working with our customers on and ensuring we give shoppers more around our brands, all carrying a strong joint initiatives, we are also working with reasons to choose our brands in-store.
By rewarding them to help drive sales of our products shoppers for making more sustainable through our Perfect Stores programme.
Improving the retail experience choices, it is educating them in how small This is a repeatable model which ensures Meanwhile, were helping our customers actions can make a big difference both the right products are available in stores improve the retail experience in Perfect to the environment and to their wallet.
and are marketed clearly to shoppers.
Stores using hand-held technology So far the programme has been Pilot studies in India and Argentina show and the power of analytics, suggesting implemented in nine markets from the that outlets enrolled for the Perfect salesmen for store-specific orders and UK to China.
As well as growing our sales, Stores programme grow on average promotions, plus tips on displays.
We it has delivered benefits ranging from 4% more than other outlets.
also empowered thousands of our Shakti consumers recycling more to people entrepreneurs with mobile phones to book planting trees in the local community.
In 2012, we supported the development sales orders.
We will continue to innovate of another 2 million Perfect Stores and and grow sustainably with our customers, Taking care of our customers extended our programme to more than whether theyre a small-scale distributor We believe that customer satisfaction 30 new markets.
This means that at the in rural India or a global retailer.
is the single most important measure of end of 2012 we had 5 million Perfect success for us in this area.
And customers Stores in 75 markets and we aim to are more satisfied with us than ever.
Next, we will roll out In 2012, Unilever was named supplier of the year in the drug store channel, in Boots and Superdrug UK, Rite Aid US, Shoppers DrugMart Canada and Farmacias Benavides Mexico.
Meanwhile, in emerging markets in Asia, Africa and the Middle East, we were rated the number one supplier in seven markets.
In Brazil and Argentina, our most important markets in Latin America, we are frequently evaluated in the top three, while in the UK Unilever was named supplier of the year by almost all our customers.
11 % growth through drug stores Rated RINGING THE N o.
1 SALES IN INDIA supplier across seven markets in Asia, Africa and the Middle East Almost 80,000 entrepreneurs, including right products, saving time during sales calls 48,000 women, in over 135,000 villages across while increasing sales and earnings.
Shakti is India have now joined our rural selling operation, just one example of the progress we are making Shakti.
We improved the programme in 2012 by towards our USLP goal of improving the part funding mobile phones for a number of livelihoods of people across our value chain.
these sales people, equipping them with a simple application to drive sales.
This low cost but very More at: www.
com sustainable-living effective mobile technology helps them sell the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors About Unilever 19
