REPORT OF THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE Terms of reference COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE The Corporate Responsibility Committee previously the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee oversees Unilevers conduct as a responsible multinational business.
ATTENDANCE The Committee is also charged with ensuring that Unilevers reputation is protected and enhanced.
A key element of the role Sir Malcolm Rifkind 4 4 is the need to identify any external developments which are likely Chairman of the Corporate to have an influence upon Unilevers standing in society and to Responsibility Committee bring these to the attention of the Boards.
The Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive Louise Fresco 4 4 Directors: Sir Malcolm Rifkind, Hixonia Nyasulu and Louise Fresco.
Hixonia Nyasulu 4 4 Sir Malcolm Rifkind chairs the Committee.
The Chief Marketing & Communication Officer attends the Committees meetings.
This table shows the attendance of Directors at Committee meetings for the year ended 31 December 2012.
If Directors are unable to attend The Committees discussions are informed by the perspectives a meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda of the Groups two sustainability leadership groups, both of which items with the Committee Chairman.
Attendance is expressed as the are chaired by the Chief Marketing & Communication Officer.
number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to attend.
The first is the Unilever Sustainable Development Group USDG a group of experts from outside the Group who advise Unilevers senior leadership on its sustainability strategy.
The second is the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan Steering Team the group HIGHLIGHTS OF 2012 of Unilevers senior executives who are accountable for driving sustainable growth.
The insights from these groups help to keep the Boards informed of current and emerging trends and any Scrutiny of Unilevers Code of Business Principles potential risks arising from sustainability issues.
Monitoring of Unilevers anti-bribery framework During 2012 the Boards reviewed the names and terms of Review of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan: reference of the Committees.
It was agreed that the name of the Progress Report 2011 Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee should be Analysis of Unilevers safe travel standard shortened to the Corporate Responsibility Committee from 2013.
Minor changes were incorporated into its terms of reference.
The Committees terms of reference and details of the Unilever Sustainable Development Group are available on our website PRIORITIES FOR 2013 at www.
com investorrelations corp governance and www.
com sustainable-living ourapproach Governance respectively.
Compliance with Code of Business Principles by Meetings third parties Meetings are held quarterly and ad hoc as required.
The Committee Progress on the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan Chairman reports the conclusions to the Boards.
Four meetings were held in 2012.
Product quality The Committees agenda comprises a number of standing items.
These include the Code of Business Principles the Code, litigation and the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP, as well as occupational safety and product safety and quality.
In addition, the Committee reviews further items, such as the corporate risks which fall within its remit and a range of strategic issues.
These issues are grouped into a number of themes and reviewed on a regular basis to ensure the Committee stays abreast of current trends.
Code of Business Principles The Committee is responsible for the oversight of the Code and associated Code Policies which set out the standards of conduct we expect of our employees.
The Committee ensures that the Code and Code Policies remain fit for purpose and are appropriately applied.
In this regard it complements the role of the Audit Committee which considers the Code as part of its remit to review risk management.
58 Report of the Directors Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The Committee maintains close scrutiny of the mechanisms Further items for compliance with the Code and Code Policies as ongoing The Committee reviewed the processes for managing and compliance is essential to promote and protect Unilevers values identifying reputational risk, particularly the risks arising from and standards, and hence the good reputation of the Group.
the increasing use of social media which means information can At each meeting the Committee reviews detailed statistics on be communicated rapidly to a worldwide audience.
the completion of investigations into non-compliance with the Code and Code Policies.
Reporting of these statistics has been Towards the end of the year, the Committee put in place an annual improved over the year.
review of issues that are strategically important to Unilever.
This allows Committee members to see how the Group is managing Training is also an ongoing topic of review.
Members of the the issues and how issues may change in prominence or risk over Committee keep abreast of the training provided to employees time.
The first review was held early in 2013. relating to the Code and the Code Policies.
In 2012 online courses on Protecting Information, Respect, Dignity and Fair Treatment In 2012 a particularly important discussion centred on market and Living the Code were rolled out.
regulation that affects the Groups ability to operate effectively.
Compliance with differing regulatory regimes adds complexity Litigation review and cost to the business.
Unilever advocates consistent principles The Chief Legal Officer reports to the Committee on litigation for regulations globally to ensure consumers can enjoy our and regulatory matters which may have a reputational impact products safely, sustainably and effectively, whilst allowing including environmental issues, bribery and corruption Unilever to operate efficiently on a global scale.
compliance and competition law compliance.
These matters are then also considered by the full Boards.
For further information Evaluation of the Corporate Responsibility Committee on legal proceedings please see note 20 on page 126.
The Boards evaluated the performance of the Committee and the Committee carried out a self-assessment of its performance, Unilever Sustainable Living Plan and each have concluded the Committee is performing effectively.
The Committee monitors progress on Unilevers Sustainable Living Plan and reviews any potential risks that could affect Unilevers reputation.
Each of its meetings addresses a different element of the USLP.
Sir Malcolm Rifkind Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee The USLP is at the heart of Unilevers vision to double the size Louise Fresco of its business while reducing its environmental footprint and Hixonia Nyasulu increasing its positive social impact.
In the autumn, members of the Committee were pleased to note that Unilever had incorporated sustainability into its Virtuous Circle of Growth model as a succinct way of communicating how sustainability can deliver benefits for the business in terms of growth opportunities, cost savings and risk reduction see page 9.
Unilevers first report on the USLP was published in April 2012 Unilever Sustainable Living Plan: Progress Report 2011.
The Committee reviewed the report and plans for its communication.
The Committee also studied a report of Unilevers activities at Rio 20, the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, in June 2012.
The purpose of Unilevers participation in the summit was to raise the profile of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, to influence the global sustainability debate and to encourage other businesses and partners to take action on sustainability.
The Committee reviewed research by Unilever on what influences opinion formers views of Unilever.
This revealed that sustainability is an important driver of reputation for companies in the consumer goods sector and that Unilever is well regarded for its sustainability efforts.
Safety An analysis of occupational safety and product safety and quality is included at each meeting.
The Committee views these as extremely important topics and continues to advocate that they are allocated high priority by Unilever management.
During 2012, Unilever placed particular effort on safe travel, working with Cranfield University and other partners to develop an approach that tackles internal risks as well as collaborating with others to address external risk factors such as road safety blackspots.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance 59
