ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our business model The inputs to the model, like The outputs of the model are is designed to deliver those of all major packaged threefold: sustained growth: OUR sustainable growth.
For goods manufacturers, are lower environmental impact: us, sustainability is integral threefold: brands: people: and and positive social impact.
BUSINESS to how we do business.
These map directly These align directly with world where temperatures on to our Compass Winning our Vision statement.
are rising, water is scarce, with pillars both continuous MODEL energy is expensive, sanitation improvement and the market The diagram below represents is poor in many areas, and place pillars support the our virtuous circle of growth.
food supplies are uncertain operations strand of the model.
It summarises, simply, how we and expensive, we have both derive profit from the application a duty and an opportunity to The differentiator in our business of our business model.
address these issues in the model is our USLP and the goal way we do business.
Our brands Our operations Our people Sustainable living Strong brands and innovation On any given day 2 billion Sustainable, profitable growth For us, sustainable, equitable are central to our ambition to consumers use our products can only be achieved with the growth is the only acceptable double in size.
We are investing and we want to reach many right people working in an business model.
Business in brand equity, finding and more, by developing innovative organisation that is fit to win, needs to be a regenerative strengthening the connections products that address different with a culture in which force in the system that gives between consumers and the consumer needs at different performance is aligned with it life.
For example, by reducing products they buy.
We are increasingly waste, we create efficiencies is strong, we are leveraging it our global scale to help deliver an agile and diverse business and reduce costs, helping creating efficiencies by focusing sustainable, profitable growth with people motivated by doing to improve margins while on fewer, bigger projects that by seeking to add value at good while doing well.
And we are every step in the value chain are building capability and looking at more sustainable seeking superior products by enhancing product quality leadership among our people ways of developing products, which consumers will prefer, and customer service, and and attracting some of the best sourcing and manufacturing driving profitable growth.
rolling out innovations faster talent in the market place.
opens up opportunities for across all markets.
innovation while improving the livelihoods of our suppliers.
A VIRTUOUS CIRCLE OF GROWTH Profitable volume growth Cost leverage efficiency Innovation marketing investment Profitable volume growth is the basis of the Profitable volume growth allows Lower costs and improved efficiency virtuous circle of growth.
Stronger brands us to optimise the utilisation of our enable us to strengthen our business and innovation are the key drivers behind it.
infrastructure and spread fixed costs further.
New and improved products Consistently strong volume growth builds over a larger number of units produced, are the result of investment in R&D brand equity as we reach more consumers, reducing the average cost per unit.
and, together with effective marketing, more often.
It improves our profitability and allows strengthen our brand equity.
This results us to invest in the business.
in profitable volume growth, selfperpetuating the virtuous circle of growth.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors About Unilever 9
