WINNING WITH BRANDS AND INNOVATION 12 Report of the Directors About Unilever Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strong brands and innovation will play DOMESTOS IS SUPPORTING central roles in our ambition to double Building brand equities the size of our business.
We are investing A CAMPAIGN TO IMPROVE heavily in the equity of our brands, SANITATION FOR MILLIONS seeking to find the connections between The strength of our business lies in consumers and the products they buy, brands that consumers love to buy and use.
OF PEOPLE and so to strengthen them.
Where As we invest greater and greater effort in we have strong brand equity, we are understanding consumers relationships leveraging it creating efficiencies by with our products, we increasingly find focusing on fewer, bigger projects that they are looking for brands that make a enhance margins.
And we are improving difference in their lives and to their world.
Similarly, our Brush Day and Night our brands, developing superior products So to make our brands stronger, we want campaign, which encourages parents which consumers will prefer, driving to draw out the ways in which our products and children to adopt good brushing habits, profitable growth.
resonate with consumers and create connects our family health oral care brands with purpose.
brands, led by Signal, to the dental health of millions.
Brush Day and Night reached Brands with purpose 49 million people over 2010-2012 and has Few issues could give more purpose to our helped our Signal brand grow by 22% work than sanitation: over 2,000 children since 2008. die every day from diarrhoea, which is linked to, among other things, a lack of Sustainable marketing clean toilets for more than 2 billion people Understanding the role of brands worldwide.
Our Domestos brand works in peoples lives also helps us target with local entrepreneurs in countries marketing efforts where they are most where access to sanitation is limited, meaningful.
For example, in South Africa helping them set up small businesses we have offered free Wonderbags to which source, sell and maintain hygienic customers of Shoprite stores when toilet facilities.
It is one of the many ways they buy three 200g packs of Unilevers in which our Domestos brand is supporting Rajah curry powder.
The Wonderbag a campaign to improve sanitation for is a remarkable advance in sustainable millions of people.
In keeping with Unilever cooking an inexpensive heat retention tradition, it is doing well by doing good.
cooker that reduces fuel consumption Overall, Domestos sales grew by more by half, reduces smoke from cooking than 9% in 2012. fires and helps food retain its taste, nutrition and texture.
Run in partnership with Shoprite and Natural Balance the manufacturers of the Wonderbag, this innovative scheme has helped 400,000 4 9 mi ll i o n consumers to save significantly on their people reached by our Brush Day and fuel bills.
Night oral care campaign over 2010-2012 WINNING IN BRAZIL THE FRUITS OF WORLD TOILET DAY Brazilian consumers care about their hair and, GROWTH More than 2 billion people inspired by the salons and hair professionals that Parents buy Kissan worldwide lack access are a part of national life, are prepared to trade up ketchups and jams to clean toilets a public for a new product they believe in.
because they are made health risk which we are from fresh fruit and campaigning to solve.
We saw a great opportunity in the market for the vegetables and children In November 2012, our TRESemm brand and, in November 2011, we made eat them because Domestos brand and our one of our most successful product launches ever, they taste great.
By partner, the World Toilet backed by a campaign that communicated with emphasising the natural Organization, opened consumers across every major medium and channel, ingredients of its products the worlds first toilet with a particular emphasis on the internet.
From and improving taste and academies in Vietnam, being unknown in Brazil, TRESemm is now one texture, Kissan has the first stage in a global of the countrys leading hair brands in hypermarkets established a strong programme to train local and drugstore chains.
market share position entrepreneurs to set up in India.
OUR BRANDS IN ACTION TO FIND OUT MORE GO TO WWW.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors About Unilever 13 WINNING WITH BRANDS AND INNOVATION continued Consumers as brand ambassadors Word of mouth has always played an Leverage bigger brands important role in communicating the benefits of our products.
Parent to child, sibling to sibling, neighbour to Once we have identified brands with a neighbour a good word from a trusted clear purpose in consumers lives, we can source is a high endorsement for any have the greatest impact by concentrating product.
Now, in the digital age, millions our efforts on a selected number of key of consumers from nearly every geography brands and leveraging the benefits of and demographic are connected in a giant scale.
Were making greater investments conversation in which the brands they in fewer, bigger projects and focusing love play an important part.
By creating on margin growth.
brands that have meaning and purpose for consumers, we are harnessing that Making a mark with consumers connectivity and enabling consumers Bigger marketing campaigns which to become our brands ambassadors.
can operate through multiple media are achieving what we call media cut-through: Part of the success of our Dove Self when a campaign remains memorable LOWER CALORIE Esteem Project, which encourages despite the many competing claims on ICE CREAM FOR KIDS women and girls to develop a positive consumers attention.
Our Dirt is Good relationship with beauty, has been an DiG brands, which include Omo and Persil, increased willingness among consumers re-launched in multiple markets in 2012 As part of the Unilever to spread the brands affirmative message.
with a powerful mix of traditional and digital Sustainable Living Plan, we set Research by Millward Brown shows that advertising, reassuring parents that their ourselves the target of ensuring that our childrens ice creams would among women in the US who are aware children can learn through healthy, messy contain 110 kilocalories or fewer per of the Dove Self Esteem Project, 62% play because of our products tough serving by the end of 2014.
We are introducing would recommend the Dove brand to stain-removing performance.
Five key the Specially for Kids logo on Max and Paddlepop branded ice creams to reflect others thats 16% more than among markets have already grown market share our commitment to products which combine those who are not aware of the project.
as a result and more DiG re-launches fun tastes, textures, shapes and colours, and are planned for 2013. comply with this target so children can enjoy them as part of a balanced diet and active lifestyle.
By the end of 2012, more than 80% Driving down costs of our childrens ice creams had met our target.
Negotiating larger advertising and More at: www.
com heartbrand promotion deals also allows for greater economies of scale, especially where campaigns can be adapted for different regions and countries.
Margins can be Innovating with ambition further increased when bigger projects In 2012 we took important steps to align allow other savings for example, in waste.
This allows for an integrated product innovation funnel from idea through to market, informed at every step by consumer benefit and value.
Our six major laboratories across the world are complemented by a network of regional centres that give us the strength to deliver innovations globally and apply regional variants that consumers value.
At the same time as strengthening R&D within our categories, we continue to look to the future through a core group of scientific experts.
These are charged with uncovering breakthrough scientific developments and providing thought leadership and connections with the external world to fuel our future category R&D programmes further.
14 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Focusing innovation on fewer, bigger includes a range of salon-quality dry made advances in product performance, projects in the future will allow R&D shampoos designed to rejuvenate hair we are increasingly able to tell consumers breakthroughs to be translated into without a single drop of water good for how they will benefit.
many markets in a short timeframe.
the environment as well as helping grow For example, an innovative method our business.
Alongside TRESemms rapid When we improved the Sunlight hand of cool blending spreads is set to launch, we introduced more than 80 new dishwash brand, for instance, we had transform our spreads brands such as or renewed products in Brazil, including thought carefully about the billions of Becel by reducing total fat and saturated two new Dove variants and re-launches hours spent every day across the world fats by around 25%, which differentiates of the Seda and Clear ranges, resulting washing dishes, and the benefits that their nutritional profile even more from in substantial gains in a vital market.
could come from a dishwash that butter while still delivering great taste.
degreases dishes faster and more easily.
We made sure our marketing And this year we made great advances communicated these improvements, with among consumers in the perceived quality Win consumer preference the result that we converted millions of of Lipton Yellow Label tea, by introducing households to Sunlight, doubling turnover a new process of cold-pressing some for the dishwash brand in six years.
of the freshest tea leaves and adding By making superior products with the essence back into conventional benefits people appreciate, we Quality worth paying for dried leaves.
Already launched through increasingly win consumer preference As well as driving volume growth, a celebrity-backed campaign in Russia, for premium brands where added value superior products can command premium which saw retail sales grow by 26% in is greatest.
Premiumisation, innovation prices, ensuring that growth is profitable.
12 months, this new technology will be and differentiation will be essential if All around the world, we are offering rolled out in another 18 countries in 2013. we are to grow faster than our markets.
products for which consumers are willing to trade up, with a corresponding rise in Winning market share Superiority you can feel added value.
In Russia, for example, we Big, fast, ambitious projects can have The team behind every product in every launched the Carte dOr ice cream range significant results, provided they are category of our business is set a clear in December 2011.
The Carte dOr products attuned to consumer needs.
When we target for improvement: we want all our were made to premium recipes and launched the TRESemm brand into one brands to be superior to the competition.
marketed accordingly creating additional of the worlds largest hair markets, Brazil, At present, our global Product value per serving.
In just over six months, it became one of the leading hair brands Benchmarking Programme shows Carte dOr sales grew profitably to represent in both hypermarkets and drugstore chains that 96% of our products in scope are some 25% of the premium segment.
TRESemm is available considered equal to, or better than, our in a number of other countries and also key competitors.
And where we have Some 25 % of premium segment in Russia achieved by Carte dOr in just over six months from launch IN 2012 WE WERE MARKET LEADER IN LIQUID LAUNDRY DETERGENT SALES IN LAUNDRY LIQUIDS BETTER FOR CONSUMERS, EMERGING MARKETS, CUSTOMERS, BUSINESS AND ENVIRONMENT WITH MARKET SHARE OF OVER 25% In 2012 we were market leader in liquid laundry manufacture and distribution than powders.
detergent sales in emerging markets, increasing And liquids are good for our business great our market share by over 10 percentage points performance combined with premium prices and since 2010.
Consumers are increasingly lower material and transport costs, especially convinced of the benefits of liquids like Omo for concentrates, mean higher gross margins.
and Surf which not only offer a better wash experience but, especially when concentrated, More at: www.
com omo create lower greenhouse gas emissions in their Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors About Unilever 15
