Directors report Corporate responsibility Those organisations that are found to be using AVEVA software Introduction illegally will always be given the opportunity to comply with our The AVEVA Group operates both ethically and responsibly in licensing policies, but ultimately we may need to take legal action.
4#z8K6K84 J 8J:J:| relationships we have with our employees and underpin how Internal stakeholders we treat our customers, suppliers and partners.
AVEVA now has over 1,000 employees globally, of which over 600 are based outside the UK.
We recognise that our employees AVEVA strives to maintain a healthy, safe and productive are our most valuable asset and we ensure our corporate values work environment.
This dedication is evident through an array are embedded in how we treat our staff and how they treat each of policies focused on social and ethical behaviour, including the other.
Our processes to recruit, retain and motivate staff are AVEVA dignity at work policy which maintains zero tolerance for bullying, discrimination and harassment by or to anyone that is retention rate well above the industry norm at 92.5%.
engaged with work at AVEVA.
Our Organising for Growth project commenced in 2011 12 We take pride in being socially responsible and operating in and has enabled AVEVA to improve its internal practices and an ethical manner.
These objectives are realised through the ?
4 # positive working relationships we build with partners across Our philosophy of continual progression commits AVEVA all areas of our business operations, including: to a constant review of our working practices and structure in order to meet both business and employee needs.
Communication Strong communication with employees is key to our growth and to creating an effective working environment.
AVEVA created an internal communications team dedicated to the mission of open and responsive communication to our External stakeholders employees across the globe.
The internal communications team, We seek to be honest and fair in our relationships with both together with 40 regional champions for internal communications, customers and suppliers.
Our suppliers are selected by an achieves this by providing channels and strategies for both bottom evaluation based on vendor policies, reputation and contractual up and top down communication.
In the UK our employee forum, AVEVAVoice, provides employees We have a policy not to offer, pay or accept bribes and, as such, with the opportunity to discuss business related topics and are committed to conducting our business with honesty and 4 4 #M 44J 8 6 Z these high standards of ethical behaviour and foster a culture to engage directly with senior management.
z %&% We ensure transparency in our products, services and costs 4 #M to show fairness and honesty within our working practices.
To enhance our product offering, the training and product of 80, which gave AVEVA many reasons to celebrate and reinforced support teams provide a high level of customer support to our belief that AVEVA is an employer of choice.
ensure they are using their AVEVA products as effectively Training and development as possible, improving project and asset performance and z 44 minimising operational risk.
opportunities for both professional and personal development.
The anti-piracy and compliance team are actively working Our key programmes include: across the globe to address the issue of organisations illegally Our graduate scheme offers a two-year developmental using AVEVA software.
This is a problem that faces the entire programme in a technical or commercial setting, with four software industry and AVEVA is working hard to protect our X 8K6K8# software by detecting and pursuing misuse where ever it occurs.
Some of our charity events over the last year include Race Charitable giving for Life for Cancer Research UK, the Dragon Boat Festival in In the past year AVEVA has donated over aid of East Anglia Childrens Hospice and Chariots of Fire for 50,000 to a range of local and global charities.
the Rosie Maternity Hospital in Cambridge.
AVEVA continues to donate their foreign currency Many individuals have taken part in charity runs for The Turbo small coinage to Oxfam and make considerable Trust, St Nicholas Hospice Care, Parkinsons Disease Society and the American Cancer Society and AVEVA has also donations to the Outward Bound Trust and supported employee activities such as a head shaving day for Macmillan Cancer Support.
We also encourage Cancer Research, Winter Tough Guy 2012 for the NSPCC and employees to get involved with charity Childline and many employees took part in Movember to raise money for Prostate Cancer.
fundraising by matching their funds raised.
26 26 A AVEV VEVA Group plc A Group plc Annual report 2012 Annual report 2012 Corporate governance The Grads & Stars Programme opened up the graduate Particularly within the Oil & Gas industries, AVEVA products scheme personal development workshops, which are provide our customers with the infrastructure capabilities to accredited by the Institute of Leadership & Management, reduce the risk of environmental damage, thus enabling AVEVA to all employees.
to share our dedication of safety and concern for the environment with our customers.
The Management Development Programme has been designed for managers at all levels and demonstrates AVEVAs As employees we make a concerted effort to reduce travel in belief in the importance and value of people management.
order to minimise our carbon footprint by continually improving our video and web conferencing facilities for meetings and 8UHJ training.
Our ELearning system in particular enables us to deliver champions the leaders of the future.
4 44 J Through AVEVAs robust performance management process, is convenient for colleagues.
individual and business needs are assessed regularly and feed We also take an active interest in recycling by using a third into our evolving portfolio of training courses, which include party to assist in the disposal of computer hardware in an appraisal training, stress management, recruitment training and a environmentally friendly manner and ensure daily recycling wide range of personal development workshops.
To complement 44J# our training and development programmes, and to help inspire personal growth and encourage internal opportunities, we have Community introduced a job level structure in 2011 for visibility of career paths.
AVEVA is dedicated to the development and well-being of its Benefits global and local communities through educational partnerships AVEVA continually reviews its reward and compensation that improve the sustainability of the engineering industry and 44 through charitable giving.
Financial rewards are competitive with salaries To combat the skills shortages within the engineering industry, benchmarked locally and globally, and bonus and incentives AVEVA actively supports the work of educational establishments 4 and government bodies around the world to narrow the skill performance targets, all of which are aligned with the gap and to raise interest in engineering disciplines.
The AVEVA Companys strategic development and the creation Academic Initiative is a group-wide programme with several of shareholder value.
key objectives: X4 work with universities to promote the use of AVEVA products to subsidised staff canteens.
The Groups employment policies during under and post graduate projects by providing both are also under continual review and are aimed at either meeting 4 Y# work with government agencies to re-skill engineers Health and well-being is a key focus for AVEVA.
We have introduced for employment in other disciplines by providing free 44 joined the Global Corporate Challenge to promote healthy living and encourage teamwork.
work with engineering bodies to encourage graduates to pursue careers in engineering.
Environment AVEVA sees its Academic Initiative as a vital strategic investment As a developer of software and having no manufacturing facilities, X AVEVA is classed as a low impact environmental organisation.
In 2011 12 we provided support The majority of software sales are delivered electronically to our to just under 100 universities worldwide and have donated customers further reducing package and transport miles.
engineering software to initiatives aimed at re-skilling and upgrading the skills of designers and engineers.
AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2012 27
