Directors report Our markets A solid strategy for success The fundamental growth drivers across our primary markets remain very strong despite the many economic and political changes experienced by the industries we serve.
AVEVAs products and services are well positioned to exploit new opportunities created by the evolving business environment of our customers.
End user markets AVEVAs success has been built Oil & Gas on strong, long-term relationships with our customers, often spanning several decades.
These enable us to fully understand the industries Revenue we serve and ensure that our contribution technology development strategy meets and anticipates our customers changing needs.
z { J3& of the worlds energy needs and providing raw materials used to manufacture products The industries we serve: that are essential to our modern lives.
AVEVA has had a long and close relationship z { with the industry.
Our technology continues to enable many of its most advanced H engineering developments, both onshore and, increasingly, in the move to more : challenging offshore exploration where AVEVA dominates the market.
H The economics of the Oil & Gas industry ?X : :H J to continue its steady growth trend, AVEVA H H 4 forecast high levels of investment in $6 H # Market drivers t Strong demand from emerging nations t T ight supply demand balance t T rend toward higher oil prices t No more easy oil t 6 4?
"For more information on our markets t 46 H turn to pages 1217 $3&&j 6 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2012 Overview Global markets M ""4 around the world, AVEVA provides close support to our global customers across both mature and developing markets."
"Power Marine Adjacent markets Revenue Revenue Revenue contribution contribution contribution In 2011 the worlds population reached The marine industry creates the arteries The features which put AVEVAs of the world economy, providing the most #z %& J technologies at the heart of these key 44 standards rise, electrical consumption industry sectors also deliver compelling ""&J for commodities, fuel, raw materials value in other capital industries."
sustained long-term investment and products.
Notable among these are the Chemical, ?# Following a boom in shipbuilding HJ: : While fossil fuels will continue to play in recent years, the industry today is HJH H ?
Many of these rising fuel costs and tighter environmental buoyant and the over-supply of some are concentrated in particular geographies legislation are attracting investment 4 around the world, such as Mining & Minerals in both nuclear and alternative energy.
?#5 in South America, South Africa and Australia 4 $|H5zJ and Chemicals in Central Europe.
AVEVA is already a preferred supplier U {J|U { J to the worlds nuclear industry and AVEVAs global presence and local AVEVA has a compelling proposition.
is well established in a wide range industry expertise provides us with the AVEVAs marine solution provides the of other power generation markets.
greatest productivity advantage of any business opportunities and extend the product on the market, allowing our reach of our products and services into customers to diversify effectively and other related industrial sectors.
respond competitively as the new-build market picks up.
"Market drivers Market drivers t W orld energy consumption will grow t ""%&& %&"" 4% t F ossil fuels will continue to drive t 5 energy production new orders t A range of power options is required t Specialist sectors remain buoyant to meet world demand $|H5zJU {J|U { t Nuclear power will remain part of the t Continued opportunity in the naval sector energy mix in many countries AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2012 7"
