Directors report Our strategy Emerging economies provides a very We continue to strong opportunity meet our strategic High growth markets provide tremendous potential J Y# These regions have different languages, cultures, business goals governments, industries and levels of business maturity.
What works in China may not work in Brazil or India, 1 so AVEVA must develop targeted strategies to meet AVEVA has continued to invest local market conditions.
in the growth of its business ?
4# # We constantly seek to improve our relationships We have a clear strategic focus with key global customers AVEVA has a very successful history of working with ?X46HJ4 growth opportunities available revenue is derived from them.
Through a more strategic, partnership focus we aim to build even stronger over the medium and long-term.
relationships that will encourage greater adoption 2 of our products and services.
?J AVEVAs development activities are directed at four strategic Continual investment in R&D maintains our technology leadership and provides real value everything, from business to our customers line operations to resource AVEVA has a strong reputation for innovation and technology leadership that we work hard to maintain.
We continue to invest in software development that 3 anticipates and exceeds the needs of our customers.
This helps them to remain competitive and plan for the future in a rapidly changing global marketplace.
Target high growth The Enterprise Solutions market represents emerging markets a significant growth opportunity 2.
Develop strong relationships The construction, commissioning and operation of process plant facilities involve many phases and stakeholders.
AVEVA # understands this complex environment and has strategies ?4# and expand our design footprint MY 6Hzz create management strategies that begin with front-end #865 engineering and design and carry through decommissioning.
4 Focus on critical activities within plant operations :?4 # Expanding AVEVAs products and services to support the 4?
revenue stream that will span the entire life of the facility.
Working with Owner Operators is a new challenge, but AVEVAs technology and industry experience is well suited to develop this substantial market opportunity and build operational relationships that can span the entire asset lifecycle.
8 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2012 Overview Meeting the unique needs of high growth markets AVEVA has expanded its global presence in key growth markets, including Brazil, Russia, India and China, and will continue to invest in talented local #z4 specialise in AVEVA applications and solutions that are most appropriate # business and provided valuable feedback for the development priorities of future products.
Building strategic partnerships with global customers AVEVA has formed a new sales team to better service our key accounts.
They work closely across all levels of these organisations to improve our support and presence and develop more effective market strategies with Y4# through informal discussions as well as our more formal Executive Council events and Reference Group meetings.
Investing in technology for today and for the future AVEVA sustains its investment in technology and innovation across several fronts.
We continue to innovate by increasing the functionality and productivity of our existing software products and work to extend the footprint of our technology by developing complementary products and integrating strategic technology acquisitions.
This strategy has been notably successful with the release of our new instrumentation, electrical, and laser scanning applications, which will expand our presence across the existing customer base.
In addition, we are continually researching the implementation of game-changing technologies that will support new business models and deliver increasingly higher levels of productivity.
Building new partnerships through an expanded solution offering AVEVA has established a world-class Enterprise Resource Management $6: 444:H#|:J solutions optimise the materials management, planning, procurement and #|H 6: ?J# is complemented by AVEVAs information engineering and change management 4 ?4# z deeply imbedded within the working practices of key stakeholders.
Creating new business opportunities to enhance both project and asset performance AVEVA has drawn together an experienced sales team dedicated to developing strong partnerships with global Owner Operators, allowing us to focus sales, support and product development activities on meeting these long-term customer needs.
This market sector demands a consultative approach to the sale and delivery of comprehensive, enterprise-level solutions.
AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2012 9
