16 Strategy in Action Growth Industry Growth Record silver production of 7.8moz during the year 100kt Dariba lead smelter commissioned and ramped up Integrated copper production ramped-up with higher output from the Nchanga open pits Second and third units of 2400MW power plants at Jharsuguda commissioned 35.0% Record silver production up for the year 31.0% Increase in production for alumina at Lanjigarh Main image: Drilling machinery.
Above left: Aerial view of the Broken Hill Shaft at BMM.
Above right: Coal handling plant at 1,215MW CPP, VAL Jharsuguda.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 17 Leading Growth Prole Organic Growth With strong commodity demand in countries where we operate and leading market shares across most of our businesses in India, we have once again successfully delivered significant organic growth and expanded our assets and resource base across our businesses.
We continue to build and operate assets with a low cost base, which ensures we remain competitive through business cycles.
significant Increases in Capacity The 1mtpa alumina renery in Record silver production of 7.8moz Lanjigarh, India is now operating We have once again during the year, up 35% driven at its rated capacity driving successfully delivered by the ramp up of the silver-rich a 31% increase in alumina Sindesar Khurd zinc-lead mine in production to 928kt.
Work significant organic growth Rajasthan, India and commissioning on the 1.25mtpa aluminium and expanded our assets of the new 350tpa silver renery.
smelter expansion at Jharsuguda, and resource base across During the year, we achieved our India is progressing well.
targeted capacity of 16moz for silver.
First metal tapping at the 325ktpa The new 100kt Dariba lead BALCO-III aluminium smelter smelter in Rajasthan, India was in Korba is expected in the We have already invested US$14 commissioned, resulting in a third quarter of FY 201213. billion of our US$18 billion capital record production of lead in Q4 of The first 300MW unit of the expenditure capex programme, 37kt at Zinc-India.
Development 1,200MW captive power plant and are reaching an inection point of the 1mtpa underground at Bharat Aluminium Company as free cash ow post expansion Kayar zinc-lead mine has BALCO will be synchronised capital expenditure turns positive.
Environmental clearance We expect strong free cash ow is expected in FY 201314. for the 211mt BALCO coal block going forward as our existing organic At our Copper Zambia operations, has been received, and we growth programme nears completion, integrated copper production expect to obtain the second and projects continue to ramp up.
ramped-up with higher output from stage forest clearance and start the Nchanga open pits, completion coal production in FY 201213.
During FY 201112, we invested of TLP-IV debottlenecking to 75ktpa The second and third units of the US$2.4 billion in organic growth and commissioning of the new 2,400MW power plant project at capex across our businesses, 7.5mtpa Nchanga East Concentrator.
Jharsuguda were commissioned mostly in Aluminium and Power.
A second cobalt recovery furnace during the year.
Three units are was also commissioned at Copper now operational, with the fourth During the year we delivered record Zambia.
Integrated production unit generating under trial run.
production of rened zinc-lead, silver, volumes and costs are expected The 150MW wind power expansion copper, aluminium and power.
to improve, with successful trial project was completed at Zincmining at the Nchanga Upper India, taking our green energy Ore Body project conrming power generation capacity higher copper and cobalt at Zinc-India to 274MW.
grades, and commissioning of the new 3mtpa Nchanga West concentrator by mid FY 201213.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
com 18 Strategy in Action Growth Extending our Portfolio Building a significant Iron Ore Selective and Value In Brief Platform for Growth Accretive M&A In addition, during the year we Successful completion of also acquired a 51% stake in brown the acquisition of a majority Over the years, Vedanta has eld and green eld iron ore assets interest in Cairn India Limited supplemented organic growth with in Liberia in Western Africa, with selective acquisitions.
Our strategy Acquisition of 51% stake in over 1 billion tonnes of Reserves has been to acquire assets that and Resources for a cost of US$90 brown eld and green eld provide significant potential for million.
West Africa is an emerging iron ore assets in Liberia in further growth and value creation.
The region has Western Africa Consistent with this approach, around 34 billion tonnes of Reserves Successful integration of we successfully completed two and Resources, with the potential Zinc-International assets significant acquisitions, in the oil to become a 100 million tonnes per acquired from Anglo & gas and iron ore sectors.
annum iron ore exporting region.
American plc Extending our Portfolio into The acquired assets are 70140km Oil&Gas from the coast, comprising three During the year, we successfully deposits at Bomi Hills, Bea Mountain completed the acquisition of a and Mano River.
The project majority interest in Cairn India broadly involves exploration drilling, Limited, acquiring a 59% stake for development of mining and port a consideration of US$8.67 billion.
infrastructure, and development Primarily based in Rajasthan, where and refurbishing of the logistics 58.8% we already have a strong presence, infrastructure.
We recently completed Cairn India is a unique exploration and an aeromagnetic survey and are Acquired stake in production platform, that enhances carrying out scoping and feasibility CairnIndia Limited Vedantas growth prole, as well studies, with the aim of making the as adding further diversication to first shipment by FY 201314. our portfolio.
Cairn India has the second largest reserves in India Successful Integration of among private sector oil companies, Zinc-International a lowest decile cost position and 51.0% The Zinc-International assets acquired a proven management team.
from Anglo American plc in FY Acquired stake in brown eld and 20102011 have been successfully Cairn Indias world-class resource green eld iron ore assets, integrated.
We delivered strong Liberia, West Africa base includes interests in nine blocks operational performance with a in India and one in Sri Lanka, of total full year production of 444kt of which three are operating blocks.
rened zinc and zinc-lead metal in The 10 blocks are located in three concentrate MIC from the Lisheen strategically focused areas one mine in Ireland, the Skorpion mine in block in Rajasthan, three on the west Namibia and the Black Mountain Mine coast of India, five on the east coast BMM in South Africa.
The acquisition of India and one block in Sri Lanka.
also included the Gamsberg deposit The Rajasthan block is Indias largest in South Africa which is one of the oil discovery in the last 20 years, largest undeveloped zinc deposits with over 7.3 billion barrels of oil in the world.
With estimated zinc Reserves and Resources in place.
resource deposits of 186mt, this deposit has the potential to deliver over 400ktpa with a mine life of more than 20 years.
A feasibility study is under way to scope the project.
Main image: Mangala processing terminal, Barmer, Rajasthan.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 19 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
com 20 Strategy in Action Long Term Value Optimising Returns We aim to optimise our costs through a culture of continuous improvement and maintain our position as a low cost producer in all our businesses.
During the year, we maintained our low cost base across our portfolio.
Reserves and Resources During FY 201112, our exploration activities resulted in the successful addition of Reserves and Resources at our zinc, iron ore and oil & gas businesses.
Key Achievements 1.4mt contained metal added to Reserves and Resources in ZincIndia, prior to depletion of 0.8mt, which was around 1.75 times more This is the largest onshore discovery than we mined during the year.
in the KG basin to date and has Cairn Indias exploration programme helped establish a resource of in Sri Lanka yielded successful around 550mmboe.
results, with two out of three significant exploration success exploration wells resulting in in the iron ore business, with the gas discoveries.
Cairn India has net addition of 68mt to Reserves now entered the second stage of and Resources, extending exploration in Sri Lanka.
The other the mine life to 18 years.
exploration success at Cairn India came from the second successive discovery Nagayalanka-SE-1 in the KG-ONN-2003 1 block.
Main image: Aerial view of Skorpion Mines.
Above left: Cast bar in copper rod plant, Sterlite Tuticorin.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 21 Group Structure Proposed Group Structure VEDANTA RESOURCES 79.4% 58.3% Divisions of Sesa Sterlite KONKOLA Iron ore Sesa Goa COPPER SESA Copper smelting Tuticorin MINES STERLITE Aluminium VAL aluminium assets Power 2,400MW Jharsuguda Subsidiaries of Sesa Sterlite 58.8% 64.9% 51% 51% 100% 100% 100% 100% SKORPION, BHARAT TALWANDI VAL POWER AUSTRALIAN CAIRN ZINC-INDIA LIBERIA LISHEEN & ALUMINIUM SABO POWER & MALCO COPPER INDIA HZL IRON ORE 74% OF BALCO 1,980MW 1,405MW MINES BMM Options to Options to Options to Zincincrease stake increase stake increase stake International to 94.4% to 100% to 100% This has been an important year Additionally, Vedanta Resources stake This consolidation will remove all for Vedanta in creating long-term in Vedanta Aluminium and Cairn cross-holdings within the Group, value for shareholders.
In line with India will move to Sesa Sterlite, and create a more efficient capital our stated strategy to unlock value MALCO will merge into Sesa Sterlite.
structure by better aligning assets for shareholders by simplifying our The new entity, Sesa Sterlite, will be and liabilities, enhance visibility Group structure, in February 2012 one of the worlds largest diversied of earnings and cash ows, and we announced a consolidation and natural resources companies, with generate capital, tax and operational simplication of the Group.
As part exposure to base metals, bulk synergies.
We believe the simplied of this consolidation, Sesa Goa and commodities and oil and gas.
and more efficient structure will Sterlite will merge to form a new unlock and create significant value company to be called Sesa Sterlite Ltd. for shareholders.
The transaction is expected to be completed in CY 2012, and is subject to regulatory and shareholder approvals.
Current Group Structure VEDANTA RESOURCES KONKOLA VEDANTA MADRAS CAIRN STERLITE COPPER ALUMINIUM ALUMINIUM SESA GOA INDIA INDUSTRIES MINES VAL MALCO LTD BHARAT BLACK AUSTRALIAN LIBERIA ZINC-INDIA SKORPION & STERLITE ALUMINIUM MOUNTAIN COPPER IRON ORE HZL LISHEEN ENERGY BALCO BMM MINES ASSETS Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
com 22 Strategy in Action Sustainability Creating Long-term Sustainability During the year we rolled out our Sustainability Framework across the Group including revised sustainability policies, technical and management standards, with a particular focus on alignment to ensure that all new projects are carried out as per this new framework.
The pillars of our Sustainability Framework Responsible stewardship is the foundation on which 1.
Responsible we build our business the way in which we respond stewardship to and manage, our business.
This includes: how we manage our employees and their health and safety, the management of our land and our environmental impact and our supporting business processes.
We work hard to engage with our stakeholders to 2.
Building understand their key concerns and expectations of our strong business and practices.
Proactive engagement also relationships enables us to identify opportunities and mitigate risks by understanding and responding to issues rather than reacting to them.
We seek to add and share value through everything that 3.
As a business we make a considerable economic and sharing impact: through employment, the payment of taxes, value royalties and other contributions to local, state and national governments.
We also, however, build local infrastructure that benets local communities in the form of roads, schools and health care centres.
Sustainability is integral to the way we operate and this Annual Report includes a comprehensive overview of our non-financial performance.
We provide more detailed information on our sustainability performance in our separate Sustainable Development Report Main image: Ball Mill, VAL Lanjigarh.
which can be found on our corporate website.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 23 Responsible Stewardship Environment responsible stewardship is the foundation During the year, HZL added another pillar that defines how we operate.
103MW to its existing 171MW wind All the businesses in the Group are power generation capacity, making required to have management systems Vedanta one of the largest wind in place to achieve our goals.
38 of our power producers in India.
44 major plants have systems certied to ISO 9001, 14001 and OHSAS 18001.
Our integrated carbon strategy is Our plant at Lanjigarh is the first in beginning to yield results.
To date, we our industry in India to receive ISO have registered five Clean Development 50001 and one of our companies, Mechanism CDM projects, which Sesa Goa, has achieved SA8000.
have enabled us to accrue around 335,000 Certied Emission Reductions Performance Highlights CERs or carbon credits.
Health and Safety Health and Safety remains a key priority Waste Management and whilst we work in an inherently We are committed to minimising the risky business, it is with regret that we impact of waste from our operations, have to report the loss of six employees using water and energy more efficiently and sixteen contractors during the year.
We have renewed our management During the year, 3.6 million mt of the commitment to a structured programme ash was used in cement and brick to reduce fatalities by eliminating unsafe manufacturing and in raising the height conditions through our business.
Energy efficiency Quarterly results show that we are initiatives by subsidiary companies making progress but more needs to be saw significant reductions in energy done.
Our Lost Time Injury Frequency consumption and good progress was Rate LTIFR continues to fall it is made in reducing water consumption.
down 48% over the last five years but we continue to seek ways to drive this further.
Building Strong Relationships We engage with a large number of Performance Highlights different stakeholders on a regular basis Throughout the year around 3,000 through our investor relations, human stakeholder engagement meetings took resources, community relations and place, with community leaders, Nongovernment relations departments.
Governmental Organisations NGOs, governments and government bodies, Our engagement process uses academic institutions and private hospitals a three-pronged approach and 147 partnerships are now in place.
keeping the stakeholders We have always placed great importance informed, engaging with them and on supporting local communities forging partnerships to address and the number of villages we cover their needs and concerns.
Adding and Sharing Value How we contribute to the lives of Our current employee attrition rate the people we affect is important is low and stable at around 5% and in maintaining our social licence to employees benefited from over operate over the long term and thus 52,000 man days of training, over 14 making our business sustainable.
hours on average per employee.
Performance Highlights Our community investment hit US$38 As a significant employer we are million this year, reaching 3.1 million committed to the development people and providing support for schools, and well-being of our workforce.
hospitals, health centres and farmers.
