60 Senior Management Team The Executive Committee supports the Board and essentially supervises the operational performance of the Group.
The Executive Committee is chaired by Mr Navin Agarwal and comprises of Mr Anil Agarwal, MrMS Mehta and the followingmembers: Tarun Jain Evaluation of Mining Projects from key positions in the marketing Director of Finance, Sterlite School of Mines, Paris.
He also has a division before being appointed as Mr Jain joined Sterlite in 1984 and first class Mine Managers Certicate Director Commercial in 2004 and has over 27 years of experience in of Competency.
He was the recipient later as Chairman of the SAIL Board corporate finance, accounts, audit, of National Mineral Award in 2006 in August 2006.
Mr Roongta has taxation and secretarial practice.
for his outstanding contribution in a Bachelor of Engineering degree He is responsible for Sterlites the eld of Mining Technology.
He from the Birla Institute of Technology strategic financial matters, including is also the Director of Madanpur and Science BITS, Pilani, and was corporate finance, corporate South Coal Company Limited.
a gold medal in his Post Graduate strategy, business development Diploma in Business Management in and mergers and acquisitions.
PK Mukherjee International Trade from the Indian Mr Jain is a graduate of the Institute Managing Director, Iron Ore Business Institute of Foreign Trade IIFT, Delhi.
of Cost and Works Accountants Mr Mukherjee has been the Managing He is also a fellow member of All India of India and a fellow member of Director of our Iron Ore business Management Association.
He serves both the Institute of Chartered since April 2006.
Mr Mukherjee as an Independent director on the Accountants of India and the Institute holds a Bachelor of Commerce Boards of Neyveli Lignite Corporation of Company Secretaries of India.
Honours from Calcutta University Limited, The Shipping Corporation and has 33 years experience in of India Limited, Jubilant Industries DD Jalan finance, accounts, costing, taxation, Limited, Hindustan Petroleum Chief Financial Officer legal and general management.
Corporation Limited and ACC Limited.
Mr DD Jalan is the Chief Financial Mr Mukherjee joined Sesa Goa in He is also a member of the Board Officer of Vedanta Resources Plc.
April 1987 and held various positions of Governors of Indian Institute of Mr Jalan joined Sterlite in January before assuming the position of Technology IIT, Bhubaneswar.
2001 as President of Australian Director Finance in July 2000.
In Operations and was responsible April 2006, he became the Managing M Siddiqi for its mining operation.
He has Director of Sesa Goa Limited.
Group Director, Projects held the position of Chief Financial He joined Vedanta in 1991 and was Officer of Sterlite Industries Ltd. and Mr Mukherjee is a fellow member of responsible for Vedantas Copper at Vedanta Resources Plc.
Mr Jalan the Institute of Chartered Accountants Rod plant.
He then moved to the is a Chartered Accountant with of India and an associate member of Copper smelter and renery at over 32 years experience in senior the Institute of Cost Accountants of Tuticorin and subsequently to the positions within the engineering, India.
Mr Mukherjee was rated as one Aluminium business at Korba where mining and nonferrous sectors.
of Indias Best Chief Financial Officers he was responsible for the overall CFOs in 2005 by the Business Today commissioning of the Korba plant Akhilesh Joshi magazine, and in 2009 Business World as Project Director.
He was also Chief Executive Officer and Whole magazine declared Mr Mukherjee responsible for overall Aluminium Time Director, Hindustan Zinc as Indias most Valuable CEO.
He is and power projects in Orissa as CEO Limited HZL a member office bearer of various Aluminium Sector and now holds the Mr Akhilesh Joshi is the Chief professional and industry forums, position of Group Director Projects.
Executive Officer and Whole Time such as the Federation of Indian Director of Hindustan Zinc Limited Mineral Industries where he currently Prior to joining the Group, Mr Siddiqi and was appointed to the Board in holds the position of President.
held senior positions in Hindustan October 2008 as Chief Operating Copper Limited.
He has over 35 years Officer and Whole Time Director.
He Sushil Kumar Roongta of industry experience, including joined the Company in 1976.
Prior to Managing Director of VAL, Vicemore than 20 years at senior level becoming the Chief Operating Officer Chairman of Bharat Aluminium project management positions of Hindustan Zinc, he was Senior Company Limited BALCO within Vedanta.
Mr Siddiqi received Vice President Mines, responsible Mr Roongta is responsible for the his Bachelors degree in Mechanical for the overall operations at all Aluminium and Power business with Engineering from the Indian Institute mining units.
Mr Joshi has a Mining effect from June 11.
Prior to joining of Technology, New Delhi in 1976.
Engineering degree from MBM Vedanta, Mr Roongta worked with Engineering College, Jodhpur and a the Steel Authority of India Limited Post Graduate Diploma in Economic SAIL for over 4 decades, holding Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 61 Pramod Suri Rajagopal Kishore Kumar earlier held during the period April fficer, Vedanta Chief Executive Officer, Zinc 2000 to July 2004.
Mr Golani Aluminium Limited VAL and Whole International Business headed Sales & Marketing for Time Director, Sterlite Energy Limited Mr Kumar joined the Group in April Hindustan Zinc Limited and the SEL 2003 as Vice President Marketing Group Performance Management Mr Suri is the Chief Executive Officer, for Hindustan Zinc Limited.
He was function during the period August VAL and Whole Time Director of Senior Vice President Marketing 2004 to November 2005.
He was the CEO of Aluminium for our copper India division from Operations from February 2008 to June 2004 to December 2006 Prior to joining the Group in April April 2011.
He has been responsible and, thereafter, secured the position 2000, Mr Golani worked with Unilever.
for Vedantas Aluminium business of the CEO of Sterlite Industries India He was a member of the Unilever at BALCO as President and Whole Ltd and Konkola Copper Mines Plc Corporate Audit Team, responsible for Time Director from December in Zambia.
He moved to the Zinc auditing Unilever group companies 2006.
Prior to this role, he was the International business in early 2011 in Central Asia, the Middle East and Senior Vice President Operations with the acquisition of Anglo the Africa region.
Mr Golani was and Head of the new Korba Smelter Americans Zinc assets.
He has 28 initially responsible for managing from September 2004 to December years of experience and expertise in Operations & Marketing functions 2006.
He has held various positions, accountancy, commercial, marketing, for one of the exports businesses of including at Indian Aluminium supply chain management, mergers Unilever India Hindustan Unilever Company, CEAT Ltd, Goodyear South and acquisitions and human capital Limited.
He has over 20 years Asia Tyres and JK Tyres Pvt Ltd.
Prior to joining the experience and has previously worked completed his M. S. Chem.
at the Group, Mr Kumar was employed by with Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi.
Hindustan Lever Ltd for 12 years.
and Union Carbide India Limited.
Mr Kumar is a member of the Institute Gunjan Gupta of Chartered Accountants of India.
He is a Mechanical Engineering Chief Executive Officer and Whole graduate and completed Time Director, BALCO Jeyakumar Janakaraj his postgraduate degree at Mr Gupta joined the Group in Chief Executive Officer and Whole NITIE, Mumbai in Industrial September 2005 as the Vice President Time Director, Konkola Copper Mines Engineering & Management.
for Marketing & Sales at Balco.
He took Mr Janakaraj joined the Group in over as the Head of Smelting at Balco September 1995 at Sterlite Copper A Thirunavukkarasu in February 2007 and later became and moved to HZL in July 2002 to President, Group Human Resources the Chief Executive Officer and Whole head the expansion projects.
He has Mr Thirunavukkarasu joined the Time Director of BALCO in 2008. a Mechanical Engineering degree Group in April 2004 as General from PSG College of Technology, Manager HR.
He became Senior Prior to joining the Group, Mr Gupta Coimbatore.
He has expertise Vice President HR for our Copper has worked in the sales and in operations, maintenance and Division, heading the human marketing division at Tata Steel projects.
Mr Janakaraj was with resources, total quality management, in various capacities.
He has also ESSAR steel between from 1992 to corporate social responsibility and worked with the Arcelor Mittal 1995.
He is the gold medalist from public relation functions, prior Group and was the Director of the Indian Institute of Metals in 2006 to becoming the Head of Group Global Sales of long steel products and 2008 for his contribution and Human Resources in July 2007.
He produced at the Central European leadership in the Indian non-ferrous held positions in English Electric, Steel operations of the group.
He is also distinguished and Hindustan Lever and TVS Electronics listed by the International Whos before joining our Group.
He holds He is a chemical engineer from Who Professionals in 2009. a bachelor degree in Literature and IIT Roorkee and has an MBA, masters degree in Social Work, specialising in Marketing and Dilip Golani specialising in Personnel Management Finance, from FMS Delhi.
Director, Management and Organisational Behaviour, Assurance Function from Loyola College, Chennai.
Management Assurance function in the Group is currently headed by Dilip Golani, a position he had Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
