12 Business Model Creating and Preserving Value Value Chain What we do and how we add value Exploration Asset Development Reserves and Resources Following successful exploration, R&R have nite lives, and we develop the resource base Vedanta operates across our key focus is to increase to optimise production and the natural resources value the lives of our R&R base.
We also chain undertaking exploration, target to add more to our R&R strategically develop processing than what we extract out, facilities.
Across our businesses, asset development, extraction, thereby adding to the R&R life we have a strong track record processing and value addition.
Our exploration of executing projects on We capitalise our strategic programmes comprise brown time and within budget.
eld and green eld activities, capabilities including our to extend the lives of our strengths, resources and existing mines and oilelds.
relationships, to create and preserve value for our wide stakeholder groups.
The Groups principal Strategic Capabilities commodities are priced with reference to standard global benchmark prices such as London Metal Exchange prices, Brent and WTI, etc.
We maximise returns through a strong focus on low-cost production.
We take a long-term view Project Execution Operational Excellence and we are committed to the We are nearing completion of a Our strength in production is driven highest standards of sustainable US$18 billion capital investment by our focus on debottlenecking programme to expand our processes, improving operational development in all aspects of capacities and have honed our and cost efficiencies, and reducing our business.
Our Sustainability project execution skills, delivering our specic consumption of inputs Framework aligns strategic multi-billion dollar programmes including energy and water.
on schedule and on budget.
thinking with sustainability, and Low-cost Focus underpins everything we do.
Inorganic Growth All our operations have a sustainable We have a strong track record of cost position in the lower half of the successfully acquiring, integrating global cost curve.
We aim to achieve and growing the companies we and sustain this cost positioning have acquired.
These acquisitions by an integrated approach to have extended our commodity and producing natural resources, and a Images from left to right: geographic footprint.
Following focus on Operational Excellence.
Electrolyte solution tanks at Chanderiya integration, we focus on asset Hydro smelter, HZL.
optimisation and organic growth Loading unloading of ore by transhipper, Sesa.
Geologist examining diamond drill core from drilling at Black Mountain.
Central control room, VAL Lanjigarh.
Women in self help group in Rajasthan.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
