OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 13 Extraction Processing Value Addition Our operations are focused on In line with our integrated We meet market requirements mining metals, extracting oil & gas business model, we produce by selectively adding value and generating power.
We operate rened metals by processing and converting the primary our mines in India, Africa, Australia and smelting the extracted metals produced into higher and Ireland, extracting zinc, lead, resources at our zinc, lead, margin products such as sheets, silver, iron ore, bauxite and copper.
silver, copper, and aluminium rods, bars, rolled products, We have three operating blocks in smelters, and other processing etc.
at our zinc, aluminium India producing oil & gas.
facilities in India and Africa.
generate power for captive use across most of our operations and sell any surplus power.
We sell power generated by our independent power plants.
Exploration Focus Financial Strength Relationships and Partnerships Our skill in exploration has delivered We have a strong balance sheet We seek to build long-term, consistent increases in our R&R with capital employed of US$18.4 mutually beneficial, long-term over the years, extending the life billion, cash and liquid investments relationships with our stakeholders of our resource base even as we of US$6.9 billion and net gearing including shareholders and have increased production levels.
With lenders, suppliers and contractors, Additionally, recent acquisitions projects ramping up and delivering customers, employees, governments, of Zinc-International, Liberia strong production growth, we expect communities and civil society.
Iron Ore and Cairn India have higher EBITDA and free cash ows.
added considerable potential We delivered robust free cash ow We are a substantial contributor to for future expansion of R&R.
before expansion capital expenditure the economies and communities of US$2.5 billion in FY 2012. where we operate.
For example, in India we are one of the largest People and Culture contributors to the exchequer, with US$4.4 billion of taxes and levies paid With a 32,000 strong workforce in FY 2012 including US$2.4 billion and a talent pool of technical, by Cairn India during the full year.
engineering and business professionals, we focus on offering our employees the opportunity to develop their potential within a high growth, entrepreneurial culture.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
