58 Board of Directors Anil Agarwal, 59 Navin Agarwal, 51 MS Mehta, 56 Deputy Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Background and experience Background and experience Background and experience Mr Agarwal, who founded the Mr Agarwal has played a key role Mr Mehta was previously CEO for Group in 1976, is also Chairman of in strategic planning for Vedanta, Hindustan Zinc Ltd.
Since joining Sterlite and is a Director of BALCO, and drives the execution of the group in 2000, he has held HZL, and Vedanta Aluminium Ltd. organic growth and acquisitions.
various positions including the Since 1976 the Group has grown He also oversees capital raising Head of Copper Business and under his leadership, vision and initiatives, global investor relations as Group Commercial Director strategy.
Mr Agarwal has over 30 and talent development at the Base Metals.
Prior to joining the years experience as an industrialist.
management level, and has group, he has worked for about over 25 years of experience.
20 years in the steel sector.
Mr Mehta is a Bachelor of Engineering Mechanical and an MBA from the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad.
Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Mr Agarwal was appointed as the Mr Agarwal was appointed to Mr Mehta was appointed Executive Chairman in May 2003. the Vedanta Board of Directors to the Vedanta Board of in November 2004.
Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Mr Agarwal is Chairman of the Mr Agarwal chairs the Groups Mr Mehta is a member of the Nomination Committee.
In this role, Executive Committee and the he provides strategic direction Sustainability Committee.
and guides the sharing and implementation of best management practices across the group.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 59 Naresh Chandra, 77 Aman Mehta, 65 Euan MacDonald, 72 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Background and experience Background and experience Background and experience Mr Chandra was Home Secretary in In 1999, Mr Mehta was appointed Mr Macdonald spent over 20 years India in 1990, Cabinet Secretary from Chief Executive Officer of the with SG Warburg, specialising in 1990 to 1992, Senior Adviser to the Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking emerging market finance.
From Prime Minister of India from 1992 to Corporation, a position he held until 1995 to 1999, Mr Macdonald was 1995 and the Indian Ambassador to his retirement.
Mr Mehta has a degree Chairman of SBC Warburg India, United States of America from 1996 in Economics from Delhi University.
responsible for all the banks activities to 2001.
He was Chairman of the He now resides in Delhi and is a in India, and from 1999 to 2001, he Indian Government Committee on member of a number of Corporate was Executive Vice Chairman of Corporate Governance & Audit from and Institutional Boards in India as HSBC Securities and Capital Markets, 2002 to 2003 and was Chairman well as overseas.
Mr Macdonald has a degree of the Committee on Civil Aviation currently a member of the Board in Economics from Cambridge Policy in 20042005.
Mr Chandra of Governors of the Indian School University and a Masters degree in is currently the Chairman of the of Business in Hyderabad, India.
Finance and International Business National Security Advisory Board of from Columbia Business School.
In 2007, Mr Chandra was awarded the prestigious Padma Vibhushan award by the President of India.
Mr Chandra has a Masters degree in Mathematics from Allahabad University.
Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Mr Chandra joined the Board in Mr Mehta, a senior banker, joined Mr Macdonald joined the May 2004. the Board in November 2004.
Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Mr Chandra chairs the Remuneration Mr Mehta chairs the Audit Mr Macdonald is a member of and the Sustainability Committee and Committee and is a member of the Remuneration Committee, is a member of the Audit Committee the Nominations Committee and Nominations Committee and and the Nominations Committee.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
