92 The Directors Report Purpose of the Directors Report The Directors are pleased to present their Annual Report on the business of the Group, together with the financial statements and auditors report, for the year ended 31 March 2012.
The purpose of the Directors Report is to provide shareholders with certain statutory information about the Company, its Directors and operations.
The Business Review, which forms part of the Directors Report, informs shareholders and helps them assess how the Directors have performed their duty to promote the success of the Company.
In addition, as a company listed on the London Stock Exchange, it is required to provide information which includes amongst other things, details of the Companys share capital, voting rights, rules on directors appointments and significant agreements that alter on change of control.
Principal Activities Business Review Vedanta Resources plc is the UK parent company of a The Business Review has been prepared in accordance with diversied metals and mining group.
The Groups principal the Companies Act 2006 which requires the Company to operations are in India, Zambia, Australia, Namibia, South set out a fair review of the business of the Group during the Africa, Liberia and Ireland.
The major metals produced are financial year, including an analysis of the position of the aluminium, copper, zinc, lead, silver and iron ore.
The Group at the end of the financial year and the trends and Group is also developing a commercial power generation factors likely to affect the future development, performance business.
The Group recently entered into the oil and gas and position of the business.
The Business Review is sector after completing an acquisition of a controlling stake comprised of the Overview, Strategy and Performance in Cairn India Limited.
Analysis of revenue, operating profit, sections within this annual report on pages 2 to 38. principal activities and geographical origins appears in Note 3 of the financial statements and a list of the principal specifically, the information that fulls the requirements of subsidiaries and of the Group may be found in Note 41 to the Business Review, including principal risks and uncertainties the financial statements.
and key performance indicators, can be found within the following sections, which are incorporated in this report by reference: Information Location in the Annual Report Page Key Performance Indicators Strategy section 24 Description of the principal risks and uncertainties Strategy section 26 facing the Group Strategy Chairmans Statement and Strategy section 7 & 14 Future developments Market Overview 10 Review of operations Operational Review 38 Financial Review Financial Review 32 Environmental matters Contained within separate Sustainable Development Report Health and safety matters Contained within separate Sustainable Development Report Community issues Contained within separate Sustainable Development Report The Business Review and other sections of this annual Corporate Governance report contain forward looking statements.
By their nature, In accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2.
1 the because they relate to events and depend on disclosures required by DTR7.2.
5 and circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and DTR7.2.
7 may be found in the Corporate Governance may be beyond the Companys ability to control or predict.
Information referred to in Forward looking statements and past performance are DTR7.2.
6 is located in this Directors Report.
therefore not guarantees of future performance.
The information contained in the Business Review has been Important Events Subsequent to the Year End prepared on the basis of information and knowledge Events since the balance sheet date are summarised in Note available to Directors at the date of preparation and the 40 on page 162 of the financial statements.
Company does not undertake to update or revise the content during the year ahead.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 93 Dividends In addition the Articles of Association of the Company contain an indemnity provision in favour of the Directors of ended 31 March 2012 of 35.0 US cents per ordinary share the Company against proceedings brought by third parties, 2011: 32.5 US cents per ordinary share.
Subject to subject to the Companies Act 2006, to allow the Company shareholders approving this recommendation at the Annual to pay defence costs for the Director where the Director General Meeting on 28 August 2012, the final dividend will is exonerated.
be paid on 5 September 2012 to shareholders on the register of members as at 17 August 2012.
Employees Information on the Groups employees and its policies with Taken together with the interim dividend of 20.0 US cents respect to employees can be found in the Sustainable per ordinary share paid to shareholders on 15 December Development Report.
2011, the total dividend for the year is 55.0 US cents per ordinary share 2011: 52.5 US cents per ordinary share.
Charitable Donations During the year, the Group made charitable donations of a Directors total of US$3.12 million 2011: US$3.03 million.
US$2.31 The names, specic responsibilities and biographical details million was paid to the Vedanta Foundation 2011: US$1.68 of the current Board of Directors are shown on pages 58 to million and other charitable donations of US$0.81 million 59 and details of the Directors who held office during the 2011: US$1.35 million were made.
year ended 31 March 2012 are shown in the Corporate Governance Report on page 64.
Details of the Further details about the Groups involvement with local remuneration of the Directors, their interests in the shares communities during the year can be found in the of the Company and service contracts are contained in the Sustainable Development Report.
Remuneration Report on pages 83 to 91.
Political Donations Appointment and Replacement of Directors It is the Boards policy that neither Vedanta nor any of its The Companys Articles of Association specify that the subsidiary companies may, under any circumstances, make minimum number of Directors of the Company, unless donations or contributions to political organisations within determined by ordinary resolution, shall be two.
There is no the United Kingdom or European Union.
In exceptional limit on the maximum number of Directors.
The Company circumstances, where such political donations or or the Board may appoint any person to be a Director.
Any contributions are to be paid in the United Kingdom and Director appointed by the Board shall hold office only until European Union, and if deemed necessary for legitimate the next general meeting and is then eligible for election by business reasons, they will not be made without the the shareholders.
The Articles specify that at least one-third approval of the Board and the shareholders in the of the Directors, or if their number is not three or multiple general meeting.
of three, the number nearest to one-third, shall retire from office.
The Directors to retire by rotation are those who During the year, the Group made political donations in have been longest in office since appointment or India of US$2.01 million 2011: US$0.02 million either reappointment.
However, in accordance with the through a trust or directly in respect of the Indian general requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code all of election.
The Board believes that supporting the political the Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General process in India will encourage and strengthen the Meeting and being eligible will offer themselves for democratic process.
Supplier Payment Policy Powers of the Directors The responsibility for determining payment terms is Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts and delegated to the individual businesses within the Group, the Articles of Association and to any directions given by which take into consideration the commercial special resolution, the business of the Company is to be circumstances, local market and industry practice.
The managed by the Board which may exercise all the powers Groups policy is either to settle terms of payment with of the Company.
suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction or to ensure that the supplier is aware of the individual businesss Directors and Officers Liability Insurance and indemnities usual payment terms.
Payment is made in accordance with The Company purchases and maintains liability insurance contractual and other legal obligations and reects local for its Directors and officers and those of the subsidiaries of market practices.
the Group, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
The insurance policy does not provide cover where the Director Trade creditor days of the Company at 31 March 2012 were has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
believes that it is appropriate to provide such cover to protect Directors from innocent error as the Directors carry Value of Land significant liability under criminal and civil law and under Land is carried in the Balance Sheet at historic cost.
It is not the UK Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure and Transparency practical to estimate the market value of land at each Rules, and face a range of penalties.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
com 94 The Directors Report continued Research and Development Variation of Rights The Groups business units carry out research and Subject to the provisions of the Act, the rights attached to development activities necessary to further their operations.
any class may be varied with the consent of the holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the Material Shareholdings class or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution As at 18 June 2012, the Company had been notied under passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following shares of the class.
significant voting rights in its shares: Deadlines for Exercising Voting Rights Number of Votes may be exercised at general meetings in relation to ordinary Percentage of shares of total ordinary the business being transacted either in person, by proxy or, 1 Name of holder US$0.10 each share capital in relation to corporate members, by corporate representative.
The Articles provide that forms of proxy shall Volcan Investments Ltd 167,953,056 56.57% be submitted not less than 48 hours before the time Chase Nominees Ltd 8,996,515 3.03% appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting.
1 The voting rights at 31 March 2012 were 265,733,940 ordinary shares net of treasury shares and shares held in GDR.
Restrictions on Voting and the Transfer of Shares No member shall be entitled to vote at a general meeting or Articles of Association, Share Capital and Voting Rights at a separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares The following description summarises certain provisions in in the capital of the Company, either in person or by proxy, the Companys Articles of Association the Articles and in respect of any share held by him unless all moneys applicable English law concerning companies the payable by him in respect of that share have been fully paid.
This is a summary only and Furthermore, no shareholder shall be entitled to attend or the relevant provisions of the Act or the Articles should be vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or at consulted if further information is required.
Copies of the a separate meeting of the holders of that class of shares or Companys current Articles are available for inspection at on a poll if he has been served with a notice after failing to the Companys registered office.
provide the Company with information concerning interests in his shares that is required to be provided under the Act.
Amendments to the Articles of Association The Articles may be amended by only by special resolution Issue of Shares passed by the Companys shareholders.
Under the Articles of Association, the Company has authority to allot new shares in the Company.
Such authority Share Capital would be exercised having regard to the Statement of As at 31 March 2012 the issued share capital of the Principles published by the Pre-emption Group.
Company was comprised of 296,908,045 ordinary shares of US$0.10 each and 50,000 deferred shares of 1 each.
Shares Held in Uncerticated Form Subject to the provisions of the Uncerticated Securities Rights and Obligations Attaching to Shares Regulations 2001, the Board may permit the holding of The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares in any class of shares in uncerticated form and the and deferred shares are set out in the Articles of transfer of title to shares in that class by means of a relevant Association.
Details of the authorised and issued share system and may determine that any class of shares shall capital together with movements in the Companys cease to be a participating security.
issued share capital during the year are shown in Note 33 of the financial statements.
Dividends and Distributions Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company may by 6,904,995 ordinary shares of US10 cents each were issued ordinary resolution declare dividends in accordance with on the conversion of certain convertible bonds issued by the respective rights of the members, but no dividend shall one of the companys subsidiaries.
These 6,904,995 exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The ordinary shares are held through a global depository receipt Board may pay interim dividends if it appears to the Board and carry no voting rights.
Apart from the above, each that they are justied by the profits of the Company ordinary share carries the right to one vote at general available for distribution.
The treasury shares directly held meetings of the Company.
Holders of deferred shares are by the Company are not entitled to receive a dividend.
not entitled to attend, speak or vote at any general meeting of the Company, nor are they entitled to the payment of Dividends may be declared and paid in any currency or any dividend or to receive notice of general meetings.
currencies that the Board shall determine.
The Board may also determine the exchange rate and the relevant date for Further details of the rights attaching to the deferred shares determining the value of the dividend in any currency.
are set out in the Articles and summarised in Note 33 of the financial statements.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 95 Purchase of the Companys Own Shares During the year the Company did not purchase any shares under its previously announced share buyback programme.
shareholders resolution dated 27 July 2011, to make market purchases of up to approximately 10% of the Companys As at 31 March 2012 the Company held a total of ordinary shares.
24,206,816 ordinary shares in treasury equal to 8.15% of the issued share capital.
The authority expires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2012 or on 1 October 2012, whichever is the earlier.
A resolution to obtain a further authority will be proposed at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
significant Agreements: Change of Control There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, and capital market borrowing.
The following are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole: 1.
The US$1.25 billion 5.50% guaranteed convertible bonds issued in July 2009 and the US$883 million 4.0% guaranteed convertible bonds issued in March 2010, where a change of control gives investors the option to require the issuer to redeem their bonds at the principal amount, together with any accrued and unpaid interest, or convert their bonds at an adjusted exchange price for a certain period following the relevant event.
The US$500 million 8.75% bonds due 2014 and US$750 million 9.5% bonds due 2018, where a change of control requires the Company to make an offer to purchase all of the outstanding bonds at 101% of the principal amount together with any accrued and unpaid interest with a rating decline.
The US$1 billion and US$373 million syndicated loan and US$200 million loan from ICICI Bank UK plc, where a change of control gives the majority lenders the right to declare the loans immediately payable.
In Cairn Financing where a change of control gives the majority lenders the right to declare the loans immediately payable.
All of the Companys share plans contain provisions Policy on Derivatives and Financial Instruments relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and An explanation of the Groups financial management options would normally vest and become exercisable on objectives and policies together with details of the Groups a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign performance conditions.
currency risk appears in Note 27 to the financial statements.
There is no contract between the Company and its Going Concern Directors or employees that provide for compensation for The Groups business activities, together with the factors loss of office or employment that occurs because of a likely to affect its future development, performance and takeover bid.
position are set out in the Business Review on pages 6 to 57.
The financial position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity Disclosure of Information to Auditors position and borrowing facilities are described in the In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act Finance Review on pages 32 to 37.
In addition Note 27 to 2006, each Director who held office at the date of approval the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, of this Directors Report confirms that: policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit risk management objectives: details of its financial information of which the Companys auditors are instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to unaware: and credit risk and liquidity risk.
they have taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit The Group requires funds both for short-term operational information and to establish that the Companys auditors needs as well as for long-term investment programmes are aware of that information.
The Group generates sufficient cash ows from its current operations which, together with Reappointment of Auditors the available cash and cash equivalents and liquid financial A resolution to reappoint the auditors, Deloitte LLP, will be asset investments, provide liquidity both in the short term as proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The well as in the long-term.
Anticipated future cash ows and reappointment of Deloitte LLP has been approved by the undrawn committed facilities of US$2,897 million, together Audit Committee, which will also be responsible for with cash and liquid investments of US$6,885 million as at determining the auditors remuneration on behalf of the 31 March 2012, are expected to be sufficient to meet the Board, subject to the approval of shareholders at the ongoing capital investment programme and liquidity forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
requirement of the Group in the foreseeable future.
com 96 The Directors Report continued The Group has a strong Balance Sheet that gives sufficient headroom to raise further debt should the need arise.
The Groups current ratings from Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch are BB, Ba1 and BB respectively.
These ratings support the necessary financial leverage and access to debt or equity markets at competitive terms, taking into consideration current market conditions.
The Group generally maintains a healthy gearing ratio and retains exibility in the nancing structure to alter the ratio when the need arises.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Annual General Meeting The ninth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 28 August 2012 at 3pm.
The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting accompanies this Annual Report and sets out details of the business to be considered.
Signed on behalf of the Board Deepak Kumar Company Secretary 16 May 2012 Vedanta Resources plc 2nd Floor, Vintners Place 68 Upper Thames Street London EC4V 3BJ Registered in England Number 4740415 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
