Our Performance Customer focused We will operate all business activities to ensure the quality of the products and services we deliver to our customers.
VESUVIUS QUALITY POLICY QUALITY ASSURED These principles drive implementation of: Our Quality Policy clearly defines our commitments and responsibilities which apply to all aspects of strong control plans to detect any defects as the business.
The implementation of our Quality close as possible to their point of occurrence to Plan is driven throughout the organisation by top facilitate immediate problem solving: management.
accelerated product flow to allow quicker detection of issues and impact rejects rework: Our Quality Plan features: standardised production methods to ensure The application of the Vesuvius 8D methodology excellent quality.
to resolve customer, supplier and internal issues.
This methodology is built upon the Image: The Vesuvius 8D eight Disciplines to follow in order to eliminate problems permanently.
It is focused on determining the root cause, implementing effective corrective actions and preventing repeat issues.
A commitment to become a true Learning Organisation.
Every problem is welcomed as an opportunity for improvement where lessons learned are created and shared in order to leverage the benefits across the Group.
The application of Lean Principles to improve shop floor quality, responsiveness, and flexibility.
Lean manufacturing methods, such as those successfully utilised in the automotive industry, are adopted throughout the Group.
com Stock Code: VSVS 39 Customer focused continued 8D problem solving involves a team approach and requires strict adherence to the eight Disciplines.
PARTNERSHIP - A CASE STUDY One raw material supplier in China had 8D IN ACTION a repeat issue delivering non-conforming materials, leading us to reject over 30% of Recently a customer had a problem with the their supply.
Through assessments, coaching shoulder dimensions of glass tempering rolls and implementing agreed quality improvement supplied from one of our North American plants.
actions, the suppliers defect level was A multifunctional team was assembled that significantly improved in a short period of time.
included the Plant Manager, Production Manager, Maintenance Technician, shop floor Team Leader, WORKING WITH A SUPPLIER TO REDUCE THE Quality Manager and Lab Technician.
Each of the REJECT RATE OF THE RAW MATERIAL THEY eight Disciplines was applied to quickly contain DELIVER TO US 40% the issue, allowing time to focus on the root cause, determined to be a problem with one 35% piece of equipment.
Corrective actions were then 30% implemented to solve the problem and no further complaints were received for this issue.
Lessons 25% learned were shared with other similar operations 20% around the world further to capture the benefits.
15% 10% ISO 9001:2008 certification is an important part of our 5% quality strategy: however, we strive to surpass these 0% requirements in the implementation of the Quality Plan.
2008Oct 2010 Oct 2010DEC 2012 RELIABILITY IS ESSENTIAL Reliability is vital to our customers as they use Vesuvius products in critical areas of their own processes.
The level of risk attached to a catastrophic failure is often such that, for people and equipment, no compromise can be taken and reliability therefore is a primary commitment of Vesuvius.
Image: Left to right, Marshall Davis, James Caulder, Vesuvius strives to deliver reliability and consistency Todd Miller, John McColl, Wilbert Hunt, Brian Hays through best-in-class quality management in its 72 major production sites.
Working with our suppliers, we create partnerships to ensure that our requirements, and those of our customers, are met consistently.
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 40 Our Performance Reliability also results from our close cooperation Our experts are in permanent contact with our with customers operations, from the permanent customers operations to provide support with presence of our engineers and technicians at our creative solutions and new technologies, based on customers locations and from the level of service and their access to the unrivalled experience acquired expertise we provide.
across the world and throughout the industry.
Reliability is maintained within our global process Maintaining our high level of service is part of our of innovation and continuous improvement through commitment to reliability.
strict testing procedures and total transparency with our customers on the protocols we follow to validate Image: Linna Sun any change in our products.
Suzhou China RELIABILITY - A CASE STUDY In a blast furnace application in Western Europe, our customer was suffering from variable iron stream quality with a competitors material and was preparing to revamp their furnace.
Vesuvius technical service experts proposed a new high grade taphole clay optimised for the new SERVICE - A CASE STUDY operating conditions of the furnace to address the current problems and make the process One steel plant was looking to increase the more reliable.
The results: performance of their casting operation more output, higher product quality, and more safety improved due to a reduction in operational flexibility.
splashing and spraying Vesuvius recommended the Shroud Exchange over 150,000 savings per year in reduced Mechanism, SEM85 with VPC Vesuvius maintenance Precision Control.
This solution combines a overall furnace productivity improved as system to exchange the tundish shroud without casting speeds were stabilised with the cast interruption and without raising the improved stream tundish, automatic mould level control with - 1.5 mm accuracy, and automatic clogging prevention stopper oscillation with mould level SERVICE IS PART OF THE VESUVIUS CULTURE set point modulation to increase tube life.
The quality of our service delivery derives from our deep understanding of our customers process and As a result, annual caster production rose from expectations, our intimate knowledge of their needs 790,000 tonnes to 870,000 tonnes.
Quality and our efforts to increase their performance at all improved thanks to better accuracy in mould levels of their value chain.
level control 95% of the time working in automatic, and as a result, there was a 56% Vesuvius plants are close to the customers they serve reduction in diverted slabs on thin plate steel and can deliver goods and technical service at very grades.
Safety was also improved with the new short notice.
ability to stop steel flow with a blank plate and better working conditions for operators.
com Stock Code: VSVS 41 Image: Determination of melting point of aggressive slags Vesuvius R&D Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 42
