Our Performance Health & safety We will operate all business activities in a manner which aims to ensure the health and safety of employees, contractors, visitors, customers and any other person affected by these activities.
VESUVIUS HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY SAFETYBREAKTHROUGH regular responsibilities, leading by example and Vesuvius is undertaking an ongoing global safety initiative, demonstrating ongoing management commitment to SafetyBreakthrough, across all businesses and all activities, safety in all parts of the business.
including those undertaken at customer locations.
It is We continuously work in partnership with our driven by top management, cascaded and engaging all customers and suppliers to deliver improved safety employees throughout global work activities.
standards in all our workplaces.
The current phase of this programme, Turbo.
S Our Beliefs: features: Good Health and Safety is good business The implementation and sharing of best practices through Vesuvius standards and other tools.
Safety is everybodys responsibility A commitment to become a true Learning Working safely is a condition of employment Organization, avoiding repeat accidents and All work-related injuries and work-related ill - sharing lessons learned.
health are preventable Total employee involvement, with the need for Our Aims: safety improvement being driven by the shared learning of our management teams, who are No Accidents leading by example.
No Repeat Injuries We set ourselves demanding but achievable No Harm to People improvement targets in the area of safety, realised by promoting standardised safe working procedures Our Health and Safety Policy clearly defines our based upon thorough and detailed risk assessments.
commitments and responsibilities, applying to all stakeholders in all aspects of our business.
We make use of auditing to support the need for The Groups Health & Safety policy and related ongoing safety improvements in all areas in which information can be found on the Groups website our people work.
All executives are committed to www.
undertake executive safety tours as part of their www.
com Stock Code: VSVS 31 Health & safety continued Images: LEFT: Peter Strengers Borken Germany RIGHT: Shande Wang Suzhou China SAFETY PERFORMANCE and risk awareness remains essential to the effective Vesuvius ultimate goal is zero work-related injuries reduction and elimination of workplace accidents, and illnesses.
To achieve this, a number of annual whatever the workplace.
objectives have been agreed for the Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR the number of workAdditional key drivers which we adopt to achieve our related illnesses or injuries which resulted in an reduction in workplace accidents include: employee being absent from work for at least one day, per million hours worked.
Vesuvius operations High levels of employee participation in all workworldwide report the LTIFR and we also track the related safety and improvement opportunities, recordable incident rate the number of workincluding participation in safety audits and related injuries and illnesses which resulted in medical identifying Safety Improvement Opportunities treatment beyond first aid, per million hours worked.
which focus upon eliminating the workplace risks that could contribute towards an accident Whether our employees and contractors are working happening.
in manufacturing, research and development, offices Taking a consistent risk-based approach in all or customer locations, we recognise and respect the that we do which clearly defines significant risks need to ensure that their safety remains our first associated with any work-related activities our priority.
To ensure that risks and dangers are fully people, contractors or visitors are expected to controlled, pragmatic systems and processes must be undertake safely.
supported by appropriate behaviours which respect the risks present.
Maintaining high levels of safety SAFETY AUDITS PER 20 EMPLOYEES PER MONTH 10 8 6 4 2 0 2010 2011 2012 n Target results n Actual results Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 32 Our Performance Image: Berthold Scheipers Borken Germany A global commitment to development and A reporting system is in place to collect details and implementation of world-class health and safety investigate all H&S-related incidents on a timely standards across high-risk business areas and basis throughout the Group and to produce routine activities.
management reports including the KPI covering work-related injury and illness rates, along with lead Introducing clear and concise visual Standardised indicators covering safety audit engagement and safety Work instructions, which optimise the safest and most improvement opportunities.
These reports and related efficient way for repetitive tasks to be completed.
performance improvement plans are regularly reviewed Introducing a Permit to Work system based by the Chief Executive with divisional management as upon a risk identification carried out prior to part of the normal business review cycle.
work commencing for all non-standard work activities that involves all affected employees and The Chief Executives regular report to the Board contractors in the process.
includes an overview of Group H&S performance as the first agenda item.
All significant incidents are reported Vesuvius days away injury and illness rate has to the Chief Executive and the Board as they occur.
Clear targets exist with the intention of the LTIFR target for 2014 Where local business management teams feel it is being 1.0 per million hours worked or less.
appropriate, a number of sites have already achieved accreditation to OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health Since the launch of SafetyBreakthrough, the level of and Safety Management System, further reflecting lost time injuries has declined substantially as shown the strong systems we have developed in these areas.
com Stock Code: VSVS 33 Image: Ann Smith Champaign - USA Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 34
