Overview The Vesuvius business model We operate a profitable, flexible and growthThis allows us to supply customers on a reliable, generating business model.
just-in-time and highly competitive basis, essential for consumable goods involved on the critical path of our This model has been developed and refined over customers process.
many years, within both Vesuvius and Foseco, to build the brand equity of our products through reliability, Thanks to our global presence, these products technology and service.
are serviced at our customers facilities with the permanent presence of our industry experts.
The foundation of our business model is our worldwide presence, with our industry experts Our business model: embedded at most customer locations, ideally placed to identify potential process improvements in is resilient to end-market cycles due to the cooperation with customers.
flexibility of our diversified manufacturing footprint and adjustable cost base: Our model is supported by our technology centres is profitable, as it allows value pricing for bespoke which develop solutions involving engineered systems products: and and high-value consumables.
generates growth, as we can enlarge the These solutions are industrialised in our low-cost, accessible market with additional innovative dispersed manufacturing system within which we are products and solutions.
located close to our customers facilities.
Professional after-sales service 15 year average 200 technical experts customer relationships at customer locations Technical support over the life of contracts 4 1 Service Global presence & consistency Reliable Market manufacturing Just-in-Time supply Identication of valuable through Lean sales opportunities Manufacturing Optimised Advanced manufacturing technology footprint knowledge Directed innovation Development of value adding 3 2 c. 2 3 of manufacturing engineered solutions 100 PhDs and engineers sites in developing countries that command consumption of bespoke products www.
com Stock Code: VSVS 13 GLOBAL ADVANCED PRESENCE TECHNOLOGY KNOWLEDGE 1.
Vesuvius is present in all six continents, with The ability to support our customers development manufacturing capability within all the main steel and to anticipate their future needs results from and foundry markets.
As we sell consumables that the capacity of our Research and Development are critical to the processes of our customers, we centres to leverage their knowledge in the most commit to supply into our major end-markets from advanced ceramic and metallurgical techniques.
For the last forty years, Vesuvius Our laboratories are equipped with state-of-thehas supported the development of global steel art equipment and utilise the most advanced and foundry manufacturing processes with new technologies of simulation and finite element analysis technologies.
Everywhere in the world, new steel to simulate the behaviour of molten metal in a and foundry plants have been commissioned with customers specific equipment configuration.
Our Vesuvius and Foseco products to create the best three central laboratories explore the fundamental conditions for a successful start.
To facilitate this, aspects of the casting process with the most Vesuvius has established manufacturing plants sophisticated equipment, whilst our eight local in emerging countries from the very beginning of development centres feed on these fundamental their industrialisation.
The breadth and depth of the findings and elaborate custom-designed, customerexperience and expertise we have developed over specific solutions that will create value for our these years with our customers is peerless.
customers and help them differentiate from competition.
Our knowledge of end-market processes, specifications and techniques around the world gives our experts SIX RESEARCH CENTRES AND a unique ability to support our customers no matter EIGHT DEVELOPMENT LABORATORIES what their required configurations.
This has contributed EMPLOYING MORE THAN 100 PhDs to the trust built with our customers in the reliability AND ENGINEERS of our service and assistance.
Local manufacturing, local expertise, and leveraging a global knowledge of our customers processes gives Vesuvius a special relationship with its customers, to help them optimise their process and their product performance.
These innovations can then be tested at the customers facility with the highest level of confidence To support our global presence, we hire and train in their suitability, based on Vesuvius experience and local engineers in most developing countries, who on past success.
are then progressively integrated within the Vesuvius network of experts and offered international careers.
These technical experts become partners of their local customers and help them meet their aims for continuous improvement, whilst maintaining the utmost level of reliability.
Through this close technical relationship, we can identify together new development opportunities to create value in the customers process.
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 14 Overview ADVANCED OPTIMISED SERVICE & TECHNOLOGY MANUFACTURING CONSISTENCY KNOWLEDGE FOOTPRINT 3.
When successfully tested, our products can be Being global, we can ensure a local service to our manufactured at a short distance from our customers customers, including the management of an optimal plants, guaranteeing just-in-time delivery and a level of inventories at their location, high quality competitive cost.
To enable us to supply most technical support and a unique capacity to be customers from trucking distance, we optimize our reactive in modifying our production and supply of cost competitiveness by investing in the lowest cost product and service to reflect any unexpected change production site in a given area and, together with the in customers requirements.
large volume of pieces we produce, this provides our customers with the best balance between value and This high level of service relies on our technicians cost for our high technology solutions.
presence permanently on the customers shop floor, leveraging their worldwide expertise accumulated in Vesuvius over many years.
EVOLUTION OF NUMBER OF PLANTS AND PEOPLE OVER TEN YEARS SITE LOCATIONS RECENT RECOGNITION 100 SSAB EMEA most valued 78 supplier award 2011 80 72 23 36 AK Steel sets world 60 55 casting record 40 Vesuvius valued partner in this achievement 34 20 Vesuvius is key partner of the worlds first 0 2002 2012 automated ladle operation n Developed market n Emerging Market n JVs EVOLUTION OF NUMBER OF PLANTS AND PEOPLE OVER TEN YEARS HEAD-COUNT 14,000 12,244 12,000 1,098 6,302 10,000 8,406 8,000 2,740 6,000 5,650 4,000 4,844 2,000 0 2002 2012 n Developed market n Emerging Market n JVs www.
com Stock Code: VSVS 15 Image: Continuous Slab Caster in operation Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 16
