Our Performance Innovation Innovation is at the core of all our activities.
To STATE-OF-THE-ART TECHNOLOGIES IN PRODUCTS, stimulate this innovative strength we value creativity SYSTEMS AND SERVICES in all aspects of our processes and practices.
Vesuvius fundamental expertise, developed in six Innovation in technology within Vesuvius is fuelled by: R&D centres and supported by eight development units employing over 150 high level graduates, is AN INTIMATE KNOWLEDGE OF OUR CUSTOMER focused on ceramic materials designed to withstand PROCESSES AND NEEDS extreme usage conditions.
Application temperatures Our customer-specific knowledge comes from having regularly exceed 1,500C in aggressive molten over 200 field applications engineers working in metal, glass or slag, resulting in considerable active partnership with our customers.
However, it is thermomechanical and thermochemical stresses.
also essential to understand in depth the interaction of our products and systems with our customers Vesuvius is developing, specific to the materials processes and products.
Most of Vesuvius products used in its products, state-of-the-art Finite Element come into direct contact with our customers endAnalysis FEA simulations in order to more products and all of the systems provided play an accurately determine thermal distribution and stress integral part in their manufacturing processes.
The gradients, so as to be able to optimise the properties end result is that Vesuvius products and systems of its products.
The outstanding performance play a crucial role in determining the quality of the gained by using these refractory products is further end-product and the efficiency of our customers enhanced by being used in combination with the processes.
complementary technically advanced systems developed by Vesuvius to optimise the safety, The impact which Vesuvius products and processes productivity and quality of our customers processes.
have on our customers product quality and process efficiency is a responsibility which we take seriously Three recent major innovations two in the field and it is with a focus on the maintenance and of steel continuous casting and one in ductile improvement of this quality and efficiency that we iron foundries illustrate well Vesuvius innovation are developing and using state-of-the-art modelling providing quality service to our customers: tools to innovate new products and systems.
Computational Fluid Dynamics CFD, coupled with physical water modelling, is used to simulate our customers process flow patterns, including temperature, pressure and velocity distribution.
The TM Image: Turbostop Modelling use of advanced simulation software for the casting and solidification process allows the prediction of final product quality.
We have also developed a thermo-chemical simulation to predict interactions of our products in corrosive environments.
Finally, newly - developed products are evaluated in our pilot testing facilities, which reproduce the difficult conditions of on-site applications.
com Stock Code: VSVS 43 Innovation continued translates to a reduction of 242 ladles of steel being melted per year or an increase in prime yield of approximately 40,000 tons per annum or 1.2% productivity improvement.
ROBOTIC CASTING TECHNOLOGY RCT WITH LADLE TUBE CHANGER LTC AND SHROUD EXCHANGE MECHANISM SEM 3085 Vesuvius has focused its efforts at developing innovative technical solutions around the continuous caster targeted to achieve not one, but all of the steel industries critical objectives of improved Productivity, Flexibility, Yield, Image: Ladle and tundish with Quality, Safety, Cost and Environmental impact.
IMPROVED STEEL YIELD AND PRODUCTIVITY WITH As a consequence, Vesuvius has recently launched the TOTAL TUNDISH TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS T first products of our new Robotic Casting Technology A fully engineered, customised T solution to improve range.
The Ladle Tube Changer LTC is a significant yield and productivity has significantly improved steel move in technology away from the traditional ladle producing operations at one of the most modern thin shroud and collector nozzle joint to a flat plate joint slab casting plants in the world.
with the ladle shroud no longer held in place by a manipulator, but becoming an integral part of the By working with steel plant engineers using ladle slide gate system.
This arrangement provides computational fluid design of the ladle and tundish an improved yield of prime quality steel through the and water modelling and physical design of the reduced possibility of reoxidation with a tighter joint tundish, Vesuvius engineers were able to recommend and the ability to safely guarantee 100% submerged changes to the existing ladle and tundish refractory opening into the tundish.
The system has also been design.
designed to be robot compatible allowing the entire ladle shroud operation, including shroud cleaning, By incorporating a combined ladle and tundish to be achieved without human intervention, thereby solution using ELBY and Yield Enhancing Systems removing the operators from the most exposed and YES in conjunction with a complete Turbostop dangerous environment still existing in the steel plant tundish flow design the steel plant was able to today.
justify a prolonged evaluation of the technology and practise change recommendations to verify the improved ladle and tundish yield.
In addition, they were also able to modify their grade mix model to allow for a significant reduction in the mix grade casting losses to scrap.
Using the Vesuvius ITI process monitoring system, a rapid, online, sophisticated, infra-red, optical monitoring system, coupled with novel software that allows a quantitative evaluation of slag and steel in conjunction with normal steel plant accounting processes, they were able to verify the accuracy of all of the model predictions.
This enabled the steel plant to accelerate full implementation in less than six months to take immediate advantage of the large cost savings, scrap reduction and productivity improvements.
As a result, the steel plant has been able to increase yield by 33.25 tons per casting sequence, which Image: Ladle with ELBY Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 44 Our Performance The latest robot-compatible tundish tube changer SEM3085 has also been designed to reduce air aspiration and therefore also enhance quality, to increase flexibility and safety through the double stroke concept, allowing for an emergency shut-off at any moment in any situation and to maximise productivity and yield through a more robust refractory design allowing significantly longer sequences to be cast.
For devices such as the SEM3085 to achieve their maximum potential in terms of quality and yield it is also essential to provide extremely precise steel flow regulation.
We achieve this with our SERT M type electric stopper valve and the Image: INITEK Ladle new generation of Avemis ledge type eddy current mould A unique ferro-alloy called INODEX is placed inside the level sensors.
Ledge sensors are fully compatible with all converter vessel to initialise or remove unwanted other electromagnetic actuators employed in the mould, elements from the iron, thus promoting an efficient such as electromagnetic stirrers and brakes, and do not chemical transition from liquid base iron to ductile iron interfere with the tube change function, as is the case for with NODULANT  alloy.
Results the conventional suspended sensors.
The Avemis ledge are validated using a class-leading ITACA thermal sensor coupled with the precise SERT stopper control system analysis system in combination with other conventional therefore allows for accurate continuous fully automatic metallographic and physical tests.
mould level control for the entire casting sequence maintaining prime quality steel production.
Successful adoption of the INITEK process requires a detailed understanding of metallurgical processes and the 3.
INITEK AN IMPROVED METHOD OF ability to deliver highly customised, engineering solutions, PRODUCING DUCTILE IRON to foundries.
Foseco application experts work closely with The production of magnesium-treated ductile iron castings foundry operations and engineers to design, fabricate, and is witnessing a radical change in the way liquid metal install specialised equipment that when used together treatment practices are performed.
Foundries, worldwide, with Foseco products deliver value both in terms of are fundamentally reviewing current processes in light of financial savings and enhanced capabilities to foundries.
findings embodied in a revolutionary, patented, Foseco technology described simply as an improved method of The many benefits of the advanced metal treatment producing ductile iron.
Foseco has branded the metal technology for ductile iron castings are centred treatment process as INITEK.
INITEK dramatically on a considerable reduction in liquid iron process improves the level of process control in foundries and the temperatures in the foundry.
Not only is a substantial overall quality and cost for producing ductile iron castings.
energy saving obtained, but further benefits related To achieve this, Foseco, together with key business to productivity, casting quality, and the consumption partners, has developed a unique combination of new rate of refractories and metallurgical alloys are also metallurgical products, analytical tools, process know-how, achieved, delivering net savings to foundries in the and a state-of-the-art metallurgical treatment vessel.
range of 40120 per tonne of liquid iron.
ITACA is a trademark of ProService Technologies Italy.
Foseco is the exclusive At the heart of the INITEK process is the patented, prismdistributor of ITACA systems, worldwide.
shaped vessel commonly referred to as a converter: a specially - designed containment vessel for liquid iron used in the foundry as a reaction chamber in the production of ductile iron.
The interior wall of the converter vessel is lined with a novel KALTEK ISO refractory system, patented by Foseco, which promotes a high level of metallurgical process consistency and metal temperature control.
com Stock Code: VSVS 45 Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 46
