Our businesses STEEL The continuous casting of steel is a highly demanding process that is critically dependent upon consistent product quality and optimised production.
Vesuvius provides systems, products and services that allow steel mills to control the flow of metal and protect it from oxidation and chemical contamination, increasing productivity, enhancing the quality of steel and improving the safety of the casting process, while representing a fraction of the customers total production costs typically less than 1%.
Steel Flow Control products supplied by Vesuvius include: the Viso product range, which are isostatically pressed alumina graphite refractories to channel and control the flow of steel from ladle to tundish and from tundish to mould: slidegate refractories for furnace, ladle and tundish slide gate systems: temperature measurement and slag level detection, tundish and mould fluxes and control devices to monitor and regulate steel flow into the mould.
These products have been designed to resist extreme thermo-mechanical stresses and corrosive environments.
They must withstand temperature changes from ambient to 1,600C in just a few minutes, while resisting liquid steel and slag corrosion for many hours.
The majority of these products are consumed during the process of making steel and some must be replaced frequently.
Demand for Vesuvius products is thus primarily linked to steel production volumes.
Products of the Advanced Refractories product line include specialist refractory materials for lining steelmaking vessels such as blast furnaces, ladles and tundishes.
These are in the form of both monolithics and, to a lesser extent, refractory shapes e. g. bricks, pads and dams.
Vesuvius is one of the worlds largest manufacturers of monolithic refractory linings for vessels subject to extreme temperatures, corrosion and abrasion.
Key success factors in the Advanced Refractories product line are installation technologies, products adapted to fit customers processes and effective and efficient logistics services, these factors being successfully combined by Vesuvius R&D centres, its knowledge of customers processes and its project management capability.
ADVANCED REFRACTORIES STEEL FLOW CONTROL 2012 Revenue 2012 Revenue 476m 542m End-Markets 75% iron & steel End-Markets 100% steel 25% process industries Number of Employees Image: Monobloc MTSP Number of Employees 4,595 CMYK Grey : 0 0 0 85 3,006 Red : 0 100 96 0 Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 04 Overview FOUNDRY The foundry process is highly sequential and, similar to the continuous casting of steel, is critically dependent on consistency of quality and productivity optimisation.
The Foundry divisions solutions allow foundries to reduce defects and hence reduce labour-intensive fettling and cleaning, minimise metal usage requirements hence reducing cost, energy usage and mould size, influence the metal solidification process increasing metal performance and reducing the weight of pieces and automate the moulding and casting process for gains in productivity and ease of reproduction.
Vesuvius, trading as Foseco, is a world leader in the supply of consumable products for use in the foundry casting industry.
Foundry consumables typically make up less than 5% of the total cost of manufacturing a final casting, yet they are vital to the overall quality and yield.
The conditioning of molten metal, the nature of the mould used and, especially, the design of the way metal flows into the mould are key parameters in a foundry, determining both the quality of the finished castings and the labour, energy and metal usage efficiency of the foundry.
Vesuvius provides consumable products and associated services to foundries that improve these parameters.
FOUNDRY Number of Employees 2012 Revenue 3,585 530m End-Markets 40% vehicles 28% general engineering 18% agriculture & mining 14% other Image: Foundry Sleeves CMYK Grey : 0 0 0 85 Red : 0 100 96 0 www.
