Chairmans statement On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to report that we have Anita Frew delivered another year of record performance in Victrex, despite the challenging global economic environment.
Strong new business commercialisation in our VPS business and growth in the developing markets of our Invibio business have driven this years success.
During the year, we have continued to invest in innovation, new application development and growth programmes, quality, capacity and security of supply for customers.
These initiatives will continue to build our business to meet the growing demand from our customers across our end user markets of oil and gas, automotive, aerospace, electronics and medical applications.
9LFWUH[ EHQHWV IURP D QXPEHU RI XQGHUO LQJ PHJDWUHQGV across industries which continue to drive fundamental demand for our world leading polymers.
In this years Annual Report, Chairman our business units give fuller and more detailed descriptions of what these trends mean for our customers and demonstrate how Victrex polymers create value across industries.
Results On behalf of the Board, I am pleased This year we have delivered record Group sales volume of to report that we have delivered 2,904 tonnes 2011: 2,860 tonnes and Group revenue of another year of record performance P P UHHFWLQJ JURZWK IURP ERWK RI RXU business units against an uncertain economic background.
in Victrex, despite the challenging Strong new business commercialisation and growth in developing markets largely drove VPS and Invibio respectively.
Second half global economic environment.
Strong volume of 1,527 tonnes was 7% ahead of the same period ODVW HDU DQG DKHDG RI WKH UVW KDOI ZKLFK UHHFWHG WKH new business commercialisation GH VWRFNLQJ ZH UHSRUWHG LQ WKH UVW TXDUWHU RI RXU QDQFLDO in our VPS business and growth year and an upturn in volumes as we moved through the year.
in the developing markets of our Full year gross margin remained strong and in line with expectations at 66.3% 2011: 67.8%.
The reduction year on Invibio business have driven this HDU UHHFWV IXUWKHU LQYHVWPHQW LQ UHVRXUFHV WR LQFUHDVH DYDLODEOH years success.
production capacity, underpinning security of supply for our customers, as well as increased raw material input costs.
We have invested in new technical facilities in the UK and Japan and research and development expenditure in the year has increased to 13.1m 2011: 10.5m representing 6% of revenue 2011: 5%.
3URW EHIRUH WD[ URXS SURW EHIRUH WD[ RI P DQG EDVLF HDUQLQJV SHU VKDUH of 85.7p were both marginally ahead of the record results 94.5m achieved last year.
Cash generated from operations remained strong at 89.9m 2011: 91.2m.
The resulting Group cash balance as at 30 September 2012 was 83.9m with no debt.
Earnings per share Dividends The Company paid an interim dividend of 9.0p per ordinary 85.7p share on 3 July 2012, representing an increase of 13% over the SULRU HDU 2XU FRQWLQXHG FRQGHQFH LQ WKH XQGHUO LQJ VWUHQJWK DQG JURZWK SURVSHFWV IRU RXU EXVLQHVV LV UHHFWHG E RXU LQWHQW to provide a progressive and sustainable dividend policy.
We are Total dividend WKHUHIRUH UHFRPPHQGLQJ D QDO GLYLGHQG RI S S per ordinary share.
This results in a total dividend for the year 37.4p of 37.4p 2011: 32.5p per ordinary share representing an increase of 15% over the prior year.
06 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The strength of our balance sheet and cash generation underpins of the Board and its Committees.
This review concluded that our ability to invest in our business for future growth as well WKH %RDUG DQG LWV &RPPLWWHHV UHPDLQ HIIHFWLYH LQ IXOOOLQJ WKHLU as maintaining our dividend policy.
It also continues to provide responsibilities appropriately and each Director continues to reassurance to customers, suppliers and investors alike as we demonstrate a valuable contribution.
invest for the future whilst navigating the current uncertain economic and market conditions.
We will continue to review Governance our dividend policy in the light of our medium-term strategic investment plans and consider any potential additional return The Board takes its responsibility to maintain sound governance to shareholders as appropriate.
very seriously and regards the continuing setting, maintenance and review of the highest standards of corporate governance Board composition and diversity as a key objective.
The Board leads a strong governance framework throughout the business, supported by the Audit, We have a strong and balanced Board with a broad range of skills Currency, Nominations, Remuneration and Risk Committees.
Over the last year, we have taken further Further detail can be found in the corporate governance steps to strengthen the executive representation on our Board.
Steve Barrow joined the Board in October 2011 as Finance We complied with all aspects of the UK Corporate Governance Director.
Steve has been a key member of the Victrex Code throughout the year ended 30 September 2012. management team for many years and brings to the Board VLJQLFDQW QDQFLDO H[SHUWLVH DQG NQRZOHGJH RI 9LFWUH[ People Tim Cooper, Managing Director of VPS joined the Board in We recognise that, whilst being an asset based business, Victrex October 2012.
Tim has shown exceptional leadership of our relies heavily on the skills, experience and competence of our VPS business and brings to the Board many years of international HPSOR HHV WR SURGXFH RXU SURGXFWV VDIHO DQG HIFLHQWO GHYHORS commercial and operational experience.
innovative new products and support business development in our existing and new markets.
The talent and focus of our I am also pleased to welcome Suzana Koncarevic as the Boards employees underpins the strategy of our business and is at the new Company Secretary.
Suzana joined in April 2012 and is our core of our success.
General Counsel and Company Secretary, as well as a member of the executive management team.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to pay tribute to all our employees and thank them for their outstanding contribution We recognise the importance of diversity at Board level and our to the record results this year.
The passion, innovation and Board members comprise a number of different nationalities performance of our employees remain a key asset to our with a wide range of skills and experiences from a variety business and its success in the future.
of business backgrounds, including international, industrial, PDUNHWLQJ FRUSRUDWH VWUDWHJLF SODQQLQJ PHGLFDO DQG QDQFLDO Outlook expertise.
This diversity of thought and experience contributes VLJQLFDQWO WR WKH YDOXH TXDOLW DQG GHSWK RI %RDUG The fundamental growth drivers for our business continue to deliberations and decisions.
be strong across all of our end markets.
As previously reported, the Board also welcomed the publication Sales volume in our VPS business is showing good growth last year of the Davies Review on Women on Boards.
Our current relative to the comparative period last year, albeit at a lower female representation on the Board is 25%, already consistent UXQ UDWH WKDQ WKH UHFRUG VHFRQG KDOI RI ODVW QDQFLDO HDU 2XU with the recommended minimum representation level to be Invibio business has had a steady start to the year despite the achieved by 2015. continuing challenges in the US medical device market.
Board effectiveness :KLOVW LW LV HDUO LQ WKH QDQFLDO HDU DQG D QXPEHU RI PDFUR uncertainties remain, we are encouraged by the potential for As Chairman I am responsible for the leadership of the Board growth in both VPS, driven by new application development, and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
The and Invibio, through innovation in the spine market and Board is responsible for the Groups strategic development, further progress in our developing markets.
We remain monitoring achievement of its business objectives, oversight committed to invest in application development, technical of risk and maintaining a system of effective corporate leadership, talent and capacity to ensure that we are the governance, which includes the responsibilities for health, partner of choice for our customers and end users.
safety, environmental, social and ethical matters.
Further description of the governance processes which are embedded at Board level and throughout the business are given in the corporate governance section of this report.
Anita Frew We undertook an independent external evaluation of the Chairman performance of the Board and its Committees in 2011.
During 10 December 2012 2012 we built on this with an internal evaluation of performance www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Victrex plc 07
