&RUSRUDWH UHVSRQVLELOLW DQG VXVWDLQDELOLW continued Business ethics continued X must only give or accept gifts, hospitality or entertainment Our employees ZKLFK DUH UHDVRQDEOH DQG DSSURSULDWH DQG KDYH D VSHFLF We recognise that, whilst being an asset based business, business purpose with the intention of developing or Victrex relies heavily on the skills, experience and competence strengthening a business relationship in accordance with of our employees to produce our products safely and the Groups Gifts, Hospitality and Entertainment guidelines: HIFLHQWO GHYHORS LQQRYDWLYH QHZ SURGXFWV DQG VXSSRUW X must not make political donations of any kind: business development in our existing and new markets.
X must not make facilitation payments of any kind, except if We will seek to: under duress or faced with potential safety issues or harm, in which case any facilitation payment made should be reported X provide a clean, safe working environment which meets all and recorded as soon as practicable: legislative requirements and to provide all the necessary X must report any suspicions of bribery immediately, either training support for employees to operate safely within it: via the relevant line manager or through the Groups X provide appropriate remuneration for work carried out and whistleblowing process, as appropriate: and equal opportunities for development and career advancement: X are assured that if a genuine concern is raised will not be X be intolerant of any unacceptable working practices such at risk of losing their job or suffering any form of retribution as any form of discrimination, bullying or harassment: and as a result.
X prohibit illegal activities on our sites.
Our shareholders Our shareholders are the ultimate owners of the business and we recognise that we have responsibilities towards them as stewards of their investments.
We will seek to: X grow our business over time to maximise shareholder value: X communicate in an open and timely manner regarding the performance, position and prospects of the business: and X maintain sound systems of corporate governance to ensure that the Company is well directed and managed.
The environment We recognise that our operations have an impact on the environment and that we have a responsibility to minimise this.
First year Engineering Apprentice, Joshua Bucknall, has been awarded the Gareth Jobes Endeavour Award for his outstanding We will seek to: personal achievements and contributions.
Joshua was also runner up in the Engineering Skills Award, for apprentices displaying X work within the regulatory frameworks of the countries in the highest levels of practical skills.
which we operate and apply appropriate standards: and Anti-bribery X minimise the environmental impacts of our operations We are committed to ensuring adherence to the highest legal as far as reasonably practicable.
and ethical standards, in order to ensure full compliance with the latest governance legislation The Bribery Act 2010, and 9LFWUH[V FRPPLWPHQW WR HQYLURQPHQWDO LVVXHV LV UHHFWHG LQ have adopted a zero-tolerance policy towards bribery by any the production of this Annual Report which has been printed of our employees or third-party representatives who: on environmental paper stocks using vegetable oil based inks by a CarbonNeutral SULQWHU FHUWLHG E, 62 X must never provide or accept something of value to or from environmental management system and registered to EMAS DQ LQGLYLGXDO JRYHUQPHQW RIFLDO FRPSDQ RU RUJDQLVDWLRQ the Eco Management Audit Scheme.
that is intended to, or could be perceived as intended to, LQXHQFH D EXVLQHVV GHFLVLRQ 30 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Social and community The Group participates in a range of activities within the local communities where we operate including charitable giving, offering apprenticeships, awareness in schools, advancement of research work at universities and offering work experience to students of all ages at varying stages of their academic careers.
Victrex invests in recruiting and developing young people through our advanced apprenticeship programme.
This scheme is based on national standards, is fully monitored and trains apprentices in process, mechanical or electrical technician skills.
Currently there are nine apprentices participating in the apprenticeship VFKHPH 7R GDWH YH DSSUHQWLFHV KDYH VXFFHVVIXOO FRPSOHWHG the programme, all of which have joined the company as To celebrate a successful year, the Speciality Products team employees on a permanent basis.
completed a sponsored walk in the UKs Peak District and raised in excess of 3,000 for The Christie charity, which In the UK, a proportion of the charitable donations budget supports the development of cancer prevention, treatment, is distributed by the Staff Committee mainly to local charities research and education.
chosen from nominations made by employees.
National or overseas charities are supported where there is strong employee involvement.
The Group made charitable donations of 59,735 2011: 6,312 during the year, of which 3,973 2011: 1,820 were in the UK.
We are currently in the process of developing our Corporate Responsibility Strategy and as part of this have become members of Business in the Community.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Victrex plc 31
