Principal risks The Board is responsible for determining the strategic approach to risk, setting the risk appetite and establishing the structure for risk management.
It is recognised that the Groups strategic objectives can only be achieved if risks are taken and managed effectively.
On these pages are those risks FRQVLGHUHG WR EH SULQFLSDO WR GHOLYHULQJ RXU VWUDWHJ DQG VSHFLF WR WKH nature of our business, although there are other risks which may occur and impact on the Groups performance.
External market factors Risk area and description Mitigation Economic environment The global economic environment and the levels The diverse nature of the Groups markets, customers and the of activity in the markets and territories in which territories in which each business unit operates, together with appropriate the Group operates could adversely affect the contingency planning, help to mitigate the impact of a global URXSV UHYHQXHV SURWDELOLW DQG FDVK RZ economic downturn.
Currency exposure The Group operates in several non-UK countries The Groups hedging policy to mitigate the short-term currency risk is and currently exports 97% of sales from the managed by the Currency Committee and is detailed in the Corporate UK.
Primarily these sales are denominated in US Governance Report on page 40 and in note 13.
Fluctuations in exchange rates between Sterling and these currencies could FDXVH SURW DQG EDODQFH VKHHW YRODWLOLW Competitor activity The Group operates in competitive markets, both We continue to work closely with our customers as described on in terms of competitors offering directly comparable pages 15 and 29 and seek to always have the highest quality products and alternative materials.
The ability of the Group and services available to meet our promised delivery schedules globally.
to compete is dependent on its ability to develop We invest in resources to ensure that we remain at the leading edge of technological innovations and deliver high quality polyketone technology and seek to continuously improve the quality products and services.
Demand for our products and the performance of our products.
Through our technology centres could be impacted if we fail to compete successfully in the UK, China and Japan we provide prompt technical support as new technologies and materials are developed, and advice so as to provide high quality applications solutions causing loss of market share and margin erosion.
Technological change The Groups two business units are dependent on To maintain and advance our technology skills and knowledge we invest manufacturing and selling high quality products in resources and employ polymer and applications specialists at our into advanced applications.
Demand for these technology centres in the UK, China and Japan.
This is complemented applications and consequently our products could JOREDOO E RIFH DQG HOG EDVHG FRPPHUFLDO DQG WHFKQLFDO VSHFLDOLVWV who work closely with our customers and end users.
This enables us to be impacted as new technologies and materials are developed.
develop new products and new applications for our products so that we maintain our position as the leading polymer solutions provider to designers and engineers at our customers and end users.
16 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information %XVLQHVV VSHFLF IDFWRUV Risk area and description Mitigation Operational disruption The Groups business is dependent on the :H KDYH LPSOHPHQWHG SROLFLHV DQG SURFHGXUHV WR HIFLHQWO DQG VDIHO ongoing operation of our various manufacturing manage all our operations and to maintain our supply of products to IDFLOLWLHV $ VLJQLFDQW RSHUDWLRQDO GLVUXSWLRQ our customers.
In particular, we employ a dedicated and empowered could adversely affect our ability to make Safety, Health and Environment SHE department to assist line and supply products.
management and to provide expert guidance.
Further information on SHE matters is set out in the Corporate Responsibility section on page 27.
Additionally we continue to work closely with our suppliers as GHVFULEHG RQ SDJHV DQG WR HQVXUH WKDW ZH PDLQWDLQ VLJQLFDQW VWRFNV RI UDZ PDWHULDOV DQG QLVKHG JRRGV ZKLFK VKRXOG HQDEOH XV WR maintain supplies to our customers during any short-term disruption.
Furthermore our two polymer manufacturing plants are able to operate independently, thereby reducing the impact of any operational disruption on our ability to continue manufacturing products.
3URGXFW VSHFLFDWLRQV The Groups products are used in highly demanding VICTREX PEEK polymer is manufactured within a quality management end use applications.
Any failure to supply products in system approved to ISO 9001:2008.
Invibio PEEK-OPTIMA polymer DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK WKHLU VSHFLFDWLRQV FRXOG OHDG WR ORVV is additionally manufactured within the requirements of ISO 13485:2003, of business and, potentially, a product liability claim.
a system of good manufacturing practice often used by the pharmaceutical industry and by medical device manufacturers.
The quality management process is a process of continuous improvement which is overseen by a Quality Steering Committee which meets quarterly and comprises senior management from the quality assurance, SHE, operations, technology and commercial teams.
Additionally the Group maintains appropriate levels of product liability insurance.
QVXIFLHQW FDSDFLW Our customers businesses depend on maintaining 2XU VWRFNV RI QLVKHG JRRGV DQG UDZ PDWHULDOV ZKLFK DUH KHOG LQ D a consistent supply of high quality products.
Any number of locations worldwide enable us to supply any short-term unexpected upsurge in demand could lead surge in demand from our customers.
WR LQVXIFLHQW FDSDFLW WR IXOO FXVWRPHUV QHHGV Furthermore, it is our policy to keep capacity well ahead of demand by Additionally, any delays in the implementation investing in all aspects of our supply chain so that our customers can of major capital expenditure programmes could EH FRQGHQW WKDW ZH FDQ PHHW WKHLU FXUUHQW DQG IXWXUH UHTXLUHPHQWV create a capacity shortage, leading to customers During the year we commenced construction of a third PEEK plant seeking alternative products.
which will increase our annual capacity by 2,900 tonnes to in excess of 7,000 tonnes.
The new plant is expected to be operational in 2015. www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Victrex plc 17 Page Title 6XEKHDG Victrex are a trusted innovation partner in our pursuit of solutions to tomorrows automotive challenges.
Peter Luff, Purchasing Director, Bosch 18 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 9LFWUH[ 3RO PHU 6ROXWLRQV RYHUYLHZ Our business operation is enabled using VICTREX PEEK based solutions in VPS is the worlds leading manufacturer of high performance exploration and production tooling and piping technology.
polyaryletherketones, including VICTREX PEEK polymer.
VPS provides a wide range of products, together with technical Transport and marketing support to our customers and end users to Transportation accounts for over 27% of all energy consumption help them deliver innovative, cost effective solutions in our globally.
Environmental regulation on emissions is now in place major markets of industrial, transport and electronics.
across developed and developing countries alike and is set to escalate over time.
These controls plus the need for energy Our industries continue to be challenged to achieve higher exploration in extreme environments and the need to support performance with less material, less energy, less waste, less renewable energy all drive the spiralling cost of energy consumption.
noise, less time and less cost.
This drives the need for innovative QHUJ HIFLHQF LV D SULPDU VWUDWHJLF LPSHUDWLYH IRU WKH DHURVSDFH designs using our materials and expertise to bring them to market.
In aerospace VICTREX PEEK enables The unique combination of properties and physical forms of Victrex lightweighting via metal replacement across numerous applications.
materials help customers deliver against these challenges.
Whilst huge progress has been made in automotive lightweighting, the trend will continue.
However, major improvement in vehicle We bring these solutions to reality through our dedicated market HQHUJ HIFLHQF LV RQO JRLQJ WR EH SRVVLEOH WKURXJK WKH development, sales and technical teams located close to customers, development of powertrain and transmission technologies.
across all of our major regional markets and by our main regional VICTREX PEEK enables reliable solutions to the complex RIFHV LQ HUPDQ 86$ -DSDQ DQG &KLQD challenges of next generation technology.
Technical leadership underpins the value we bring to customers Electronics and end users and is critical for our future growth.
The new Victrex Product properties such as temperature resistance, chemical Japan Technical Center in Tokyo has been welcomed by customers resistance, dimensional stability and mechanical strength are well in Japan and is now fully utilised in support of development aligned with the trends and opportunities faced by this industry, programmes we have in that region.
We have also recently both in consumer electronics which continues to be a fast opened our new UK Technology Centre at our Hillhouse site changing and innovative market focused on miniaturisation as part of our commitment to expanding our core and applied and performance of devices and in semiconductor manufacturing, technical capability.
where demands placed on processing and handling equipment is constantly increasing.
Customers and end users are increasingly Our manufacturing expertise resides in the UK where we operate working with Victrex on innovative solutions to create competitive three manufacturing sites.
We are the only vertically integrated advantage in this market space.
aromatic polyketone supplier in the world.
This affords us control over key raw materials and the ability to offer security of supply Spotlight on small space acoustics and product quality for our customers.
Our strategy remains Across the array of mobile electronic devices one challenge is to invest ahead of demand in all aspects of our supply chain.
common: the need for smaller, thinner, smarter devices.
In response This ensures we have the capability to meet our customers to this need Victrex have developed APTIV DFRXVWLF OP HQDEOLQJ current and future requirements.
During the year we commenced mobile device speaker manufacturers to meet this challenge.
It construction of a third PEEK plant in the UK.
This investment LV WKH RQO PDWHULDO LQ D WKLQ OP IRUPDW FDSDEOH RI ZLWKVWDQGLQJ will increase our annual capacity by 2,900 tonnes to in excess benchmark industry durability tests.
APTIV DFRXVWLF OP KDV EHHQ of 7,000 tonnes.
The new plant is expected to be operational WWHG LQ RYHU PLOOLRQ PRELOH WHOHSKRQH KDQGVHWV ZRUOGZLGH in early 2015.
Key markets All of our key markets present continued opportunities for growth.
In existing applications we see growth from further product acceptance, geographical expansion and execution on existing development programmes with customers and end users.
The megatrends will require new innovative solutions which play to the strength of our product offering and our deep technology leadership.
Industrial A key sector within industrial is the oil and gas market.
Increasing demand for and depletion of existing resources drive exploration into ever more challenging territory such as deepwater presalt deposits.
Deeper, hotter, higher pressure and chemically aggressive wells must be tapped to reach new reserves.
Deep off-shore is the only sector of oil and gas exploration expected to demonstrate continued growth beyond 2015.
Reliable, safe and high yield www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Victrex plc 19
