Directors Report: Review of the year Excellence Across the Value Chain Gavin Nicol Director of Operations Support and Development During 2012, in addition to the momentum in the innovation agenda outlined in the Chief Executives From the ongoing identication of Strategic Review, we have focused specifically on further customer needs through our Weir improving our supply chain, operational and health and safety performance as we further develop our lean Customer Experience Programme, to operating platform across every area of the Group.
how we deliver equipment and services, Supply chain our philosophy of delivering excellence In adopting a Group-wide approach to working throughout the value chain is a critical in partnership with suppliers, Weir seeks to optimise its supply chain.
This partnership will lead to greater pillar of our strategy.
effectiveness in cost, quality, delivery and responsiveness, all critical factors in improving the experience of our customers.
The Group also stands to benefit from reductions in working capital.
In 2012 we analysed our supply chain and identied opportunities to employ best practice across common spend categories, aggregate demand and take our established lean approach into suppliers own processes.
Enhanced data management has been introduced to provide spend visibility across all business units, enabling savings to be leveraged across the Group.
Experienced resource was also added during the year, providing additional capability and capacity to deliver our supply chain strategy.
Key supply chain achievements during 2012: Implemented the Weir Procurement System across the Group.
Analysed total Group spend and introduced digital tools to engage our supplier base through a common portal.
Established Centres of Excellence teams for key commodities and aligned sourcing strategies to growth targets.
Increased best cost country sourcing.
Established and implemented an engagement framework with key suppliers.
Operations A lean philosophy drives Weirs operational platform, with the principle of continuous improvement and minimum waste evident throughout our manufacturing operations and beyond the factory oor.
Our lean methodology is delivered through the Weir Production System WPS.
We raise our lean standards year on year, recognising that our operations can always be more efficient.
Effectiveness is measured through a rolling audit process.
During 2012 we have applied this lean audit process to supply chain activities across our operations.
20 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 I PARTNERS IN PRODUCTION WORLDWIDE Safety performance II III IV Another key area of focus has been working capital At the heart of Weirs management with improvement activities developed through the Groups innovation framework.
A consistent safety philosophy is Group-wide approach to inventory control and sales and the belief that all incidents operational planning has been embedded at every major site across the Group.
Embedding this philosophy starts with Safety performance The Group operates in the belief that all incidents making safety training job are preventable.
We are committed to a zero accident and task relevant.
Safety performance is reported based on Total Incident Rate TIR.
This measures medical treatment of any kind required by employees divided Many Weir employees perform While managing task-focused by 200,000 hours worked.
The results for 2012 show manual assembly or engineering risk, the hands-on safety significant improvement on the previous year.
Recognising this, an initiative culture Weir seeks to develop was decreased from an average of 3.4 in 2011 to an average was developed in Africa to create also driven home during training.
of 1.6 in 2012 with a continuing improvement trend.
specific training to focus on the This makes it clear that any prevention of hand and finger employee has the power to The Environment, Health and Safety EHS Excellence injuries.
The programme, which stop colleagues, managers or Committee leads on EHS issues across the Group.
has seen a dramatic reduction processes when they observe Having developed a Weir EHS system in 2011 to set in incidents involving hands and risks being taken.
The training global standards, this year the Committee set out a fingers, has been rolled out across emphasised the importance of roadmap for each business to achieve consistent, every Weir business and formed two-way communication and also world class performance with five priority areas to the basis for other campaigns.
addressed practical issues by progress over the next three years.
Assisting in the encouraging the disposal of delivery of the roadmap was face-to-face communication Designed to address the specific inappropriate tools for the task.
with every member of the Senior Management Group activities that workers in the plant and video communications with all employees.
would recognise as their job Finally, a visible ongoing involved training in the importance commitment from all employees, A rolling programme of rigorous internal safety audits that hands and fingers play in from Managing Director to shop was established to assess progress against priorities everyday life inside and outside floor operators, is underscored and to inform development plans at each business unit.
This was reinforced by the signing of a pledge board, The results of each audit and associated development by training on risk assessment and prominently displayed on the plan are reviewed by the Group Executive.
the appropriate personal protection shop floor.
equipment for each specific task.
Finally, to reinforce a strong culture of safety, the Weir behavioural safety system was developed throughout 2012 and began to roll out across the Group earlier this month.
The key message behind the system is that to ignore unsafe workplace practice is to endorse it.
Every Weir employee will receive training in the system.
For more information on Weirs EHS activities, please DEVELOPING go to weir.
EXCELLENCE IN SAFETY PERFORMANCE A HANDS-ON CULTURE The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 21
