Directors Report: Review of the year Board of Directors Name and title Lord Smith Keith Alan Ferguson Melanie Gee of Kelvin Cochrane Non-Executive Non-Executive Director 55 Director 51 Chairman 68 Chief Executive 48 British British British British Nationality Non-Executive Director Joined the Group as Finance December 2011.
Date of appointment since February 2002 and Director in July 2006 and Chairman since July 2002. appointed Chief Executive in November 2009.
Committee Chairman of the Member of the Nomination Chairman of the Audit Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Remuneration Committee: membership member of the Audit Committee.
Lord Smith was formerly Following a number of Alan was Chief Financial Melanie is a Senior Adviser for Expertise Chairman and Chief years with Arthur Andersen, officer and a Director of Lazard & Co. Limited, having Executive of Morgan Keith joined Stagecoach Lonmin plc, one of the worked for them since 2008.
Grenfell Private Equity Group plc in 1993.
He was worlds largest producers Formerly, she spent a number and was Chief Executive appointed Finance Director of platinum group metals, of years with S. G. Warburg of Morgan Grenfell Asset in 1996 and Group Chief from 2007 until 2010.
Prior now part of UBS and was Management from 1996 until Executive in 2000.
He to his role with Lonmin, he appointed a Managing 2000 before becoming Vice joined ScottishPower plc held the position of Group Director of UBS in 1999.
Chairman of Deutsche Asset in 2003 where he became Finance Director with the Between 2006 and 2008 she Management between 2000 Director of Group Finance.
Before this was a Senior Relationship and 2002.
He has also held he spent 22 years working Director of UBS.
She has a number of other positions He is a chartered for Inchcape plc in a variety been an alternate member in the financial services accountant and a member of roles, including six years of The Takeover Panel industry, and was a member of the Institute of Chartered as Group Finance Director.
LIBA CFC since 2006. of the Judicial Appointments Accountants of Scotland.
Board for Scotland and He is a chartered former Chairman of the accountant and a member trustees of the National of the Institute of Chartered Museums of Scotland.
He is Chancellor of the University of the West of Scotland and Patron of the Scottish Community Foundation.
He is a chartered accountant and a past president of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Key external Chairman of SSE plc Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Non-Executive Director formerly Scottish & of Royal Scottish National Audit Committee Chairman of Drax Group plc.
Orchestra Society Ltd. of Johnson Matthey plc.
Chairman of UK Green Non-Executive Director and Investment Bank plc.
Audit Committee Chairman of Croda International plc.
Chairman of Glasgow 2014 Limited, the organising committee for the Commonwealth Games.
Non-Executive Director of Standard Bank Group Ltd in South Africa.
48 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 I II Richard Menell John Mogford Lord Robertson Jon Stanton III Non-Executive Non-Executive of Port Ellen Finance Director 45 Director 56 Director 59 Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director 66 IV South African British British British April 2009.
Member of the Nomination Member of the Member of the Nomination None.
Richard worked as an John is currently a Managing Lord Robertson is Senior Jon was formerly a partner investment banker before Director for First Reserve, International Advisor with Ernst & Young having joining Anglovaal Group in a large global energy to Cable and Wireless joined as a graduate trainee 1992.
He was appointed focused private equity rm.
Communications plc and in their Birmingham ofce Chief Executive of Anglovaal As part of this role he sits a Senior Counsellor with in 1988.
He was appointed Mining in 1996 then Executive on several boards.
as a partner in their London Chairman in 2002.
In 2005, He was the UK Secretary of ofce in 2001 with lead he left to become President He was formerly an State for Defence from 1997 responsibility for the audit and Chief Executive of TEAL Executive Vice President of until 1999 before becoming of a number of FTSE 100 Exploration & Mining Inc.
He BP plc having been with BP Secretary General of NATO multinational clients.
was formerly Chairman of for over 30 years, initially from 1999 until 2003.
He was Avgold Ltd 1996-2004 and in their exploration division formerly a Director of Smiths He is a chartered accountant Bateman Engineering BV and progressively rising to Group plc 2004-2006 and and a member of the Institute 2005-2009 and Director of Executive Vice President Deputy Chairman of Cable of Chartered Accountants Mutual & Federal Insurance Chief Operating officer & Wireless plc 2004-2006. in England and Wales.
Company Ltd 1996-2010 US Downstream & Head of and Standard Bank Group Rening.
He held numerous A member of Her Majestys Ltd 1997-2011.
Richard is positions in every area of Privy Council, he is Chairman a Senior Advisor to Credit operations from gas and of the Ditchley Foundation Suisse and serves as a renewables to upstream and of the Commission on Director on a number of and downstream oil.
He unlisted companies and is honorary Professor of non-profit organisations.
He is a fellow of the Politics at Stirling University, Institution of Mechanical an honorary Fellow of the He is a fellow of the Engineers.
Royal Society of Edinburgh, Geological Society London an Elder Brother of the and of both the Australasian Corporation of Trinity House and South African Institute and Chancellor of the Order of Mining and Metallurgy.
of St Michael and St George.
Non-Executive Director of Chairman of CHC Deputy Chairman and None.
Gold Fields Ltd and Sibanye Helicopters SA in Audit Committee Chairman Gold Limited, both South Luxembourg, Amromco of TNK-BP Ltd. African companies listed Energy LLC in Romania on the Johannesburg Stock and White Rose Energy Non-Executive Director of Exchange and the New Ventures LLP in the UK.
Western Ferries Clyde Ltd. York Stock Exchange.
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director of of Deep Gulf Energy LP in Rockwell Diamonds Inc. America, DOF Subsea AS a South African company in Norway and Midstates listed on both the Petroleum, Inc a US Johannesburg Stock company listed on the New Exchange and the Toronto York Stock Exchange.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 49
