Directors Report: Review of the year Group Executive Name and title Dean Jenkins Steve Noon Kevin Spencer Minerals Divisional Oil & Gas Divisional Power & Industrial Managing Director 41 Managing Director 48 Divisional Managing Director 57 Dean is the Minerals Divisional Steve is the Oil & Gas Kevin is the Power & Biography Managing Director based Divisional Managing Director Industrial Divisional in Melbourne, Australia.
He based in Fort Worth, USA.
Managing Director based joined the Group in November He joined the Group in 2007. in East Kilbride, Scotland.
2010, becoming Power & He has worked with several He joined the Group in Industrial Divisional Managing multinationals including 2005.
Prior to his current Director in 2011.
He was Schefenacker Vision appointment in August 2012, appointed to his current Systems, James Hardie he was European Regional role in August 2012.
Dean Industries and The Toro Managing Director of the previously worked for Qantas Company.
Before joining Groups Minerals Division.
Airlines and the Australian the Group in 2007, he held Kevin is a mechanical listed infrastructure services the position of president engineer who worked in company UGL Ltd, most of Schefenacker Vision the mining industry for 17 recently as Chief Executive Systems, North America.
years, before moving into of the latters Rail Division.
Name and title Keith Ruddock Pauline Lafferty Gavin Nicol General Counsel and Director of Human Director of Operations Company Secretary 52 Resources 47 Support and Development 51 Keith is General Counsel and Pauline is the Director of Gavin is the Director of Biography Company Secretary based Human Resources based Operations Support & at the Groups Head Ofce at the Groups Head Ofce Development based at in Glasgow.
She joined the Groups Head Ofce in Group in April 2012 from the Group in 2011.
He was previously Royal Dutch Shell plc, where was previously in executive President of Weir SPM for two he was General Counsel search with Miles Partnership years, based in Fort Worth, for Upstream International, and Russell Reynolds Texas.
Gavin joined Weir in Shells largest business unit, Associates in the UK and 2005 and was managing based in The Hague.
Prior to this, she director of the Weir Pumps has extensive international held business planning and business prior to its sale in commercial and legal operational roles for 11 years 2007.
Before joining Weir, experience, having worked with Motorola and Digital he worked for a number in the Middle East, North Equipment Corporation of multinationals including America, Africa, Australasia DEC in Scotland, Australia the Terex Corporation, and Europe, and was a and Hong Kong, ultimately PWC and Coats Viyella.
member of Shells Upstream becoming Asia Pacic International leadership team.
Director of Supply for DEC. Keith Cochrane and Jon Stanton are also members of the Group Executive.
Their biographical information can be found on pages 48 and 49.
50 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
