1 1 O Ov five er rv viie ew w 2 2 D Diir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t a an nd d b bu us siin ne es ss s r re ev viie ew w 3 3 G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e 4 4 F Fiin na an nc ciia al l s st ta at te em me en nt ts s Governance Board of Directors Board of Directors 1: Walker Boyd 2: Kate Swann 3: Robert Moorhead 4: Steve Clarke 5: Mike Ellis 6: Drummond Hall 7: Henry Staunton 1.
Walker Boyd joined the Board of 4.
Steve Clarke is Managing Director of 7.
Henry Staunton is a non-executive WHSmith as a non-executive director in WHSmith High Street and joined the Board director and Senior Independent Director February 2010 and became Chairman on of WHSmith on 1 June 2012.
He joined and joined the Board of WHSmith in 1September 2010.
He retired as Group WHSmith in August 2004 as Marketing September 2010.
He is also a Finance Director at Signet Jewelers Director for WHSmith High Street.
In 2006 non-executive director and Vice Chairman Limited in June 2010 previously Signet he was appointed Commercial and of Legal & General Group Plc, Capital and Group Plc having held this position since Marketing Director and in 2008 became Counties Properties plc and Merchants 1995.
He also became Chairman of Spirit Managing Director of WHSmith High Trust plc.
Pub Company plc in August 2011.
He began his career at the Dixons Ian Houghton is Company Secretary and Group where he carried out a number of 2.
Kate Swann is Group Chief Executive Legal Director.
store, product and marketing roles.
and joined the Board of WHSmith in Board Committees November 2003.
She started her career at 5.
Mike Ellis is a non-executive director Tesco plc before moving to positions at and joined the Board of WHSmith in March Audit Committee Homepride Foods, Coca-Cola Schweppes 2005.
He was previously Group Finance Mike Ellis Chairman and Dixons Stores Group.
She then worked Director of HBOS plc.
Prior to this, he Drummond Hall for Homebase, ultimately as Managing worked in a number of senior executive Henry Staunton Director, before becoming Managing positions at Halifax plc and its Director of Argos in December 2000.
She predecessor, Halifax Building Society.
He Nominations Committee is also a non-executive director of Babcock is Chairman of Skipton Building Society.
Walker Boyd Chairman International Group PLC.
Drummond Hall is a non-executive Drummond Hall 3.
Robert Moorhead is Group Finance director and joined the Board of WHSmith Henry Staunton Director and joined the Board of WHSmith in September 2008.
He spent the early part Kate Swann in December 2008.
He joined WHSmith in of his career with Procter & Gamble, Mars 2004 as Retail Finance Director.
and PepsiCo Inc, and from 2002 to 2006 Remuneration Committee Previously, he was Group Finance Director was Chief Executive of Dairy Crest PLC.
Drummond Hall Chairman at Specsavers Optical Group and Finance Walker Boyd and IT Director of World Duty Free Europe.
Mike Ellis He also held a number of roles at B&Q and Henry Staunton Kingfisher Group.
He started his career at Price Waterhouse.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 31
