co. uk Strategic approach Customer Team engagement Profitable growth heartbeat A force for good GOOD TOGETHER The Whitbread Way Forward We will grow legendary brands Our Genuine, Confident and Good Together will make by building a strong customer Committed teams make everyday us a force for good in our heartbeat and innovating to experiences special for customers communities.
so they come back time and again, driving profitable growth.
Our strategy is to create substantial sustainable value lives of our team members, improving the nutritional for our shareholders, by building strong brands based content of the food we serve to aid the well-being of on consistently delivering a great customer experience.
our customers and a reduction in energy consumption, Internally we refer to this under the heading of Success which saves the Company money as well as having a to Legend.
This is because a successful company positive impact on the environment.
More details on becomes a legend by delivering outstanding results Good Together can be found on page 17 and details for all its stakeholders decade after decade.
of our achievements in this area can be found in the sections on team engagement, customer heartbeat In the UK we already have strong brands in Premier Inn and profitable growth on pages 11 to 16. and Costa and we intend to continue to expand those brands into selected attractive international markets.
The customer heartbeat schematic Strong brands are built on a strong customer heartbeat The schematic at the top of the page illustrates our and it is vital that we continue to provide a superior strategic approach.
The following sections of this experience for every one of the 19million customers report describe each of the three key elements of our a month who visit one of our brands.
philosophy and explain how we have performed in those areas in 2011 12.
You will also see the schematic We will achieve this by motivating our 40,000 team in other parts of the report to demonstrate how risk members to provide consistently high levels of management, governance and remuneration are also customer service and maintaining high levels of linked to our strategy.
team engagement is key to that aim.
The WINcard As well as providing our customers with the quality The WINcard is our balanced scorecard and contains of service that will delight them, we must also ensure our key performance indicators.
It is used throughout that the environments we provide for them, and for our the Company and measures our performance in each teams, are well-maintained, clean and welcoming.
It is of the key strategic areas.
It also reinforces the important therefore that we continue to re-invest in the customer heartbeat schematic.
The WINcard results for 2011 12 can be seen in the We intend to create substantial value for our following sections.
These results have a direct link to shareholders by delivering on our five-year growth remuneration and information about how the executive milestones and by increasing return on capital.
This is directors are rewarded for WINcard performance can why ROCE is, subject to shareholder approval, being be found in the remuneration report on page 39. introduced as a central measure in a revised long-term incentive scheme for senior management.
In general, a green WINcard score is achieved where performance is better than both target and the prior An integral part of our approach is the Good Together year performance.
An amber score is for performance programme.
We want Whitbread to be a force for better than the prior year but below target and a red good in all the communities in which we operate.
score is for a result worse than the prior year.
Targets Good Together encompasses a range of corporate are set for each measure at the start of the year.
responsibility activities including training to enrich the 8
