co. uk Internal Control The Board assesses the appropriate areas of risk upon How does the Company maintain adequate systems which assurance should be sought.
The Committee of internal control?
approves a rolling audit programme, ensuring that all The Board is responsible for the Groups systems significant areas of the business are independently of internal control and risk management, and for reviewed within at least a three-year period.
These systems are programme and findings of the reviews are continually designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of assessed to ensure they take account of the latest failure to achieve business objectives.
They can only information and, in particular, the results of the annual provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against review of internal controls.
The effectiveness of the material misstatement or loss.
operational audit team is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee considers The Board has established an ongoing process for the principal risks identified by the risk management identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups process which are also considered by the Board and significant risks.
This process was in place throughout the management boards throughout the year.
the 2011 12 financial year and up to the date of this report.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board An annual review of internal controls is undertaken by and accords with the internal control guidance for the Board with the assistance of the Audit Committee, directors in the CG Code.
A report of the key risks can which reports to the March Board meeting.
Going concern Key elements of the Groups risk management and The directors going concern statement can be found internal control system include: in the directors report on page 27. the formulation, evaluation and annual approval by the Board of business plans and budgets.
Actual Business model and strategy results are reported monthly against budget and the Information on the Groups business model and previous years figures.
Key risks are identified and strategy can be found in the business review on pages action plans prepared accordingly: 2 to 21. the production by each business of a risks and controls matrix, covering major risks and plans Board Committees which are considered regularly by the management The Board is supported by three committees, the boards and form the basis of the Group risks matrix Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the considered by the Audit Committee: Remuneration Committee.
The terms of reference for a regular review by the Board of changes in the each committee are reviewed annually and updated in major risks facing the Group and development of line with best practice.
They are available in full on the appropriate action plans: Companys website.
the consideration of risks and appropriate action plans, when appraising and approving all major capital and A detailed report from the Chairman of the revenue projects and change programmes.
A post Remuneration Committee is set out on pages completion review of each major project is undertaken: 35 to 44.
Summary reports for the Audit and financial policies, controls and procedures manuals, Nomination Committees can be found on page 33 which are regularly reviewed and updated: and 34 respectively, followed by details of directors the limits of authority, which are prescribed for attendance at meetings during this financial year.
Whitbreads organisational structure allows the appropriate segregation of tasks: the code of conduct, which is communicated to employees: the PwC operational audit team activity, which reports on the effectiveness of operational and financial controls across the Group: and the Audit Committee regularly reviews the major findings from both operational and external audit.
Management and specialists within the finance department are responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance of financial records and processes that ensure all financial information is relevant, reliable, in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations, and distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
A review of the consolidation and financial statements is completed by management to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
All financial information published by the Group is subject to the approval of the Audit Committee.
