Remuneration Committee membership, key duties and advisers Members of the Ian Cheshire Chairman Remuneration Richard Baker Committee Wendy Becker Anthony Habgood Stephen Williams Simon Barratt Secretary Key duties Set the broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman and the executive directors: Full terms of reference Within the terms of the agreed policy, to determine the total individual remuneration are available on the package including bonuses, incentive payments, share awards and other benefits of Companys website the Chairman and each executive director: Monitor the structure and level of remuneration of executive committee members: Approve the design of and determine the targets for incentive schemes: Approve awards to be made to executive directors and other senior executives under incentive schemes: and Ensure that contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
Internal advisers Simon Barratt General Counsel Louise Smalley Group HR Director External advisers Towers Watson Remuneration Consultants appointed by the Committee: a separate part of Towers Watson provides accounting services in relation to the pension fund.
Slaughter and May Legal Advisers they also provide legal services to the Company.
Remuneration Committee agenda 2011 12 Quarter 1 Approval of 2011 LTIP awards and performance conditions.
Approval of matching award, as agreed on his appointment, for Andy Harrison.
Approval of 2011 12 WINcard incentive targets.
Approval of awards of cash and deferred equity to executive directors under the Annual Incentive Scheme.
Confirmation of the vesting percentages for the LTIP awards made in 2008 and vesting in 2011.
Approval of updated terms of reference Approval of new rules for the Sharesave Scheme, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
Noting of the salary review and incentive payments to executives below Board level.
Quarter 2 Discussion about the terms of the planned remuneration review.
Review of the Chairmans fee.
Quarter 3 Approval of senior executive remuneration principles, including the introduction of clawback provisions in the Annual Incentive Scheme.
Changes to the performance conditions for future LTIP awards, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
Adjustments to the 2011 12 incentive targets to reflect changes to the business during the year, including the acquisition of Coffee Nation.
Quarter 4 Approval of a letter to the 20 largest shareholders, the ABI and RREV to request views on the proposal to amend the LTIP performance conditions.
Consideration of responses to the shareholder consultation on proposed amendments to the LTIP performance conditions.
Proposed incentive framework for the 2012 13 Annual Incentive Scheme.
