We have continued to develop our corporate responsibility programme, Good Together, this Good year to establish ourselves as sector leaders.
We have more closely aligned the programme to Together our business model and now have three clear pillars of activity: team & community, customer well-being and environment.
Our new five-year targets, which we aim to meet by 2016 17, are shown below and are firmly embedded in our strategic plans.
Targets 2016 17 Customer Team engagement Profitable growth heartbeat A force for good GOOD TOGETHER Team & community Customer well-being Environment Charitable activity Accreditation and sustainable 25% carbon reduction : supply of: 5million to be raised for charities Tea coffee: 15% reduction in water by WHR.
Costa Foundation to Timber: consumption : and educate 50,000 children and Palm oil: build 50 schools.
Fish: and Zero waste to landfill.
Qualifications and training Costa hot drinks will be 6,000 recognised qualifications Rainforest Alliance certified.
for WHR team members including 1,100 apprenticeships and 1,000 We will progressively improve structured school placements the nutritional content across created 16 to 18 year olds.
our food and drink portfolio, Enhanced skills training provided enabling customers to make to 20,000 Costa team members.
As part of this, calorific labelling will be Job creation introduced into outlets.
Group 10,000 new UK jobs created.
From Whitbread direct operations and based on 2009 baseline.
WINcard The Good Together WINcard results for 2011 12 Hotels & Restaurants achieved the Good Together WINcard target during the year as significant investment and innovation in energy reduction initiatives Whitbread Group enabled us to achieve an absolute carbon emission reduction of 0.75% whilst opening 4,055 new rooms and Energy consumption growing revenue by 11.2%.
Relative to sales, our carbon emission efficiency has improved by 11.0%.
Hotels & Restaurants The Costa WINcard target was to reduce food wastage Energy consumption as a percentage of sales.
While the WINcard target was marginally missed, Costa saw an improvement in food wastage as a percentage of sales over the second half Costa of the year.
Food wastage To learn more about our Good Together programme, our business specific targets and our achievements please visit the corporate responsibility pages on our website: www.
html Please see page 8 for an explanation of how green, amber and red scores are calculated.
