The Board The Board has a rolling agenda which sets out matters Who is on the Board of directors?
to be considered throughout the year.
This allows all There are eleven members of the Board including the directors to contribute to the setting of the agenda.
Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Having a rolling agenda ensures that there is a Director.
structured approach to the consideration of recurring issues with such items being evenly spread across Composition of the Board the calendar.
This facilitates good management of the agenda providing sufficient time for the Board to discuss ad hoc items that arise during the year without Chairman 1 any loss of focus on standing items.
The rolling agenda is structured such that the Board gives its attention Executive directors 3 to each area of the business in turn so that a strong understanding of the entire Company is maintained.
Independent This year, the Board has considered a range of matters, non-executive directors 7 details of which can be found on page 23.
There is a schedule of matters reserved exclusively to the Board.
These matters include: approval of Group financial statements and the preliminary announcement of half and full year results: changes relating to the Groups capital structure: As announced in April 2012, Christopher Rogers will the annual budget and the Groups business plan: become Managing Director of Costa in August 2012. approving acquisitions and disposals over a certain He will remain a director when he takes on his new threshold value: role and, as the Board intends to appoint a new Group interim dividends and recommendation of final Finance Director, it is anticipated that the number of dividends: executive directors will increase at that time.
establishment of Board committees, terms of reference and membership of Board committees: and Details of each of the directors can be found by maintaining sound risk management and internal folding out page 23.
In that section, we have provided control systems.
information on the mix of skills and experience represented on the Board.
The Board brings together The schedule of matters reserved was reviewed at individuals with a diverse range of experience and the January 2012 Board meeting and was updated expertise, which contributes to a positive culture of to take account of best practice guidelines.
The full mutual respect and constructive challenge.
schedule of matters reserved to the Board is available on our website.
What were the key activities of the Board this year?
The Board holds meetings at monthly intervals during How and why did the Board appoint new the year and on an ad hoc basis as and when required.
During the year, 11 meetings were held.
Attendance at This year, a routine review of Board composition led meetings by directors is set out in the chart on page 34. to the conclusion that two new non-executive directors A set of Board papers, including monthly financial and could enhance the Boards performance.
The starting trading reports, is circulated in advance of each meeting point for this review was for the Nomination Committee so that directors have sufficient time to review them to determine the additional skills and experience and arrive at the meeting fully prepared.
This was then compared with the range of expertise of current Board members to identify any areas At each meeting, the Board starts with a review of the which required increased representation.
The Committee minutes from the previous meeting, matters arising and then prepared a description of the capabilities required.
This is followed by reports from the Chief Executive and the Finance Director The Committee recommended that the Board could describing the operational and functional performance.
be strengthened with the appointment of candidates Reports from specific parts of the business and new with experience of finance, hospitality, consumerbusiness opportunities are presented before a review branding, digital media and international businesses.
of the secretariat report which sets out any updates on An external search consultancy, Spencer Stuart, was best practice and corporate legislation.
engaged and a number of candidates were identified.
Selected candidates met with the Nomination Committee.
Further discussion by the Committee led to a recommendation to the Board for the appointment of Susan Hooper and Susan Taylor Martin.
co. uk How does the Board keep up to date with new developments?
Case s tudy with Susan Taylor Martin A monthly report, prepared by the Company Secretary, Induction process is presented at each Board meeting.
This report The induction process was tailored for Susan provides updates on corporate legislation and best and focused on Whitbreads businesses.
practice on matters including corporate governance.
Initial meetings were held with the Chairman, Formal training events were attended by Board Chief Executive, the Group HR Director, the members during the year on a range of issues including: Finance Director and the Company Secretary, workshops on cyber security, managing risk and followed by time with: corporate governance.
Investor relations and market the Managing Director of Hotels & Restaurants, updates were also considered by the Board.
visiting Premier Inn sites: the Managing Director of Restaurants, visiting All directors have access to independent professional sites for each of the restaurant brands: advice at the Companys expense.
Directors serving on the Managing Director of Costa, visiting Board committees confirmed they are satisfied that they Costa outlets: and receive sufficient resources to enable them to undertake the Groups lawyers and brokers.
Each director has access to the Company Secretary for advice on governance.
Training and development goes well beyond the induction process and is an ongoing process for How does the Board identify and consider all Board members.
Further training opportunities directors conflicts of interest?
will be offered to Susan depending on her needs.
A formal process is undertaken each year in February The Chairman facilitates training for all Directors when each director discloses to the Board details in this way to ensure that the Board is able to of their external interests including any other perform at an optimum level.
The list of interests is assessed by the Board to determine whether the directors ability to act in the best interests How is the independence of directors assessed?
of the Company could be compromised.
If there are no The Board has a majority of independent non-executive such potential or actual conflicts, the external interests directors.
Independence is assessed annually against are authorised by the Board.
All authorisations are for a the CG Code.
None of the provisions listed in the CG period of 12 months.
No director is counted as part of a Code which may compromise independence apply to quorum in respect of the authorisation of his or her own any of Whitbreads non-executive directors.
Does the Company have appropriate insurance cover It is recognised that all organisations are potential in respect of legal action against its directors?
customers of Whitbread and, in view of this, The Company has appropriate directors & officers the Board has authorised all directors current liability insurance in place.
In addition to this, the external directorships.
Company provides an indemnity for directors against the costs of defending certain legal proceedings.
What are each of the Board members responsible for?
All Board members have responsibilities in the areas of strategy, performance, risk and people.
Specific duties of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director are set out below: Chairman Chief Executive Senior Independent Director leadership of the Board and optimising the performance being available to shareholders setting its agenda including of the Company: if they have concerns which the approval of the Groups strategy, ensuring effective normal channels have failed business plans, communication with to resolve or which would be annual budget and key areas shareholders and employees: inappropriate to raise with the of business importance: the creation of shareholder Chairman or the executive team: ensuring, through the General value by delivering profitable supporting the Chairman in the Counsel, that the members of growth and a good return delivery of his objectives: the Board receive accurate, on capital: providing a sounding board timely and clear information: ensuring the Company has a for the Chairman: ensuring a culture of openness strong team of high-calibre being available to serve as and debate around the Board executives, and putting in an intermediary for the other table: place appropriate management directors if necessary: and ensuring that Board members succession and development leading the evaluation of the understand the views of major plans: and Chairman on behalf of the investors: and leading the activities of the other directors.
leading the annual evaluation of Whitbread Leadership Forum the Board, the committees and a group of the Companys most individual directors.
