Team engagement We believe that if we create a great place to work for with a commitment to pilot a Higher Apprenticeship, our people, they will provide our customers with special which is new to the hospitality sector and equivalent experiences so that they come back time and time again.
We measure our success in creating a great place to The four key elements of our skills development work through the Your Say survey, with the key metrics programme continue to be: being the response rate and the engagement score.
English and mathematics: Whitbread Apprenticeships: Your Say specialist technical skills training: and Your Say, our employee opinion survey, is conducted twice management skills and development.
a year and provides us with great insight into what matters most to our teams.
Action plans are developed after each This growing range of opportunities is critical to survey to focus on improving our team members ability to attracting and developing great people, who value provide a great experience for our customers.
The Your Say results for 2011 12 are based on feedback In our Costa stores we serve an unbeatable cup of from 31,000 employees and demonstrate good handmade coffee.
All Baristas begin their coffee-making progress as shown below: education in store with us as soon as they join.
We continue to nurture their skill and development through Engagement Engagement Response Response our Barista Maestro programme.
With a commitment score 2011 score 2010 rate 2011 rate 2010 to on-the-job learning and career progression, our Whitbread 72% 67% 87% 79% Baristas and assistant managers need expert coaching Hotels & and leadership from our store managers.
To achieve this Restaurants we have stepped up our management training through Costa 78% 72% 73% 70% Costas leadership development programme.
Total Group 73% 67% 86% 77%, Work has recently begun to refresh the survey to 3 600 500 help deliver greater insights and understanding of Skills based Number of participants our teams.
This in turn will lead to stronger and more qualifications achieved in Shooting Stars effective action planning which we believe will enable management engagement levels to improve further.
development programme Leadership 650 A critical focus area for the year ahead is to build our Team members talent and succession pipeline to meet our ambitious currently in learning, growth strategy.
We continue to invest in building 12 000 leadership capability and have developed a leadership Management skills framework which describes the leadership behaviours modules courses we believe will make us successful.
Our two-day 93% completed in 2011 12 leadership development programme allows space Success rate and time for our leaders to understand how they can for mathematics engage with their teams to create an environment course students, for success.
To date more than 320 leaders have 4 000 experienced this programme and benefited from the Number of Costa intensive focus on their personal development.
The Baristas attending programme is run and facilitated by our own leadership 90% a Costa Academy team and continues to receive excellent feedback.
Success rate for English in 2011 12 course students Skills development An important component of improving team engagement is providing Whitbread people with 800 the ability to progress through the organisation.
We 29% Number of Costa operate a number of programmes aimed at giving team Apprentices progressing managers attending members the tools to help them develop as individuals.
onto Shooting the leadership Stars management development In March, a new Advanced Apprenticeship in Hospitality development programme Supervision and Leadership, integrated into our programme management development programmes, was launched 9 Strategic approach whitbread.
co. uk Job opportunities We are working with our business partners to ensure Our growth strategy makes Whitbread an exciting that there are innovative ways of involving people that: place to work with numerous opportunities available enable the delivery of the brand promise: for talented people to progress.
We are proud of our support the creation of a high team engagement ability to develop people throughout our business culture: and and to build exciting and diverse careers for them.
As well as the opportunities presented by UK growth, our international expansion through Costa and Our aim is to develop a global people framework that Premier Inn offers exciting opportunities for some of will enable our leaders to meet future organisational our talented team members to experience working challenges and opportunities and to deliver sustainable overseas in our international business.
We focus our energy on developing the skills that WINcard and link to remuneration strategy equip our teams to confidently deliver an unbeatable As explained on page 8, team engagement is key to the customer experience.
We recognise this is pivotal to Companys ability to achieve its strategic aims.
For this our commitment to maintaining our highly engaged reason, leaders throughout the organisation, including teams, who in turn serve our customers with pride the executive directors, are incentivised to achieve for the product and pride for their place of work.
excellent levels of engagement within their teams.
UK opportunities In addition, we measure how well we take care of Whitbread created 2,500 new jobs during the year, our people and our customers via our health and with half of these roles being filled by the young or safety audits.
You will see we have achieved a green long-term unemployed.
We are focused on providing health and safety audit score for 2011 12, which is a long-term career opportunities for all of our people fundamental hurdle to achieve bonus payouts across by creating a great place to work.
In total there other WINcard measures.
were 10,000 roles filled in the hotels and restaurants businesses and from our management appointments The Your Say measure was amber for the Group.
As shown on page 9 the team engagement score was 73% which didnt quite meet the stretching target set Within our Costa business we also believe in developing despite being an improvement on the prior year.
Team our talent internally and this year we have celebrated turnover was also amber at the Group level in 2011 12, the graduation of over 2,500 of our team members driven by a green score for Costa and a red score from our talent development programmes Barista for Hotels & Restaurants.
The Hotels & Restaurants Maestro and Stars.
team turnover target was very challenging for 2011 12, although the trend has improved over a longer period, International opportunities with a 6%pts improvement since 2009.
Our team Our talent management and global mobility strategies turnover remains consistently better than it is for are developing the international leadership capability our competitors.
to support our expansion plans.
The team WINcard results for 2011 12 Whitbread Group Your Say Team turnover Health and Safety We will create the conditions for Hotels & Restaurants all to flourish in a high Your Say performance, customer focused organisation Team turnover Louise Smalley, Group HR Director Health and Safety Costa Your Say Team turnover Health and Safety Please see page 8 for an explanation of how green, amber 10 and red scores are calculated.
Team members opportunities to share in Whitbreads success Our teams are integral to Whitbreads ability to deliver its strategy.
Providing opportunities for them to earn additional rewards for contributing to great results and to share in Whitbreads success is very important.
New incentive In 2011 we launched Feel Good in Costa and Guest Promise in WHR which provides an schemes incentive for all team members to really care for our customers and be inspired to deliver great service.
All our front line teams now have an opportunity to earn additional rewards above their base pay and we have made over 15,000 team member awards since the launch of the two schemes in the second half of 2011.
Sharesave We actively encourage our teams to connect to the success of the organisation through our Sharesave scheme, which is available to all employees and offers an option price discounted by 20%.
The three and five year schemes which matured in February 2012 delivered a return of approximately 4.3million, shared between more than 1,100 employees.
This is an excellent way for our teams to share in the success of the Company.
Pay for Giving team members the opportunity to develop and progress is very important, but it is progression equally important that we reward them appropriately as they do progress.
Offering a clear route of pay progression to all team members will drive team engagement and help to create a great place to work and learn.
All team members currently have the opportunity to progress their pay through development into more skilled roles or into management through Shooting Stars.
Our growth depends on attracting bright people with potential and retaining our skilled team members.
Our aim is to map out a clear route to pay progression for all roles, motivating and inspiring all to achieve their potential.
Recognition Recognition and the celebration of success help to create an environment in which people and celebration see that their work is valued and important and are inspired to achieve.
Whether it is our Team Member of the Quarter award, our General Manager of the Year award or one of the many customer compliments recognising the day-to-day service excellence of our teams, we want it to be meaningful recognition which is celebrated and shared.
Good Together people pledges We have developed a new set of people pledges that Good Together feed into our Good Together corporate responsibility programme.
Our people pledges are focused on Results 2011 12 improving the lives of the people who work for us 3,600 skills-based nationally recognised and the lives within the communities in which we qualifications awarded to our Hotels & operate.
Our aim is to positively impact the following Restaurants team members, with a further social issues: 650 people in learning: reducing the skills gap: 558 Costa team members have graduated reducing youth unemployment: from our development programme and we championing healthier lifestyles: and have trained 2,000 Barista Maestros: supporting charities and good causes.
In our restaurants we worked with the Princes Trust to pilot a two week Work Inclusion scheme Awards with 12 disadvantaged young people four of whom now have jobs with us.
Following this success we will be rolling this programme out across our hotels and restaurants: Our charity target of raising 1million for WaterAid was achieved in late 2011, helping more than 66,000 people in India gain access to a long-term supply of safe water, improved sanitation and hygiene education: BITC CR Payroll CRF Institute This year we have raised 750,000 for the Costa Index 2012 Giving One of Britains Foundation, bringing our total to 2.5million Platinum Best overall top employers enabling the opening of 24 schools, providing standard campaign 2012 2012 education to 14,518 children and jobs to 312 teachers and support staff: A further 421,000 has been raised for other charities through our Raise and Match and Payroll Giving schemes: and 74% of respondents to our Your Say survey believe that the Company is working hard to operate according to the principles of Good Together.
