co. uk responses with each site receiving an average of 60 per month giving the management team a much better Customer understanding of the customer experience on a site-bysite basis.
heartbeat As with Premier Inn, monthly customer focus groups are a valuable means of gaining insight for the Restaurants team.
A direct learning from one of these groups was a better understanding of what customers like about the breakfast offer, which led to greater focus on the breakfast proposition, helping to drive breakfast sales up by 14% in the year.
We believe that to achieve our vision to become a Restaurants have also increased their Customer legendary business the customer has to be at the Relationship Management capabilities growing the heart of everything we do.
Building a strong customer CRM database to over 770,000 customers, up from heartbeat is the key to delivering outperformance 450,000 in February 2011.
This provides a targeted way across all our brands.
of communicating with customers who are sent three to four emails a month that are relevant to them.
Brewers We build a strong customer heartbeat by listening to Fayre, Beefeater Grill and Table Table have all launched and understanding our customers better: providing new websites in the year, where customers can submit outstanding value: delighting them with innovative online booking requests and find out information about new products: and making everyday experiences individual restaurants.
The new websites have seen special through great service provided by our traffic increase by over 100% since launch.
Costa Customer insight Central to developing Costas understanding and insight Hotels & Restaurants into the customer has been the introduction of the Premier Inn is passionate about listening to and Listen and Learn scheme across the entire UK estate.
As well as running regular Launched in September 2011 Listen and Learn provides focus groups, Premier Inn has one of the UKs largest real time customer feedback by store.
The online survey and most robust customer satisfaction surveys with consists of just six key questions based on the consumer over 800,000 responses a year, up 20% on last year.
Customers are then able to give The survey rates customer satisfaction across 200 verbatim feedback on their visit, which is analysed areas of the business from comfort of the bed to and categorised by the system.
This allows Costa to friendliness of the team.
understand what is important to customers and act on their feedback.
97% of all feedback comes from our Listening to customers in this way has led to some Coffee Club database as customers are sent an email significant operational changes designed to improve on a quarterly basis asking for feedback on their recent the customer experience: store visit.
What we learnt from customers Action taken Result Scores for the The pillow Satisfaction Costa Coffee Club Facts and Figures comfort of specification scores for pillows were not was changed comfort of as high as those and customers pillows have for the comfort were given a increased by 2 31% of the bed.
Two-years old Visit frequency of or soft pillows.
members increased by 31% since 2010 Customers, WiFi access Satisfaction particularly is now free for scores for WiFi 6.5m business 30 minutes in increased by 6.5million customers, Premier Inn 17%pts.
activated cards 12.9m told us that rooms.
12.9million promotional they wanted emails sent to members an improved in 2011 12 WiFi facility 1.9m in their rooms.
1.9million members registered on the website 1.9m In September 2011 Restaurants introduced a new Emails drove an average mystery diner programme whereby each site receives incremental spend of a visit twice a month.
The mystery diners are real 15p each, producing customers who are asked to test out a customer 5% 1.9million of journey with 25 key touch points and scores are Members spend additional turnover.
We also operate a 5% more than nonGuest Recommend programme that allows customers members on average to give their feedback either via telephone or online.
We have introduced a new incentive for customers to complete the survey.
This has led to a doubling of 12 The impact of this scheme has been tremendous In a highly value sensitive market our Restaurant in driving team engagement and enabling store brands have been innovating new value-led menus and managers to address any concerns, significantly concepts to attract more covers.
Within Brewers Fayre improving the quality of the customer experience.
the Buffet Place concept is proving hugely popular with In addition the business has used key insights from customers.
Converted sites have seen a sales uplift of the data, as well as insights gained from research c6%.
71 new Buffet Place sites opened in 2011 12 taking and focus groups, to inform business and marketing the total to 95 and it will be rolled out to the remaining strategies.
This measure will become bonusable from 34 Brewers Fayre sites in 2012 13.
New food nights such 2012 13 onwards, cementing the customers place at as Mexican Night keep the concept fresh but the most the heart of the business.
popular remain Curry Night and Chip Shop Night.
Making everyday experiences special Beefeater Grill and Table Table both introduced new Hotels & Restaurants 4.99 menus this year to meet the increasing demand The secret of Premier Inns success is our focus on for greater value dishes.
These menus still include delivering a good night guaranteed for 12million the customers favourite dishes such as fish and customers a year.
Testament to this is the low level chips.
Beefeater Grill has dialled up the brands steak of invocations of the guarantee when a customer credentials with new steak seasonings and butters asks for their money to be refunded at just 0.64% to appeal to its core customer.
New styles of of total rooms sold.
food, presented in creative ways, such as dipping breads, bottomless salads and the use of wooden These invocations are used positively to signpost boards instead of plates ensure the quality and style where the Company should focus to improve its of food remains enticing.
For example, the most common reason for a customer invoking the guarantee is noise.
In October 2011 we implemented a new organisation To address this issue the building specifications have structure in our Hotels & Restaurants business.
We put in been enhanced to reduce the amount of noise in place a dedicated management team for Restaurants to rooms.
At the new Leicester Square hotel, due to focus on delivering a best-in-class customer experience.
open in May 2012, we have created a room within Key drivers include the introduction of a team member a room for additional soundproofing.
incentive scheme launched in September, which enables team members to earn bonus payments based on their Customers have also been given new rates to guest promise scores.
choose from this year with the introduction of great value Premier Savers ranging from 19 to 99.
Over New Skills Academies have been set up to train people 1.8million of these Premier Savers have been sold in food quality and service.
The first of these opened in this year, representing 56million worth of revenue.
April in Hockley followed by Swindon and Manchester For customers that value flexibility Premier Inn has in January 2012.
Already 1,700 delegates have passed also introduced the Premier Flex product, which is through these Academies and there are plans for available at a higher rate and allows them to cancel 9,000 team members to attend in 2012 13.
Both the the room up until the day of arrival with no charge.
Academies and incentive scheme are having a direct impact on the customer service experience and the results can be seen in improved guest scores and like for like sales since the half year.
Premier Inn awards Alison World Travel British Travel Business Travel McCaig-White, Awards Awards Awards Regional Operations Worlds Leading Hotel Chain Best Budget Budget Hotel of the Year Hotel Brand Manager for Beefeater, Brand Best CR saw sites in her region programme improve their guest scores by 24% in the three months after they had attended the Beefeater Perfect programme.
co. uk Costa Costa awards Once again Costa has enjoyed external independent recognition as the UKs No.
YouGovs U&A study conducted in January 2012 showed that Costa still has the highest levels of usage in the UK of the key branded coffee shop chains and when it comes to preference 30% of the UK adult population said they would choose Costa, compared to 24% who If these three brands were next to each other, would choose Starbucks and 10% for Caff Nero.
Marketing Week European Data Strategy YouGov Engage Awards Coffee Awards Awards If these three brands were next to 2011 2011 2011 each other, which would you choose?
Brand of the Year Best Branded Winners in YouGov Coffee Shop Retail and 30% Chain UK & Home Shopping 24% Ireland Best Branded Coffee Shop Chain Europe 10% Last summers Ice Cold Costa campaign was the most successful ever: with sales up over 40% driven by best sellers Mango and Passion Fruit Cooler and a new Coffee Cooler.
Costa Light was launched in July 2011 Ca Nero Starbucks Costa and was a direct response to customer insight that showed customers wanted lower calorie coffee products.
Costas success comes from giving customers a quality This is now around 2% of the coffee drinks sales mix.
coffee experience at their convenience whether its from a Costa Express self-serve coffee bar, a new Metro store, WINcard performance a concession in Tesco or a Beefeater Grill restaurant.
Over Although like for like sales were positive, the 2011 12 Costa invested in 128 store refurbishments and WINcard score was red for both the Group and opened four of their new Metro design stores, including Hotels & Restaurants as performance was impacted the first outside of London in Leeds.
All businesses achieved green scores for brand standards, whilst Over the course of the year Costa has delighted Costa achieved amber scores for like for like sales customers with a number of new products including and guest heartbeat as they narrowly failed to meet Costa Light, the Have it Your Way Costamisation challenging targets.
campaign and delicious new flavours in the Ice Cold Costa range.
The customer WINcard results for 2011 12 Good Together Results 2011 12 Whitbread Group We serve 100% RFA certified Costa coffee globally in India we will meet this target in June 2012 : Brand standards We introduced calorific values on the Thyme menus within Premier Inn and provide full Guest heartbeat nutritional information online for every dish we serve in our restaurants, whilst Costa will Like for like sales be providing calorie information in-store from May 2012 across the UK: Hotels & Restaurants We are on track to meet the Department of Healths 2012 salt targets which will deliver a Brand standards further 15% reduction on 2010 targets: We offer more choice of fruit and vegetables Guest heartbeat on our childrens menus in line with the Food Standards Agencys 5a-day guidelines: Like for like sales All pork, beef and poultry sourced for Costa in the UK is from British Farms: All our meat, wherever it is sourced, is produced Costa to stringent animal welfare standards which meet the international Farm Animal Welfare Councils Brand standards FAWC Five Freedoms principles: and We achieved several awards this year, Guest heartbeat including: Platinum status on the BITC CR Index, inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index and Best Like for like sales CR Programme at the Business Travel Industry Awards.
Please see page 8 for an explanation of how green, 14 amber and red scores are calculated.
