Appointment and replacement of directors Further details regarding the interests of the directors Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 20 in the share capital of the Company, including with in number.
Directors may be appointed by the Company respect to options to acquire ordinary shares, are set by ordinary resolution or by the Board of directors.
out in the remuneration report.
There has been no change to the interests shown above between the In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code end of the financial year and the date of this report.
2010 it has been decided that all directors will stand for annual re-election at each AGM.
Share capital Details of the issued share capital can be found in The Company may by special resolution remove any note 28 to the accounts.
director before the expiration of his or her term of office.
Directors automatically stop being a director if: Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and they give the Company a written notice of resignation: speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint they give the Company a written notice in which they one or more proxies and, if they are corporations, offer to resign and the other directors decide to accept corporate representatives to attend general meetings the offer: and to exercise voting rights.
Holders of ordinary all of the other directors who must comprise at least shares may receive a dividend and on a liquidation three people pass a resolution or sign a written notice may share in the assets of the Company.
Holders of requiring the director to resign: ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys they are or have been suffering from mental or physical annual report and accounts.
Subject to meeting certain ill health and the directors pass a resolution removing thresholds, holders of ordinary shares may requisition the director from office: a general meeting of the Company or the proposal of they have missed directors meetings whether or resolutions at annual general meetings.
not an alternate director appointed attends those meetings for a continuous period of six months Voting rights without permission from the directors and the directors On a show of hands at a general meeting of the pass a resolution removing the director from office: Company, every holder of ordinary shares present, a bankruptcy order is made against them or they in person or by proxy, and entitled to vote, has one make any arrangement or composition with their vote unless the proxy is appointed by more than one creditors generally: member in which case the proxy has one vote for and they are prohibited from being a director under any one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by applicable legislation: or one or more members to vote for the resolution and by they cease to be a director under any applicable one or more members to vote against the resolution legislation or are removed from office under the and on a poll every member present in person or by Companys Articles of Association.
proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share held.
Voting rights for any ordinary Directors indemnity shares held in treasury are suspended.
None of the A qualifying third-party indemnity provision as defined ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to in Section 236 1 of the Companies Act 2006 is in control of the Company.
Electronic and paper proxy force for the benefit of the directors.
appointments and voting instructions must be received by the Companys registrars not later than i 48 hours Compensation for loss of office before a meeting or adjourned meeting excluding nonThere are no agreements between the Company and its working days, or ii 24 hours before a poll is taken, if directors or employees providing for compensation for the poll is not taken on the same day as the meeting or loss of office or employment that occurs as a result of a adjourned meeting.
Unless the directors decide otherwise, a shareholder Directors share interests cannot attend or vote at any general meeting of the Held at Held at Company or at any separate general meeting of the 01 03 2012 03 03 2011 holders of any class of shares in the Company or upon a poll or exercise any other right conferred by Anthony Habgood 50,797 50,797 membership in relation to general meetings or polls Andy Harrison 191,106 161,673 if he has not paid all amounts relating to those shares which are due at the time of the meeting.
Patrick Dempsey 24,957 24,957 Christopher Rogers 50,000 50,000 Where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in a class of shares has been served with a disclosure notice Richard Baker 8,198 4,966 in relation to a particular holding of shares and has failed Wendy Becker 6,000 6,000 to provide the Company with information concerning those shares, those shares will no longer give that Ian Cheshire 300 shareholder any right to vote at a shareholders meeting.
1 Susan Hooper Simon Melliss 3,000 1,500 1 Susan Taylor Martin Stephen Williams 9,440 4,258 1.
At date of appointment The share interests shown above include the non-beneficial interests of Anthony Habgood in 522 shares.
