co. uk Board of directors Left to right Patrick Dempsey, Richard Baker, Susan Hooper, Anthony Habgood.
Andy Harrison, Wendy Becker, Ian Cheshire, Stephen Williams.
Simon Melliss, Christopher Rogers, Susan Taylor Martin.
22 T he Board functions well and in line with first class corporate governance Lorna Parker, External Board evaluation March 2012 Board agenda 2011 12 During the year the Board considered the following matters: Standing Chief Executives report Quarter 3 Costa International agenda Finance Directors report Strategy day items Health and safety report Half-year results announcement quarterly Innovation project Internal controls quarterly Post completion review Secretariat report including WHR update Restaurants corporate governance updates Costa update Approval of major capital Talent review projects Quarter 1 Approval of Annual Report Quarter 4 Pensions update and Accounts Innovation project Approval of year-end Hotels & Restaurants announcement commercial action plans Innovation project 2012 13 budget Premier Inn International Costa Enterprises update Bribery Act Annual corporate governance review Insurance renewal Conflicts of interest Quarter 2 WHR update Restaurants annual review Annual General Meeting Premier Inn International Good Together Approval of code of conduct Premier Inn revenue management Private placement Length of tenure of directors Number of Area of expertise directors Anthony Habgood Retail sector 6 Andy Harrison Patrick Dempsey Travel and hospitality sector 5 Christopher Rogers Richard Baker Marketing 3 Wendy Becker Legal 1 Ian Cheshire Susan Hooper Financial 4 Simon Melliss Susan Taylor Martin International 7 Stephen Williams Commercial property 2 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 Technology 1 Date appointed to the Board 23 Anthony Habgood Andy Harrison Stephen Williams Chairman since August 2005 Chief Executive Senior Independent Director Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: May 2005 September 2010 April 2008 Age: 65 Age: 54 Age: 64 External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: Reed Elsevier plc and NV Chairman None Croda International Plc NED Preqin Holding Limited Chairman Committee membership: Eversheds LLP NED Committee membership: None Committee membership: Nomination Committee Chairman Experience: Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Andy served as Chief Executive Nomination Committee Experience: of easyJet plc from 2005 to 2010 Experience: Between 1991 and 2009 Anthony and was Chief Executive of RAC Stephen retired as General Counsel served first as Chief Executive and plc previously Lex Services plc and Chief Legal Officer of Unilever then as Chairman of Bunzl plc.
Prior to this, he during 2010, having originally Prior to that he had served as Chief held the roles of Managing Director joined them in 1986.
Prior to that, Executive of Tootal Group plc and as of Courtaulds International Fabrics Stephen spent 11 years at Imperial a director of the Boston Consulting and Finance Director of Courtaulds Chemical Industries plc.
In addition, Anthony Textiles plc.
In the past, Andy has also non-executive director of Bunzl plc has held the role of Chairman of held a non-executive directorship at and Senior Independent Director of Molnlycke Healthcare UK Limited Emap plc, where he was Chairman Arriva plc.
and non-executive directorships at of the audit committee.
Geest plc, Marks and Spencer Group plc, National Westminster Bank Plc, SVG Capital plc and Powergen plc.
Patrick Dempsey Christopher Rogers Richard Baker Executive director Finance Director Independent non-executive director Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: January 2009 May 2005 September 2009 Age: 53 Age: 52 Age: 49 External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: Business in the Community talent HMV Group plc NED Virgin Active Group Chairman and skills leadership team member Committee membership: European Advisory Board, British Hospitality Association None Aimia Chairman Council member Experience: Advent International Plc Hospitality Action Trustee Christopher joined Whitbread over Operating Partner Committee membership: seven years ago from Woolworths DFS Furniture Holdings Plc None Group plc where he was Finance Chairman Experience: Director and also held the position Committee membership: Patrick joined Whitbread in 2004 as of Chairman of the Woolworths Audit Committee Managing Director of Marriott in the Group Entertainment business.
He Remuneration Committee UK, and has been in the hotel and originally qualified as an accountant Experience: restaurant business for 30 years.
He with Price Waterhouse before Previously Richard served as Chief was with Forte Hotels for 20 years, joining Kingfisher plc in 1988.
Executive of Alliance Boots Group prior to joining Compass Group Christopher held a number of roles plc and Chief Operating Officer at as Chief Executive of Restaurant in his time at Kingfisher, including Asda Group plc.
In 2005, Patrick became Group Financial Controller, Finance Managing Director of Premier Inn.
Director and Commercial Director of Comet Group plc.
Wendy Becker Susan Hooper Susan Taylor Martin Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: January 2008 September 2011 January 2012 Age: 46 Age: 52 Age: 48 External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: Ocado Group plc NED Acromas Travel Chief Executive Thomson Reuters President, Media Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Audit Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Experience: Experience: Experience: Susan was Senior VP, EMEA at Royal Susan previously held a number Wendy was Managing Director of Caribbean Cruises International, of other roles at Thomson Reuters TalkTalk and Group Chief Marketing where she also represented them including President, Global Officer for Vodafone.
Prior to this, on the board of First Choice Investment Focus Accounts and Wendy held the position of partner Holidays PLC.
Prior to that she Managing Director, UK and Ireland at McKinsey & Company for 14 worked at Pepsico International.
In the past, Wendy also held Susan previously served as a Prior to this she was Global Head, the roles of brand manager with member of the SCJohnson Corporate Strategy for Reuters, Procter & Gamble and consultant European Advisory Board and which she joined in 1993. with Boston Consulting Group.
as a non-executive director of Transcom, Royal & Sun Alliance, Courtaulds Textiles and the Suzy Lamplugh Trust.
Ian Cheshire Simon Melliss Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: February 2011 April 2007 Age: 52 Age: 59 External appointments: External appointments: Kingfisher Plc Group Chief Executive Member of the Committee Department for Work and Pensions of Management of Hermes Lead Non-Executive Director Property Unit Trust Cambridge Programme for University College London Sustainability Leadership Member of the Council Chairman of Advisory Board Committee membership: Committee membership: Audit Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Chairman Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Experience: Experience: Simon, a chartered accountant, Ian is currently Group Chief was Chief Financial Officer of Executive of Kingfisher plc, having Hammerson plc from 1995 to previously served as Chief Executive 2011, having originally joined of B&Q UK from June 2005.
Prior the company in 1991 as Group to joining Kingfisher in 1998, he Financial Controller.
Prior to worked for a number of retail that, he served as the Group businesses including Sear & Guinness.
Financial Controller of Sketchley PLC and held senior finance positions with Reed International.
Simon also previously held a nonexecutive directorship at Associated British Ports Holdings plc.
