Business and strategy review Performance review Governance Financial statements Investor information Annual report and financial statements 2011 12 39 Management Board 8 9 Neal Austin Martyn Fletcher Group Logistics and Supply Chain Director Group Manufacturing Director Neal joined the Management Board in October 2010 and is Martyn became a member of the Management Board in responsible for logistics and supply chain.
He joined Morrisons October 2010 and is responsible for the Groups food in October 2006 from MFI, where, as Logistics Director, manufacturing operations, including abattoirs, bakeries, he was involved in the sale of the retail business to private processing and packing facilities.
He joined the Group equity.
Neal began his career in 1989 with Tesco as a graduate in 1985 and has held a number of roles within stores and trainee in the buying division, where he undertook a number in head office.
In 1988, he was appointed as Purchasing of buying and marketing roles, progressing to senior wine buyer.
Manager and promoted to Purchasing Director in 1995.
He then took a role with Asda as a senior buyer and progressed In 2002, he was appointed to Production Director, through the supply chain in a number of roles before being responsible for the food manufacturing operation, before appointed Supply Director.
being appointed as Group Manufacturing Director in 2007.
10 11 Mark Harrison Terry Hartwell Group Retail Director Group Property Director Mark joined the Management Board in October 2010 Terry was appointed to the Management Board in October and was appointed Group Retail Director in June 2011.
2010 after joining the Group in May 2009 as Group Property His responsibilities are retail operations, central retail Director.
Prior to joining Morrisons, Terry was Group Property operations, retail fuel, retail related projects and group-wide Director for the worldwide operations at Kingfisher Plc.
He joined the Group in 1980 as a management trainee He spent 25 years with Kingfisher Plc and, during that time, and quickly progressed to Store General Manager.
After a held a number of senior property positions, including a spell successful career in store management, he held progressively in front line operations, running the new depot division in senior positions of regional management between 1996 and the mid 1990s.
He is a Chartered Surveyor with experience 2004.
In 2004 he became Stores Director.
in all aspects of commercial property development, retail acquisition and property management.
12 Richard Hodgson 13 Martyn Jones Group Commercial Director Group Corporate Services Director Richard was appointed as Group Commercial Director and joined the Management Board in October 2010 with Martyn was appointed to the Management Board in October responsibility for trading, marketing, brand and services.
2010 as Group Corporate Services Director, and is responsible He has broad experience across all areas of the UK grocery for policy and technical standards.
He joined Morrisons in market and has held key roles in both the premium and value 1990 as Trading Manager and was promoted to Trading sectors.
He was previously with Waitrose, initially as Director Operations Director in 1993, Grocery Director in 1997 and of Buying and, from January 2008, as Commercial Director, then Senior Trading Director in 2002.
Martyn spent three which added marketing, international development and years on the Board as Group Trading Director before changing merchandising to his responsibilities.
Prior to that, he spent role at the end of 2010 to Group Corporate Services Director ten years at Asda in a number of senior roles, most recently on the Management Board.
Prior to joining Morrisons, he as Brand and Marketing Director.
spent eight years with J. Sainsbury Plc before moving into manufacturing with RHM Plc and then Campbells, gaining wide buying, marketing and product development experience 14 Norman Pickavance in fresh and frozen foods.
Group HR Director Norman was appointed to the Management Board in October 2010 with responsibility for HR.
He joined Morrisons as Group HR Director in July 2007.
Previously, he worked for Northern Foods Plc as Group HR and Corporate Services Director.
Norman began his career with Grand Metropolitan Plcs European food business and then proceeded to spend 13 years working in the high-tech sector on an international basis, working with organisations delivering transformation and growth development.
Outside of Morrisons Norman is currently Chair of CREATE, one of the UKs leading social enterprises Management Board helping the homeless back to work and is actively involved with supporting children and youth development in the community and charitable sectors.
