20 Business and strategy review Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Increasing our efficiency continued Increasing network efficiency Our network optimisation initiative, which was launched in 2007, has focused on building capacity, reducing costs and increasing efficiency throughout our supply chain.
In the final quarter of the year, we completed the original programme with the opening of a new, state-of-the-art RDC for the South West at Willow Green, Bridgwater.
This 800,000 Above square foot site, which replaces a number of smaller centres, Building our new Lean Store at Newport.
was opened ahead of schedule to enable us to manage the busy Christmas period and will become fully operational in the first quarter of 2012 13.
The new RDC, a capital investment of 105m, enables us to consolidate service into one efficient Tackling indirect procurement centre and will deliver savings of 20m annually from 2014 15.
Our indirect procurement programme has a target of saving 100m by 2013 14 and we made good progress during the year, delivering 40m of benefit.
We reviewed every area of spend both revenue and capital expenditure, and looked at a variety of ways to reduce cost, including the use of e-auctions, rate negotiations, consolidating spend and reducing consumption.
Examples of savings achieved include: renegotiation and re-specification of packaging across Above stores and manufacturing: Our new Willow Green RDC, completed ahead of schedule.
the consolidation of waste contracts across stores and packhouses: and a significant reduction in marketing print costs.
Key Willow Green statistics Site size We also undertook an exercise to reduce the build and fit out costs of new stores opening our first Lean Store at Newport in November and achieved a saving of 2m against our original 800,000 square feet estimates, the equivalent of c. 30% of the total store build and fit out cost.
Around half of the savings are already being applied to all new build stores.
The remaining 50% will be trialled Volume throughput expected at further and implemented when we are confident that we can take the cost out without compromising our high standards.
110m cases per year Colleagues to be employed on an FTE basis 1,000 Stores serviced through Willow Green at full maturity 63
