16 Business and strategy review Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Driving the topline continued Our Space Lab, where we have found ways to work our space Moving further ahead on fresh, harder and eliminate duplicated items.
The Lab has shown that we can liberate up to 750,000 square feet of our existing store optimising space and enhancing space, which will be available for an expanded fresh food offer our service culture and new ranges such as restaurant quality ready meals and childrens clothing.
These initiatives combine in our Fresh Formats, focused on offering customers the best fresh food in the UK, unrivalled value for money and fantastic service from an environment that really feels different.
This initiative is a key part of our strategy and is underpinned by our core convictions that customers want fresh food, great HOT service is an initiative to enhance our service culture value and a more experiential and and ensure that our customers always get a warm and friendly experience in our stores.
Over 110,000 store colleagues have engaging shopping environment.
received service skills coaching the largest training programme of its kind in the UK read more in Our people, page 33.
We have brought together a number of separate strands of work to create a new shopping experience for our customers.
Our Fresh Lab, where we have created a fantastic fresh food environment, transforming our produce and flowers sections, introducing new ranges and revitalising our counters.
During the year, we transformed 12 of our stores using this new thinking.
We knocked down walls so that customers could see our craft skills in practice, introduced 350 more fruit and vegetable products, moved complementary products next to each other and rationalised the space given over to ambient grocery items.
The results to date have been strong, with produce sales up 14% and sales in the delicatessen up over 40%.
Where we rationalised ambient space, we successfully maintained sales and margin.
The work done in the Lab stores has enabled us to create a series of modules capable of being applied to our existing estate and to our new stores.
In 2012 13, we will tailor the core concept to different locations and store sizes, ensuring that we provide customers with the elements they really want while maximising the benefits from our investment.
This continuing evaluation will see around 15% of our space operating all or most of the new concept by the end of the first half of the year, with total capital expenditure per store of c. 1.7m.
This is contained within our 2012 13 capital expenditure targets.
