24 Business and strategy review Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Capturing growth continued Vertical integration Vertical integration gives us a true source of competitive advantage and is crucial to our ambition of leading in fresh food reinforcing our credentials around provenance and sourcing, giving us flexibility to run industry leading promotions and supporting Group profitability.
Above All in-store flowers are now supplied In 2010, we set out our strategic objective to increase the scope by our Flower World subsidiary.
of our vertical integration and to invest 200m in additional capacity for relevant fresh categories over three years.
Over the last two years, we have expanded into several new categories.
In June 2011, we acquired Flower World, adding fresh flowers to our range of fresh competencies and, in January 2012, Our business model we agreed to acquire a pork and lamb retail meat packing facility from Vion Group in Winsford.
This 105,000 square Where possible, we source locally and manufacture in foot site will enable us to gain greater control over the quality our own sites.
We distribute to our stores through our and provenance of our packed meat products by bringing own network.
The benefits are consistent freshness at a more production in-house.
In March 2012, we announced reduced cost whilst being in control of the supply chain.
our intention to establish a seafood processing capability by the end of the year in order to further expand our authority in fish.
We remain well on track to achieve our goal of extending 1 From selection... our vertical integration further into new categories.
Being close to source means we can control the provenance and quality of our food, ensuring it has been sourced ethically and in a sustainable way.
2 To packhouse... Our manufacturing facilities reduce our supply chain lead times, allowing us to maximise the freshness of food in-store and reduce waste.
3 Distributed and delivered to... Operating our own transport fleet provides flexibility in moving products from suppliers to RDCs and from our food manufacturing sites to our stores.
This ensures freshness and cost control.
4 All our stores As we prepare food in-store, we can react to customer trends throughout the day.
This allows us to reduce our waste and costs, and keep our prices low.
Above Having our own abattoirs increases the freshness of our food in-store.
