12 Business and strategy review Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Our strategy is in place Our strategic objectives D riving the 1 Our vision for the business, to be topline Different and Better then Ever, is anchored Strengthening our brand by our convictions, Moving further ahead on fresh and we have a clearly Optimising space defined set of strategic Enhancing our service culture initiatives that will deliver it.
We have Completing National to Nationwide grouped these initiatives under See pages 14 to 17 for further information the three strategic objectives of driving the topline, increasing our efficiency and capturing growth.
2 In creasing our efficiency Revamping our systems Tackling indirect procurement Increasing network efficiency Driving in-store productivity See pages 18 to 21 for further information 3 Capturing growth Exploring convenience The convictions which Vertical integration underpin our objectives Moving online are set out on page 7.
See pages 22 to 25 for further information Business and strategy review Performance review Governance Financial statements Investor information Annual report and financial statements 2011 12 13 Moving further ahead on fresh We aim to be the number one destination for fresh food in the UK at outstanding value for money.
Optimising space We aim to get the best use out of every square foot in our store.
We have been testing how we free up ambient space to give more space to fresh food and allow us to introduce new categories such as childrens clothing.
Enhancing our service culture We are enhancing our service culture and ensuring Strengthening our brand Page 14 that our customers always get a warm and friendly experience in our stores.
Having a strong brand can be a real point of difference: Completing National to Nationwide we have set out to give customers an own brand range We aim to enable more customers across the country worth switching supermarkets for.
We have made to be able to shop at Morrisons and have set out great progress in 2011 12, including the launch of ambitious plans to increase our space.
Tackling indirect procurement Indirect procurement is an area where we have been working hard to strip out unnecessary cost.
Increasing network efficiency The opening of our new regional distribution centre at Willow Green, Bridgwater, completes our network efficiency initiative.
Driving in-store productivity We are continually working to improve our in-store processes to drive productivity whilst improving customer service.
Revamping our systems Page 18 We are upgrading our core IT systems through our Evolve initiative, a major six year programme of work.
This will unlock efficiency savings and give us the solid platform we need to grow our existing business and seize new opportunities.
Vertical integration Food production is a key differentiator and central to our ability to provide fresh food at affordable prices.
We have increased our capabilities further in the year.
Moving online The way customers shop is changing they are becoming more and more accustomed to buying online.
We have an exciting online agenda, building on the acquisition of Kiddicare and our stake in Fresh Direct.
Exploring convenience Page 22 The convenience sector is a significant opportunity for Morrisons, accounting for over 30bn sales and growing at twice the rate of the rest of the UK retail market.
We entered this market in 2011 12 with our first M local stores.
