22 Business and strategy review Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC 3 Capturing growth Not only do we offer a truly market leading fresh proposition, Exploring convenience but by staying true to our commitment to great value, we guarantee our customers will not pay more for their fresh produce, meat, fish and key ambient essentials than The UK convenience market presents they do in our larger stores.
an opportunity for Morrisons to We are delighted with the results and customer feedback has been very positive.
Sales and margins are both ahead expand its business.
It accounts of our business case, own label participation is 7% higher for over 30bn of sales, represents than in our core estate and fresh participation is 12% higher.
1 in every 5 spent on grocery After only eight weeks of opening, we were highly commended in the prestigious NACS International Convenience Awards and is growing at twice the rate for innovation with fresh food in a small footprint, an accolade of the rest of the UK retail market.
that no other top four multiple grocery retailer has achieved.
The key to success in the convenience sector is being flexible Customers are seeking easier ways to shop and want to be able and ensuring that we adapt and are able to meet the differing to top up on items they need without having to travel to their needs of each local area.
This is particularly true at a time when budgets are tight and customers are looking to spend A flexible concept less per shopping trip and save on fuel costs.
In January 2012, we opened our third M local store at Grafton Street, close to The University of Manchester.
This is our first We believe that no one else is currently offering a truly great suburban convenience format with high transient footfall, convenience shopping experience: too often convenience is operating from 4,250 square feet, which is larger than our about compromise poor quality, bad value and limited choice.
All the usual elements of M local are included, but we have specifically tailored our Morrisons therefore has the opportunity to create something offer to the student population extending our hot food to different by leveraging its vertical integration and great go and fresh food and meal solution ranges, whilst flexing the fresh and value credentials to develop a really distinctive and grocery offer to include student essentials from a wide range compelling fresh food experience, offering customers great food of stationery, to home essentials.
at affordable prices at a location which is convenient for them.
There is also a prominent service counter, additional self scan As planned, we opened three trial stores.
They offer a very customer checkouts and an external seating area enabled with different convenience experience and are fresh led, with free Wi-Fi where customers can sit and enjoy food and drinks fresh prices in line with prices available across all our stores.
they have purchased in our store.
The M local proposition Although we are still trialling these formats, the results to Over 50% of space is dedicated to fresh food and scratch date have been ahead of our expectations, with very positive cooking: significantly more than the industry average of 36%.
We offer customers c. 2,500 lines, including over 100 fruit and vegetable products, a broad range of meat, fish, bakery and deli, We will continue to open more M locals during the course as well as freshly prepared sandwiches.
of 2012 13 and adapt our formats to cater for market opportunities and local customer needs, such as city centre We also offer a salad bar, freshly baked bread delivered daily, formats and petrol station solutions.
As our convenience freshly squeezed orange juice, a good range of locally sourced estate grows, we will be investing in the infrastructure products and the option for customers to grind their own coffee required to support a larger network of convenience stores.
We even offer an order and collect service, enabling customers to order products by 11.00 a. m. to be collected the same day.
This is unique in the market and gives us great availability of fresh produce.
Capturing growth through fresh opportunities We are expanding into new channels and formats Source: BRC to serve the evolving needs of our customers.
Business and strategy review Performance review Governance Financial statements Investor information Annual report and financial statements 2011 12 23 Fresh food and convenience, its why our customers keep coming back... Below Our M local store at Ilkley.
I five been really impressed with our new M local store fresh food, convenient opening times, friendly staff and much better value than the alternative nearby shops.
Rachel Griffen M local customer, Ilkley M local facts Space dedicated to fresh food % over 50 Number of fresh products delivered from a hub store each day 125 Number of new M local stores to open in 2012 13 20
