40 Governance Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate governance report The Board Membership On 29 January 2012, the Board comprised a Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, which has been set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
As reported in the 2010 11 Annual report and financial statements, during the year three directors left the Board.
Paul Manduca stepped down on 9 March 2011, and Brian Flanagan and Mark Gunter stepped down on 9 June 2011 following the Companys AGM.
There were no new appointments to the Board.
Throughout the period, Sir Ian Gibson the majority of the Board consisted of independent Chairman Non-Executive Directors.
Details of appointments, roles and backgrounds of the Directors are set out on page 38.
Board diversity In this section As the Company confirmed in its Interim results announcement in September 2011, the Board welcomes 40 UK Corporate Governance Code the proposals set out by Lord Davies in his review into 40 The Board Women on Boards.
The Board currently includes two women 40 Membership members, 28% of its total composition.
The Boards policy 40 Performance evaluation and training is that female representation should be maintained at not 41 Senior Independent Director less than 20% and aspires that this should be higher than 42 Non-Executive Directors 30%.
This policy will continue to be considered as part of the Nomination Committees regular review of the 42 Board responsibilities Boards composition and skills.
42 Management Board 42 Committees of the Board 42 Nomination Committee Performance evaluation and training The performance of the Board, its committees and its 42 Remuneration Committee Directors are assessed and appraised regularly.
The Chairman 43 Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the performance of the 45 Corporate Compliance and Chief Executive, who in turn is responsible for monitoring Responsibility Committee the performance of the Executive Directors.
45 Shareholder relations 45 Share capital and control Independent Board review A full independent external review of the Board was carried out during the financial year by Boardroom UK Corporate Governance Code Review which has no other association with the Company.
The review took the form of: The Board has prepared this report with reference to the UK confidential interviews with each of the members Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting of the Board and the Company Secretary: Council in June 2010. a review of Board papers: and During the year, the Boards Corporate Compliance and observation of Board and Board committee meetings.
Responsibility Committee reviewed and updated, and the Board approved, its Corporate Governance Compliance Statement, which sets out how the Group complies with each of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
In light of the fact that there were relatively few changes to the Code in the year, there were no significant changes to the Corporate Governance Compliance Statement.
That document also sets out the statement of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, the list of matters reserved to the Board, the membership of the Board and of the various Board committees, together with the terms of reference of the various standing Board committees.
This document is available in the investor relations section of the Groups website, www.
