Business and strategy review Performance review Governance Financial statements Investor information Annual report and financial statements 2011 12 45 Internal control CR assurance The Board is satisfied that a continual process for identifying, Our CR programme is published in our 2011 12 Corporate evaluating and managing significant risks has been in place responsibility review, produced concurrently with this for the financial year and up to the date of this Annual report report.
The programme has been independently assured and financial statements.
To date, no material financial by Two Tomorrows under the AA1000AS 2008 framework.
problems have been identified that would affect the results See www.
co. uk cr reported in these financial statements.
Shareholder relations The Board confirms that, if significant weaknesses had been The Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director meet identified during this review, the Board would have taken regularly with analysts and institutional shareholders.
The the necessary steps to remedy them.
Investor Relations Director also carries out a regular programme of work that reports to the Board the views and information The Groups internal controls over the financial reporting and needs of institutional and major investors.
This is part of the consolidation processes are designed under the supervision regular contact that the Group maintains with its institutional of the Group Finance Director to provide reasonable assurance shareholders.
regarding the reliability of financial reporting, and the preparation and fair presentation of the Groups published The Chairman regularly meets with major shareholders and financial statements for external reporting purposes in he actively encourages major shareholders to contact him accordance with International Financial Reporting if they wish to discuss any aspect of the Group or its governance Standards IFRS.
Due to its inherent limitations, internal control over financial Additionally, the Groups brokers sought independent feedback reporting cannot provide absolute assurance, and may not from investors following the 2010 11 annual and 2011 12 prevent or detect all misstatements, whether caused by interim results.
This feedback was reported to the Board.
All Directors, Executive and Non-Executive, attend the AGM The Groups internal control over financial reporting and the unless unavoidably unable to do so.
The Chairman and the preparation of consolidated financial information includes Chairs of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and CCR policies and procedures that provide reasonable assurance that Committees are available to answer any questions.
transactions have been recorded and presented accurately.
Management regularly conducts reviews of the internal controls in place in respect of the processes of preparing consolidated Code compliance financial information and financial reporting.
The Board is confident that its corporate governance policies and procedures are appropriate and that the Company d Corporate Compliance and Responsibility is fully compliant with the Code.
In line with the best CCR Committee practice recommendation set out in Code Principle B.
7.1, The CCR Committee, chaired by a Non-Executive Director, all Directors will be submitted for re-election at its AGM.
Penny Hughes, reviews and oversees the development and implementation of policy in relation to health and safety, environmental, competitive and ethical compliance, corporate Share capital and control responsibility CR, including the Groups engagement with community organisations and charitable bodies, and governance Details relating to share capital and control are contained and other reputational management issues.
within the General information section on page 56.
The Committees remit does not cover operational matters, but it performs an oversight, monitoring and advisory role in relation to these key areas in the Companys governance and development.
The Committee, which reports to the Board, met four times during the financial year and, as well as reviewing its terms of reference, it received presentations on the Groups CR, health and safety, and competition compliance policies and procedures.
