42 Governance Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate governance report continued Non-Executive Directors Management Board The Non-Executive Directors provide a varied range of skills The Management Board is made up of representatives of and experience to the Group.
Details of their experience outside the senior management of the Group and is chaired by the the Group are set out in their respective biographies on page Chief Executive.
It has detailed terms of reference and has 38.
The Board is satisfied that all Non-Executive Directors, responsibility for the day-to-day operations of the Group.
including the Non-Executive Chairman, remain independent This includes development and implementation of strategy according to the definition contained in the Code.
No Nonsubject to overall supervision by the Board, financial Executive Director: performance, reporting and control, risk management, h as previously been employed by the Group within the last operational improvement programmes, the entry by the five years: Group into major contracts and commitments, the development of corporate policies and procedures, and the ongoing has had a material business relationship with the Group review and supervision of the operational activities of the within the last three years: business of the Group.
It reviews and makes recommendations receives remuneration other than Directors fees: to the Board in respect of budgets and long term planning and dividend levels, as well as reviewing proposed announcements, has close family ties with any of the Groups advisers, whether financial or related to ad hoc events.
It also keeps under Directors or senior employees: supervision the Groups senior management talent, capabilities holds cross-directorships or has significant links with other and succession plans.
directors through involvement in other companies or bodies: The Company Secretary organises the appropriate level of represents a significant shareholder: or insurance cover for all Directors to defend themselves against has served on the Board for more than nine years.
legal claims and civil actions.
The level of cover is currently 75m in aggregate.
All Directors are provided with a comprehensive, formal and tailored induction to the business.
The minimum time Committees of the Board commitment expected of the Non-Executive Directors is one day per month attendance at meetings, together with The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, attendance at the AGM, Board away days and site visits, Remuneration, Nomination and CCR Committees.
The Board is satisfied that each of the Non-Executive Directors commits sufficient time Full terms of reference of the Boards committees are available to the business of the Group and contributes to the governance on request and in the Corporate Governance Compliance and operations of the Group.
This has been confirmed by the Statement set out in the investor relations section of the independent Board effectiveness evaluation referred to earlier Groups website, www.
co. uk corporate in this report.
a Nomination Committee During the year, the Non-Executive Directors met six times During the year, the activities of the Committee were focused without management present to discuss the performance of on advice to the executive management on the establishment the business and management, and the wider economic, and composition of the Management Board and on senior commercial and social environment in which the Group management succession planning.
The Committee has engaged operates.
The Chairman arranges for there to be regular an executive search agency, MWM Consulting, to assist in the discussions between all the Non-Executive Directors including process of identification of potential candidates to join the himself as a group.
These are not part of a strict timetable, Board as and when appropriate.
as they are influenced by the circumstances from time to time.
However, these discussions take place, roughly, at or around b Remuneration Committee every alternate Board meeting.
The Senior Independent The objective of the Groups remuneration policy is to Director has also co-ordinated a meeting of the Non-Executive encourage a strong performance culture and an emphasis Directors which carried out an appraisal of the Chairmans on long term shareholder value creation.
The intention is to performance.
As part of this process, he also sought the views position remuneration arrangements competitively against of the Executive Directors.
the market with a clear reward structure to enable the Group to attract, retain and motivate the best talent who are key Board responsibilities to the Groups recent and future success.
The Board is responsible for setting and approving the strategy and key policies of the Group, and for monitoring the progress The Group HR Director has advised the Group on all remuneration towards achieving these objectives.
It monitors financial related matters, including pensions and Executive Directors performance, critical operational issues and risks, including contracts.
Where necessary, this advice was supplemented by regular review and formal approval of the Groups risk register.
The Board also approves all circulars, listing particulars, resolutions and correspondence to shareholders, including the Annual report and financial statements, half-yearly financial report and interim management statements.
The formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board remains unaltered and further details are available in the Corporate Governance Compliance Statement set out in the investor relations section of the Groups website, www.
