40 Governance Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate governance report The Board Membership On 29 January 2012, the Board comprised a Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, which has been set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
As reported in the 2010 11 Annual report and financial statements, during the year three directors left the Board.
Paul Manduca stepped down on 9 March 2011, and Brian Flanagan and Mark Gunter stepped down on 9 June 2011 following the Companys AGM.
There were no new appointments to the Board.
Throughout the period, Sir Ian Gibson the majority of the Board consisted of independent Chairman Non-Executive Directors.
Details of appointments, roles and backgrounds of the Directors are set out on page 38.
Board diversity In this section As the Company confirmed in its Interim results announcement in September 2011, the Board welcomes 40 UK Corporate Governance Code the proposals set out by Lord Davies in his review into 40 The Board Women on Boards.
The Board currently includes two women 40 Membership members, 28% of its total composition.
The Boards policy 40 Performance evaluation and training is that female representation should be maintained at not 41 Senior Independent Director less than 20% and aspires that this should be higher than 42 Non-Executive Directors 30%.
This policy will continue to be considered as part of the Nomination Committees regular review of the 42 Board responsibilities Boards composition and skills.
42 Management Board 42 Committees of the Board 42 Nomination Committee Performance evaluation and training The performance of the Board, its committees and its 42 Remuneration Committee Directors are assessed and appraised regularly.
The Chairman 43 Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the performance of the 45 Corporate Compliance and Chief Executive, who in turn is responsible for monitoring Responsibility Committee the performance of the Executive Directors.
45 Shareholder relations 45 Share capital and control Independent Board review A full independent external review of the Board was carried out during the financial year by Boardroom UK Corporate Governance Code Review which has no other association with the Company.
The review took the form of: The Board has prepared this report with reference to the UK confidential interviews with each of the members Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting of the Board and the Company Secretary: Council in June 2010. a review of Board papers: and During the year, the Boards Corporate Compliance and observation of Board and Board committee meetings.
Responsibility Committee reviewed and updated, and the Board approved, its Corporate Governance Compliance Statement, which sets out how the Group complies with each of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
In light of the fact that there were relatively few changes to the Code in the year, there were no significant changes to the Corporate Governance Compliance Statement.
That document also sets out the statement of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, the list of matters reserved to the Board, the membership of the Board and of the various Board committees, together with the terms of reference of the various standing Board committees.
This document is available in the investor relations section of the Groups website, www.
co. uk corporate Business and strategy review Performance review Governance Financial statements Investor information Annual report and financial statements 2011 12 41 The effectiveness of the Board was considered within the Board training 2011 12 context of three key criteria: The Board has received training during the year on the Boards ability to achieve its objectives, particularly topics including: with regard to the development of strategy, the oversight of health and safety compliance: risk and control, the monitoring of executive performance, food safety compliance: and the protection of shareholder and stakeholder interests: the Bribery Act and the Groups compliance procedures: the Boards ability to work together effectively: and changes to the Takeover Code, the UK Listing Rules the Boards ability to maximise its use of time.
and the Code: competition compliance and merger control: The conclusions of that review were that the Board a governance and technical update on the role demonstrated six areas of strength: its approach to strategy, of the Audit Committee: and its knowledge of stakeholder views, its development of internal controls and risk management, its approach to remuneration, the operations of financial markets.
its positive culture and contribution, and its combination of formal and informal meetings throughout the year.
These training programmes have also been shared, as appropriate, with the Groups Management Board to ensure that there is The review suggested that there were two issues which related the necessary knowledge and support at the highest levels of to the future, and which might have affected the Boards the Groups management.
In relation to the Groups compliance capacity for impact and effectiveness in the longer term, processes to address bribery and corrupt practices, training has being preparation for organisational change and the approach been provided across the management of the Group and the to executive succession planning.
Groups policies, which were revised and brought up to date to reflect the introduction during the year of the Bribery Act These matters were already in the Boards schedule of matters and the requirement for high level sponsorship and support for regular review, and the Nomination Committee and full for those policies.
Board have, since the report was received, considered both of these matters in detail.
Detailed plans have been reviewed During the year, Nigel Robertson assumed the role as Senior and approved.
Independent Director, Johanna Waterous was appointed as Chair of the Remuneration Committee and Penny Hughes was The Board has accepted the recommendation of the Corporate appointed Chair of the CCR Committee.
Prior to these Directors Compliance and Responsibility CCR Committee that there will each taking up those roles, they received a detailed induction be a further evaluation process of the Board and its principal from the Company Secretary, supported by meetings with key committees Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and CCR carried and relevant members of the Groups management team and out in the current financial year by the Chairman, supported with the Groups principal external advisers.
The aim of these by the Chair of the CCR Committee and the Company Secretary, induction programmes was to ensure that they each had a clear and in the following financial year, a further independently and thorough understanding of the particular requirement of facilitated external evaluation.
those specific roles and a detailed familiarity with the particular issues relating to their new areas of responsibility.
The Board is satisfied that the arrangements for review and appraisal of the performance of the Board, its committees and The training programme will continue, so that regular updates individual Directors are appropriate.
The Board is also confident are provided to the Board on corporate governance, legal issues, that the initiatives which have been implemented already or accounting issues and new developments.
which are in progress will enable the Group to satisfy the best practice recommendations of the Code in relation to Senior Independent Director Board evaluation.
Nigel Robertson assumed the role of Senior Independent Director on 10 March 2011 when Paul Manduca stepped down During the course of the 2011 12 financial year, the Group has from the Board.
Nigel joined the Board as a Non-Executive continued with its series of Board training sessions, presented Director in July 2005 and, on appointment, had no prior by the Groups external advisers on various key issues of association with the Company.
He has gained extensive importance to the Group.
This training was designed to address knowledge of the Groups business and its activities.
Throughout matters of specific relevance to the Group and covered a range his period of tenure as Senior Independent Director, he has been of topics.
available to shareholders as an alternative to the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
He will continue to be available to meet shareholders and will report any relevant issues to the Board or the Chairman.
Nigel also co-ordinates the review of the performance of the Chairman by the Non-Executive Directors, the latest having been carried out in February 2012.
