38 G Go ov five er rn na an nce ce Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Board of Directors 5 6 Sir Ian Gibson Dalton Philips Chairman Chief Executive Sir Ian joined the Group as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Dalton joined the Group as Chief Executive in March 2010. in September 2007.
He was appointed Chairman in He is a member of the Boards Nomination Committee and March 2008.
Sir Ian is Chair of the Boards Nomination Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee.
Prior Committee and a member of its Remuneration Committee to joining Morrisons, Dalton was Chief Operating Officer of and Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee.
Loblaw Companies Limited, Canadas largest food distributor He is a Non-Executive member of the Public Interest Body and a leading provider of general merchandise, pharmacy and of the UK firm of  LLP and will financial products and services.
Prior to that position, he was be stepping down from his current role as Non-Executive Chief Executive of Irish department store group Brown Chairman of Trinity Mirror Plc in August 2012.
Between 1998 and 2005, he worked for Wal-Marts appointments include Chairman of BPB Plc, Deputy Chairman international division holding a range of commercial positions, of Asda Group Plc, and Director of Chelys Limited, GKN Plc, rising to Chief Operating Officer in Germany.
Dalton started Greggs Plc and Northern Rock Plc.
He is also a former his career as a Store Manager in New Zealand with Jardine member of the Court of the Bank of England.
Sir Ian enjoyed Matheson and was later Regional Director of the companys a distinguished 30-year career in the motor industry, most Spanish supermarket division.
recently as President of Nissan Europe.
2 Nigel Robertson 7 Richard Pennycook Senior Independent Director Group Finance Director Nigel joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in July 2005.
Richard joined the Board as Group Finance Director in In March 2011, he was appointed Senior Independent Director.
October 2005 and has responsibility for finance, IT, strategy He is a member of the Nomination, Remuneration, Audit and multi-channel development.
Prior to that, he was the and Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committees, Group Finance Director of RAC Plc, the quoted specialist and was Chair of the Corporate Compliance and Responsibility motoring and vehicle management company.
Previous senior Committee from September 2009 to March 2011.
Working roles include Group Finance Director of HP Bulmer Holdings in the private equity sector, he is the Group Chief Executive Plc, Laura Ashley Plc and JD Wetherspoon Plc, and Chief of Health and Surgical Holdings Ltd. Until the business was Executive of Welcome Break Holdings Plc.
He is also Senior sold in 2007, he was the Chief Executive Officer of Chelsea Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Stores Holdings Ltd and he was previously the Managing of Persimmon Plc.
Director of Ocado, the online grocery shopping business set up in partnership with Waitrose.
Prior to this, he held senior positions in Marks & Spencer Group plc both in the UK and USA.
4 Philip Cox Chair of the Audit Committee 3 Penny Hughes Philip joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in April Chair of the Corporate Compliance 2009.
He is a member of the Audit Committee and became and Responsibility Committee its Chair in September 2009, and is also a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Penny joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in He is also Chief Executive Officer of International Power Plc, January 2010.
She is a member of the Audit, Corporate a position that he has held since 2003, when he was promoted Compliance and Responsibility, Nomination and Remuneration from his previous role of Chief Financial Officer 2000 to Committees.
With effect from March 2011, Penny was 2003.
He is a member of the Presidents Committee of the appointed as Chair of the Corporate Compliance and CBI.
He was a Non-Executive Director at Wincanton Plc from Responsibility Committee.
Penny is currently a Non-Executive 2001 to 2009, having chaired its Audit Committee from Director of Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc, The Royal 2001 to 2008, and was Chair of its Remuneration Committee Bank of Scotland Plc and a trustee of the British Museum.
His previous Board position was as Chief Financial Pennys previous experience includes ten years with Officer at Siebe Plc.
Coca-Cola GB and Ireland, and various Non-Executive roles, including Body Shop International Plc, GAP Inc, Reuters Plc, 1 Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken, Trinity Mirror Plc, Vodafone Plc Johanna Waterous and Home Retail Group plc.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee Johanna joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in February 2010.
She is a member of the Audit, Nomination, Board of Directors Remuneration and Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committees.
Johanna was appointed as Chair of the Remuneration Committee with effect from March 2011.
She is currently Non-Executive Director of RSA Group Plc 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 and Chairman of Sandpiper CI, as well as being an Operating partner of Duke Street LLP.
Her previous experience includes 22 years with McKinsey & Co, London, ultimately as co-leader of the firms Global Marketing and Sales Practice.
She is a Non-Executive Director of the Kew Foundation and of Kew Enterprises Ltd.
Between 1998 and 2006, she was Chairman of Tate Enterprises.
