Business and strategy review Performance review Governance Financial statements Investor information Annual report and financial statements 2011 12 25 Moving online Market overview The way customers shop is changing New channels to market they are becoming more and more accustomed to buying online.
The market place is continually evolving, and a key trend has The total online market in the UK is almost 70bn and growing been the growth of different at 16%, and the online grocery market is worth 6bn and growing at 19%.
retailing channels and the rise of the multi-channel retailer.
There is a clear opportunity for Morrisons and we have taken the first steps in our journey to developing both an online food and general merchandise offer.
Between 2011 and 2016, market sales through local convenience stores are anticipated to grow by 26% Online general merchandise and online sales are estimated to grow by 90%.
As we General merchandise is migrating online, away from the develop these areas, they provide further opportunity high street and from big box supermarkets.
We intend to for us to grow and meet the needs of our customers.
complement our core supermarket offer with an online general merchandise offer in categories which have appeal and relevance to our customers.
We have started this year with the acquisition Convenience sales bn of Kiddicare the most successful online baby retail business in the UK.
We are expanding Kiddicare as a genuine multi-channel 2011 33.6 business and, during the year, announced plans for ten flagship stores throughout the UK.
We are also leveraging our 11.4m weekly customers in Morrisons by increasing their awareness of the Kiddicare business, leading to strong growth.
Additionally, 2016 42.2 using the industry leading operating platform acquired with Kiddicare, Morrisons.
com will launch its first categories in the final quarter of 2012.
Online food Online sales bn The online food market is growing fast and is expected to reach 2011 5.9 11.2bn by 2016, some 6% of the total grocery market.
Morrisons does not yet offer an online service, as we do not believe any retailer in the UK has achieved the right balance of service to customers and profitable returns for shareholders.
2016 11.2 In 2011, we took an initial step in online grocery through acquiring a minority stake in Fresh Direct, a leading fresh food, online retailer in New York.
We have established a very positive Actual Forecast relationship with them, including the embedding of a team Source: IGD into the business in order to understand it in great detail before bringing it back to the UK.
We will outline our plans for online food towards the end of 2012 13.
Key facts Customers who have used the Morrisons app 900,000 Visits to the Morrisons mobile website in Q4 2011 12 481,000 Above Our Kiddicare showroom gives customers the option of shopping Source: IMRG E-Business Information and IGD Source: IGD in-store as well as online.
