42 Governance Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate governance report continued Non-Executive Directors Management Board The Non-Executive Directors provide a varied range of skills The Management Board is made up of representatives of and experience to the Group.
Details of their experience outside the senior management of the Group and is chaired by the the Group are set out in their respective biographies on page Chief Executive.
It has detailed terms of reference and has 38.
The Board is satisfied that all Non-Executive Directors, responsibility for the day-to-day operations of the Group.
including the Non-Executive Chairman, remain independent This includes development and implementation of strategy according to the definition contained in the Code.
No Nonsubject to overall supervision by the Board, financial Executive Director: performance, reporting and control, risk management, h as previously been employed by the Group within the last operational improvement programmes, the entry by the five years: Group into major contracts and commitments, the development of corporate policies and procedures, and the ongoing has had a material business relationship with the Group review and supervision of the operational activities of the within the last three years: business of the Group.
It reviews and makes recommendations receives remuneration other than Directors fees: to the Board in respect of budgets and long term planning and dividend levels, as well as reviewing proposed announcements, has close family ties with any of the Groups advisers, whether financial or related to ad hoc events.
It also keeps under Directors or senior employees: supervision the Groups senior management talent, capabilities holds cross-directorships or has significant links with other and succession plans.
directors through involvement in other companies or bodies: The Company Secretary organises the appropriate level of represents a significant shareholder: or insurance cover for all Directors to defend themselves against has served on the Board for more than nine years.
legal claims and civil actions.
The level of cover is currently 75m in aggregate.
All Directors are provided with a comprehensive, formal and tailored induction to the business.
The minimum time Committees of the Board commitment expected of the Non-Executive Directors is one day per month attendance at meetings, together with The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, attendance at the AGM, Board away days and site visits, Remuneration, Nomination and CCR Committees.
The Board is satisfied that each of the Non-Executive Directors commits sufficient time Full terms of reference of the Boards committees are available to the business of the Group and contributes to the governance on request and in the Corporate Governance Compliance and operations of the Group.
This has been confirmed by the Statement set out in the investor relations section of the independent Board effectiveness evaluation referred to earlier Groups website, www.
co. uk corporate in this report.
a Nomination Committee During the year, the Non-Executive Directors met six times During the year, the activities of the Committee were focused without management present to discuss the performance of on advice to the executive management on the establishment the business and management, and the wider economic, and composition of the Management Board and on senior commercial and social environment in which the Group management succession planning.
The Committee has engaged operates.
The Chairman arranges for there to be regular an executive search agency, MWM Consulting, to assist in the discussions between all the Non-Executive Directors including process of identification of potential candidates to join the himself as a group.
These are not part of a strict timetable, Board as and when appropriate.
as they are influenced by the circumstances from time to time.
However, these discussions take place, roughly, at or around b Remuneration Committee every alternate Board meeting.
The Senior Independent The objective of the Groups remuneration policy is to Director has also co-ordinated a meeting of the Non-Executive encourage a strong performance culture and an emphasis Directors which carried out an appraisal of the Chairmans on long term shareholder value creation.
The intention is to performance.
As part of this process, he also sought the views position remuneration arrangements competitively against of the Executive Directors.
the market with a clear reward structure to enable the Group to attract, retain and motivate the best talent who are key Board responsibilities to the Groups recent and future success.
The Board is responsible for setting and approving the strategy and key policies of the Group, and for monitoring the progress The Group HR Director has advised the Group on all remuneration towards achieving these objectives.
It monitors financial related matters, including pensions and Executive Directors performance, critical operational issues and risks, including contracts.
Where necessary, this advice was supplemented by regular review and formal approval of the Groups risk register.
The Board also approves all circulars, listing particulars, resolutions and correspondence to shareholders, including the Annual report and financial statements, half-yearly financial report and interim management statements.
The formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board remains unaltered and further details are available in the Corporate Governance Compliance Statement set out in the investor relations section of the Groups website, www.
co. uk corporate Business and strategy review Performance review Governance Financial statements Investor information Annual report and financial statements 2011 12 43 During the year, the membership of those Committees was: Committee membership Name Nomination Remuneration Audit CCR 1 Sir Ian Gibson Dalton Philips 1 Philip Cox 3 Penny Hughes 2 Nigel Robertson 3 Johanna Waterous 2 Paul Manduca until 9 March 2011 Brian Flanagan until 9 June 2011 1 Chair of the Committee 2 Chair of the Committee until 9 March 2011 3 Chair of the Committee from 10 March 2011 The Directors attended the following number of Board and Committee meetings: Number of meetings Board Nomination Remuneration Audit CCR Sir Ian Gibson 10 10 3 3 9 9 4 4 Dalton Philips 10 10 3 3 4 4 Richard Pennycook 10 10 Philip Cox 9 10 3 3 7 9 6 6 Penny Hughes 8 10 3 3 8 9 5 6 3 3 Nigel Robertson 10 10 2 3 7 9 4 4 Johanna Waterous 10 10 3 3 9 9 5 6 4 4 Paul Manduca 1 2 2 3 Brian Flanagan 3 3 1 1 3 5 3 3 Mark Gunter 3 3 b Remuneration Committee continued The Audit Committees responsibilities have not changed The Committee also receives advice from its appointed advisers during the year.
on remuneration matters: Pension Capital Strategies Limited a member of the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group in respect The Audit Committee regularly considers the professional of pensions, and Ashurst LLP in respect of Executive Directors development needs of its members, and whether adequate contracts.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee technical information is being provided.
Where necessary, carried out a review of its external advisers and, after carrying it will seek independent external advice at the Groups expense, out an extensive selection process, decided to appoint with such arrangements made through the Company Secretary.
 LLP as its remuneration advisers.
In particular, in October 2011, the Companys auditors, KPMG The new advisory firm was appointed in October 2011 Audit Plc KPMG, presented a training session to the Committee and replaced the previous advisers, New Bridge Street.
on governance and technical issues relating to the role and function of the Committee.
The presentation covered the The activities of the Remuneration Committee during the following areas: year are set out in more detail in the Remuneration report accounting standards and how these are evolving and their from page 48. impact on Morrisons: c Audit Committee the role and function of the Financial Reporting Council: The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee the c urrent developments and proposals from the Department responsibility for reviewing on its behalf and making for Business Innovation and Skills: recommendations to the Board as to: the roles and functions of the Audit Inspection Unit and the integrity of financial reports: the Financial Reporting Review Panel: t he effectiveness of the Groups internal control current issues in relation to audit policy: and and risk management system: and developments in the EU Corporate Governance Framework.
the independence of the external auditor.
44 Governance Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate governance report continued The Audit Committee is chaired by Philip Cox, who has When assessing the non-audit services for approval, the Audit the requisite recent and relevant financial experience.
Committee will take the following into consideration: The Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance whether the skills and experience of the audit firm make Director, the Head of Risk and Internal Audit, and other it the most suitable supplier of the non-audit service: finance department representatives have attended meetings by invitation.
whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is no threat to the objectivity or independence in the conduct i Overview of actions taken by the Audit Committee of the audit resulting from the provision of such services by in discharging its duties the external auditor: The Committee has received and reviewed reports and the nature of the non-audit services, the related fee levels presentations from senior management to fulfil its terms and the fee levels, individually and in aggregate, relative of reference.
To meet its responsibilities in this respect, to the audit fee: and the Committee considered: t he criteria which govern the compensation of the individuals i nterim and preliminary announcements, together with performing the audit.
any other formal announcements relating to financial performance: KPMG also follows its own ethical guidelines and continually the accounting principles, policies and procedures adopted in reviews its audit team to ensure that its independence is not the Groups financial statements, including, where necessary, compromised.
challenging the judgements made: and The Audit Committee has determined that it will review, the potential effects of tax and pensions accounting, and not less than annually whether the incumbent auditor should other significant judgemental and complex accounting issues remain in place or whether an auditor selection process should dealt with in the financial statements.
The Audit Committee oversees the Groups relationship with ii Internal control the external auditor.
Private meetings are held with the external The Board is responsible for setting a system of internal controls auditor, without management present.
The purpose of these for the Group and reviewing its effectiveness.
Executive meetings is to understand their views on the control and management is responsible for implementing and maintaining governance environment and managements effectiveness the system of controls.
This system is intended to manage rather within it.
To fulfil its responsibilities in respect of the than eliminate the risk of not meeting the Groups strategic independence and effectiveness of the external auditor, objectives, whilst recognising that certain inherent risks may the Committee reviewed: be outside the Groups control.
The Board recognises that any the terms, areas of responsibility, duties and scope of work system of internal control can only seek to provide reasonable, of the external auditor as set out in the engagement letter: not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the external auditors work plan for the Group: The Board delegates to the Audit Committee the review the detailed findings of the audit, including a discussion of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk of any major issues that arose during the audit: management systems.
During the year, the Committee discharged this responsibility by: the letter from KPMG confirming its independence and objectivity: and receiving and considering regular reports from the Risk and Internal Audit function on the status of internal control and the audit fee and the extent of non-audit services provided risk management systems across the Group.
The Committee by the external auditor.
also reviewed the departments findings, annual plan and the resources available to it to perform its work: In this period, the external auditor has continued to provide a significant level of non-audit work, primarily to provide the reviewing the external auditors management letters on Board with independent assurance in respect of IT systems internal financial control: replacement.
The Board believes that this activity is a reasonable seeking reports from senior management on the effectiveness extension of the auditors statutory work and that there are of the management of key risk areas: and safeguards in place to avoid a threat to the auditors independence or objectivity.
The Board has a policy on the monitoring the adequacy and timeliness of managements engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services response to identified audit issues.
and the Committee has reviewed the scope of non-audit services provided by the external auditor to ensure that there was no The Audit Committee receives regular reports from the Head of impairment of objectivity.
A copy of the non-audit services Risk and Internal Audit on any whistleblowing activity in respect policy is available in the Corporate Governance Compliance of concerns expressed by colleagues about possible malpractice Statement set out in the investor relations section of the or wrongdoing.
Whilst there were no significant concerns raised Groups website at www.
This by colleagues, all actions required were discussed and agreed non-audit services policy is designed to assist the Company with the Committee.
and each of its subsidiaries in ensuring that the engagement of the external auditor to provide non-audit services: The Audit Committee also reviews the progress of the Groups systems and, in particular, it receives regular reports from a is only carried out in appropriate circumstances: sub-committee of the Audit Committee which monitors the is transparent: and Groups systems replacement programme.
does not impair the judgement or independence of the external auditor.
