Business and strategy review Performance review Governance Financial statements Investor information Annual report and financial statements 2011 12 21 Market overview Value at the forefront of shoppers minds Household incomes have come under pressure throughout 2011 as rising commodity and energy prices have resulted in CPI inflation rising above 5%.
As as result, pricing and overall value have become increasingly important factors in purchasing decisions.
Shoppers are becoming increasingly price conscious, Above with almost seven out of ten now saying they make the Opening our counters later majority of their grocery shopping decisions before they means customers can see get to store, an increase of 40% since 2008. our craftspeople at work.
Extent to which shoppers plan their grocery shop 2011 67% Driving in-store productivity 2008 47% Great companies continually strive to be more efficient.
Morrisons has Source: IGD ShopperVista a number of initiatives underway which will drive efficiency and cut unnecessary cost out of our business.
The groups that are most conscious about how much they spend are families facing the pressure of lower incomes.
Every hour per day we save in all of our stores equates to Percentage who state how much they spend is the most approximately 1.4m of annual cost saving so even small important thing in their grocery shopping changes can deliver big benefits.
In March 2011, we launched Customer demographic ABC1 and C2DE an initiative to focus on store productivity and have delivered savings of 25m in the year.
Good progress was made on a ABC1 55% number of initiatives, including opening our specialist counters later in the morning, which reduced labour cost but also allows our customers to see our craftspeople setting up for the day: C2DE 77% automating the receipt of news and magazines, which avoids manual checking and administration: and changing the way bananas are displayed to reduce the labour cost whilst also Source: GFK NOP Consumer Confidence reducing the wastage that arises from handling the fruit too much.
During the coming year, we will continue to trial and roll out new ideas and we are on track to deliver our target of 100m by 2013 14.
