48 Governance Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Directors remuneration report continued The Group is required to prepare a Directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee addressed the following main report for the 52 weeks ended 29 January 2012 and put that issues during the year: report to a shareholder vote.
A resolution to approve this consideration and approval of the bonus payments for report will be proposed at the AGM of the Company to be held Executive Directors and senior managers, and approval of on 14 June 2012. associated share awards under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan: The auditor is required to report on part of the Directors performance test for LTIP awards due to vest and approval remuneration report and to state whether, in their opinion, of the resulting vesting of awards: that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance setting annual incentive targets and ranges including with the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and scorecard measures and personal objectives : Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The report has, therefore, been divided awards made under the LTIP and approval of the into separate sections for unaudited and audited information.
performance condition: a nnual review of Executive Directors base salaries and Unaudited information Chairmans fee review: Remuneration Committee: membership and remit approval of sharesave invitation, including assessment During the year, the following individuals were members of ABI limits on share issue guidelines: of the Remuneration Committee.
consideration and approval of the restricted share plan award made to Richard Pennycook: Membership a review of the base salary, annual bonus and LTIP framework Name of Director From To for the Management Board, and approval of resulting changes J Waterous 1 Feb 2010 To date in line with the reward policy: Chair from 10 March 2011 consideration and approval of a salary increase for the P Manduca 6 Sep 2005 9 Mar 2011 Chief Executive: and Chair to 9 March 2011 consideration of the impact of the equity retirement P Cox 1 Apr 2009 To date programme on existing incentive arrangements.
B Flanagan 1 Jul 2005 9 Jun 2011 I Gibson 1 Sep 2007 To date Remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee remains of the view that the P Hughes 1 Jan 2010 To date Companys executive remuneration policies: N Robertson 1 Jul 2005 To date should encourage a strong performance culture and emphasise long term shareholder value creation, with clear The remit of the Committee covers the total remuneration links between executive performance goals and business of the Executive Directors and other senior managers comprising strategy: and the Management Board.
The full terms of reference for the need to be positioned competitively to enable it to attract, Committee, which are reviewed annually, can be obtained from retain and motivate the best talent, which has been key to the the Company Secretary and can be found on the Companys Companys success over the last few years and will be critical website at www.
co. uk corporate to its future performance.
The Committee has access to external advice as required.
To achieve this, the Committee aims to:  LLP was selected and appointed by the Committee to provide external advice on executive position base salaries competitively: remuneration from October 2011 onwards.
Prior to this, New operate a competitive and stretching suite of annual and Bridge Street formerly known as Hewitt New Bridge Street had long term incentives, so that a substantial proportion of total been the Committees executive reward adviser.
Pension Capital remuneration is subject to performance and so that executives Strategies Limited a member of the Jardine Lloyd Thompson are aligned with shareholders through share awards and share Group also provided advice in respect of pensions and Ashurst ownership: and LLP provided legal advice to the Committee on senior executive contracts.
 LLP also provide a range ensure that total remuneration packages are competitive, of unrelated human resource consulting services and advice on reward stretching performance and are aligned to the tax and accounting.
Pension Capital Strategies provide advice Companys strategy.
to management on relevant pension matters and Ashurst LLP provide other legal services to the Company.
In determining remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee is mindful of environmental, social and governance The Chief Executive, the Group Human Resources Director, concerns, and the approach to pay and conditions taken within and other HR representatives are also invited to attend meetings the Group.
The Committee seeks to ensure that remuneration other than where their own remuneration is being discussed arrangements do not encourage inappropriate behaviour.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee met on nine occasions during the year and the meeting attendance record is set out on page 43 within the Corporate governance report.
