Business and strategy review Performance review Governance Financial statements Investor information Annual report and financial statements 2011 12 47 Directors remuneration report Introduction from the Chair Annual bonus payments for the year 2011 12 were 180% of salary for Dalton Philips and 180% of salary for Richard Pennycook, reflecting underlying profit growth of 7.6%.
LTIP for the 2009 12 cycle vested at 97% of maximum, which also reflects the close link to earnings and sales growth over the past three years, which have been reflected in the increased share price despite continuing tough trading conditions.
We place a great deal of importance on performance-based pay and incentive arrangements are based on measures that support the creation of shareholder value by linking directly to our strategic objectives: driving the top line, increasing our efficiency and capturing growth.
Short term incentives are based on a combination of underlying profit before tax targets, strategic corporate scorecard measures and personal objectives which align bonuses with key strategic objectives.
Long term Johanna Waterous incentives are based on EPS and like-for-like sales growth Chair of the Remuneration Committee to support a sustainable approach to growth.
The mix of the total remuneration package and the use of stretching performance targets ensures that there is alignment between pay and performance.
Dear Shareholder The Committee considered the impact of the equity retirement As the new Chair of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased programme on the 2011 12 Annual Bonus Plan and on to present the Directors remuneration report for the financial outstanding LTIP awards where the targets had been agreed year ended 29 January 2012, for which we will be seeking before the programme was announced.
The Committee agreed approval from shareholders in June 2012.
Since taking over this to apply a consistent approach to all outstanding incentives role, I have met with many of our largest shareholders and have and adjust actual vesting outcomes appropriately.
Further been pleased to hear that they feel our incentive arrangements details are included in the following pages of this Directors for the management team are consistent with our stated policy remuneration report.
of reinforcing shareholder value creation.
In determining bonus payouts for 2011 12, the Committee Encouraging a strong performance culture, emphasising long agreed to exclude the impact of the equity retirement term shareholder value creation and competitive positioning programme in assessing the extent to which the underlying remain the key underlying principles of the Committees profit before tax target had been met.
As a Committee, we are mindful of our responsibilities and review executive In respect of the 2009 12 LTIP, although the level of EPS growth remuneration arrangements with a critical eye in the context was adjusted downwards to exclude the impact of the equity of the current environment.
retirement programme, the EPS growth after adjustment remained above the level required to achieve full vesting.
We aim to put the Company in a position to attract, motivate and retain the highest calibre talent to deliver value for There have been no significant changes to remuneration policy shareholders.
Following extensive consultation with for 2012 13, although the Committee will review the LTIP shareholders, we implemented bespoke retention arrangements performance measures in 2012 13 to ensure they remain closely for Richard Pennycook in March 2011.
These were considered aligned to our strategy as our business evolves, and we will liaise vital, following the departure of the former Chief Executive and with major shareholders if the review suggests any significant were fully disclosed in last years Directors remuneration report.
During the year, we increased Dalton Philips base salary Mark Gunter stepped down from the Board at the 2011 AGM, from 800,000 to 850,000 with effect from 1 July 2011. and Brian Flanagan and Paul Manduca stepped down as This was his first salary review since appointment in March Non-Executive Directors during the year.
2010, at which time his salary was set at a conservative level against the market.
The Committee decided that an increase I would like to thank Paul Manduca, as former Chair of the was appropriate to reflect Daltons ongoing contribution to Committee, for his contribution.
I would also like to thank my the success of the Company since his appointment.
There fellow Committee members for their support as I take on this will be no base salary increase for 2012 13. important responsibility.
Johanna Waterous Chair of the Remuneration Committee
