Wolseley plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The business model How we source See page 23 Wolseley is a distributor, bridging the gap between approximately 100,000 vendors and approximately 1 million customers by How we distribute See page 24 bringing together a wide range of products from different vendors that our customers need and providing our vendors with access How we sell See page 25 to these customers cost effectively.
Around Around Distribute Sell 100,000 Source 1 million vendors customers The business model offers opportunities for Business and management synergies to be achieved by being part of structure the Group.
These include: The Groups business falls into six management synergies such as sharing geographic regions the United States, best practice, management development Canada, United Kingdom, France, the and corporate finance: and Nordics and Central Europe.
operating synergies in the areas of joint Revenue split by region sourcing, own label development and the Total ongoing Group revenue 12.7 billion sharing of costs and infrastructure.
Central Europe 6% Business unit strategies France 10% Business unit strategies are aligned with strategy models as outlined on pages 8 to 11.
USA Each business unit aims to grow profitability 48% Nordic faster than the competition through gaining region agreater share of its existing customers 16% business and through attracting new customers.
To achieve this each business UK 13% unit focuses on achieving: Canada 7% best customer service: Within each geography the Group operates best branch employees: and a number of distinct business units with preferred vendor relationships.
strong trading identities, including many withmarket leading positions in their Underlying this, Wolseley aims to operate localmarkets.
the most efficient operating model in the industry, ensuring its distribution activities The Group has strong management teams benefit from national scale and an efficient in each region.
Business units report on supply chain.
operational performance and strategic progress through regular performance The business units drive operational value review meetings with senior executives.
through gaining market share, improving productivity, expanding gross margins and improving returns and cash.
Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Market overview Vendor relationships The markets for plumbing and heating and Our vendors need distributors who can give building materials are directly exposed to them access tomany smaller customers macroeconomic cycles.
The Group delivered cost effectively.
Our relationships with these Our vendors need good overall financial results against a vendors are key to our success: we want to distributors who backdrop of weak demand in Continental build strong relationships and grow our cangive them Europe and improved market conditions business with them.
Further detail by access tomany Key vendors are manufacturers with market geography is provided in the regional leading brands, usually focused on the needs smaller customers performance reviews on pages 26to 37. of local markets.
We work in partnership with cost effectively.
Although our markets are cyclical, the our key vendors to offer market breadth and business model is strong and it is penetration andto collaborate on promotions underpinned by demographic trends towards and incentive programmes.
We aim to derive ageing populations and smaller households benetfrom national scale.
Whilst the vendor and by the ageing of housing stocks.
base is predominantly based on national geographies, some international sourcing Our businesses sell to customers ranging benets exist, for example across Europe across the residential, commercial and and for the sourcing of private label industrial sectors.
The Group continues to work market differs by geography and by withlow cost, high quality manufacturers business unit.
tosupply our private label product ranges.
Revenue by market sector % of total 2011 12 revenue Products Civil The Group sources and supplies a broad infrastructure range of products.
The main product 8% categories are as follows: Non-residential new Residential construction RMI 37% Plumbing, heating and air 15% conditioning Baths, showers and accessories.
We source a wide range Hot water cylinders and ues.
of products efficiently and Control equipment.
responsibly, bringing Heating and cooling equipment.
Source together the mix of Solar equipment.
products from different Plastic pipes and ttings.
vendors that our customers need.
Building materials What differentiates Wolseley Insulation.
Over 100,000 trade vendors supplying a broad mix ofproducts including own label Plaster and plasterboard.
Strong vendor relationships and use of Tiles and ooring.
Scale advantages in sourcing are a key Doors and frames.
Commitment to responsible sourcing Hardware and tools.
Wolseley plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The business model continued Civils waterworks, industrial and We distribute products commercial efficiently to our branches and customers, allowing Drainage pipes, associated supplies Distribute usto provide great product andcovers.
Our objective is to availability levels for our Underground pressure pipes.
Small bore pressure pipes and ttings.
cost, most efficient Carbon and stainless steel pipes, What differentiates Wolseley operating model valvesand ttings.
Other pipes, valves and ttings.
Branch network of over 3,000 branches.
Large scale network of distribution centres Other supporting the plumbing and heating businesses.
Services, including installation, Market leading levels of product availability maintenance and management across a broad range of products.
Distribution network The proportion of Group revenue derived from each product category is shown in the Distribution centres are a key competitive chart below.
advantage for Wolseley, allowing the Group to purchase in bulk and better serve Product mix by category customers through reduced delivery times, % of total 2011 12 revenue broader product selection, increased ll Other rates and improved product availability, Civils 1% Plumbing, waterworks, aswell as enabling the Group to better heating industrial manage inventory.
and air and conditioning commercial The Group has a large network of 41% 31% distribution centres which serve branches for our plumbing and heating businesses.
Bycontrast the majority of products in our building materials businesses are delivered directly to our branches or customers.
Building materials 27% Our objective is to operate the lowest cost, most efficient operating model in our industry, ensuring that our distribution activities benefit Product integrity from national scale and an efficient supply The Group is committed to responsible chain.
The Group has invested signicantly in sourcing and has a range of policies and supply chain technology to manage inventory procedures in place related to product safety in our distribution centres and branches in and ethical sourcing practices.
Our Grouporder to maximise efficiency.
wide product integrity policy and the associated business unit procedures will Product availability improve the way that we procure products The availability of a wide range of products ofthe right quality from vendors that to our customers is fundamental to the adhereto our expected ethical standards.
Our distribution Product integrity is a core element of our network is key to allowing us to outperform corporate responsibility programme and the competition in this area.
Each distribution further detail is provided on page 59. centre aims to maximise the ll rate that it achieves, which is the proportion of orders that can be fullled from inventory on hand at the time of order.
The distribution centres operate with ll rates that are substantially better than those we receive from our vendors, lling the gap between vendor llrates and ll rates to our branches.
At a branch level, product ranges are focused on the fastest moving products, with the distribution centres able to quicklydeliver a wide range of other products as required.
A number of our businesses have introduced service guarantees whereby if a top selling product Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 is not available we award points or give Forexample, Wolseley UK has recently refunds to our customers.
co. uk which is a B2C website based on our Build.
Branches E-commerce is a With over 3,000 branches across 18 countries, Customers rapidly growing Wolseley is an international business but sales channel also a local business, with the majority of The Group has a wide range of customers theGroups customers travelling less than operating in different industry sectors, fortheGroup.
We rely on the strength ranging from individual plumbers and of our brands intheir local markets, and the builders through to national contractor local knowledge of our employees in the chains and housebuilders.
Wolseleys branches to meet our customers needs.
primary customer focus is on professional contractors, who constituted 88 per cent of the Groups customer base during the year Transport ended 31 July 2012.
The Group uses a range of transport solutions ineach of its businesses including Customer mix both owned and leasedeet and third party % of total 2011 12 revenue delivery.
The Group uses fleet management Heating, ventilation and systems and backhauling arrangements air conditioning tomaximise the efficiency of its transport 6% Utilities network and minimise its environmental Building 10% impact.
Further detail on the environmental contractors Mechanical 23% impact of our transport requirements and contractors actions taken to minimise CO2 emissions is 10% given in the Corporate Responsibility report on pages 56 to 58.
End users 12% We sell through a variety Plumbing and of channels including Industrial heating engineers branches, call centres and 15% 24% Sell online, with a strong focus on providing excellent customer service.
Customer service Wolseley is a relationship business and our What differentiates Wolseley focus is to meet our customers needs better Continued focus on customer service than the competition, ensuring we deliver the measured through regular customer right products, at the right price, at the right surveys.
time, on every occasion they do business with Investment in employee training us.
We use regular customer surveys in all of programmes and tools to allow our our business units so that we can take actions branchemployees to deliver the to improve our performance, both nationally bestcustomer service.
and within each branch operation.
See pages Investment in online sales channels 10 and 11 to read more about how we todrive organic growth.
Channels Branch employees Sales to customers are made over the In order to achieve the best customer service counter at our branches, through supply in the industry we need to have the right talent contracts which are managed centrally, with relevant training, skillsand knowledge in orthrough orders that can be placed with our locations.
Within each of the business units branches, into call centres, or via the there is a strong focus on ensuring that training internet.
In some regions we also operate programmes and tools are available for our anetwork of showrooms which enables people sothey are equipped to give the best usto showcase our product range.
Employee engagement is measured in each business unitatleast E-commerce is a rapidly growing sales annually and the results are used to make channel for the Groupand we continue to improvements in working practices and invest in our business-to-business B2B environments.
Wolseley plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Regional performance USA contractors.
The business has been Business unit portfolio diversifying its customer base into private andprole water companies and treatment plants, and In the USA we operate six business units.
expanding its product range into new areas Ferguson is the primary operating brand such as metering technologies.
although anumber of other brands have The HVAC business distributes heating, been retained to service specic markets.
ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration The business operates in all 50 states equipment to specialist contractors, andisserved by 10 distribution centres predominantly in the residential and across the country that provide next day commercial sectors.
Branded dealerships product availability, a key competitive ofhigh quality equipment are an important advantage.
Ferguson predominantly serves feature of this market.
Most revenue is the RMI markets with relatively low exposure generated by providing equipment and parts to the residential new construction market.
for the repair and replacement market.
The Ferguson Blended Branches business The Industrial business distributes pipes, sells to customers across the residential, valves and ttings, including specialty commercial and industrial sectors fornew high-density polyethylene pipes, to industrial construction and RMI projects through its customers across all sectors including oil national branch network.
Insmaller markets Overview and gas, mining and power generation.
that may not justify a stand alone presence Itisa project driven business that has Performance for Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning historically performed strongly over the HVAC and Waterworks, a blended Revenue economic cycle.
The Industrial business location can also provide the products alsooffers maintenance, repair and andservices for thesecustomers.
6,168m operations services MRO and integrated 48% of Group The Waterworks business distributes pipes, services, off-site integrated supply with valves, hydrants, ttings and meters to centralised procurement, storeroom and Trading profit residential, commercial and municipal commodity management.
389m Business unit revenue Trading margin Regional KPIs % of total 2011 12 revenue 6.3% 2012 2011 Other 5% Blended Like-for-like revenue growth 8.4% 8.6% Key highlights Industrial branches 12% Trading margin 6.3% 5.7% 61% Acquisition of four businesses for total HVAC Five year performance m 7% consideration of Revenue Trading profit 29million.
Waterworks Opening of 29 new 15% branches during theyear.
6,168 5,820 5,613 5,500 5,174 Operations Revenue by market sector Business units 389 309 239 314 389 % of total 2011 12 revenue Blended Branches 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Waterworks HVAC Quarterly like-for-like revenue growth % Industrial Civil infrastructure Fire and Fabrication 15% Residential RMI B2C 27% 15% Non-residential new construction 11.4 10.2 10.0 14% Branches 9.4 7.4 7.4 6.7 6.0 1,274 Residential Employees new construction 0% Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Non-residential 14% RMI 30% 18,245 2011 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Fire and Fabrication business unit Gross margins declined slightly as Gain market supplies re protection systems to contracted business became increasingly share commercial contractors.
competitive, copper prices fell and also as aresult of the one-off supplier settlement In the Blended Branches Our B2C business Build.
com supplies to of11 million in the first half.
Operating business in the USA we consumers viawebsites using the product expenses were 6 per cent higher in constant have improved our market range and distribution network of the Blended currency, including 15 million of costs to share in the majority of Branches business.
This is a particularly reinstate 401k pension contributions and states this year.
This has fastgrowing area of the US business.
share-based payment charges, principally been driven by astrong inthe first half.
Nevertheless trading profit focus on customer service Market position and was 24 per cent ahead.
and knowledgeable branch competitive environment employees.
High levels Blended Branches continued to grow well.
ofproduct availability and The business protected gross margins Ferguson is the market leading distributor of high ll rates have driven which contributed to good profit ow plumbing supplies in the USA.
The market quality and sharegains.
The Waterworks and Industrial positions of the main business units are businesses grew strongly though Industrial estimated as follows: growth was restricted in the fourth quarter Market position as demand weakened in the oil and gas Blended Branches 1 sectors.
The Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning business remained subdued Waterworks 2 due to the removal of government tax HVAC 3 incentives last year.
com, our consumer internet business, continued to Industrial 4 grow strongly and achieved a very good operating result.
Ferguson has no direct competitor that operates across allits markets, and each Four acquisitions were completed in the business unit has its own competitors.
year, two in our Blended Branches business These range from large national players, and one in each of the Waterworks and including professional sales from the national Industrial businesses, and acquisitions homeimprovement chains, to single branch accounted for 1.3 per cent of revenue operations.
Themarket remains fragmented growth in the region.
Since the end of the with a large number of smalland regional year we have completed the acquisition of distributors making up the majority Power Equipment Direct, an online retailer ofthemarket.
ofgenerators and power equipment with revenue of 53 million in its last financial year.
Ferguson has continued to gain market The RMI segment We opened 29 new branches principally in share in the year, growing sales signicantly the Waterworks and Industrial segments.
remained resilient ahead of the market.
Headcount at 31 July 2012 was 764 higher and the modest at 18,245, half from acquired businesses.
Operating performance recovery in levels The USA trading margin was 6.3 per cent ofnew residential Revenue in the USA was 8 per cent ahead 2010 11: 5.7 per cent.
of last year on a like-for-like basis.
This construction includes the impact of price ination which is As at the date of this statement no significant continued.
estimated at about 2 per cent at the start of claims have arisen from the unintentional the year, though lower towards the year-end supply of mislabelled gaskets notied to partly as a result of falling copper prices.
TheRMI segment remained resilient and the modest recovery in levels of new residential construction continued.
The major business units of Blended Branches, Waterworks and Industrial continued to gain market share.
Risk management and internal control See page 42
