Wolseley plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Regional performance Nordics Ongoing Starkki is a Finnish chain of builders Business unit portfolio merchants with a format based on large andprole stores and well-trained specialist staff.
Wolseleys Nordic segment operates in Whilstlocal building contractors are the Denmark, Finland, Sweden and Norway.
largest single customer segment, consumers and small retail stores Stark is the leading distributor of heavy generatenearly 40 per cent of its revenue.
building materials, tools, hardware, timber Starkki has a strong record of excellent and panels in Denmark.
Starks customers profitability based on avery low cost base.
include both professional contractors and DIY builders with around half of stores Silvan is a DIY and retail chain in Denmark, having a dedicated DIYsection.
Starks focused on serving customers with building market leadership and its efficiencies materials for the RMI market.
The majority ofscale have historically delivered strong ofSilvans product range overlaps with results.
During the year we made twosmall otherbusinesses in the Nordic region and acquisitions and Stark continued tofocus therefore the business delivers significant ongrowing its market share.
synergies by taking advantage of these economies of scale.
Overview Beijer is the leading distributor of building materials in Sweden.
About half its revenue Smaller business units in the region include Performance comes from local building contractors and Neumann Bygg, a distributor of building Revenue another third from retail consumers.
As the materials inNorway, and Cheapy, a DIY Swedish market is very fragmented, Beijers chain in Sweden.
2,062m reach is valuable to vendors, and by 16% of Group maintaining efficiencies of scale and working capital management it delivers strong Trading profit trading results.
96m Trading margin Business unit revenue 4.6% Regional KPIs % of total 2011 12 revenue Sweden Key highlights Norway 2012 2011 DIY building Appointment of 2% Like-for-like revenue growth 1.1% 3.6% materials Denmark newCEO, Ole 8% building Trading margin 4.6% 5.5% MikaelJensen.
materials Denmark 36% DIY Five year performance m 9% Revenue Acquisition of five Trading profit businesses for total consideration of 17million.
Finland building materials Sweden building Operations 22% materials 23% 2,206 2,060 2,062 2,041 1,944 Ongoing business units Building materials Revenue by market sector Denmark 160 103 99 113 96 % of total 2011 12 revenue Finland 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Sweden Norway Civil Quarterly like-for-like revenue growth % infrastructure DIY Non-residential 2% Denmark new construction 11% Sweden 10% 6.6 6.0 4.2 3.4 Ongoing branches 2.3 Residential 1.6 1.7 2.9 new 0% construction 264 22% Ongoing employees Residential RMI 10% Non-residential Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 51% RMI 14% 6,340 2011 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 in the Nordics performed in line with the Market position and Improve market overall.
competitive environment productivity During the second half gross margins The market positions of the main business Electronic billing has been declined as a result of competitive pressure, units are estimated as follows: available at Stark for several particularly in Denmark and cost control years.
However the number Market position measures in the second half were not of customers using this sufficient to prevent profits declining.
During Denmark building materials 1 service was low.
In order to the year operating expenses increased by encourage more customers Sweden building materials 1 3per cent in constant currency, of which to move to electronic billing, 4million was due to the impact of Finland building materials 2 some improvements to the acquisitions and investment in nine new Denmark DIY 2 service have been made branches.
Trading profit for the ongoing and a fee was introduced business declined by 17 million to 96 million, The Stark and Beijer brands are market to charge customers for including 1 million of restructuring costs.
leaders in Denmark and Sweden paper invoices.
Almost The building materials business in Denmark respectively, with Silvan the number two DIY 1.6million invoices have increased revenue although gross margins retailer in Denmark and Starkki the second been sent electronically were lower as a result of pricing pressure largest builders merchant in Finland.
since November 2011, and a higher level of lower margin direct enabling cost savings to Each country in the Nordic region is a business.
The DIY business in Denmark bepassed to customers distinct market with its own national, regional performed better with tight cost control and substantial and local competition.
However, there are leading to an improved performance.
several major competitors operating across Revenue was slightly lower in Finland and the region in the building materials and DIY Sweden and despite tight control of costs markets.
The markets in the Nordics tend trading profit was lower.
In Norway conditions tobe fragmented and there are significant were more stable with revenue and gross opportunities to consolidate our market margins ahead although trading profit was positions across theregion.
slightly lower due to investment.
Inlight of current weak market conditions we are Operating performance planning further cost reductions in the region.
We completed five small acquisitions in After a reasonable first half construction theyear including two bolt-on acquisitions markets in the Nordics deteriorated sharply inDenmark, two in Sweden and one with weak consumer confidence also inNorway.
affecting RMI markets across most of the region.
Like-for-like revenue growth was The trading margin for ongoing Nordic 1per cent in the year, principally due businesses was 4.6 per cent 2010 11: topriceination.
Construction markets in the Nordics deteriorated sharply with weak consumer confidence also affecting RMI markets.
Risk management and internal control See page 42
