Wolseley plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Other disclosures Authority to allot shares Change of control significant agreements At the Annual General Meeting held in November 2011, The Company is not party to any significant agreements authority was given to the Directors to allot new 10 pence thattake effect, alter or terminate upon a change of ordinary shares up to a nominal value of 18,994,968. controlfollowing a takeover except for the 750,000,000 TheDirectors intend to propose at the Annual General multicurrency revolving credit facility agreement dated Meeting in November 2012 to seek authority to allot and 18July 2011 and US$270,000,000 revolving credit facility grant rights to subscribe for or to convert securities into agreement dated 21 July 2011, which could become shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 19,087,512, repayable following a relevant change of control.
representing approximately two-thirds of the Companys Thereareno agreements between the Company and issued share capital as at the date of this report, but of that anyDirector that would provide compensation for loss amount, 9,543,756 may only be allotted pursuant to a fully ofofce or employment resulting from a change of control pre-emptive rights issue.
If approved, this authority will following a takeover bid, except that provisions of the expireat the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting Companys share schemes may cause options and awards tobeheld in December 2013. granted under such schemes to vest in those circumstances.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions Subject to the terms of the authority noted above, the relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and Directors will also recommend that they be empowered to awards would normally vest and become exercisable for a allot equity securities for cash other than pro rata to existing limited period of time upon a change of control following a shareholders, until the Annual General Meeting to be held takeover, reconstruction or winding up of the Company not inDecember 2013.
This authority shall be limited to the being an internal reorganisation, subject at that time to rules allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate concerning the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
nominal amount of 1,431,563 being 5 per cent of the ordinary share capital issued at the date of this report.
Charitable donations TheDirectors currently have no intention to issue ordinary shares, other than pursuant to the Companys employee The Groups charitable donations in 2012 totalled 1,389,000 share schemes and any share dividend alternatives.
Donations to charitable organisations from the businesses across the Group range from small to Authority to purchase shares substantial amounts.
The charitable organisations which received donations of more than 10,000 per annum from In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the Wolseley and other details of charitable donations made in Company to purchase its own ordinary shares and a special the year are referred to in the Corporate responsibility report.
resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting inNovember 2012 to renew the Directors limited authority, Conicts of interest last granted in November 2011, to purchase the Companys ordinary shares in the market.
The authority will be limited Processes and procedures are in place which require toa maximum of 28,630,755 ordinary shares being Directors to identify and declare actual or potential approximately 10 per cent of the Companys issued share conictsof interest, whether matter-specic or situational.
capital at the date of this report and sets the minimum These notications are made by a Director prior to or andmaximum prices which may be paid.
The Directors ataBoard meeting, or in writing.
All Directors have a willuse this authority to purchase shares only after careful continuingduty toupdate any changes.
consideration, taking into account market conditions, other The Board may authorise potential conicts which can be investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and limited in scope, inaccordance with the Companys Articles theoverall financial position of the Company.
These authorisations are regularly reviewed.
will enable the Directors to continue to be able to respond During the year, all conict management procedures were promptly should circumstances arise in which they consider adhered to and operatedefciently.
that such a purchase would result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the best interests of the Company.
In accordance with the Companys Articles the Company is Creditor payment policy allowed to hold shares purchased by it to be held as treasury All Group companies are responsible for establishing terms shares that may be cancelled, sold for cash or used for the and conditions of trading with their vendors.
It is the purpose of employee share schemes.
As at the date of Companys policy that payments to vendors are made within thisreport, the Company holds no shares in treasury but agreed terms and are, where applicable, consistent with theDirectors currently intend that any shares which are ThePrompt Payment Code, which is sponsored by the UK purchased will be held in treasury.
The authorities to be Department for Business Innovation & Skills BIS.
Copies sought by each of the resolutions noted above are intended of this Code can be obtained from BIS.
At 31 July 2012, to apply equally to shares to be held by the Company theCompany had no trade creditors 2011: nil.
The amount astreasury shares and to the sale of treasury shares.
oftrade creditors for the Group as at 31 July 2012 was TheDirectors consider it desirable for these general equivalent to 63 days 2011: 64 days of trade purchases.
authorities to be available to provide exibility in the management of the Companys capital resources.
Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 the Performance review contained in the report of the CREST directors includes a fair review of the development and The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the performance of the business and the position of the Group, settlement system for stocks and shares.
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Directors responsibilities statement Employees The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial The Group actively encourages employee involvement statements in accordance with applicable law and andplaces particular importance on keeping employees regulations.
The Directors have prepared the Directors regularly informed on the Companys activities and financial Remuneration Report as if the Company were required performance and on matters affecting them individually todoso in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006. andthe business generally.
This can be through informal bulletins, in-house publications and briengs, as well as via Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires the Directors to the Companys intranet sites.
The Group operates on a prepare Group financial statements for each financial year.
largely decentralised basis with a rigorous control framework Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group exercised by a small team at the Group Services Ofce.
financial statements in accordance with International Thisallows for greater autonomy and accountability at a local Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by level and provides encouragement for the development of theEuropean Union.
The Directors are also responsible entrepreneurial air.
Local management is responsible for forpreparing parent company financial statements maintaining high standards of health and safety and for inaccordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards, ensuring that there is appropriate employee involvement and for being satisfied that the Group and parent company indecision-making.
financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or A European Works Council EWC has been operating loss of the Company and Group for that period.
In preparing since 1996 to provide a forum for informing and consulting these financial statements, the Directors are required to: employees in Europe on such matters as significant developments in the Groups operations, managements select suitable accounting policies and then apply plans and expectations, organisational changes within the themconsistently: Group and also for employee representatives to consult make judgements and accounting estimates that Group management about concerns over any aspect of arereasonable and prudent: theGroups operations.
At the date of this report, there were18EWC representatives of which 12 were employee state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union representatives and six were management representatives.
and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been Employee representatives are appointed from each followed, subject to any material departures disclosed European country in which Wolseley operates.
All employees andexplained in the Group and parent company financial are offered a range of benets depending on their local statements respectively: environment.
Where possible, they are also encouraged to prepare the financial statements on the going concern build a stake in the Company through the ownership of basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the shares through participation in the Companys employee company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain Employment policies the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable Our employment policies aim to attract the very best people accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and we believe that a diverse and inclusive culture is a key and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group factor in being a successful business.
The Group remains financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey committed to equality of opportunity in all of its employment Law 1991 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
It is the Groups policy that the selection of responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company employees for appointment, career development and andthe Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for promotion be determined solely on the skills and attributes theprevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
which are relevant to the job and which are in accordance The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and with the laws of the country concerned, and it will integrity of the Companys website.
Jersey legislation and progressively promote diversity.
Ongoing training of United Kingdom regulation, governing the preparation employees and the continued development of their skills is of anddissemination of financial statements, may differ from prime importance to the Group.
These policies also cover the legislation in other jurisdictions.
continuation of employment and appropriate retraining for employees who become disabled during their employment.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listedon pages 64 and 65, confirm that, to the best of theirknowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and Wolseley plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Other disclosures continued Indemnities and insurance Restrictions on transfer of shares The Company indemnifies the Directors in respect of There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the liabilities incurred as a result of their ofce in accordance with Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in Articles of Association and to the maximum extent permitted the Company.
No person holds securities in the Company by Jersey law.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions to carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
the maximum extent permitted by English law were granted The Company is not aware of any agreements between to all Directors in ofce and to the Group Company Secretary holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the by Wolseley plc now known as Wolseley Limited and these transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The Companys remain in force as at the date of this report.
When Wolseley Articles of Association may be amended by a special plc a Jersey registered company became the new holding resolution of the Companys shareholders.
company, additional third party indemnity provisions were granted by the Company and have been granted to all Share capital and voting rights Directors appointed since November 2010 in accordance Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with Jersey law.
with any movements in the issued share capital during the There is appropriate insurance coverage in respect of legal year, are shown at note 26 of the consolidated financial action against the Directors and ofcers.
As at 31 July 2012 there were 286,281,635 fully Companys indemnities nor insurance would provide any paid ordinary shares of 10 pence each in issue and listed coverage to the extent that a Director is proved to have acted onthe London Stock Exchange.
Subject to the provisions of Companies Jersey Law 1991 and without prejudice to any rights attached to any existing Independent Auditors shares or class of shares, any share may be issued with andauditinformation such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution determine or as the Board shall determine.
 LLP PwC are willing to continue Copiesof the Companys Articles of Association, can be as auditors of the Company and resolutions concerning their obtained from Companies Registry, Jersey or by writing to reappointment and the determination of their remuneration the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel.
will be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting.
TheDirectors in ofce at the date of this report confirm that, The Company also has a Level 1 American Depositary so far as they are each aware, in respect of the consolidated Receipt ADR programme in the US for which Deutsche financial statements for the financial year ended 31 July 2012, Bank Trust Company Americas acts as Depositary.
there is no relevant audit information of which PwC are TheAmerican Depositary Shares ADS which are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that ought evidenced by ADRs are traded on the US over-the-counter to have been taken as a Director to be aware, in respect of market, where each ADS represents one-tenth of a Wolseley the consolidated financial statements for the financial year plc ordinary share.
ended 31 July 2012, of any relevant audit information and toestablish that PwC are aware of that information.
Share options During the financial year ended 31 July 2012, options were Political donations exercised pursuant to the companys share option schemes At each of the Annual General Meetings held since 2002, resulting in the allotment of 1,370,676 ordinary 10 pence shareholders have passed a resolution, as a precaution, shares.
A further 29,859 ordinary 10 pence shares have toapprove donations to political organisations and to incur been allotted under these schemes since the end of the political expenditure as such terms are now dened in financial year to the date of this report.
Details of shares sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006.
Each issued during the year are set out in note 26 to the year, the Board has confirmed that it operates a policy of nancialstatements.
notgiving any cash contribution to any political party in the ordinary meaning of those words and that it has no intention of changing that policy.
In previous years this resolution related to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
TheCompany has ensured that, although Jersey registered, it will continue to apply the same standards and has such provisions incorporated into its Articles of Association.
TheDirectors propose to seek, once more, authority for theGroup to make political donations and or incur political expenditure for amounts not exceeding 125,000 in a total aggregate, which they might otherwise be prohibited from making or incurring under the provisions of Article 12 of the Companys Articles of Association and which would not amount to donations in the ordinary sense of the word.
This authority would last until the Companys next Annual General Meeting.
Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 UK pension schemes Wolseley currently has two pension schemes in respect of UK employees: 1 Dened benefit Scheme the Wolseley Group Retirement Benets Plan is a trust-based dened benets scheme.
Itconsists of two sections: the Wolseley Section and the William Wilson Section.
Both sections have been closed to new entrants since 31 May 2009.
The two sections are as a result of two pension schemes merging on 1 January 2010.
The Wolseley section contains all members in the Wolseley Group Retirement Benets Plan as at 31 December 2009 and the William Wilson Section contains all members in the William Wilson Group Pension Scheme as at 31 December 2009.
There are three trustees consisting of an independent trustee, a member-nominated trustee and a corporate trustee.
The corporate trustee consists of six trustee directors and, save for Mr David Illingworth chairman of the trustees and Ian Percy, CBE, all of the other trustee directors are employees of the Group.
2 Dened Contribution Scheme the Wolseley Group Dened Contribution Plan is a trust-based dened contribution pension scheme with three Company nominated trustees, one of whom is an independent trusteeand two who are UK-based employees of the Group.
Inaddition, up to three member-nominated trusteesmay be appointed.
Following an election process inJanuary 2012, there are no member nominated trustees.
There was one member-nominated trustee in the year, butashe was an Encon employee he resigned after the Encon business wassold out of the Group in October 2011.
The chairman ofthe trustees isWayne Phelan of PSIndependent TrusteesLimited.
On behalf of the Board Richard Shoylekov Group Company Secretary and General Counsel 1 October 2012 Index to principal Directors report disclosures elsewhere in the report Dividends Page 40 Going concern Page 41 profit Page 38
