How were doing Healthcare Communications Ogilvy CommonHealth With 54 new business wins in 2012 in the US alone, and 14 launches relaunches, OCHWW is Worldwide wellpositioned to kick off the year, and continues toexpand its scope of work by winning business Report by Matt Giegerich below inthe broader categories of health and wellness.
Chairman and chief executive officer The Global Executive Board saw the addition ofDarlene Dobry and Shaun Urban, who join US From the recasting of the very idea of healthcare for managing partners Michael Parisi and Marc Weiner, the masses, the resetting of client expectations under Gloria Gibbons overseeing OCHWWs EAME increasing pressure, to revolutionary new channels practices and Emma Sergeant leading OCHWWs ofcommunication, change is the order of the day.
Asia-Pacific and Latin American regions, as well as Medical marketers today must be experts in their OCHWWs Global Client Portfolio.
The Board is chosen disciplines and logistical acrobats able to leap, rounded out by Robert Saporito, chief financial twist, and adapt to environments that change in the officer and Susan DiDonato, chief talent officer.
Agility and responsiveness are table stakes, and Ogilvy CommonHealth Worldwide OCHWW has made them a rallying cry for 2013.
Worldwide, OCHWW grew to The marrying of Ogilvy PRs healthcare practice 60offices in 41 cities in 33 countries, with OCHWW in 2012, removing company silos adding offices in Russia, Mumbai, and putting digital at our core, has borne dividends.
We are proud to be the health behaviour experts of Beijing, Shanghai, Hong Kong Ogilvy & Mather.
Worldwide, OCHWW grew to andSingapore 60offices in 41 cities in 33 countries, adding offices in Russia, Mumbai, Beijing, Shanghai, Hong Kong andSingapore.
The Ogilvy Twin Peaks strategy to elevate the dual goals of creativity and effectiveness translated into campaigns and initiatives that have won global acclaim for OCHWW in 2012.
OCHWW received aGold Aspid, a Gold and Bronze Sol fide Oro, an Effie Award, two Gold MM&M Awards, 13 Rx Club Awards, and achieved finalist status at the CLIO Healthcare and Global Awards shows.
OCHWW was also selected to present two sessions at the prestigious SXSW Conference and Festival this year.
In 2013, OCHWW is poised to reveal itself an agile, contemporary partner perfectly in step with theneeds of the day in healthcare marketing.
From advertising, digital interactive services, scientific communications, payer marketing to account planning, content strategy and analytics, the offering at OCHWW makes it a formidable marketing partner.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 75 How were doing Healthcare Communications ghg professional dialogue.
ghg remains at the forefront of emerging trends, and counsels clients on the need for Report by Lynn OConnor Vos below a more robust and satisfactory customer experience Chief executive officer in healthcare.
ghg believes it is time to advance therelationship between professionals, patients, providers and payers, leverage emerging technologies to streamline care and improve the user interface and overall healthcare experience.
This transformational shift will ultimately deliver healthier outcomes for patients and create new opportunities for better business results for our clients.
In 2012, the agency saw significant new business success, including cross-Group wins for Roche Diagnostics Diabetes Care, Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson and Bayer.
We expanded or created new digital campaigns for Bayer, Boehringer Ingelheim and Pfizer, and continued work in the dynamic categories of animal health, specialty care and mobile health.
Wegrew significantly our participation on several ghg achieved a fourth year of significant growth WPP team accounts.
in2012 and broadened its client base beyond ghg is committed to giving back, and in 2012 pharmabrands to include medical devices, food wecontributed our insights, strategic guidance and andcompanion animal health, health advocacy breakthrough campaigns to The Jed Foundation, andcausemarketing.
As digital continues to change Save the Children and The Helen Keller Foundation thehealthcare landscape dramatically, ghg delivered among others.
award-winning, high-impact digital and mobile programs for professionals and consumers alike.
We believe the remedy for chronic diseases and many of the challenges at the heart of the healthcare crisis lies inbetter communication We shaped our success in 2012 on a critical thought that inspires all we do: Communications is the key to establishing a healthier world.
We believe the remedy for chronic diseases and many of the challenges at the heart of the healthcare crisis lies inbetter communication finding the vehicles, motivators and incentives that will drive long-term behavioral change and improve the patient- 76 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How were doing Healthcare Communications GCI Health GCI Healths exceptional track record stems from hand-picked healthcare talent and offering diverse Report by Wendy Lund capabilities including research and insights, media Chief executive officer relations, social media, corporate communications, employee engagement, advocacy development, As WPPs healthcare-focused global public relations milestone regulatory management and patient agency, GCI Health continued to thrive in 2012 mobilization and health policy.
despite significant industry downturn marked by thin pipelines, patent expirations and stricter-than-ever Sudler & Hennessey see report on page 54 regulatory guidelines.
We aggressively diversified our business across sectors and locations, adding clients in beauty aesthetics, consumer healthcare and health IT, and a new office in Chicago.
Weve also added clients with drugs devices in clinical development in highly competitive areas like CNS, oncology, and womens and mental health.
Additionally, we worked on one of the most high-profile healthcare industry crises in the controversial area of drug shortage.
We aggressively diversified our business across sectors and locations, adding clients in beauty aesthetics, consumer healthcare and health IT Our differentiation strategies played a vital role inour success.
Notably, we continued to address the changing role of patients through our emphasis on putting patients first.
The  relationship is evolving, as todays patients have exponentially more access to information than ever.
As a result, we put the patient experience at the center of our communications work.
This involves uncovering the key insights that inspire patients to take action and developing educational initiatives that are relevant, timely and tap into todays lifestyle issues.
For this reason we were thrilled to be recognized and honored to win the SABRE award for Pharmaceutical Rx Campaign of the Year, for the second year running.
