What we think Why we are Mad Men and Women as well as Maths Men and Women The state were in as supermarkets and processed food manufacturers inEurope have discovered in the row over the use Government is here to stay as a regulator, investor ofhorsemeat in burgers and bolognese.
It is likely to continue to do so for a accountability is becoming more and more significant, lot longer, as it did after the Great Depression.
WPP especially in more regulated Western economies.
manages the media buying for the UK government through M4C.
The government wanted to save costsand then they saw there was a benefit to Clicks and BRICs co-ordination.
Team Whitehall is another of our client teams, focused on UK government.
We want As the five grey swans indicate, 2013 and beyond will todo the same thing around the world inBrussels, be a time of uncertainty.
This year will be tough, but Singapore and Washington.
early spending from the mini-quadrennial of 2014 will Also, the third sector will be highly active help.
That year will benefit from the mid-term US withthe importance of brands and new media Congressionals, the Winter Olympics inSochi, and inphilanthropy, fund-raising and education all the FIFA World Cup in Brazil.
Furthermore, continued onthe increase, as the world gets more competitive long-term growth will be driven by horizontality, acrossboundaries.
theapplication of technology, big data and the unstoppable expansion of new markets and new media.
And finally, to summarise, 10 quick thoughts: Sustainability is now at the heart of corporate strategy.
Virtually no chairman or chief executive does not 1 World power is shifting to the East, South East believe that doing good is good business.
stakeholders at your peril, if youre trying to build 2 There is continued manufacturing overcapacity brands for the long term.
As John Browne, then BPs but increasing shortage of supply of talent.
chief executive, said in a speech at Stanford University 3 The web will continue to disintermediate legacy in 1997, corporate social responsibility is not in business, be judged by different criteria and opposition to profitability.
Its broader than that now: stealtalent.
all companies are thinking about their behaviours.
4 Internal communications remain the biggest Doing good is good business.
challenge for chairmen and CEOs.
5 Retailers will continue to put pressure on manufacturing with online retailing easing Corporate accountability is becoming thepressure.
6 Businesses will become increasingly centralised more and more significant especially in and local.
more regulated Western economies 7 Finance and procurement will continue to grow in power and influence in a slow-growth world.
8 Government will be with us for a long time as If you run a public company, it must live up to regulator, investor and intervenor post-Lehman.
itsname, as issues of executive pay and corporate 9 Consolidation will continue amongst clients, taxbecome more prominent in recessionary times.
The amount of tax you pay in local markets matters, 10 Lastly, and most importantly, sustainability, too, as Amazon, Google and Starbucks have found in likemarketing, is at the heart of all long-term Britain.
Where your supplies come from matters, too, corporate strategies.
