How were doing Letter to share owners TheGroup completed 65 acquisitions in 2012: 28 Kantar Health, Kantar Retail, Kantar Worldpanel, acquisitions and investments were classified in new Hill Knowlton Strategies, Ogilvy Public Relations, markets of which 20 were in new media, 27 in Burson-Marsteller, Cohn & Wolfe, OgilvyOne Consumer Insight, including data analytics and the Worldwide, Wunderman, OgilvyAction, G2, application of technology, with the balance of 10 POSSIBLE, 24 7 Media, AKQA, Ogilvy driven by individual client or agency needs.
CommonHealth Worldwide, Sudler & Hennessey, Specifically, in 2012 acquisitions and increased ghg, The Brand Union, Landor and FITCH in equity stakes were completed in Advertising and high-growth markets or where their market share Media Investment Management in the US, Germany, isinsufficient.
Indeed, we recently announced the the Netherlands, the Slovak Republic, Turkey, Israel, merger of OgilvyAction and G2 to form the largest Jordan, Brazil, Colombia, Mexico, Australia, China, and most geographically complete activation agency South Korea, Thailand and Vietnam: in Consumer in the world.
Together they will be uniquely placed Insight in the US, France, Germany, Turkey, UAE, toexploit the intersection of the worlds brands Chile, China and Pakistan: in Public Relations & anddistribution systems.
Public Affairs in the US, Canada, the UK, Denmark, We will also enhance our leadership position in Finland, France, Russia and Australia: in direct, Consumer Insight by further development of our key digital and interactive in the US, the UK, Germany, brands with particular emphasis on North America, Hungary, Russia, South Africa, Turkey, Australia, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Continental and China, Indonesia, Pakistan and Singapore: and in Eastern Europe.
We will continue our growth of Healthcare Communications in Hong Kong.
research panels and have established a Kantar-wide So far in 2013, the Group has made acquisitions operational capability.
We will reinforce our growing orincreased equity interests in Advertising and position in media research through Kantar Media, MediaInvestment Management in Australia, Canada, which includes our investments in television and Colombia, Myanmar and Thailand: in Consumer internet audience research and IBOPE, Marktest Insight in Cambodia and Myanmar: in Public andCSM CTR, which, combined, is the market Relations & Public Affairs in China and Vietnam: leader outside North America.
We now measure and in direct, digital and interactive in Latin America, television and or internet audiences in 46 countries China, the Philippines, South Africa, Turkey, the UK around theworld.
In addition, we intend to reinforce our worldwide These acquisitions continue to move us forward strength in direct and interactive marketing and to our previously described strategic priorities: research through our traditional channels such as expanding the share of revenues of our businesses in OgilvyOne, Wunderman, G2, Blanc & Otus and Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa and the Middle Lightspeed.
We will also invest directly in new East, and Central and Eastern Europe to 35-40%: channels through start-ups, particularly as US and innew media to 35-40%: and in Consumer Insight, French valuations in search, for example, are still direct, digital and interactive, to over one-half.
Other opportunities will be sought toenhance our online capabilities.
Lastly, we will continue to develop our specialist Expansion plans expertise in areas such as healthcare, retail and interactive and to identify new high-growth areas.
We intend to expand our strong networks Ogilvy & Mather, JWT, Y&R, Grey, United, CHI Bates & Partners, Mindshare, MEC, MediaCom, Maxus, tenthavenue, TNS, Millward Brown, Kantar Media, 38 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012
