How were doing Advertising agency networks Grey Group Grey Report by Jim Heekin right Chairman and chief executive officer, GreyGroupandGrey 2012 was Greys fifth year in a row of record new business and creative performance.
Advertising Age once again named Grey to its prestigious A-List of the 10 hottest shops in the US.
Grey New York was named toCreativitys A-List of the 10 most creative agencies in the world for the first time.
Importantly, acclaimed integrated campaigns from NewYork for Grey took top honors as best all-around adagency of CoverGirl, Pantene, Febreze, ETrade, NFL, DirecTV 2012 in Forbes survey of agency search consultants.
and Canon gained broad popularity and success.
We continued to expand our client roster with Grey New Yorks president and chief creative officer, high-profile new business wins including Tor Myhren, was inducted into the American RadioShack, Marriott, AARP, Duracell, Allergan, Advertising Federations Hall of Achievement.
News Corporation, Pfizers Advil, Vodafone, Michael Houston, GreyNew Yorks managing National Park Foundation and Kelloggs Pringles.
director, was promoted to chief operating officer Many of our longtime clients grew in revenue and inrecognition of its record-breaking new business.
wewere awarded significant new assignments from Grey London, led by Chris Hirst, achieved a strong Procter & Gamble, GlaxoSmithKline, Canon, 3M, new business performance and the agency and he were Bosch, Eli Lilly, Darden Restaurants, Playtex and named to Campaigns top agencies and top CEOs Boehringer Ingelheim.
Its British Heart Foundation campaign Vinnie was singled out among the best advertising of 2012.
TH Peng, chairman and CEO of Grey Greater Grey New York was named China, oversaw arecord new business performance in China, adding significant local clients, growing toCreativitys A-List of the 10 most our multinationals and attracting world-class talent.
creative agencies in the world for We continue to invest in the worlds developing thefirst time growth countries andexpand our service offering.
Grey 141 Group, a full-service ad agency in Brazil, launched successfully, significantly increasing our Greys mantra of Famously Effective work ranking in this critical market.
Our partnership fueled our soaring creative reputation.
We earned withPOSSIBLE, WPPs interactive marketing 22Cannes Lions, our best showing ever, and ranked network, expanded its global footprint.
We enhanced among the top 10 winning agencies for the fourth our digital offering with the acquisition of premier year in a row under the leadership of worldwide companies in Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin chiefcreative director, Tim Mellors.
And we pursued our aggressive expansion Greys flagship agencies in New York and London of shopper marketing, healthcare and custom continued their forward momentum.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 55 How were doing Advertising agency networks Today, we are producing some of the most Wealso added great new brands to the portfolio: leading-edge creative work across platforms, Joshua G2 in London won Costa Coffee and breaking new ground in brand experience and Hershey, and G2 Russia started assignments building consumer relationships.
pipeline has never been more robust and we are G2 Brazil began working with Panasonic and bullish on the future.
Nestl, while Marketdata G2 in So Paulo gained LG, C&A and TOTVS.
G2 Japan landed new Kraft work and MHD G2 G2 Worldwide Malaysia was given work on Maxis: and G2 Korea secured additional Diageo assignments.
Report by Joe Celia below G2 USA won a major assignment from Mondelz Chairman and chief executive officer and began working with Fidelity.
Overall business from our top clients across the network increased... We strengthened our relationships with ourmajor global client brands Weve always been proud of the breakthrough work we do for our current clients and will do for our new partners and are pleased to be an important part of all their continued growth.
The industry continued to recognize G2 for its strategic leadership, premier capability and creativity.
G2 Romania won all three Effie Shopper Marketing prizes for its work for clients P&G and Vodafone.
Marketdata G2 was named CRM Agency of the Year for the second consecutive year at the 2012 ABEMD Awards, Brazils most prestigious direct Our performance in 2012 reflected our ability to grow marketing awards ceremony.
For its client Leica and win premier brands through a sound strategy Camera, G2 Germany won the red dot: best of the based on focused capability and talented people.
best for excellent design quality and a second award Overall business from our top clients across the for the campaign Go Play!
to promote the Leica network increased, namely Heineken, Liberty camera V-Lux 30.
Mutual, Vodafone, Novartis and Emirates.
We strengthened our relationships with our major global client brands, expanding GSK assignments inSpain and Germany and Emirates in the UK.
