How were doing Letter to share owners Creativity remains paramount Early on in his tenure John OKeeffe identified Cannes as the most important arena to demonstrate the Groups creative credentials.
Results have been Sixth, to improve still further the creative very encouraging.
capabilities and reputation of all our For the second year running your Company businesses.
In pursuing these aims, the wasnamed Creative Holding Company of the Year 6 Group is led by John OKeeffe, WPPs at the2012 Cannes Lions International Festival worldwide creative director.
The festival is the worlds premier progress continues to be impressive.
showcase for excellence in communications, There is much talk of co-ordinated communications, coveringall markets and all disciplines.
Back to back horizontality, and price effectiveness.
recognition of this kind is a real marker of progress All are important.
and consistency, particularly as our main competitors None is as important as the quality of the work.
posted record performances of their own.
Creative excellence remains and will remain Based on the collective number of Cannes Lions paramount.
If you drew a graph plotting creative awarded to WPP agencies for creative excellence, awards as a proxy for creativity against margins, WPP accumulated 1,589 points in the competition, for any group of agencies, there would be a very followed by Omnicom second with 1,383 points strong correlation.
The more awards, the stronger andPublicis with 1,018 points.
Awards were won by themargins.
The clients procurement department WPP agencies from more than 30 countries across all fades into the background when the work is strong.
Following 2011s advertising Grand Prix Of the three things we do strategic thinking, for JWT Shanghai, in a gratifying double for WPP creative execution and co-ordination creative China, 2012 saw another Grand Prix awarded to execution is undoubtedly the most important.
And in what proved to be a stellar This of course means creativity in its broadest sense.
year all round, Ogilvy was also named winner of the Our clients look for creative thinking and output coveted Network of the Year.
not just from advertising agencies, public relations 2012 also saw the sixth annual WPPED Cream and design companies, but also from our media awards, our internal awards program for outstanding companies and our research companies.
Millward work across the Group.
Brown remains arguably one of our most creative Having said this, we have to maintain a careful brands.
Witness the BrandZ Top 100 Most and to some extent cautious approach.
A recent Powerful Brands study published annually with the significant problem we had in the creative area has Financial Times and its study of the BrandZ Top made us take a long, detailed look at our creative 50Most Valuable Chinese Brands, together with the culture to make sure that our emphasis on creative recently launched BrandZ Top 50 Most Valuable improvement doesnt result in inappropriate scam Latin American Brands.
ads for festivals, for example.
We need to take total We intend to achieve our creative objectives by responsibility for such events and make sure that stepping up our training and development programs: ourdrive in creativity doesnt result in totally by recruiting the finest external talent: by celebrating inappropriate behaviour.
and rewarding outstanding creative success tangibly and intangibly: by acquiring strong creative companies: and by encouraging, monitoring and promoting our companies achievements in winning creative awards.
