What we think Why we are Mad Men and Women as well as Maths Men and Women So long, silo Of course, we cannot reinvent the wheel incessantly and unnecessarily.
But if we think about Horizontality is an awkward word, but its meaning WPP horizontally, we can deliver first-class solutions is plain.
It means getting our people to work more more effectively and more efficiently at lower cost.
It means selecting the best and The notion is gaining traction all the time through most appropriate talent from across our diverse autos, pharmaceuticals, hotels and fast-moving brands and tribes.
And then dedicating that talent consumer goods.
It is the way we are thinking and toa single client.
The creation of teams Bespoke teams, set up solely to serve a major ofagencies within agencies designed to the needs client, are increasingly the way we operate.
They ofclients is incredibly powerful.
advise more than 35 clients worldwide, accounting for about one-third of our $17 billion revenues.
Among these clients are Bayer, Colgate-Palmolive Maths Men, as well as Mad Men Red Fuse, Ford Team Detroit, Johnson & Johnson Team Chemistry, Mazda Garage Team, Miller Essentially, we are investment managers for our Coors Cavalry and, most recently, Pfizer.
clients, advising them how to spend around $90 WPP employs over 165,000 people in 110 billion of media.
So it makes sense that WPP should countries effectively grouped in about 12 verticals.
offer platforms that are agnostic, and help clients Ithas grown largely by acquisition and remains a plan and buy media.
To that end, we are applying series of valuable brands.
To get those people to talk more and more technology to our business, along to one another isnever going to be easy.
WPP started with big data.
We are now Maths Men as well as as two people in a room.
Even as we became two, Mad Men and Women.
there was an integration and communication problem.
Thus we go head to head not only with advertising and market research groups such as Omnicom, IPG, Publicis, Dentsu, Havas, Nielsen, Ipsos and GfK, Bespoke teams, set up solely to serve butalso new technology companies such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Apple and Amazon and then with amajor client, are increasingly the way technology consulting companies such as Infosys, weoperate Wipro, Accenture and Deloitte.
You could call big data collating all the sources ofdata our clients get ours and others into With 165,000, we have to try even harder to link adashboard and in real time.
More importantly, and share knowledge across our clients businesses with theadaptation of technology gives us platforms a single point of access, one person who can identify todifferentiate ourselves from competition.
and muster the resources needed from across WPP.
Telling it like it is Better, cheaper, more effective In the new marketing environment, there must surely It is all the more necessary that we do this when be a premium on advice from third parties such as powerful procurement departments within clients WPP.
The growth of digital makes that even more so.
demand value for money, trying to combine efficiency If the new technology companies really are new media and creativity.
Equally, it is essential for consumer owners, our clients require disinterested, independent goods manufacturers who are squeezed and evaluation of how much they are spending on these commoditised by  retailers.
media and whether its being spent effectively.
