How were doing Branding & Identity B to D Group Lambie-Nairn Report by Craig Branigan below Lambie-Nairn continued to grow its reputation as Chairman and chief executive officer the leading branding agency in broadcast, sports and telecoms.
The company re-pitched and retained their largest client, Telefonica, and added significant wins from Direct Line Group, New Zealand Telecom, ITUand PPTV.
Landor Associates see report on page 53 The Partners Group agencies expanded their footprints in 2012, with FITCH adding a talented team in Phoenix, The The Partners had a strong finish to the year.
The Brand Union opening in Beijing, Landor launching agency grew its New York operation, and Singapore inMoscow, VBAT expanding its reach into Mexico, exceeded expectations in its first year, winning and The Partners solidifying its position in Singapore.
clients such as Air Asia and Tune Hotels.
Another Tough times meant we had to work harder to good performance in creative awards saw the agency secure new business, but the efforts were rewarded winning bronze at Cannes, finishing third overall in with the addition of many respected brands, including Design Weeks Creative League Table, performing adidas, BMW, MARS, D. E Master Blenders, Etihad, well at D&AD, and garnering multiple WPPED Forever 21, Merck & Co. Novartis and Wells Fargo.
As we enter 2013, we believe that our agencies are well positioned to succeed in this highly uncertain environment.
We will continue to expand our offers, PeclersParis while introducing them into high-growth geographies.
PeclersParis achieved its best topand bottom-line results since 2000.
Inroads were made in the US, Addison Mexico and China, which helped deliver significant growth for the consulting business.
Trend books, Addison had another successful year with continued considered the anchor of the agency, achieved development across the full range of its integrated double-digit revenue growth.
Projects for clients such asBASF, BG Group, Ericsson, Heineken and Zurich Insurance Group have demonstrated the importance VBAT of this integrated offer in growing revenue from existing and new clients alike.
2012 saw VBATs upward trajectory continue with revenue and profits growing significantly for the The Brand Union see report on page 73 second straight year.
The agencys ability to build the businesses of key clients such as Heineken, PostNL, D. E Master Blenders, FrieslandCampina and FITCH see report on page 74 Intergamma has led to this success.
72 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How were doing Branding & Identity The Brand Union Report by Simon Bolton right Worldwide chief executive officer 2012 was a fruitful year for the Brand Union.
Other than our progress with key clients, our people and geographical expansion, the centre-point was the formulation of our new belief that the experience of the brand is the brand.
This provides us with anew lens to assess the health and vitality of our clients brands, well beyond the traditional boundaries of advice and activation.
Integral to this development was the arrival of the bright minds of Digit, a brand interaction consultancy which This network was further strengthened by enhances our offer in the digital space.
peoplemoves and appointments including Ben Our top 10 client relationships were all retained Gordon and Po Kay Lee moving from our London and grew strongly as we broadened the base of this business to Hong Kong and Singapore respectively.
business across our network offices and across our We also welcomed major new talent into the network range of services.
including Gunpong Panthongprasert as managing director of Bangkok, Tasneem Ali as managing director for Mumbai, Mauro Marescialli as Integral to [our] development managing director of our Beijing operations and, most recently, the appointment of industry luminary was the arrival of the bright minds Fred Richards as worldwide creative director of Digit... which enhances our offer Consumer Branding, based out of New York.
in the digital space Validation of our high standards came in India where we were named Agency of the Year by Indias Economic Times for a fourth consecutive year under Sujata Keshavan, and in London where we were placed second in the Marketing Week awards.
Whilst the economy remains challenging, I am confident that The Brand Union will continue to develop its reputation and skills to grow and sustain our clients brands around the world.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 73 How were doing Branding & Identity FITCH Gaining more industry recognition than ever before, FITCH won Design Team of the Year at the Report by Lois Jacobs below Retail Week Interior Awards, and around the world Chief executive officer we collected 53 branding and design awards.
Our use of digital in-store for Asian Paints was particularly lauded.
Winning DDI magazines Design Firm of the Yearin North America was a particularly meaningful award because selection is by client and peer vote.
The win is a testament to the quality of our creative work and caps a remarkable three-year period for FITCH in the US with revenues more than doubling since 2009.
One of the drivers for this success has been our thinking and process around Seamless Retail, FITCHs innovative approach to the omni-channel customer journey.
Our 2012 research, The Joy of 2012 was another good year for FITCH with Shopping www.
com think-article the-joy-ofworldwide growth in double digits and outstanding shopping, examined diverse shopper habits in our performance in Russia, India and North America.
key markets, providing valuable insight and We welcomed many new clients to the network, generating significant press coverage.
including Michelin and MGM in North America, Our strategic focus in 2013 will be continued adidas and Electrolux in Europe, Godrej in India, geographical expansion and the strengthening of our Intercontinental in the Middle East, B&Q in China offering to create more seamless brand experiences and StarHub in Singapore.
We got off to a good start with the opening of our Moscow and Atlanta offices at the beginning of the year.
More than 2,500 FITCH-designed stores opened their doors in Russia last year alone across sectors as diverse as fashion and footwear, digital technologies and retail banking We helped take Target to an urban audience with its new CityTarget stores, and we continued to create rich, immersive, branded retail for Dell globally.
More than 2,500 FITCH-designed stores opened their doors in Russia last year alone across sectors as diverse as fashion and footwear, digital technologies and retail banking.
