How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review Employees complete our compulsory ethics Examples of client work in this area are included training, How we behave, which was updated in in our Sustainability Report.
It is based on the WPP Code of Conduct, and covers topics such as diversity, privacy, responsibility to stakeholders, and avoiding misleading work.
It Marketing standards helps employees identify and respond appropriately to ethical issues they may encounter in their work.
Our companies are expected to meet high ethical Anti-bribery and corruption training is also standards in all aspects of business, including in compulsory.
By the end of 2012, over 100,000 thework they produce for our clients, in deciding employees had completed both sets of training.
thecommissions they undertake, and in protecting Employees can report any concerns or suspected consumer data used for marketing purposes.
Our cases of misconduct in confidence through our third principles for marketing ethics are summarised in party-managed Right to Speak facility, overseen by our Code of Conduct and Sustainability Policy and our internal audit department.
This is publicised covered in our Group ethics training completed through induction packs, the Group intranet, the byallemployees.
WPP Policy Book and our ethics training.
There We have a review process for our people to refer were 42 calls made via Right to Speak during 2012. commissions that are potentially sensitive due to theclient or the nature of the brief.
Before accepting work that may pose an ethical risk, employees are The impact of our work required to elevate the decision to the most senior person in the relevant office and then to the most Creating a more sustainable society requires senior executive of the WPP company in the country behaviour change on a large scale.
Marketing concerned, who will decide if further referral to andcommunications will play an important role.
Our companies work with clients on sustainability.
A Group-level committee meets at least quarterly, Our research companies help them refine their to discuss cases of concern, potential compliance strategies, develop new products, and deepen their issues and new risk areas.
Committee members insight into consumer attitudes.
Our creative agencies include the Group chief counsel, compliance officer, help them to create compelling communications Group finance director and the head of sustainability.
tomarket more sustainable products and services.
The committee also reviews potential client-related Many of our companies have developed bespoke risks such as bribery and corruption, data privacy sustainability services for clients.
These include and competition rules.
Burson-Marstellers Global Corporate Responsibility However, despite these highest of intentions, we Practice, Hill Knowlton Strategies CR still make mistakes.
Recently, for example, scam Sustainability Communications offering, JWT Ethos, ads produced purely for advertising festival awards Ogilvy Change, Ogilvy Earth, P&Gs S-Team and never actually run, were produced in India for including Added Value, FITCH, G2, The Futures one of our most important clients.
These were Company, Hill Knowlton Strategies, Landor offensive and unforgiveable.
Appropriate action was andPenn Schoen Berland, and PSB Green.
taken in respect of those immediately responsible but We also create social marketing campaigns, it is felt by senior management and the Board that a usually for government or NGO clients, tackling more comprehensive and independent cultural review issues related to public health, safety or the needs to be taken to ensure that this does not happen environment.
They are designed to raise awareness again.
This will be implemented shortly, subject to or encourage people to change their behaviour.
