How were doing Letter to share owners In developing highly competitive incentives isa key strategic priority for us.
Our competition combined with extremely attractive working is, sometimes, not so rigorous in evaluating and environments, we increasingly differentiate ourselves rewarding performance for example, taking from our competitors and improve the attractiveness advantage of sharp falls in share prices to re-price or of WPP companies as destinations for talent.
Our issue options or giving limited disclosure to investors quarterly reviews with the operating companies have of compensation plan details.
A failure of external, been structured to give more time and attention to as well as internal, audiences to understand the talent and to clients.
Our recruiting efforts throughout importance of globally competitive incentive-based 2012 were especially fruitful as we successfully compensation will undermine the Companys targeted and recruited top talent within and beyond leadership position.
After all, we invest almost $10 our industry, often competing with investment billion a year in human capital, as opposed to only banking, management consulting, new media and $500 million in fixed assets 20 times more.
The war for talent is fierce and will intensify further, and there is more to be done.
The blueprint for our executive development Communications curriculum has been completed, and our flagship client leadership training program, Maestro, now Of all businesses, a communications services inits 10th year, is being continuously developed.
The company must be a model of excellent external and parent company and each of our operating companies internal communications.
To that end, we accelerate have installed their own approach to performance understanding of the Groups vast resources with assessment and succession planning, aimed at araft of regular communications through our developing the careers of their people, improving the websites, our social media channels and in print: quality of feedback, coaching and mentoring they ourmonthly public online news bulletin, e. wire: our receive and providing for orderly succession.
A senior consistently-awarded global newspaper and eBook, management mentoring and development program, The WIRE: our annual Atticus Journal of original The X Factor, run by Charlotte Beers, the former marketing thinking: the WPP Reading Room, an chairman and CEO of Ogilvy & Mather and extensive online library of think pieces both public chairman of JWT, continues to prepare women and original from WPP professionals worldwide: forthenext level of leadership in the Group.
our online Fact Files profiling Group resources In 2011, your Company teamed up with the companies products: regular communication on Shanghai Art & Design Academy SADA to Group initiatives such as the WPP Worldwide establish the WPP School of Marketing and Partnership Program and the WPP Marketing Communications.
This jointly run school offers Fellowship Program: our annual award-winning Chinas first professional marketing and Sustainability Report and this consistently awardcommunications three-year diploma program.
This winning Annual Report, both in print and online.
initiative continued in 2012, with the second intake As part of the increased focus on horizontality, of 88 students.
After 18 years, the WPP Marketing WPPs award-winning public website is being Fellowship program remains sadly the only multirefreshed to highlight the scope and scale of the disciplinary and multi-geographical recruitment Group as well as enhancing the overall user andtraining initiative in the industry.
The Group intranet is being redeveloped We continued to scrutinise and modify our to facilitate further internal strategic alliances and compensation practices, both to offer competitive cross-company co-operation.
and appropriately based rewards to our people and to attract outstanding talent from elsewhere.
