How were doing Specialist Communications Report by Andrew Scott right, top Chief operating officer International Specialist Communications and Mary Ellen Howe right, below Chief operating officer Specialist Communications, North America WPPs Specialist Communications division comprises individual business units with separate and distinct marketing expertise by industry, audience segment ormedium.
Our clients benefit from the depth of knowledge and strategic focus of these specialists: theGroup benefits through the flexibility these companies offer as partners for sister WPP companies when serving clients integrated marketing needs.
Our role in managing this portfolio is to help these companies grow on their own terms and to support co-operation opportunities across the Group.
Our report illustrates some of these companies and their capabilities and achievements during 2012.
US-based corporate events company MJMs defining moments came as top-tier clients, including Sara Lee, Deloitte, Pfizer and AstraZeneca, trusted and empowered MJM to produce their most significant internal-facing events.
Metro continued to provide technical event production and support for long-term clients such asCredit Suisse, Deloitte, Experian, the Financial Services Authority, Roche and Shell.
New client winsincluded Allergan, Citi and Scottish Power.
Risk management specialist Mando continued toexpand its experience in southern Europe and German markets whilst maintaining a strong position in the UK and added brands such as Nandos, Bacardi and Mentos to its established blue-chip client roster.
Multi-channel content agency Forward launched new projects for existing and new clients such as Tesco, B&Q and American Express.
With its retail, automotive and luxury clients looking to grow in the Chinese market, Forward established a presence in Shanghai to help develop engaging content programs for established clients and also new local prospects.
78 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How were doing Specialist Communications In 2013, Forward is joining tenthavenue and international marketers, using its centralised anticipates increased collaboration with tenthavenue implementation model.
This approach attracted companies, in particular with Spafax and Joule.
another five international clients last year and The Food Group continued to shape, promote Hogarth produced and delivered over 5,000 master and grow North Americas culinary culture.
Hogarths enterprise-class agency Pace grew by diversifying and expanding its asset management technology continues to lead the client base while strictly controlling costs.
field, most notably winning the Clearcast contract UK outsourced communications service provider tohandle all UK television advertising.
EWA continued to add value to its clients direct MRC continues to be at the forefront of the communications by focusing on strategy and insight, entertainment industry.
Its film, Ted, starring Mark technology and delivery.
Key projects included Wahlberg, was a worldwide phenomenon and London 2012, adidas and Linden Homes.
sought-after comedy director and Oscar presenter Post production company The Farm Group had an Seth MacFarlane is already working with MRC on extremely busy and successful year in 2012.
MRCs rich film pipeline includes in its Soho sites in London remained very high, with Neill Blomkamps Elysium, starring Academy Award high-profile terrestrial series such as Downton Abbey, winners Matt Damon and Jodie Foster, and Ron The X Factor, Inside Claridges, Wallander and 24 Howards feature adaptation of Stephen Kings Hours in A&E.
Through the Groups contracts with TheDark Tower, starring Russell Crowe.
Important LOCOG and the BBC, the London Olympics television projects include the acclaimed House of generated a significant volume of sports output, and Cards, executive produced by David Fincher and operations in Los Angeles continued to grow.
The year starring Kevin Spacey and Robin Wright and ended on a high note with the founders being voted streamed on Netflix.
Business Women of the Year in the Women in Film &TVs annual awards.
Our clients benefit from the depth of knowledge and strategic focus of these specialists: the Group benefits through the flexibility these companies offer as partners for sister WPP companies when serving clients integrated marketing needs Our implementation agency, Hogarth Worldwide, continues to grow rapidly, expanding its four regional hubs in London, New York, Singapore and Mexico City, while adding new operations in Buenos Aires and Bucharest.
Hogarth uses its own technology and skills in the transcreation of creative work for global markets to deliver savings for WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 79 How were doing AKQA Portland and Atlanta.
New offices increase our proximity and relevance to clients, expand our Report by Ajaz Ahmed below connections, give our people a start-up environment Founder and chief executive officer to shape the DNA of a business, and provide aplatform for innovation and growth.
Commenting about the culture at AKQA, client Bob Kupbens, VP of marketing and digital commerce at Delta said: Theres just a coolness and a spirit about them that, I think, is unique everyone weve met from AKQA pushes us and constantly asks questions in a way that helpsget the best product.
This sense of client collaboration is celebrated in our No.
1 best-selling transformational business title, Velocity.
Co-authored by our client Nike, and with an introduction by Sir Richard Branson, founder of our first client Virgin, Velocity has been translated into five languages and raised tens of thousands of dollars to help end youth homelessness and for globalhealthcare charities.
We also launched the global AKQA Insight Back in 2009, AKQA was awarded five separate business invention summit where many of the worlds Agency of the Year titles, an unprecedented feat at most influential brands join our unique meeting of the time.
In 2012, AKQA surpassed this by winning minds.
We showcase the latest ideas and thinking, nine Agency of the Year titles and being recognised giving our all to the present to help create the future.
as the most awarded digital agency in the world.
This Demand across all regions and service lines is the recognition is a defining moment for our company strongest we have experienced.
We expect this to and a tribute to the drive, commitment and ingenuity continue as clients embrace multi-platform digital of our team.
channels especially mobile artificial intelligence and personalisation.
Looking ahead, weavoid the beaten path, seeking terrain unexplored.
Theres just a coolness and a spirit about them that, I think, is unique everyone weve met from AKQA pushes us and constantly asks questions in a way that helpsget the best product AKQA client With strong international demand from clients and talent, we opened new offices, starting with Paris in January.
Since joining WPP in the summer of2012 we have launched three more: in Tokyo, 80 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012
