The fast read How we behave and how were rewarded Governance Sustainability Compensation The Board of Directors is Our five areas of focus are: Executive remuneration policy collectively accountable tothe The impact of our work for isset by WPPs Compensation Companys share owners for good clients.
Our companies advise Committee and is governed corporate governance andis clients on sustainability, helping bythree guiding principles: committed to achieving compliance them to refine their strategies and withthe principles of corporate create compelling communications.
Performance governance set out in the UK The value of client business Competitiveness Corporate Governance Code.
supported by our sustainability Alignment with share Our goal is to comply credentials was worth at least ownerinterest withrelevant laws, regulations, $1.2billion to the Group in 2012. andguidelines such as the UK Marketing standards.
During 2012, in extensive Corporate Governance Code, We work to embed high ethical consultation with our largest theUS Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, standards in our conduct and share owners, WPPs the NASDAQ rules and, where work for clients and to protect Compensation Committee practicable, with the guidelines consumer data used for hasmade substantial changes issued by institutional investors marketing purposes.
toits policy and incentive plans.
The full report from WPPs Compensation WPP operates a system Ourtalent strategy includes Committee can be found on pages 121 ofinternal control, which is competitive remuneration to143.
maintained and reviewed in alongside a focus on diversity and accordance with the UK inclusion, high-quality training CorporateGovernance Code and employee engagement.
32% andthe guidance in the Turnbull of Board members and executive Report as well as the relevant leaders are women, although this provisions of the Securities is still not good enough.
Exchange Act 1934 and related Environmental performance.
SEC rules, as theycurrently apply We have reduced our carbon to the Company.
Inthe opinion footprint per person by 28% ofthe Board, the Company has since 2006.
Our target is a 65% complied throughout the year with reduction by2020.
the UK Corporate Governance Social investment including Code, the Turnbull Report and pro bono work.
Our total social also with the relevant provisions investment was worth 16.2 oftheSecurities Exchange Act million, the equivalent of 1.5% 1934 and SEC rules.
A letter from the chairman, followed by More information about our sustainability areview of the Companys governance activities can be found on pages 145 and the Nomination and Governance to153.
Further details on corporate governance, and howwe comply, can be found on pages 155 to 168.
