How we behave and howwere rewarded Directors report Report by Philip Lader left Chairman of the Dear share owner Company and chairman of the Nomination and No elephant in this room Governance Committee midst these pages reports are an artists WPPs 2012 performance evidences, in the playful animals, prompting this chairman Boards estimate, the continued vision and energy, to comment on a particular elephant.
entrepreneurial instinct, strategic judgement and A Share owners undoubtedly will be prudent financial management of an exceptional pleased to note the Companys new records: revenue, CEO, one who is invested in this Company to an profit, geographic scope, headline margin, creative extraordinary degree.
And there is no sign of his excellence and earnings per share, among others.
Market capitalisation has exceeded $20 billion for Share owners can be certain that nothing less the first time: dividends per share rose 60% over the willbe required by this Board.
They have charged last two years, and the dividend pay-out ratio uswith WPPs long-term stewardship, ensuring reached almost 40%.
Our creative talent has been thatthis remarkable Company continues to be an recognized by this industrys top Oscar in each of industry leader, responsible employer and corporate the first two yearsitwas awarded.
citizen, and share owner wealth-builder well beyond All this was achieved in an extremely challenging the career of any single individual.
Business confidence has been Sir Martin, like all of us, is not immune from fragile.
being hit by the proverbial bus.
And someone having Credit goes, deservedly, to the Groups 165,000 celebrated 68 birthdays, who has routinely worked people, literally around the globe.
But much in the 80 -hour weeks for 27 years, may one morning medias eye has been one individual.
decide to start a new venture or even seek to As likely from an opinionated group of genuinely discoverwhat weekends can be like.
independent-minded directors, animated debates are That elephant has not been overlooked by not infrequent around WPPs Board table.
unanimous, however, in the judgement that Martin Succession planning, we recognise, is one of our Sorrell is the best chief executive officer in this most fundamental duties.
industry and the person who can best serve the Thats why, at virtually every Board meeting interests of share owners in this role atthis time.
overthe past several years, there has been a review Yet as chairman, I am expected to ask What  options and management have you done for us today?
And I hasten to add development throughout the Groups operating What about tomorrow?
Within each annual WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 113
