How were doing Letter to share owners diluted earnings per share, a pay-out ratio in the first operating brands, but rather to learn from one another.
For the full year, headline diluted Our objective is to maximise the added value for our earnings per share rose by 8.4% and the final clients in their businesses and our people in their careers.
dividendhas been increased by 15%, bringing the Many of our initiatives are possible because of total dividend for the year to 28.51p per share, up thescale on which we now operate.
In the optimum 15.9%, 7.5 percentage points higher than the growth use of property, in information technology and in in headline diluted earnings per share.
With a procurement generally, we are able to achieve dividend pay-out ratio of 39% in 2012, and having efficiencies that would be beyond the reach of any largely achieved the objective of a 40% pay-out ratio individual operating company.
But it is also clear set in 2010, your Board will give consideration to the thatthere is an increasing requirement for the merits of increasing the pay-out ratio further, in the centreto complement the operating companies in range of 45-50%.
Dividends paid in respect of 2012 professional development and client coordination.
willtotal almost 360 million for the year.
Itisa relatively recent development for certain On 2 January 2013, the Scheme of Arrangement multinational marketing companies, when looking between WPP 2012 Limited formerly WPP plc and tosatisfy their global communications needs, to make its share owners, inrelation to the introduction of a their initial approach not to operating companies, new Jersey incorporated and UK tax resident parent butdirectly to holding or parent companies.
company, became effective and new WPP, which Such assignments present major, and increasingly hasadopted the same name, WPP plc, became frequent, opportunities for the few groups of our thenew parent company of the WPP Group.
It is absolutely essential that we have the consequence of the Group returning its tax residence professional resources and the practice development to the UK, the dividend access plan and scrip capability to serve such clients comprehensively, dividend have been terminated.
Initiatives involving some Share buy-backs will continue to be targeted to ofthe worlds largest marketers continue to gain absorb any share dilution from issues of options or momentum.
The worlds largest advertiser is itself restricted stock, although the Company does also integrating its efforts around brands, in the areas of have considerable free cash flow to take advantage advertising, media investment management, market ofany anomalies in market values, as it did last year.
research, packaging design and public relations.
Our Share buy-backs in 2012 cost 135 million, largest client is seeking a seamless model, effectively representing 1.3% of issued share capital.
a one-client agency within our Group.
All our clients, whether global, multinational or local, continue to Fourth, we will continue to develop focus on the quality of our thinking, coordination thevalue added by the parent company ofcommunications and price.
In response, we focus andbuild unique integrated marketing on talent, structure and incentives.
WPP is not just aholding company focused on planning, budgeting, reporting and financial issues, but a parent company Managing talent is the priority that can add value to our clients and our people in theareas of human resources, property, procurement, Talent and its management therefore remain at the ITand practice development, including sustainability.
heart of our reason to be: that is what our clients Wewill continue to do this through a limited group of payus for.
Development of our people and the way 400 or so people at the centre in London, New York, we manage that talent is a critical determinant of Tokyo, Hong Kong, Shanghai and So Paulo.
This does performance and on that critical dimension, not mean that we seek to diminish the strength of our wecontinue to make significant progress.
