How were doing Media Investment Management GroupM veryclear market leadership position.
In July 2012, RECMA, the independent organization that Report by Irwin Gotlieb below, top measures media agency sector operations, reported Chairman that GroupM held a 28.4% share of the total and measured volume among all its competitors, with Dominic Proctor below, bottom $90.8 billion in worldwide billings.
That figure President represented an 8.1% increase in billings over the previous year and makes us 35% bigger than our nearest competitor.
This lead allows us to continue toinvest in the development of the networks, and thecapabilities and technologies that support them.
To prepare for future growth we bolstered our global management teams in key strategic areas of digital and trading.
We also placed new CEOs in keymarkets such as North America, India and Italy and key agencies including Maxus.
By acting as a parent company, encouraging teamwork and collaboration, we bring our physical and intellectual scale to bear on marketing problems throughout the world We received industry recognition for our ThisYear, Next Year forecast reports on local and global media market conditions and many other think pieces, and our agencies work was recognized in award competitions such as the Cannes Lions andThe Gunn Report.
GroupM is in business to give a real competitive We focus on leading in other ways as well.
advantage to our clients, our agencies, our people, Wehave acted, and will continue to act, as catalyst our markets and our partners.
By acting as in advancing the media landscape for the benefit of a parent company, encouraging teamwork and our clients and our stakeholders.
We do this through collaboration, we bring our physical and intellectual investment development of proprietary technologies scale to bear on marketing problems throughout that will improve advanced advertising and media theworld, with a primary focus on trading, content capabilities: measurement, data management, creation, technology and tool development and targeting and segmentation, allocation, optimization finance.
We call it Intelligent Power.
These capabilities will continue Our strategy has enabled us to continue our toimprove the competitive advantage that we strong track record of growth and maintain our provide our clients.
60 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How were doing Media Investment Management Maxus Talent development Report by Kelly Clark below We hired ambitious new leaders in Australia, Chief executive officer, GroupM North America Belgium, France, the Netherlands, the Philippines and Vietnam.
We strengthened our global trading 2012 was another record year for Maxus on and technology teams.
UK CEO Lindsay Pattison manyfronts!
took on the additional role of global chief strategy officer, and Italy CEO Federico fide Nardis became Network growth EMEA CEO.
Our global footprint grew again in 2012.
We Client satisfaction launched in Belgium and France.
And we laid foundations for the launch of Maxus South Africa as We continue to measure client satisfaction through we begin to invest in the continent of opportunity.
aresearch company, The Client Relationship Consultancy.
They tell us that our client relationships New business remain among the strongest in the business.
And, withour clients, we won over 200 global awards for We won important new clients including Harvard effectiveness and creativity in 2012, our best result ever.
Business School in the US: Little Caesars Pizza in As a result of all of this, Maxus continues to Canada: Telecom Italia in Italy: Associated British grow rapidly.
Client billings, revenues and profits Foods and Arcadia in the UK.
Importantly, we grew substantially in 2012. continued to grow with current clients, extending relationships with LOral in Vietnam: with GSK in Australia: and with Barclays in South Africa to name Our client relationships remain a few.
Theres also a lot ofencouraging prospects in among the strongest in the business the pipeline.
At the start of 2013, Vikram Sakhuja became CEO of Maxus, and I moved to another role within GroupM.
Vikram previously ran GroupM in India and South Asia, where he led an outstanding business.
He is perfectly suited to the Maxus challenge.
And because of 1,600 passionate, agile, collaborative and entrepreneurial Maxus people around the world, we are both very optimistic!
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 61 How were doing Media Investment Management MediaCom adifference.
They make MediaCom special and provide the driving force behind our business results.
Report by Stephen Allan below In 2012, our German office, for instance, Worldwide chairman and chief executive officer transformed a strong relationship with McCain Foods into one that now covers six markets.
After achallenging pitch process, our teams across Asia Pacific and the Middle East secured the media business of dairy company Fonterra.
We also consolidated Goodyear Dunlops business across EMEA, extended our relationship with Coca-Cola across three markets in Asia Pacific, and won Bayer in the US and Colombia.
These wins, along with many other successes inindividual markets, amounted to more than $1.5 billion of annualised billings, and contributed to our No.
1 ranking in RECMAs competitiveness report, Compitches, whilst strengtheningour position as the worlds third largest agency according to RECMA.
Our manoeuvrability as a network also spurred In my mind, the most defining moment of 2012 for growth in Latin America, supported our expansion MediaCom was when we responded to winning the of MediaCom Sport in Europe, and helped us win P&G account in Southeast Asia.
The win itself was aslew of awards including, perhaps most fittingly, terrific, but the way in which we pulled together Agency Network of the Year at the Festival of Media afterwards pleased me most.
I thank our people at MediaCom for their determination and commitment which I am confident Our manoeuvrability as a network will lead to more success in 2013. also spurred growth in Latin America, supported our expansion of MediaCom Sport in Europe, and helped us win aslew of awards Tasked with recruiting 140 people in 90 days, weleveraged the collective strength of our network.
We called on the experience of our existing P&G teams in EMEA as well as GroupMs valuable support.
We jointly relocated volunteers to Southeast Asia to tirelesslytrain newcomers, set up systems andmake the region P&G ready.
That dedication and collaboration is typical ofour network, in which our people really make 62 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How were doing Media Investment Management MEC TV, Connected TV and TV Everywhere, the audio visual world is digitising, bringing new experiences Report by Charles Courtier below for consumers and new opportunities for marketers.
Chief executive officer Social media from fun to fundamental: Social media marketing is growing up.
Strategies have moved from focusing on volume of fans and engagement to become increasingly fundamental tothe core of a business operation.
What were seeing now is growth in the use of technology at the heart of brands content ideas.
The lines between technology, product and communications are blurring From where we sit in 2012, we see eight trends Data and marketing green leaves and grey for2013 and beyond: clouds: Many companies are still working out how The beautification of digital an aesthetic tomake data useful.
We are seeing the green leaves r evolution: The first wave of digital design wasnt of great data applications in marketing and consumer pretty: the next wave is reinventing digital interfaces services.
On the horizon, those dark clouds of and storytelling.
The result will be a new privacy concerns and control of data access continue appreciation for the beauty of digital design that to gather.
raises the bar for communications.
The new economy of disruption: The A little bit of digital in everything: We may still democratisation of innovative disruption, already be some way from a world where every single item apparent in media and communications, is now isdigitally connected but were on our way there.
forcing change in finance, education and healthcare.
The potential is unprecedented and the opportunities The result is a new economy of innovation, where for innovation for marketers immense.
disruption may become the norm.
A rumble in the retail jungle: The rules of shopper marketing are being rewritten.
Disrupted by online e-commerce, physical retail environments are now being infiltrated by digital storefronts, mobile payments and data-driven shopping experiences.
Content and technology the new normal in brand communications: What were seeing now is growth in the use of technology at the heart of brands content ideas.
The lines between technology, product and communications are blurring.
The increasing digitisation of TV: TV is alive andwell.
From second-screen behaviours to Social WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 63 How were doing Media Investment Management Mindshare Report by Nick Emery right Chief executive officer Mindshare was born as a global network.
We designed the company to embrace diverse geographic and client needs from emerging markets to developed markets and to champion both national originality and a global vision.
Our challenge and our defining moment in 2012 was to combine our worldwide family with a new and radical approach to media that was both real time and always on.
Media is a fundamentally antifragile business, as Nassim Nicholas Taleb would say.
A protean business that thrives on change, uncertainty and shock.
The Olympics Nike campaign was our defining This requires a fundamental change in how moment and realisation of this belief we delivered agencies work: what we call adaptive marketing.
21,000 ads, 950,000 community users and three Itsan approach that enables marketers to truly million app downloads.
We proved what others tailortheir activities in rapid and unparalleled ways claim is only theory: that media companies can to meet their customers interests.
Its not just about create big ideas, ideas that scale and ideas that are advertising: its about adapting every part of the fundamentally personalised and adaptive.
marketing mix as well as the product itself to In 2013 we will continue to drive our adaptive connect more consumers with the brand, increase media agenda across data, technology, mobile, relevance and deliver greater benefits and ROI.
social, new planning frameworks and new trading platforms.
Key to our success is our ability to fuse our skills in the traditional media world and our We proved what others claim is solid media foundations with our planning systems, new and leading forms of trading and radical new only theory: that media companies data platforms and alliances.
All underpinned by can create big ideas, ideas that scale acommitted digital agenda and a global spine of and ideas that are fundamentally imagination and teamwork.
personalised and adaptive Adaptive marketing creates personalised brands byeliminating commoditisation.
Adaptive marketing rips apart the concept of the consumer, a label that marketers have used conveniently to aggregate a picture of their customer, and creates new  and constantly-adapted conversations.
64 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How were doing Media Investment Management tenthavenue Joule, our mobile agency, designed and built anad serving technology which has significantly Report by Rupert Day below enhanced the performance of both our campaigns Chief executive officer and client reporting.
Kinetic, the worlds leading OOH specialist, developed a web-based campaign management system that allows clients, agencies and vendors to interact with the OOH medium on a single common platform.
The platform is then tailored to each ones unique requirements of the medium, making the campaign process seamless and highly accountable.
These are not independent actions.
They show that, in our second year of operation, all units of tenthavenue are moving in the same direction: building integrated solutions with data and technology at their core to improve significantly the planning and In addition to building on our core proposition, in investment efficiency and, ultimately, client value.
2012 all three of our companies applied technology tochange materially how we transact business: it is already paying dividends in terms of client deliverables.
Spafax Networks developed a digital place-based screen DPBS network, enabling us to serve content in next to real time across different locations outside the home, and to report what was served when and where.
The process allows identification of consumer behaviour and intent aligned with location and time of day: the digital world reaching people while they are on the move.
