How were doing Letter to share owners Property management preferred suppliers to work with us to deliver year-onyear value improvement.
Specific targets will be set for In 2012 we again reduced our core property the newest areas of procurement focus, following portfolio.
While overall square footage rose by detailed opportunity analysis which began in 2012.
1.4%from 23.2 million sq ft to 23.5 million sq ft, this was less than half the 2.9% increase in revenue attributable to acquisitions, and considerably less Information technology than the 5.8% growth in constant currency revenues.
Average square foot per head dropped from In 2012 we initiated a major review of the Groups 211sq ft to 207 sq ft, but this was partly offset by IToperations to make them better co-ordinated, a1.6% increase in cost per square foot to 29.50. moreresponsive to changing needs both internal and Asaresult, we held the establishment cost-to-revenue external and more cost-effective.
Core to this strategy ratio at 6.7%, flat with prior year and ahead of our will be greater centralisation and consolidation of long term 7% run-rate target.
theGroups IT infrastructure and services, with Our aim for 2013 is to improve on this level in theobjective of delivering savings of around 10% spite ofsharp increases in Asia property costs and or50million on current delivery cost.
We estimate the impending end of a number of significant below implementation will take two to three years and market leases in the region.
wehave engaged PwC to assist with the project.
As mentioned previously, these initiatives were accelerated in the fourth quarter of 2012 following the Procurement devastation caused by Hurricane Sandy.
The significant loss of power in New York and subsequent flooding In procurement, our goal is to make savings and had some impact on the operational effectiveness of addvalue across all of WPPs external spend, with certain of the Groups IT infrastructure and back-office particular emphasis on opportunities to leverage our systems, making the overhaul of our centralised IT scale to the benefit of our clients and our companies.
services all the more important.
In 2012, we completed a three-year Additionally, the rapid and continuing convergence implementation of a procurement spend analytics of mobile, voice and data communications has system which now provides supplier-level visibility allowed us to take advantage of new offerings in ofclose to $5 billion of external spend, across  sector to increase efficiencies oureight largest markets the US, the UK, and to provide enhanced support to our increasingly Germany, France, Spain, China, India and Brazil.
Access to data of this detail is now driving supplier cost reduction and value improvement targets across the Group.
At least one further market will be Practice development addedin 2013, and others in subsequent years.
Asaconsequence of better data, 2012 alsosaw In practice development we continue to develop there-organisation of procurement into four spend horizontal initiatives in a focused set of highteams with global regional reach.
potential areas across our vertical operating brands: For 2013, we will continue our focus on the key in media investment management, healthcare, drivers of supplier cost.
Specifically for technology and sustainability, government, new technologies, new indirect procurement, our goal is to have a minimum of markets, retailing, shopper marketing, internal 50% of supplier spend in each major country, covered communications, financial services and media and by WPP preferred suppliers and contracts, and for these entertainment.
Specifically, we continue to invest in 36 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How were doing Letter to share owners sharing insights and developing initiatives through Fifth, to emphasise revenue growth more as WPP Digital in digital marketing and media and margins improve.
One legitimate criticism of The Store in distribution and retail.
our performance against the best-performing In key geographic markets we are increasingly 5competition is our comparative level of coordinating our activities through WPP Country organic revenue growth, although the methods Managers.
We continue to believe that increasing used to calculate rates of organic growth vary coordination is required between our brands at tosay the least and we may have put too much thecountry and global levels, as the arguments for emphasis on margin improvement.
In 2012, our investment in regional management become weaker, like-for-like revenue growth of 2.9% was at the largely because of improved technology.
In addition, leading end of our competitors, although not in we have increased the number of WPP Global Client thelead.
Our margin performance is consistently Leaders to co-ordinate our efforts onbehalf of clients atthe top end of the pack.
We continue to believe and to ensure they receive maximum benefit from increasingly that profitable growth is preferable to their relationships with WPPoperating brands.
Furthermore, we continue to encourage internal Estimated net new business billings of 3.9 billion strategic alliances and promote co-operation.
$6.2 billion were won in 2012, up almost 21% on Practice development initiatives have therefore 2011, placing the Group first in all leading net new beenreinforced in such areas as healthcare, retail, business tables.
The Group continues to benefit from , corporate sustainability consolidation trends in the industry, winning and media and entertainment.
This has been assignments from existing and new clients.
These especially important in developing our portfolio of wins continued into the second half of the year and direct investments in new media under WPP Digital the first three months of 2013 with several very large and where our investments are working with our industry-leading advertising, digital and media agencies and people to bring newtechnology assignments, the full benefit of which will be seen capabilities and understanding to our clients.
There have been several All these initiatives are designed to ensure that recent significant gains, for example, particularly we, the parent company, really do as well as being inthe pharmaceutical and healthcare industry.
perceived to inspire, motivate, coach, encourage, Our practice development activities are also support and incentivise our operating companies aimed at helping us position our portfolio in the toachieve their strategic and operational goals.
faster-growing functional and geographic areas.
Organic revenue growth vs peers % WPP 1 IPG 14 1 Omnicom 12 1 Publicis 1 10 Havas WPP organic 8 gross margin 6 margin 4 2 0 -2 Q410 Q111 Q211 Q311 Q411 Q112 Q212 Q312 Q412 1 Peer data sourced from company presentations.
