How were doing Letter to share owners 31 December 2012 was 2.8 billion, 0.3 billion of 1.9%, due to stronger growth in all regions higher than 2011, reflecting increased spending on exceptNorth America.
This reflects a reversal of acquisitions chiefly AKQA and higher dividends.
thedeclining quarterly like-for-like revenue growth Equity and debt analysts appear comfortable with trend which went from 4% in quarter one, to 3% the level of the Groups average net debt, which inquarter two and to 2% in quarter three.
wasaround 1.8 times headline EBITDA in 2012 compared with 1.7 times in 2011, and well within the Groups current target range of 1.5-2.0 times.
Latin America again led the way In September 2012, the Group successfully issued$500 million of 10-year bonds at a coupon Like-for-like revenue growth in North America of3.625%, together with $300 million of 30-year declined as the year progressed, from over 1% in bonds at 5.125%.
This was the first time a company thefirst quarter to down -0.6% in quarter four.
in our industry has issued 30-year debt and the Relatively strong growth in the Groups Advertising bonds were well received by investors with strong and Media Investment Management businesses was demand for both.
These bonds have improved the more than offset by parts of the Groups Consumer maturity profile of the Groups debt.
Insight, Public Relations & Public Affairs and Headline interest cover in 2012 was 7.2 times.
Branding & Identity, Healthcare and Specialist So far, in the first three months of 2013, average net Communications businesses.
This seems to be debt was up approximately 0.3 billion at 3.0 billion indicative of continued pressure on discretionary against 2.7 billion for the same period in 2012, at client spending.
In constant currencies, full year 2013 exchange rates.
Our long-term debt is currently revenue growth was well over 3%, while like-for-like rated Baa2 and BBB and our short-term debt P2 and revenues were down marginally at -0.1%.
A2, by Moodys and Standard & Poors respectively.
Conversely, and against market trends, the UK With a current equity market capitalisation of showed an improving rate of quarterly like-for-like approximately 13.0 billion, the total enterprise value revenue growth as the year progressed, from 2.5% in ofyour Company is approximately 16.3 billion, the first quarter to over 5% in quarter four.
In the last amultiple of 9.1 times 2012 headline EBITDA.
quarter, particularly strong growth in Advertising and Media Investment Management was partly offset by slower growth in Consumer Insight, Branding & Revenue growth better in fourth quarter Identity and Healthcare Communications.
Full year revenue growth in constant currencies was well over Our reported revenue growth for the year of 3.5% 7% and like-for-like growth was 4%.
was impacted by the strength of sterling, primarily Western Continental Europe, although against the Euro.
On a constant currency basis, relativelymore difficult, showed some improvement which excludes the impact of currency movements, in the fourth quarter, with growth in Italy, Turkey revenueswere up almost 6%.
and surprisingly Greece, but Spain, Portugal, On a like-for-like basis, which excludes the Scandinavia, France, the Netherlands and impact of currency and acquisitions, revenues were Switzerland were tougher, with the continuing effects up 2.9%, with gross margin up 2.4%, reflecting of the Eurozone crisis impacting parts of the region.
pressure on gross margins in the Groups Consumer Full year revenue growth in constant currencies was Insight custom businesses in the mature markets of well over 3%, while like-for-like growth was only North America, the UK and Western Continental slightly positive at 0.1%.
In the fourth quarter, like-for-like revenues Our strongest region in 2012 was again Asia were up 2.5%, an improvement on the third quarter Pacific, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 21
