How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review Privacy WPP as an employer Our companies collect and use consumer data, which We seek to employ the best people from around the makes privacy and data security priorities for WPP.
world and develop their skills in order to continually The parent company provides guidance and advice exceed our clients expectations.
There is fierce to our companies on privacy and data security issues.
competition for talent in our industry, particularly To ensure that all our people have an understanding infast-growing economies and in areas such as of the basic issues, we have added privacy and data digital marketing.
security to our revised ethics training which will be Our talent strategy includes competitive rolled out to all employees in 2013.
We also held remuneration and reward, alongside a focus on atraining event on the EU Cookies Directive for diversity and inclusion, high-quality training and employees in the UK during 2012. employee engagement.
In 2012 we reviewed and updated all WPPs data WPPs chief talent officer, Mark Linaugh, protection, data security and privacy policies, and andour talent team assist our companies to attract introduced new policies covering social media, IT and develop our talent.
Human resources policies are and Security.
We developed a Data Code of Conduct agreed and implemented at operating company level.
a one-page set of principles for how WPP uses and protects data.
This is intended to help employees Diversity and inclusion understand our approach and to make decisions that reflect our principles.
The Data Code of Conduct Creating an inclusive work environment and andrevised policies were launched in early 2013. recruiting candidates from diverse backgrounds We will also launch the WPP Data Health widens our talent pool, fosters creativity and Checker, an interactive survey to be completed enhances our consumer insights.
bymanagement teams in every WPP company Our non-discrimination and anti-harassment worldwide.
Results will help them assess how their policies are included in our Group Code of current policies and practices compare to best Conduct.
In the case of disability, our policy is practice, and will provide valuable information toprovide continuing employment and training tohelp our Group digital, legal, IT and audit whereverpracticable.
teamsto target support where it is needed most.
Our companies focus on the following areas to Our key digital marketing and research promote diversity and inclusion in their workforce: companies nominate senior executives to provide Awareness and engagement: Training and leadership on privacy, and to work with other awareness campaigns reinforce the importance and companies in the Group, partners and clients.
business benefits of diversity and inclusion.
Company In 2012 we established a WPP Privacy Policy approaches include diversity working groups and Group for senior representatives from our agencies.
leadership councils, as well as professional networks Members meet monthly to agree Group-wide for diverse employees.
positions on key issues and to co-ordinate our Targeted recruitment: Specialist recruitment engagement with policy makers and industry bodies.
agencies and publications and minority recruitment fairs can help companies diversify their candidate lists.
Internships: Many companies support internship programs targeted at diverse candidates.
Partnerships: We work with diversity organisations and professional organisations whohelp our companies strengthen their approach todiversity.
