What we think Lessons to be Learned from Robert McNamara and a Pair of Long-handled Toe-nail Clippers By Jeremy Bullmore magine two people, one on either side of a canal.
For Person One, the other side is the other side: The first one shouts across: How do I get to but its not, of course, for Person Two.
For Person the other side?
Two, Person One is already on the other side: I The second one shouts back: You are on the butnot, of course, for Person One.
Neither has made any attempt to put themselves At the heart of this primitive joke lies a form inthe shoes of the other: and the result is a mildly ofblindness that has probably contributed to more amusing joke.
In real life, its usually given a little wars, divorces, family alienations, political failures edge by making the protagonists blondes, Poles, and wastes of marketing money than any other single Irishmen or whoever happens to be the current butt cause.
Yet many of us still communicate as if bound of such politically incorrect humour.
But an inability by a blindfold.
to see things through the eyes of others is by no means At the risk of being laborious, lets return to restricted to those with slow minds.
Robert McNamara, former US Defense Secretary Both have assumed that what is true for them and a key architect of the Vietnam war, died in 2009. istrue for the other.
He spent much of the last 30 years of his life WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 103 What we think Lessons to be Learned from Robert McNamara and a Pair of Long-handled Toe-nail Clippers agonising over that futile operation and its deadly inadvertently misleading, insulting or bewildering consequences.
One of his conclusions was this: his our audiences: and the second because it can hugely central failure had been a failure to know his enemy, increase the clarity and acceptability of what we are To put ourselves inside their skin and look at us attempting to communicate.
As long ago as 1996, in her Reith Lectures, The result of that omission was not a mildly Professor Jean Aitchison, Professor of Language amusing joke.
andCommunication at the University of Oxford, said this: An effective persuader must be able to imagine events from another persons point of view.
Accurate inference In fashionable jargon, he or she must have A Theory 2 ofMind.
And of course, its not only events that we To see things through the eyes of another individual need to be able to imagine, but opinions, prejudices is an extraordinarily difficult thing to do.
It doesnt and experiences as well.
Used properly, the If youve ever had a telephone conversation with word empathy would do well enough but its rarely afour-year-old child, youll know that we arent used properly.
We mostly use it to mean a sort of allborn with fully-formed empathy already super-sized sympathy: indeed dictionaries suggest programmed in.
synonyms such as understanding or compassion.
Playing, Real empathy goes much deeper than that.
Psychologists call it A Theory of Mind which has Whats this?
says the child, been defined as the ability to accurately infer another deeply irritated by your stupidity.
Instead of being on persons thoughts: and then use that inference to either side of a canal, you and the child are on either construct an appropriate response.
Thats the full end of a telephone line: and exactly like Person Two, the meaning that the word empathy, positive empathy, child has failed to put himself in another persons place.
should carry and so seldom does.
He knows what hes been playing with, he can see what 1 In his book, Zero Degrees of Empathy, Simon hes been playing with why are you so ignorant?
Baron-Cohen, a Professor at Cambridge University, contends that we all lie somewhere on an empathy spectrum.
Those on the positive end of the spectrum Transmitters and receivers are highly sensitive to the ideas and thoughts of others, and capable of adjusting their behaviour in Robert McNamara learned the hard way about the response to them.
Intriguingly, he goes on to suggest penalties incurred through failing to give enough that acts of human cruelty may not be the result of thought and imagination to the contents of other some vague concept called evil, but of a total and peoples heads.
Half a century later, so did absolute absence of empathy.
atthe negative end of the empathy spectrum, utterly Asked in 2009 about the invasion of Iraq, and incapable of realising that other people have thoughts howit had affected US European relations, he said or feelings of their own, an act of cruelty is of course this: Our policies have grated and sometimes we have not seen as such at all.
Psychopaths may possess zero usedlanguage which was not selected with a clear degrees of empathy.
understanding of how it would fall on European ears.
For those of us in the business of communication We cannot, of course, ever be absolutely certain and persuasion, we need to be permanently conscious how our words or actions will fall on other peoples of the effects of both positive and negative forms ears: but theres no excuse for not consciously doing ofempathy: the first because it will save us from our best to imagine how they might: whether its a 104 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 What we think Lessons to be Learned from Robert McNamara and a Pair of Long-handled Toe-nail Clippers quick email to an individual or a mammoth marketing Anyone in the market for a pair of long-handled campaign directed at millions.
toe-nail clippers, already knows that theyre getting Politicians like to claim, Ive made it absolutely on a bit and already knows that bending isnt as clear...
They may think they have but they should easyas it used to be.
All they need is the one bit of never take it for granted.
The only people who information they dont already possess: and thats the canknow with certainty that something was arrival of some new, long-handled toe-nail clippers.
absolutely clear are not the transmitters of They do the rest.
And when any communication is messagesbut the receivers.
contributed to, and completed by, its audience, its Primitive examples of poor empathy scores are infinitely stronger.
Thats what Arthur Koestler easy enough to collect.
You stop to ask the way of meant when he wrote, The artist rules his subjects 3 alocal inhabitant and are advised to turn left where by turning them into accomplices.
You see a sign reading, Like politicians, we strive to make things When this sign is underwater, the road ahead is absolutely clear.
Sometimes we make them clearer impassable.
Youre in an aircraft and are instructed, byleaving things out.
If you are sitting in an exit row and you cannot readthis card, please tell a crew member.
In each instance, the transmitters have patently failed to Jeremy Bullmore is a member of the WPP putthemselves in the place of their audience.
Advisory Board But most examples of such failures to empathise 1 Zero Degrees of Empathy, Simon Baron-Cohen, 2011 are of course invisible and probably go undetected.
2 The Reith Lectures, Jean Aitchison, 1996 3 We may never know how, by omitting the most basic The Act of Creation, Arthur Koestler, 1964 conjecture, weve failed to be understood as we confidently hoped and thought we would be.
At least as important as the penalties we incur for failing to put ourselves in the shoes of others are the potential benefits we stand to gain when we succeed.
In any debate, in any attempt to persuade or convert, the first thing you need to try and establish to imagine is the level of knowledge or ignorance, of prejudice for or against, in the minds of your audience.
If you begin to understand this, you know not only what resistances you need to overcome, butjust as valuably, what you may confidently take for granted.
Ask a 20-year-old copywriter to write some catalogue copy for a new pair of long-handled toe-nail clippers.
His planner will explain that they have been designed for those of senior years.
And the copywriter will dutifully write: Getting on a bit?
Now new Extra-Long Snippex let you trim without bending!
The copywriter is both to be commended forhaving attempted empathy and criticised for havingfailed.
