What we think Why we are Mad Men and Women as well as Maths Men and Women So long, silo Of course, we cannot reinvent the wheel incessantly and unnecessarily.
But if we think about Horizontality is an awkward word, but its meaning WPP horizontally, we can deliver first-class solutions is plain.
It means getting our people to work more more effectively and more efficiently at lower cost.
It means selecting the best and The notion is gaining traction all the time through most appropriate talent from across our diverse autos, pharmaceuticals, hotels and fast-moving brands and tribes.
And then dedicating that talent consumer goods.
It is the way we are thinking and toa single client.
The creation of teams Bespoke teams, set up solely to serve a major ofagencies within agencies designed to the needs client, are increasingly the way we operate.
They ofclients is incredibly powerful.
advise more than 35 clients worldwide, accounting for about one-third of our $17 billion revenues.
Among these clients are Bayer, Colgate-Palmolive Maths Men, as well as Mad Men Red Fuse, Ford Team Detroit, Johnson & Johnson Team Chemistry, Mazda Garage Team, Miller Essentially, we are investment managers for our Coors Cavalry and, most recently, Pfizer.
clients, advising them how to spend around $90 WPP employs over 165,000 people in 110 billion of media.
So it makes sense that WPP should countries effectively grouped in about 12 verticals.
offer platforms that are agnostic, and help clients Ithas grown largely by acquisition and remains a plan and buy media.
To that end, we are applying series of valuable brands.
To get those people to talk more and more technology to our business, along to one another isnever going to be easy.
WPP started with big data.
We are now Maths Men as well as as two people in a room.
Even as we became two, Mad Men and Women.
there was an integration and communication problem.
Thus we go head to head not only with advertising and market research groups such as Omnicom, IPG, Publicis, Dentsu, Havas, Nielsen, Ipsos and GfK, Bespoke teams, set up solely to serve butalso new technology companies such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Apple and Amazon and then with amajor client, are increasingly the way technology consulting companies such as Infosys, weoperate Wipro, Accenture and Deloitte.
You could call big data collating all the sources ofdata our clients get ours and others into With 165,000, we have to try even harder to link adashboard and in real time.
More importantly, and share knowledge across our clients businesses with theadaptation of technology gives us platforms a single point of access, one person who can identify todifferentiate ourselves from competition.
and muster the resources needed from across WPP.
Telling it like it is Better, cheaper, more effective In the new marketing environment, there must surely It is all the more necessary that we do this when be a premium on advice from third parties such as powerful procurement departments within clients WPP.
The growth of digital makes that even more so.
demand value for money, trying to combine efficiency If the new technology companies really are new media and creativity.
Equally, it is essential for consumer owners, our clients require disinterested, independent goods manufacturers who are squeezed and evaluation of how much they are spending on these commoditised by  retailers.
media and whether its being spent effectively.
88 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 What we think Why we are Mad Men and Women as well as Maths Men and Women This is hardly surprising in a digital world where their requirements, but that avoid unnecessary media owners provide their own analysis.
sells Whats happened is that chief marketing officers Yahoo!
Its really no different to Rupert Murdoch started to build websites with many different and NewsCorp selling Fox or the Wall Street Journal platforms, information structures and technologies.
and Sumner Redstone selling CBS or Viacom.
Its a little like the back of a television set its entertaining at the front, but a mass of spaghetti strands at the back of the set and its confusing.
In the new marketing environment, Were trying to build a common platform at the back end rather than a multiplicity of platforms.
Chief there must surely be a premium on advice marketing officers can then play to their hearts from third parties such as WPP content on the front end.
Art, 1: science, 1 In these circumstances, developing our own independent technology platforms becomes crucial, This strategy is working.
Weve had several big such as our online audience-buying platform used projects with clients in the past year where weve byGroupM, Xaxis.
Now running in 20 markets, goneinwith technology partners.
Our industrys with an opt-in model, it serves more than 320 billion issueinthe past was that we were seen as artistic impressions annually.
Furthermore, new and more complex sources Audience measurement is everything.
Our business ofdata, which these new media bring in abundance, isno longer just an art, but also a science.
We do not mean that measurement of effectiveness and return create technology and we will never have the number oninvestment has become more achievable although of PhDs and engineers that Google has.
That would media fragmentation has made it more complex.
Big be an unrealistic aim.
But what we will do is enhance data is for the first time a real possibility.
the application of technology with the consequent development of consumer insight that flows from it.
Meet the new bosses For example, the Latin American software developer Globant, in which WPP has a $70 million As a result, our target customer, the part of a client stake, has 2,700 engineers, marketing specialists and companys board or management we do business designers dotted around the continent and in Britain.
We no longer just court the chief It already works with JWT, Y&R and Kantar.
executive officer and chief marketing officer.
Now It goes back to when we bought 24 7 Media, wewill be dealing with the chief information officer which has morphed into Xaxis through B3 and or chief technology officer, along with the chief theZAP platform.
In this we take a different view procurement officer andchief financial officer.
We believe we should We are working in this integrated way with clients apply the technology in such a way as to give us who are looking for increased efficiency as well as proprietary insights and then leverage that insight effectiveness in a highly-competitive, commoditised, in a meaningful way.
As clients link their back-end All this means much more science in marketing systems more closely with their front-end approaches, services, but not at the expense of the art.
Big data they increasingly want simplified, unified or single will measure the effectiveness of a great idea and platforms that chief marketing officers can adapt to suggest how it is promulgated.
It will never be asubstitute for a great idea.
