How were doing Advertising agency networks JWT We have built our 149-year legacy by pioneering newfrontiers in the industry, creating fully integrated Report by Bob Jeffrey below multi-channel ideas that work for international Worldwide chairman and chief executive officer brands.
Our long-standing relationships with clients include Bayer, Diageo, Ford, HSBC, Johnson & Johnson, Kelloggs, Kimberly-Clark, Microsoft, Mondelz, Nestl, Nokia, Pfizer, Rolex, Royal Caribbean, Schick, Shell, Unilever and Vodafone.
However, as it has been said, The great thing inthis world is not so much where we stand as in what direction we are moving.
Our strategy to achieve growth in 2012 and beyond is a three-pronged approach: integrate JWTsin-depth branding and strategy expertise withbest-in-class digital: build our shopper marketing and activation competence: and hire, trainand acquire the talent of the future.
This has had a halo effect across the JWT brandworldwide.
Our financial performance in 2012 was positively impacted by our non-traditional acquisitions, especially within fast-growing markets.
Of the 15 acquisitions weve made in the last decade, more than60% have been in emerging markets.
Of the 15 acquisitions weve made inthe last decade, more than 60% have been in emerging markets Key non-traditional acquisitions in 2012 included: Magnivate, Indonesias largest digital agency subsequently branded XM Gravity : Hungama Digital Services, Indias leading digital advertising and promotion marketing agency: Activeark in Finland: and a minority stake in Converge Technologies, Pakistan.
We introduced start-ups within existing offices, including JWT Mobile in the UK and the branded content and social engagement company Mutato in Brazil.
Key acquisitions from the past few years, including the award-winning Digitaria, have seen double-digit 48 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How were doing Advertising agency networks revenue growth.
Always, JWTs third-largest nonincharge of heading up our Shopper Marketing traditional company and Chinas leading and largest teams globally: Mauro Cavalletti, chief integration field marketing company, also saw impressive growth officer, JWT So Paulo: Ricardo Figueira, digital as did Encompass, Indias leading independent brand ECD, JWTLondon: Josie Brown, director of Digital, activation, events and content creation agency.
Our JWT Australia: Yoav Tchelet, executive digital long-term partnership with Prism Sports Marketing director, JWT South Africa: Brett Ford, head of saw the sixth consecutive year of record-setting digital, JWT Dubai: and Kieran OSullivan, regional results, averaging 40% growth over the last two years digital director, MENA.
Additionally, we increased our minority stake inManajans, one of Turkeys best-known agencies, to100% ownership in 2012.
We have attracted the top-tier talent We continued to expand our global shopper of the future and made a significant marketing footprint.
We recently made key investment in talent to drive our digital, investments in people and capabilities across Europe, Asia and Latin America, and saw impressive growth multi-channel expertise in North America on behalf of JWT Action, our shopper marketing joint venture with Ogilvy.
In Latin America we opened a Shopper Marketing Our efforts are converting to industry awards and Unity with the support of Action US.
In 2012, we upheld the WORLDMADE We have made considerable progress training spirit that defines the JWT network.
Offices across andleveraging our existing non-traditional specialists the globe brought home a total of 40 coveted Cannes across the network.
In 2011, we created dotJWT, the Lions, including the PR Grand Prix and gold in two operating system that unites all of our digital expertise new categories at Cannes this year, for Mobile and both in our specialist agencies and within JWT Branded Entertainment.
and connects them internationally to solve client JWT continues to redefine the future of business problems.
Weve already seen success with dotJWT with inventive, WORLDMADE marketing across a number of our key global brands.
Driven by our WORLDMADE morethan 20% of our global revenue came from philosophy, our teams seek international inspiration non-traditional services and over 2,000 people spend and deliver technological innovation for our clients.
more than 50% of their time delivering digital work.
Innovation is part of our DNA, and our focus on We have attracted the top-tier talent of the future non-traditional services and high-growth markets and made a significant investment in talent to drive ensures JWT will evolve with the marketplace our digital, multi-channel expertise.
In 2012, we andcontinue to create inventive marketing welcomed Jeff Benjamin, the most digitally-awarded communications for the next 150 years.
creative in the industry, who joined as chief creative officer, JWT North America.
Mike Geiger, widely regarded as the preeminent digital integration specialist, joined as president, chief integration officer, JWT North America.
Additional top nontraditional hires around the world included: Perry Fair, chief creative officer, JWT Atlanta: Christophe Cauvy, European head of digital and innovation: Mobbie Nazir, head of Digital Strategy, JWT London: Ron Magliocco, global business director WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 49
