How were doing Letter to share owners Property management preferred suppliers to work with us to deliver year-onyear value improvement.
Specific targets will be set for In 2012 we again reduced our core property the newest areas of procurement focus, following portfolio.
While overall square footage rose by detailed opportunity analysis which began in 2012.
1.4%from 23.2 million sq ft to 23.5 million sq ft, this was less than half the 2.9% increase in revenue attributable to acquisitions, and considerably less Information technology than the 5.8% growth in constant currency revenues.
Average square foot per head dropped from In 2012 we initiated a major review of the Groups 211sq ft to 207 sq ft, but this was partly offset by IToperations to make them better co-ordinated, a1.6% increase in cost per square foot to 29.50. moreresponsive to changing needs both internal and Asaresult, we held the establishment cost-to-revenue external and more cost-effective.
Core to this strategy ratio at 6.7%, flat with prior year and ahead of our will be greater centralisation and consolidation of long term 7% run-rate target.
theGroups IT infrastructure and services, with Our aim for 2013 is to improve on this level in theobjective of delivering savings of around 10% spite ofsharp increases in Asia property costs and or50million on current delivery cost.
We estimate the impending end of a number of significant below implementation will take two to three years and market leases in the region.
wehave engaged PwC to assist with the project.
As mentioned previously, these initiatives were accelerated in the fourth quarter of 2012 following the Procurement devastation caused by Hurricane Sandy.
The significant loss of power in New York and subsequent flooding In procurement, our goal is to make savings and had some impact on the operational effectiveness of addvalue across all of WPPs external spend, with certain of the Groups IT infrastructure and back-office particular emphasis on opportunities to leverage our systems, making the overhaul of our centralised IT scale to the benefit of our clients and our companies.
services all the more important.
In 2012, we completed a three-year Additionally, the rapid and continuing convergence implementation of a procurement spend analytics of mobile, voice and data communications has system which now provides supplier-level visibility allowed us to take advantage of new offerings in ofclose to $5 billion of external spend, across  sector to increase efficiencies oureight largest markets the US, the UK, and to provide enhanced support to our increasingly Germany, France, Spain, China, India and Brazil.
Access to data of this detail is now driving supplier cost reduction and value improvement targets across the Group.
At least one further market will be Practice development addedin 2013, and others in subsequent years.
Asaconsequence of better data, 2012 alsosaw In practice development we continue to develop there-organisation of procurement into four spend horizontal initiatives in a focused set of highteams with global regional reach.
potential areas across our vertical operating brands: For 2013, we will continue our focus on the key in media investment management, healthcare, drivers of supplier cost.
Specifically for technology and sustainability, government, new technologies, new indirect procurement, our goal is to have a minimum of markets, retailing, shopper marketing, internal 50% of supplier spend in each major country, covered communications, financial services and media and by WPP preferred suppliers and contracts, and for these entertainment.
Specifically, we continue to invest in 36 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012
