How were doing Advertising agency networks Ogilvy & Mather believe that it is a silo or a discipline in its own right.
At the last count we had well over 8,000 pure digital Report by Miles Young below specialists.
So we can claim to be the worlds largest Worldwide chairman and chief executive officer digital agency: but it is by being digital at the heart that we can provide not just scale but also quality.
Itisa quality that comes from being premised on business strategy and not just on executional activities.
And that quality is being noticed.
Forrester, the highly respected global research and advisory firm, rates us as one of the top three mobile agencies: Gartner sees us as a visionary: OgilvyOne is ranked No.
1 by Forrester as a customer engagement agency, in part due to digital.
We have three digital battlegrounds in particular in which we saw remarkable progress last year.
Social@Ogilvy is now the worlds largest social network, with very strong IP, expertise and case work in social media, social insights and social 2012 was our annus mirabilis.
It was in June that measurement.
In mobile, we have a unique practice we scaled the Twin Peaks of effectiveness and which is strategically led rooted in business and creativity.
Ive always believed that it is quite easy commercial objectives so very different to the foran agency to be successful as a creative shop.
mobile as a gizmo syndrome which affects much Itsalso easy for agencies to stake out the ground ofthe business.
Finally, e-commerce represents one ofeffectiveness alone.
The really big, difficult thing of our most exciting plays.
In particular, we were and sweet spot is to do both.
pleased to sign an agreement with IBMs Smarter We were awarded the title of Most Effective Commerce Group, to form a joint venture.
Agency Network by the Effie Global Effectiveness Index, and we became Network of the Year at the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity, We were awarded the title of Most forthe first time.
Effective Agency Network by the Effie Titles, of course, come and go but the Global Effectiveness Index, and we determination to play in this space, where creativity and effectiveness measures are seen as mutually became Network of the Year at the reinforcing, will remain.
My particular thanks Cannes Lions International Festival gotoTham Khai Meng, my creative partner and of Creativity worldwide creative director, and Tim Broadbent, ourworldwide effectiveness director, as the mountain guides who prodded, chivvied and hounded us up the Twin Peaks.
One of our core assets is the ability to fuse 2012 was also Digital@Ogilvys first year as the thinking from different communication disciplines formalised community of our digital specialists from into something which provides deep integration and all of our six disciplines.
We see digital as something ahigh degree of accountability.
Fusion has continued which needs to be integrated in our day-to-day to be deployed across our client base, with both new business, especially at a strategic level.
We do not and existing clients.
The ability to provide powerful 44 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012
