How we comply Other statutory information Substantial share ownership Significant agreements and change of control As at 22 April 2013, the Company is aware of thefollowing interest of 3% or more in the issued In addition to the financing agreements to which ordinary share capital: theCompany is a party, details of which are given innote 24 on page 205, the Company is a party to BlackRock Inc 5.12% anagreement with Asatsu-DK Inc dated 3 August Legal & General 3.51% 1998 pursuant to which WPP subscribed for 20% atthat time of the share capital of Asatsu and The disclosed interest refers to the respective Asatsu subscribed for approximately 4% at that combined holdings of this entity and to interests time of the issued share capital of WPP.
respective shareholdings may only be transferred The Company has not been notified of any other following a procedure set out in the agreement.
holdings of ordinary share capital of 3% or more.
WPPand Asatsu are each entitled to nominate anon-executive director to the Board of the other subject to retaining its shareholding in the other.
Profits and dividends All of our bonds except the $369 million 5.875% bonds due June 2014 contain provisions which are The profit before tax for the year was 1,091.9 triggered on a change of control of the Company.
The directors The holders of such bonds other than the 450 declared a final dividend of 19.71p 2011: 17.14p million 5.75% bonds due May 2014 have the right pershare to be paid on 8 July 2013 to share owners to repayment at par except for holders of our other on the register at 7 June 2013 which, together with US$ bonds where the holders have the right to the first interim ordinary dividend of 8.80p 2011: redeem the bonds at 101% of par if the Company 7.46p per share paid on 12 November 2012, makes isnon-investment grade at the time of the change of a total of 28.51p for the year 2011: 24.60p.
control or becomes non-investment grade within 120 days of the announcement of the change of control.
In addition the Group has a Revolving Credit Charitable donations Facility in the amount of $1,050 million and 375 million due November 2016, the terms of which Collectively, WPP companies made 5.1 million require the consent of the majority of the lenders if ofcharitable donations in 2012.
More detailed aproposed merger or consolidation of the Company information regarding the Groups support of would alter its legal personality or identity.
charities is set out in the section dealing with In general terms, awards granted under WPPs sustainability on pages 145 to 153. incentive plans will usually vest on a change It is the Companys policy not to make payments ofcontrol, albeit on a pro-rated basis.
awardsare subject to performance conditions, thoseconditions will still need to be met, also onapro-rated basis.
Certain incentive plans allowthe Compensation Committee to require outstanding awards to be exchanged for equivalentawards in the acquiring company.
166 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How we comply Other statutory information Articles of Association Authority for purchase of own shares There are no restrictions on amending the Articles At the Annual General Meeting in 2012 share ofAssociation of the Company other than the need owners passed a special resolution authorising to pass a special resolution of the share owners.
theCompany, in accordance with its Articles of Association, to purchase up to 126,006,600 of its own shares in the market.
This authorisation was Group activities replaced as part of the Scheme of Arrangement when a resolution was passed, authorising the Company, The principal activity of the Group continues to be inaccordance with its Articles of Association to the provision of communications services worldwide.
purchase up to 126,300,365 of its own shares in The Company acts only as a parent company and themarket.
In the year under review, 16,228,400 does not trade.
ordinary shares of 10 pence each were purchased atan average price of 8.30 per share.
Share capital Supplier payment policy The Companys authorised share capital consists solely of 1,750,000,000 ordinary 10 pence shares.
The Company has no trade creditors because it The Company operates an American Depositary isaparent company and does not generate trading Receipt program.
The rights and obligations relating revenues.
Accordingly, no disclosure can be made to the ordinary share capital are outlined in the ofyear-end trade creditor days.
However, the Articles of Association: there are no restrictions Groups policy is to settle the terms of payment with ontransfer, no restrictions on voting rights and suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction nosecurities carry special voting rights with regard and to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the to control of the Company.
terms of payment and to abide by the terms of At the Annual General Meeting in June 2012, payment.
The average trade creditors for the Group, share owners passed resolutions authorising the expressed as a number of days, were 41 2011: 41.
Company, in accordance with its Articles of Association, to allot shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 42,830,646 of which Auditors 6,331,334 could be allotted for cash free of statutory pre-emption rights.
These authorisations The directors will propose a resolution at the were replaced as part of the Scheme of Arrangement AnnualGeneral Meeting to re-appoint Deloitte LLP when resolutions were passed authorising the as auditors.
Company, in accordance with its Articles of Association, to allot shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 42,667,782 of which Going concern 6,315,000 could be allotted for cash free of preemption rights.
In the year under review no shares The directors are required to consider whether it is were issued for cash free from pre-emption rights.
appropriate to prepare the financial statements on Details of share capital movements are given in note the basis that the Company and the Group are going 26 on pages 208 to 211. concerns.
As part of its normal business practice, the Group prepares annual and longer-term plans and WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 167 How we comply Other statutory information inreviewing this information and in particular the provide additional disclosures, when compliance 2012 three-year plan and budget the directors believe with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient that the Company and the Group have adequate to enable users to understand the impact of resources for the foreseeable future.
Therefore the particular transactions, other events and conditions Company and the Group continue to adopt the going on the entitys financial position and financial concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
performance: and Further details of the Groups financial position make an assessment of the Companys ability and borrowing facilities are described in note 10 tocontinue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Statement of directors responsibilities Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking inrespect of the preparation of reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of financialstatements fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors report and directors remuneration report.
The directors are responsible for preparing the The directors are responsible for the maintenance financial statements in accordance with applicable and integrity of the Company website.
The directors have elected legislation and UK regulation governing the toprepare financial statements for the Group in preparation and dissemination of financial statements accordance with International Financial Reporting differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Standards as adopted by the EU IFRSs and have The directors confirm that so far as they are also elected to prepare financial statements for aware, there is no relevant audit information of theCompany in accordance with UK accounting which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Company law requires the directors director has taken all the steps that he or she ought toprepare such financial statements in accordance to have taken, as a director, in order to make himself withthe Companies Jersey Law 1991. or herself aware of any relevant audit information International Accounting Standard 1 requires that and to establish that the Companys auditors are financial statements present fairly for each financial aware of that information.
year the Companys financial position, financial The letters from the chairmen of the Nomination performance and cash flows.
This requires the and Governance, Audit and Compensation faithful representation of the effects of transactions, Committees, the statements regarding directors other events and conditions in accordance with the responsibilities and statement of going concern set definitions and recognition criteria for assets, outabove and the directors remuneration and liabilities, income and expenses set out in the interests in the share capital of the Company set out International Accounting Standards Boards on pages 113 to 143, are included in the Directors Framework for the Preparation and Presentation report, which also includes the sections Letter to ofFinancial Statements.
share owners, Who runs WPP and What we think.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable By Order of the Board: IFRSs.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting Marie Capes policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, Company Secretary comparable and understandable information: 22 April 2013 168 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How we comply Other statutory information WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 169
