How were doing Letter to share owners The budgets for 2013 have been prepared on andRussia and Central and Eastern Europe in the asomewhat more conservative basis than usual worlds mind, just like the Beijing Olympics did for hopefully following the slowing like-for-like China and Asia and the FIFA World Cup did for revenue growth rate in the middle two quarters of South Africa and the continent of Africa and 2012.
However, they continue to reflect the fasterLondon 2012 did for the UK.
growing geographical markets of Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa and Central and Eastern Europe andfaster-growing functional sectors of Advertising, The longer term looks more favourable Media Investment Management and direct, digital and interactive to some extent moderated by the In the long term, the outlook for the communications slower growth in the mature markets of the US and services industry appears favourable.
Our 2013 budgets show , overcapacity of production in like revenue and gross margin growth of around mostsectors and the shortage of human capital, the 3%and a target operating margin improvement developments in new technologies and media, the of0.5 margin points.
growth in importance of internal communications, Incentive plans for 2013 will continue to theneed to influence retail distribution, brand emphasise revenue particularly in the mature emphasis on health and wellness, the growth in markets of our custom Consumer Insight businesses government spending and the new focus on corporate and operating profit growth in conjunction with sustainability issues such as climate change underpin operating margin improvement, although objectives the need for our clients to continue to differentiate their will continue to include qualitative Group objectives, products and services both tangibly and intangibly.
including coordination and co-operation, talent Moreover, the continuing growth of the BRICs, management and succession planning.
Next 11 and other faster-growing geographical At the time of writing, we have revenue and profit markets will add significant opportunities in Asia data for the first three months of 2013.
The Group Pacific, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East has had a solid start to the year, with like-for-like and Central and Eastern Europe along with the revenue growth up over 2% in the first quarter.
The growth of new-BRICs such as Vietnam, Pakistan, trend by geography is similar to the final quarter of Indonesia, Bangladesh, Nigeria, Colombia, Turkey 2012, with strong growth in Asia Pacific and Latin and Mexico and even Myanmar.
Advertising and America, countered by the more difficult mature marketing services expenditure as a proportion Western and Continental Europe markets.
By sector, Advertising and Media Investment Management Revenue in faster-growing markets remains strong and Consumer Insight is showing 2004-2012 $bn animprovement in growth compared with the fourth WPP 1,2 5 Omnicom quarter of 2012.
These trends are in line with our 1 Publicis 4 budgets, which also indicate a broadly steady rate 1 IPG 3 ofgrowth throughout the year, albeit with the usual 2 conservatism in quarter four.
Operating profits and 1 margins were above budget.
0 2004 2010 2011 2012 2014 looks a better prospect, however, with the FIFA World Cup in Brazil, the Winter Olympics in 1 Sochi and, would you believe, another US election Peer data sourced from annual results translated at average exchange rate for the year.
The first two events 2 Assumed non-Euro countries in Europe are 3% of revenue and Canada will continue to reposition Brazil and Latin America is1.5% of revenue.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 29 How were doing Letter to share owners ofGDP has started to resume its growth, although companies in order to add value to our clients inthese relatively low-inflationary times, where our businesses and our peoples careers, an objective clients have limited pricing power, we remain which has been specifically built into short-term committed to working with our clients and their incentive plans.
Horizontality has been accelerated procurement departments to improve the effectiveness through the appointment of more than 35 Global and efficiency of their spending and investments.
Client Leaders for our major clients, accounting for Given these short-term and long-term trends, almost $6 billion of total revenues of $17 billion, your Company believes it has the correct strategic andCountryManagers in a growing number of test priorities new markets, new media, Consumer markets.
TheGroup continues to lead the industry Insight and horizontality and a focus on not incoordinating investment geographically and onlystrategic planning, creative execution and functionally through parent company initiatives distribution, but also on both the application of andwinning Group pitches.
For example, the Group technology and analysis of data, to the benefit has been very, very successful in the recent wave of ofourclients and people.
consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry and Including associates, the Group currently theresulting team pitches.
employsover 165,000 full-time people up from over 158,000 the previous year in over 3,000 offices in 110 countries.
It services 350 of the Fortune Global 500 companies, all 30 of the Dow Jones 30, 63 of the NASDAQ 100, 31 of the Fortune e-50, and almost 760 national or multinational clients in three or more disciplines.
Almost 480 clients are served in four disciplines and these clients account for over 57% ofGroup revenues.
The Group also works with almost 360 clients in six or more countries.
The Group continues to improve co-operation and coordination among its operating companies in order to add value to our clients businesses and our peoples careers These statistics reflect the increasing opportunities for horizontality developing client relationships between activities nationally, internationally and by function.
We estimate that well over a third of new assignments in the year were generated through the joint development of opportunities by two or more Group companies.
The Group continues to improve co-operation and coordination among its operating 30 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012
