How were doing Letter to share owners America and Continental Europe difficult but margins for the sector as a whole improved slightly, counterbalanced by strong growth in the fasterup 0.1 margin points to 14.4%.
growing markets of Asia Pacific, Latin America, Over 32% of the Groups 2012 revenues came Africa & the Middle East.
In the fourth quarter, from direct, digital and interactive, up over one theUK also slowed.
Headline PBIT margins fell percentage point from the previous year and growing 0.5margin points to 10.0%, while reported gross 6.7% like-for-like over 2011.
Marketing services margin margins headline PBIT as a proportion of comprised almost 60% of our revenues in 2012, gross margin rather than revenue fell 0.4 margin asimilar proportion to 2011. points to 13.9%.
The central issue continues to be like-for-like revenue growth in the custom businesses in mature markets, where discretionary spending Margins reach new high remains under review by clients.
Custom businesses in faster-growth markets, and syndicated and Headline PBIT margins were up 0.5 margin points to semi-syndicated businesses in all markets, remain 14.8% compared to 14.3% in 2011, in line with the robust, with strong like-for-like revenue growth.
Groups margin target and surpassing the previous The Groups Public Relations & Public Affairs pre-Lehman pro forma high of 2008 which we businesses had a more difficult year with full-year equalled in 2011.
This headline margin of 14.8% is growth in constant currencies of 4.2% and like-forafter charging 51 million $82 million of severance like revenues down 1.0%, with continuing pressure costs compared with 54 million $84 million in in North America and Continental Europe across 2011.
In 2012 the impact of exchange rates reduced most of the Groups brands, only partly offset by reported margins and on a like-for-like basis, strong growth in the UK, Latin America and the headline PBIT margins actually improved 0.7 margin Middle East & Africa.
Operating margins fell by points.
Over the last two years, reported headline 1.2margin points to 14.9%.
PBIT margins have improved by 1.6 margin points and by 1.8 margin points like-for-like.
Given the significance of Consumer Insight Over 32% of the Groups 2012 revenues to the Group, with none of our direct parent company competitors present in that sector, revenues came from direct, digital and gross margin and headline gross margin margins or interactive... growing 6.7% like-for-like headline PBIT as a percentage of gross margin are over 2011 amore meaningful measure of comparative margin performance.
This is because Consumer Insight revenues include pass-through costs, principally for At the Groups Branding & Identity, Healthcare data collection, on which no margin is charged and and Specialist Communications businesses including with the growth of the internet, the process of data direct, digital and interactive, constant currency collection is more efficient.
Headline gross margin revenues grew strongly at 10.2% with like-for-like margins were up 0.6 margin points to 16.1%, growth of 2.6%.
Like-for-like revenue growth achieving the highest reported level in the industry.
slipped slightly in quarter four, due primarily to Group revenues are more weighted to the second slower growth in parts of the Groups Branding & half of the year across all regions and functions and Identity and Healthcare Communications businesses, particularly in the faster-growing markets of Asia but remained close to 2%.
AKQA, the leading digital Pacific and Latin America.
As a result, the Groups agency acquired in July 2012, performed well with profitability continues to be skewed to the second full year like-for-like revenues up 10%.
Operating half of the year.
