What we think Why we are Mad Men and Women as well as Maths Men and Women Spotting the grey swans Agency has reported that America could be the worlds biggest energy producer by 2017, through its They are grey because they are the known unknowns exploitation of shale gas, at last freeing it from the that keep our clients awake at night, as opposed to vicissitudes of Middle Eastern energy markets and black swans, the unknown unknowns.
These pressures making it self-sufficient.
Which means that Saudi enumerated below can only be felt more acutely when Arabia will be China and Indias problem in 20 years the average chief executive lasts four and a half years not Americas.
inAmerica and three years around the world.
They Second, Americas manufacturing will appear arelucky.
The lifespan of the average chief marketing relatively competitive as fast-growing countries are officer in the US is even less, around two years.
hit with rising labour costs and as technological improvements in US manufacturing are implemented.
Over the fiscal cliff The NIC believes America will regain its industrial momentum and maintain its leadership.
The US accounts for $16 trillion of the world In particular, industrial advances such as 3D economy of $70 trillion.
By comparison, China is printing will reduce comparative costs.
So what happens in the isan amazing technology that will revolutionise where USreally does matter.
Given the excesses of the past, manufacturing is based and how it can respond to given the expansion, the over-inflation of the money customer needs.
Invented and developed in America, supply, the problems that were topped out by the itis going to put US manufacturing on the front foot.
collapse of Lehman its going to take us a long time Once again, Americas inventiveness, energy, to get through that.
Kicking the can down the road immigrant-driven culture and ability to raise capital alittle more only exacerbates the problem, it doesnt for good ideas have paid off.
Ithas never been wise deal with it.
towrite off America, just as we saw in the 1980s.
Meanwhile, back in the Eurozone Americas inventiveness, energy, Western Europe is, hopefully, halfway through a immigrant-driven culture and ability to decade of slow growth that began in 2008.
There raise capital for good ideas have paid off.
It may be, some say, another four or five tough years has never been wise to write off America until weget out of it in 2017 or 2018.
The story is quite different in Eastern Europe, and the intersection of Germany, Poland and Russia.
It will, The American fiscal deficit and $16 trillion of however, be tricky for France, Italy, Spain and perhaps debt are the real elephants in the room.
As European Central Bank President Mario thereis too much politics.
Cynics might say that Draghi puts it, we have been living in a fairy-tale theDemocrats would like to see a failure to reach world.
Much as things appear to be stabilising, the agreement.
The consequential rebasing of the ramifications of elections such as those in Italy or black economy would eventually see an improvement swans like Cyprus couldeasily upset the situation again.
leading up to a presidential election in 2016 when Draghi sees the Eurozone economy contracting by JebBush may face Hillary Clinton.
0.5% in 2013 before recovering to grow by 1% next Nonetheless, the long-term trends for America year.
Inevitably, France and Spain will see a bounce remain good.
The National Intelligence Council, an at some point, but it is likely to be later rather than offshoot of the CIA, believes those prospects are sooner.
The queues outside ATMs in Cyprus show good for two reasons.
First, the International Energy that the banking crisis is not yet over for Europe.
90 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 What we think Why we are Mad Men and Women as well as Maths Men and Women f Contributions to 2013 media growth by country $m Russia 1,007 UK 730 US Japan China 862 4,113 6,763 India 614 Indonesia Kenya 327 456 Brazil 1,692 Source: GroupM f: Forecast.
