Who runs WPP Board of Directors Non-executive chairman Non-executive directors Philip Lader Colin Day Chairman of the Nomination and Member of the Audit Committee and Governance Committee Compensation Committee Member of the Compensation Committee Esther Dyson Member of the Compensation Committee and Nomination and Governance Committee Executive directors Orit Gadiesh Member of the Nomination and Sir Martin Sorrell Governance Committee Chief executive Ruigang Li Paul Richardson Stanley Bud Morten Finance director Koichiro Naganuma Chairman of the Sustainability Committee Lubna Olayan until 13 June 2012 Mark Read Member of the Nomination and Strategy director Governance Committee Chief executive, WPP Digital John Quelch Jeffrey Rosen Chairman of the Compensation Committee Member of the Audit Committee Senior independent director Timothy Shriver Member of the Compensation Committee Paul Spencer Chairman of the Audit Committee Sol Trujillo Member of the Audit Committee Members of the Advisory Board Jeremy Bullmore John Jackson Richard Rivers Company Secretary Marie Capes WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 107 Who runs WPP Board of Directors Board of Directors Mark Read Strategy director and CEO, WPP Digital Age 46 Philip Lader Non-executive chairman Age 67 Mark Read was appointed a director in March 2005.
He has been WPPs director of strategy since 2002 Philip Lader was appointed chairman of WPP in and is also chief executive of WPP Digital.
The US Ambassador to the Court of St Jamess member of the Supervisory Board of HighCo and from 1997 to 2001, he previously served in several adirector of CHI&Partners.
He worked at WPP senior executive roles in the US government, between 1989 and 1995 in both parent company including as a member of the Presidents Cabinet andoperating company roles.
Prior to rejoining andas White House Deputy Chief of Staff.
Before WPPin 2002, he was a principal at the consultancy entering government service, he was executive vice firm ofBooz-Allen & Hamilton and founded and president of the company managing the late Sir developed thecompany WebRewards in the UK.
James Goldsmiths US holdings and president of He is a trustee of the Natural History Museum botha prominent American real estate company Development Trust.
anduniversities in the US and Australia.
com heis also a senior advisor to Morgan Stanley, adirector of Marathon Oil, Rusal and AES Colin Day Non-executive director Age 58 Corporations, a trustee of the Smithsonian Museum of American History and the Atlantic Council and Colin Day was appointed a non-executive director amember of the Council on Foreign Relations.
He is the Chief Executive ofFiltrona plc and a non-executive director of Sir Martin Sorrell Chief executive Age 68 Amec.
He was the group finance director of ReckittBenckiser plc until April 2011, having been Sir Martin Sorrell joined WPP in 1986 as a director, appointed to its board in September 2000.
Previously becomingGroup chief executive in the same year.
He is he has been group finance director of Aegis Group anon-executive director of Formula One and Alcoa Inc. plc and held a number of senior finance positions msorrell@wpp.
com with the ABB Group plc and fide La Rue Group plc.
He was a non-executive director of Vero Group Paul Richardson Finance director Age 55 plcuntil 1998, Bell Group plc until 2004, Imperial Tobacco plc until February 2007, easyJet plc Paul Richardson became Group finance director untilSeptember 2005 and Cadbury plc until 2010. ofWPP in 1996 after four years with the Company as director of treasury.
He is responsible for the Esther Dyson Non-executive director Age 61 Groups worldwide functions in finance, information technology, procurement, property, treasury, Esther Dyson was appointed a director of WPP taxation, internal audit and sustainability.
In 2004, she sold her business, EDventure He is a chartered accountant and fellow of the Holdings, to CNET Networks, the US-based Association ofCorporate Treasurers.
He is a noninteractive media company now owned by CBS.
executive director of CEVAGroup plc, Chime Sheleft CNET at the end of 2006 and now operates Communications PLC and STW Communications asan independent investor and writer, again under Group Limited in Australia, the last two being thename EDventure.
She has been highly influential companies associated with the Group.
for the past 30 years on the basis of her insights into prichardson@wpp.
com online information technology markets and their 108 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Who runs WPP Board of Directors commercial social impact worldwide, including the Ruigang Li Non-executive director Age 43 emerging markets of Central & Eastern Europe, Asia and Africa.
An active investor as well as an analyst Ruigang Li was appointed a director of WPP in observer, she participated in the sale of Flickr to October 2010.
He is Founding Chairman of China Yahoo!, of Medstory and Powerset to Microsoft, Media Capital CMC, Chinas first sovereign private andof Vizu to Nielsen, among others.
She sits on the equity fund dedicated to Media and Entertainment boards of Russias leading search company Yandex sector investment.
Through Lis chairmanship, CMCs YNDX, and also of non-listed start-ups including most important investments include controlling stake 23andMe, Eventful.
com, Meetup, NewspaperDirect acquisition of News Corporations China assets, a Canada, Voxiva US and XCOR Aerospace US.
joint venture with DreamWorks Animation, a joint Her current investments include Evernote, Gridpoint, venture with world-leading Chinese language TV LinkedIn, Nomanini, Omada Health, Space content provider and broadcaster TVB, Chinas largest Adventures and Square.
She is also active in public TV shopping company OCJ, all of groundbreaking affairs and was founding chairman of ICANN, the industrial significance in China and beyond.
Li was domain name policy agency, from 1998 to 2000.
She CEO of SMG Shanghai Media Group for 10 years currently sits on the board of the Sunlight Foundation, while he grew SMG into Chinas leading media which advocates transparency in government, conglomerate with the most diversified media assets andwrites a monthly column for Project Syndicate ofnational reach.
org contributor esther-dyson which is distributed worldwide.
Stanley Bud Morten Non-executive director Age69 Orit Gadiesh Non-executive director Age 62 Bud Morten was appointed a director in 1991.
He is Orit Gadiesh was appointed a director in April a consultant and private investor.
She is chairman of Bain & Company Inc. he wasthe Independent Consultant to Citigroup andaworld-renowned expert on management and Smith Barney with responsibility for its independent corporate strategy.
She holds an MBA from Harvard research requirements.
Previously, he was the chief Business School, was a Baker Scholar and was also operating officer of Punk, Ziegel & Co. a New presented the Brown Award.
Ms. Gadiesh is a member Yorkinvestment banking firm with a focus onthe of the Foundation Board for the World Economic healthcare and technology industries.
Before that he Forum as well as a member of the International wasthe managing director of the equity division of Business Council of the World Economic Forum.
Wertheim Schroder & Co. Inc. in New York.
He Sheis on the Board of Directors of The Peres Institute isa former non-executive director of Register.
com, for Peace, sits on the International Advisory Board which was sold to a private equity firm in November ofThe Atlantic Council of the United States, and the 2005, and of The Motley Fool, Inc.
He is alsoa Advisory Board for the British-American Business non-executive director of Darien Rowayton Bank, Council, as well as an Advisory Board member at the aprivate company.
China Europe International Business School CEIBS.
She is the Chairman of the International Business Leaders Advisory Council for the Mayor of Shanghai IBLAC and sits on the International Advisory Board at HEC School of Management in France.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 109 Who runs WPP Board of Directors Koichiro Naganuma Non-executive director Age 68 Jeffrey A. Rosen Non-executive director Age 65 Koichiro Naganuma was appointed a director in Jeffrey Rosen was appointed a director of WPP February 2004.
He is chairman of the Board of inDecember 2004.
He is a deputy chairman and Asatsu-DK Inc. alsoknown as ADK.
He is also managing director of Lazard with over 40 years vicechairman of the Japan Advertising Association experience in international investment banking and and chairman of the Japan Advertising Industry corporate finance.
He is a member of the Council Pension Fund.
Joining ADK in 1981, he onForeign Relations and is President of the Board waspresident and Group CEO from 1991-2010. ofTrustees of the International Center of ADK is Japans third largest advertising and Photography in New York.
communications company, and 15th largest in theworld.
Timothy A. Shriver Non-executive director Age 53 John Quelch Non-executive director Age 61 Tim Shriver was appointed a director of WPP in August 2007.
He is a social leader, educator, activist, John Quelch was appointed a director of WPP in film producer and business entrepreneur.
He is the Charles Edward Wilson Professor of Chairman and CEO of Special Olympics, he serves Business Administration at Harvard Business School nearly four million Special Olympic athletes in 180 and Professor in Health Policy and Management at countries all working to promote health, education, Harvard School of Public Health.
He also serves as and unity through the joy of sports.
Before joining the Honorary Consul General of the Kingdom of Special Olympics in 1995, he was and remains a Morocco for New England.
Between 2011 and 2013 leading educator focusing on the social and emotional he served as Dean, Vice President and Distinguished factors in learning.
He co-founded and currently Professor of International Management at China chairs the Collaborative for Academic, Social and Europe International Business School in Shanghai.
Emotional Learning CASEL, the leading research Between 2001 and 2011 he was the Lincoln Filene organisation in the field of social and emotional Professor of Business Administration and Senior learning.
He is a member of the Council on Foreign Associate Dean at Harvard Business School.
He chairs the board of Lovin Scoopful a 1998 and 2001 he was Dean of the London Business cause-related consumer products brand specializing School.
Between 2002 and 2011 he served as inice cream that loves you as much as you love it.
chairman of Massachusetts Port Authority and as Honorary Chairman of the British American Business Council of New England.
Professor Quelchs writings focus on global business practice in emerging as well as developed markets, international marketing and the role of the multinational corporation and the nation state.
He is a non-executive director of Alere, Inc anda member of the Trilateral Commission and the Council on Foreign Relations.
He served previously onthe boards of Blue Circle Industries plc, easyJet plc, Pentland Group plc, Pepsi Bottling Group and Reebok International Limited.
In the 2011 Honours List, he was awarded a CBE for services to the promotion of British business.
110 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Who runs WPP Board of Directors Paul Spencer Non-executive director Age 63 Paul Spencer was appointed a director of WPP inApril 2004.
He is a financier with 20 years experience in the financial management of a number of blue-chip companies, including British Leyland plc, Rolls-Royce plc, Hanson plc and Royal & Sun Alliance plc.
He has held a number of non-executive directorships including until 2009 Chairman of NS&I National Savings and Investments.
He is theIndependent Trustee of BT, BA and Rolls-Royce Group pension funds.
He is Chairman of Hermes Asset Managers Ltd.
In the 2010 Honours List he was awarded a CBE for services to the financial services industry.
Paul is a governor of Motability, a UK charity for the disabled.
Sol Trujillo Non-executive director Age 61 Sol Trujillo was appointed a director of WPP in October 2010.
He is an international business executive with three decades experience as CEO oflarge market cap global companies in the US, theEU and Asia Pacific, including US West now CenturyLink, Orange now France Telecom and Telstra, the Australian communications company.
Adigital pioneer operating in the telecommunications, technology, and media space, he has been a long-time champion of high-speed broadband and a pioneer andinnovator of smartphone and the mobile internet to stimulate productivity and innovation across all sectors of the economy.
He has managed operations inmore than 25 countries including developed and emerging markets from the EU and North America toChina, South Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Hecurrently sits on corporate boards in the US, EU and China including Target, Western Union and ProAmerica Bank in the US and in Asia, Silk Road Technologies in China, where he is Board chairman.
In the public sector, Mr Trujillo served as trade policy advisor to the Clinton and Bush administrations and remains active on public policy issues related to immigration, trade, productivity and fiscal affairs.
