How were doing Advertising agency networks Young & Rubicam Group In 2012, we also piloted Spectrum, which addresses the question, What does it take to be Report by Peter Stringham below atruly multidisciplinary client leader?
With the Chairman and chief executive officer helpof an executive sponsor from WPP, developing leaders involved in the program are able to tap internal resources and harness the power of the Group while growing as individuals with a multidisciplinary mind and skill set.
Every one of our 50 largest clients engages more than one of our disciplines In 2012 we saw gratifying results from such initiatives in the form of additional assignments and business wins from clients as diverse as Tata and The Young & Rubicam Group lives by the belief that Dell, to name just two.
we are Best Alone, Better Together each company in the Group strives to be best in its core discipline, but also to add value and work better together in Y&R teams united around our clients.
Every one of our 50largest clients engages more than one of our Report by David Sable opposite, top disciplines.
Nearly a third work with teams that Chairman and chief executive officer come from three or more of our companies.
The role of the Group is to support and empower At Y&R, our vision of being our clients most our companies individually and collectively, driving important partner benchmarks everything we do.
On these next pages, Ifour vision gives us purpose, our mission to youwill see the richness and diversity of the Group Resistthe Usual gives us our unique perspective.
companies, and how each of them is assiduously In 2012, we saw confirmation of both in our meeting the challenges and objectives their clients continued partnership with Dell.
Y&R Advertising face today and tomorrow.
was awarded two more major divisions Consumer In 2012, Young & Rubicam Group sponsored and Commercial.
two major initiatives designed to strengthen our Our first work for Consumer, Annie, was recently Better Together proposition.
named one of only 10 global spots in TEDs Annual The first is Rubicam University, an intensive 10 Ads Worth Spreading.
Innovation was also the program within Young & Rubicam Group that hallmark of the Thomas spot, which we launched on promotes collaboration across disciplines.
The Super Bowl Sunday, in a most unusual way without program engages participants from all parts and a media buy, but driving through social networks that geographies of the Group to solve a complex were already grabbing attention during the game.
challenge posed by an existing client that requires With our core brand storytelling abilities, we atruly integrated solution.
arecontinually focused on driving innovation that 50 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How were doing Advertising agency networks We continue to drive our Y&R Y&R Advertising VML strategy, leveraging the individual and collective strengths.
2012 saw huge global expansion for VML, using Y&Rs footprint, as you will read.
This year Y&R will celebrate its 90th anniversary a historic milestone that marks 90 years of resisting the usual and reinventing ourselves to live up to our drive to be our clients most important partner.
VML Report by Jon Cook below creates new user experiences.
We expanded The Chief executive officer and president Spark Plug, our innovation incubator that awards residencies to start-up companies in exchange for VMLs 20th anniversary year was noteworthy for giving our clients access to great new thinking and many special reasons, but none more important than technology.
We now have Spark Plug companies the agencys ability to strategically guide global innine markets and are bringing them together brands around the world.
With expanded capabilities virtually this year for our clients globally.
and increased international resources, VML supports We also began to hold client innovation a growing number of far-reaching brands, including sessions, bringing in leaders from Facebook, Colgate-Palmolive, Dell, Kelloggs and SAP.
Microsoft, Google, AOL and VICE to help leverage After being named one of the top 10 Advertising their thinking.
The ability to unify diverse partners Age A-List standout shops, VML won an around a clients challenge and needs was also unprecedented seven Cannes Lions, partnering testedsuccessfully in our partnerships on WPP withY&R Advertising including four Golds and teams, participating and leading many team efforts.
produced groundbreaking work for multiple clients Being our clients most important partner drove at the London Summer Olympics.
our increased integration with iconmobile, leveraging VML launched full-service offices in Sydney, their mobile and R&D expertise with our clients Jakarta and Mumbai and extended operations andVML.
It was also the impetus for the expansion inSingapore, So Paulo, London and Milan.
Most of Labstore, our shopper marketing agency in Spain importantly, we initiated client engagements for that we recently launched across Latin America andintend to expand globally.
Our belief that strong local agencies resonate globally found expression in the recognition we received around the world: 12 Agency of the Yearhonors, Brazils No.
1 ranking for the 10th consecutive year, as well as Latin Americas No.
2 spot rankings in FIAP and El Ojo, 51Cannes Lions won in nearly every category, rankingsthat placed us as the No.
4 global networkat Cannes and No.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 51 How were doing Advertising agency networks noteworthy brands Wendys, Campbells, MillerCoors, long-standing expertise in data and the deployment Banyan Tree, Track & Field and Vodafone.
ofCRM engagements proved essential in attracting As a proud member of the Red Fuse and Cavalry such clients as adidas, Reebok, Novartis, Levis, integrated teams, VML collaborates with amazing United Airlines, Best Buy, Coca-Cola, Unilever and partners on wide-ranging work for ColgateMerck.
Each knows that customer intelligence is a Palmolive and Hills Pet Nutrition, as well as Coors definite competitive edge to delivering highly Banquet and Coors Light.
With our data tools The VML global network has never been on and expertise, were helping brands decipher the moresolid footing as the agency embarks on its next complexities of an information-rich world.
Our timely and resolute belief in the Wunderman emerging markets of Latin America and Asia paid dividends, as we continued Report by Daniel Morel below Chairman and chief executive officer tosee growth accelerate there Our growth since 2001 has yielded resources to make brands global aspirations a reality.
In 2012, the depth and footprint of Wundermans offering hada direct correlation to new business wins, with clients citing our ability to effectively reach any corner of the world as a dealmaker.
We invested in our Marketing Solutions Centers six locations that nowcombine real-time campaign results with the production of digital assets deployed 24 7 in 90 markets around the world.
Our pan-WPP partnerships continued to flourish.
Collaborations 2012 was a growth year for Wunderman, in spite with Kantar, MEC, Hogarth and VML, among ofa very negative economic environment.
others, have yielded bold ideas.
The sheer volume, sophistication and quality of Early to the game in Latin America and Asia, data available provided us with consumer knowledge Wunderman continued in 2012 to gain, share and of unprecedented magnitude.
Wundermans size, expand resources there.
We seized the opportunity depth, strength of offerings and connected toprovide global brands with top-tier talent and infrastructure worked to our advantage as clients assets in both markets.
Digital acquisitions in endeavored to stretch across the world.
Looking Australia Bienalto and Mexico Crossmedia come back, we know that our timely and resolute belief as fast-growing developing markets continue their inthe emerging markets of Latin America and Asia climb upward.
And a joint venture in Indonesia PT paid dividends, as we continued to see growth Wunderman Pamungkas provided digital and CRM accelerate there.
superiority to brands looking to connect with 250 The quest to convert customers in a minute-tomillion consumers there.
In Europe, KBM Group minute world is gaining intensity, especially among acquired Predictys in France, specialists in digital consumer brands.
Wundermans heritage and data and campaign technology.
The result is an 52 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How were doing Advertising agency networks unrivaled infrastructure capable of meeting a brands with Merrill Lynch, the portfolio of new work will every need, everywhere.
include a range of services core to supporting Bank In the days ahead, we aim to meet and exceed of Americas positioning as a global, integrated the needs of our next global clients.
In 2013, Burson-Marsteller is poised aligning resources to match brands needs and tocontinue to build on this high level of success.
And we take great pride that Lester Wunderman, our 92-year-old founder, joins us every day in the office to meet Landor Associates ourclients and young talent.
Report by Mary Zalla below Chief executive officer Burson-Marsteller Report by Donald A. Baer below Worldwide chair and chief executive officer In summer 2012, after serving for several years as worldwide vice chair, I stepped up to the leadership role.
Along with new leadership, the firm also transitioned to a strategy that builds on its strength as a global leader in evidence-based communications with a renewed focus on creativity, strategic thinking and rigorous attention to delivering demonstrable outcomes for clients.
In 2013 and beyond, BursonIn 2012, Landor continued to evolve its business.
Marstellers underlying strategic goal is to deliver From leadership changes to expanding our offering excellence to our clients as the best ideas-driven, and entering new markets most notably Moscow results-oriented communications firm in the world.
we continue to progress and fulfill our purpose In 2013, as Burson-Marsteller entered the 60th ofmaking a meaningful difference.
anniversary year of its founding, this new strategy Landor also continues to nurture key client was quickly validated when the firm significantly relationships, the foundation of our business.
One of expanded its relationship with Bank of America as the most pivotal moments of 2012 was our work in part of WPPs worldwide effort.
Building on Bursonsupport of Procter & Gambles Olympic sponsorship, Marstellers more than 30-year client relationship which impacted every single one of P&Gs brands and included the creation of the P&G Olympic Home in London.
This single initiative called upon the strengths of many Landor offices, drove awardwinning work and showcased both our traditional and emerging capabilities.
Landor saw growth from a number of clients in 2012 including BP, Cisco, Diageo, Pernod Ricard, Verizon and Yell.
In 2013 and beyond, Landor will continue its march forward into new markets, with new capabilities, building current client relationships and creating new ones.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 53 How were doing Advertising agency networks Sudler & Hennessey The Bravo Group Report by Jed Beitler below Report by Eddie Gonzalez below, left Chairman and chief executive officer worldwide Chairman and chief executive officer and Eric Hoyt below, right President and chief operating officer At Bravo, we measure our success in four dimensions: client satisfaction, new business, awards and recognition and financial results.
In 2012, we exceeded all our expectations.
We delivered excellent topand bottom-line growth by strengthening our partnership with clients and adding new business: Best Buy, Campbells, Famous Footwear, Medalla Light, Vertexand Tampico.
Our clients success is our most important goal, however, being recognized by our industry validates our accomplishments.
Bravo earned two Cannes Lions, two D&AD Yellow pencils, six ADDYs, 2012 reflected forward thinking and strategic growth oneCLIO and two AHAA Brains!
for the Sudler global network.
We expanded our By focusing on our clients, understanding presence, appointed specialised strategic leadership, through discipline, compelling through imagination and created new initiatives to address where the and delivering with precision, we are poised for business is moving.
Our global footprint expanded with the partnership of Grupo Triunfo, one of Brazils most respected healthcare agencies.
In Asia Pacific, we appointed a chief strategic officer to oversee China and Japan.
In the EU, a new head of advocacy relations and director of planning were appointed.
New divisions were created: Primary Source, astrategic consultancy addressing early commercialization strategic needs in the US and EMEA: and Quality Matters, a managed markets group focused on US organized systems of care intheaccountable care environment.
While we continued winning creative awards, including the Hermes International Creative Awards, we are most proud that Rob Rogers, co-CEO of the Americas, was honored with the CLIO Healthcare Lifetime Achievement Award.
Cohn & Wolfe see report on page 70 54 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012
