How were doing Letter to share owners quantum, but higher quality growth at around 7.5% This approach also has the apparent virtue of p. a. compound which we would kill for, combined limiting fixed cost increases and increasing variable with higher consumption, lower savings, a social costs, although we naturally believe that marketing security safety net and stronger services sector isan investment not a cost.
We see little reason if any almost a charter for WPP.
The new politburo for this pattern of behaviour to change in 2013, leadership seems to be another bull market signal.
withcontinued caution being the watchwords.
There Fourth, and most importantly, dealing with the US is certainly no evidence to suggest any such change deficit and a record level of $16 trillion of debt in the inbehaviour so far in 2013. most effective way.
This remains the elephant in the room, as the US is still twice the size of the Chinese economy at around $16 trillion GDP versus over The outlook for 2013 continues to $8trillion out of a global total of around $70 trillion.
be demanding The last minute attempts to deal with the problem in the US Congress on New Years Eve in 2012 only 2013 looks to be another demanding year.
There succeeded in kicking the can further down the road willbe no maxior mini-quadrennial events and, and the sequester is ill-equipped to help, having been asmentioned above, the US deficit and debt really devised as a compromise measure in June 2011 remainignored.
Neither will the sequester help The pattern for 2013 looks very similar to 2012, growth in the first half of 2013 in the US.
perhaps with increased client confidence balancing the Finally, the decision to launch a referendum for lack of maxior mini-quadrennial events.
Forecasts Britains European Union membership, whilst no ofworldwide real GDP growth still hover around 3%, doubt being an astute political move, adds further with inflation of 2% giving nominal GDP growth of uncertainty to the UK economy until after the next around 5% for 2013, although they have been reduced UK General Election in 2015. recently and may be reduced further in due course.
Advertising as a proportion of GDP should at least remain constant overall, although it is still at relatively [Clients] remain focused on a strategy depressed historical levels, particularly in mature markets, post-Lehman, and advertising should grow of adding capacity and brand building in at least at a similar rate as GDP.
both fast-growth geographic markets and The three maxi-quadrennial events of 2012, the functional markets like digital UEFA Football Championships in Central and Eastern Europe, the Summer Olympics and Paralympics in London and last, but not least, the US Presidential So all in all, whilst clients may be more confident elections in November did underpin industry growth than they were in September 2008 pre-Lehman, with but not, perhaps, as much as was thought, with money stronger balance sheets, these increased levels of being switched from existing budgets, particularly in uncertainty, combined with strengthened corporate the cases of the UEFA Championships and Olympics.
governance scrutiny, make them unwilling to take Although both consumers and corporates seem to further risks.
They remain focused on a strategy of be increasingly cautious and risk averse, they should adding capacity and brand building in both fastcontinue to purchase or invest in brands in both growth geographic markets and functional markets fastand slow-growth markets to stimulate top-line like digital and containing or reducing capacity, sales growth.
As a leading chief investment officer of perhaps with brand building to maintain or increase one of the largest investment institutions said earlier market share, in the mature, slow growth markets.
this year, companies may be running out of ways of WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 27 How were doing Letter to share owners reducing costs and have to focus more on top-line 2012 revenue by geography vs peers $bn growth.
Merger and acquisition activity may be Asia Pacic, 20 Latin America, another way of doing this, but may be a more risky Africa & 16 way than investing in marketing and brand and Middle East 12 hence market share.
and Central & 8 Eastern Europe In 2013, our prime focus will remain on growing 4 Western revenues and gross margin faster than the industry 0 Europe & UK 1,2 1,3 1,4 1,3 WPP Omnicom Publicis IPG Aegis Havas average, driven by our leading position in the new North America 5 Dentsu markets, in new media, and in consumer insight, 1 including data analytics and the application of Sourced from 2012 company presentations.
Central & Eastern Europe estimated at 3% of revenue.
technology, creativity and horizontality the 2 Assumed non-Euro countries in Europe are 3% of revenue and Canada increasing opportunities for coordination and is1.5% of revenue.
3 Assumed $1 0.79 based on the average for 2012. co-operation between activities both nationally 4 Assumed Canada is 1.5% of revenue.
5 andinternationally, and at a client and country level.
Aegis Dentsu based on disclosed pro forma group revenue splits against 2012 analyst estimates.
New markets, new media and Consumer Insight 1 account respectively for 30%, 33% and 24% of theGroups revenues of $16.5 billion, demonstrating the success of our strategic focus.
1 New markets, new media and 2012 digital revenue vs peers $bn Consumer Insight account respectively $5.4bn 1 for 30%, 33% and 24% of the Groupsrevenues At the same time, we will concentrate on meeting our operating margin objectives by managing absolute $2.8bn $2.8bn levels of costs and increasing our flexibility in order to adapt our cost structure to significant market changes and by ensuring that the benefits of the restructuring investments taken in 2012 are realised.
The initiatives taken by the parent company in $1.0bn theareas of human resources, property, procurement, $0.6bn IT and practice development continue to improve the flexibility of the Groups cost base.
Additionally, as WPP Omnicom Publicis IPG Havas noted earlier, flexible staff costs including incentives, freelance and consultants remain close to historical highs of around 7% of revenues and continue to position the Group extremely well should current market conditions change.
1 Peer digital revenue according to Advertising Age percentages applied 1 I ncluding AKQA on a full-year basis.
