What we think Why we are Mad Men and Women as well as Maths Men and Women Britain and Europe This all adds up to quite an unpredictable climate but, having said that, our clients need top-line growth.
If the Eurozones woes were not dragging on Britain Theywill find that in the areas and strategies below.
enough, David Camerons promise of a referendum between 2015 and 2018 adds to uncertainty.
From WPPs viewpoint, it may not be good news.
It is at best The world is enough neutral: at worst negative.
Youve just added another reason for people to postpone investment decisions.
Ever since WPP held its first Board meeting in Chinain 1989, we have understood that growth The Middle East and North Africa would come from new markets.
We areshifting our focus to the East and to the The Arab Spring has morphed into the Arab Winter, South and the South East.
From New York to India, as power vacuums have created more problems.
China, Russia, Latin America, Africa and the Middle The seemingly irresolvable civil war in Syria adds East, and Central and Eastern Europe.
toturmoil in Tunisia and Egypt.
There remain Faster-growing markets already account for fearsthat Jordan and Saudi Arabia will be affected, athird of our business.
In particular, this is the too.
Pakistan is also challenging: Mali unpredictable.
Even the new Pope is Latin And thenthere is the threat of an Israeli attack on American.
Brazil will host the World Cup next year: Iraniannuclear installations.
There is no easy Rio will host the Olympics two years later.
Military intervention by America or Israel will probably not solve the problem: regime change isunlikely.
Of the five grey swans, the Middle East Faster-growing markets already has cast a longer, darker shadow over the last year.
account for a third of our business.
Inparticular, this is the decade of China hard or soft landing?
LatinAmerica Here, there is good news.
We at WPP see soft landings not only in China but in the other BRICs, too.
They are very welcome, given that our business Brazils projected growth is stronger for 2013, relies for its growth in these countries on greater despite a flatter economy after the election of Dilma market penetration of mass consumer goods.
Rousseff, its first female president.
Ithink this is a Therise of the middle classes in China and other little misplaced.
Look, for instance, at the strength fast-growing markets has been considerable, with ofcompanies like retail chain Casas Bahia, and the hundreds of millions of people raised from poverty electronics and electricals chain Magazina Luiza.
It is true that Chinas expansion has slowed but there are signs of fresh acceleration, particularly after the recent change in leadership.
Change is not going to be quick especially given that the new regime under President Xi Jinping was picked by the old regime theinitial indications are very good but it will be increasingly apparent in a year or two.
So it appears there will be no hard landing for the Chinese economy, nor for those of Brazil, India or Russia.
92 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 What we think Why we are Mad Men and Women as well as Maths Men and Women BrandZ Top 10 most valuable Latin American As Piyush Pandey, chairman of Ogilvy in India, brands 2012 puts it, consumers are trading in two-wheelers for Brand value four-wheelers.
There is optimism and increased Rank Brand $m spending.
Indian GDP will grow by 5% in 2013 1 Petrobras 10,560 andour business will grow by 10% like-for-like.
2 Telcel 8,449 There is a pattern here.
Marketing services 3 Bradesco 6,690 spending seems to grow at twice GDP in expanding 4 Ita 6,606 5 Comcel 5,513 economies because they are usually under-branded 6 Falabella 5,263 and under-marketed.
This was even true of Britain 7 Corona 5,114 inthe 1970s.
8 Skol 4,698 In India, multinational and national companies 9 Banco do Brasil 4,574 understand the need for brands and branding as 10 Claro 4,336 theyexpand, led by the likes of Ratan Tata, MukeshAmbani, Anil Ambani, Anand Mahindra, Source: BrandAnalytics Millward Brown Optimor Sunil Mittal and Adi Godrej.
Mexican wave People in India and elsewhere are It is not just the obvious examples such as Brazil.
leapfrogging PCs and going straight Mexicos growth rate is 4%, with our businesses there to mobile as a cheaper form of access showing double-digit growth.
The new president, Enrique Pea Nieto, recently announced a13-point to the web growth plan taking in education, technology and infrastructure particularly telephony and television markets overarching strategies that perhaps the A nation on the move Britishcoalition should note.
The revamping of the state-owned petroleum India also shows the way in mobile adoption.
company Pemex may be another crucial move Therising use of mobile devices in the nation with intheliberalisation and development of Mexico.
the worlds largest population under 30 will spur Tijuana, once a byword for drugs violence, is now digital ad sales.
The Indian population, particularly aworld hub for flat-screen television manufacture, youngsters, are at ease with technology.
As mobile and a centre for aerospace and medical equipment.
phones, and particularly smartphones, become more Our 2,300 people in Mexico are generating widespread and as the cost comes down, we will see nearly $200 million in revenue they will probably even greater use.
double that during Pena Nietos six-year term.
India has more wireless connections than the combined population of America, the Eurozone and Two-wheelers for four-wheelers Japan.
People in India and elsewhere are leapfrogging PCs and going straight to mobile as a cheaper form We have 12,000 people in our India businesses of access to the web.
The result: a higher or more generating half a billion dollars of revenue.
rapid takeout of mobile advertising as people use Examination of the Indian economy reveals much tablets or smartphones in a more aggressive way.
While there may be concerns in Mumbai People say India has begun to lack selfand Delhi, economic activity in tier-two and tier-three confidence.
If there is one country that should cities and beyond continues to expand significantly.
beconfident about its future, it is India.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 93 What we think Why we are Mad Men and Women as well as Maths Men and Women BrandZ Top 10 most valuable global Back to China brands 2012 Brand value Year-on-year According to our BrandZ ranking of the most Rank Brand $m change % valuable global brands, China Mobile now sits 1 among the worlds top 10.
Yet China remains 182,951 19 under-branded and under-marketed.
There is still 2 huge room for growth.
The headcount in our Greater China businesses has been ramped up to more than 115,985 15 3 14,000 at least another 1,500 hires are planned this year.
Again mobile is key, with China boasting 107,857 -3 more than one billion mobile phone subscribers.
4 95,188 17 5 China remains under-branded and 76,651 -2 under-marketed.
There is still huge room 6 for growth 74,286 1 7 73,612 9 As has already been said, we believe China will 8 enjoy a soft landing.
If you look at Chinas 12th Five Year Plan, youll see it is about quality growth and 68,870 -1 consumption rather than savings.
It is about health 9 care and social security, because people save for 49,151 15 theirparents old age and their own old age, and 10 itisabout services.
It almost reads like a charter 47,041 -18 forWPP, as one of our clients said recently.
Greater certainty will lead to greater consumer spending.
Source: Millward Brown Optimor Note: 2013 rankings available after 21 May 2013.
And there are more BrandZ Top 10 most valuable Chinese brands 2013 All around the world, beyond the BRICs, beyond Brand value Year-on-year theNext 11 or the Next 10, excluding Iran, Rank Brand $m change % beyondthe CIVETS, other countries areopening 1 China Mobile 50,589 -6 upto globalisation.
They all represent challenges 2 ICBC 40,444 -8 andopportunities.
Myanmar is obviously important 3 China Construction Bank 23,993 9 with over 60 million consumers.
Cuba could be 4 Baidu 22,740 40 5 Tencent 20,220 60 another one when change eventually comes.
And 6 Agricultural Bank of China 17,278 0 maybe even North Korea, although that looks 7 China Life 14,401 -6 increasingly unlikely.
8 Bank of China 13,611 -27 9 Baijiu 12,957 42 10 Sinopec 12,539 -9 Source: Millward Brown Optimor 94 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 What we think Why we are Mad Men and Women as well as Maths Men and Women Digital tales Recent examples were Omniture in web analytics and Buddy Media with its Facebook platform.
With By population, Facebook is the third biggest country both we had not only strategic investments, but also in the world.
Were eBay an economy, it would be training relationships for our people.
Digital in all its forms search, display both were taken out prematurely by Adobe and video, social, mobile now accounts for a third of Salesforce.
There are, thankfully, other our business.
We want to see that rise to 40%.
We have minority stakes in, for example, So our digital strategy has to be three-pronged.
Vice online content, eCommera ecommerce, SFX First, our established, legacy businesses must change electronic music and, as previously mentioned, the engines on the aeroplane while its flying.
a tricky proposition when new models are judged by different metrics revenues, consumer participation Putting the money in the right place and share, rather than profitability, margins and cashflow.
Despite the ever greater expansion of the new media, Second, our established digital businesses discontinuities remain.
We still overspend on legacy mustexpand faster and further.
Of Forresters media, especially press.
Clients invest about 24% sevendigital leaders, WPP has four: Wunderman, oftheir budgets on newspapers and magazines, OgilvyOne, VML and AKQA, the latest very welcome yetconsumers only spend 13% of their media day addition to the Group.
Nobody else owns more than looking at print.
The opposite is true for digital one.
How can they maintain a leadership position?
media, to which consumers devote about 30% Third, we have to add new talents, acting as a oftheir time, but clients only spend afifth of their quasi venture capitalist or private equity group, budgets there.
investing in new firms that deepen our client offer The two things have to come to some and train our people in new ways.
equilibrium, but it will be tough.
Jeff Zucker, former chief executive of NBC Universal, talked insightfully of replacing analogue dimes with digital pennies, implying that digital was less profitable for media Internet penetration Number of users m owners which is true.
North America -6.8 -15.0 -3.3 -0.1 0.0 -0.1 2 Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam.
So if newspapers and magazines are to survive, three things have tohappen.
One is you have to have paywalls: consumers should pay for the content they value.
Second, there has to be more consolidation because 8.182 journals are becoming unprofitable.
Third, there hasto be some sort of state subsidy to maintain professional journalism.
-2.075 1 Old world There is a difference in the prognosis for traditional media and digital media, depending on where you are sitting 2.421 All is by no means lost.
There is a difference in -1.884 theprognosis for traditional media and digital media, depending on where you are sitting.
In the old world, Western Europe growth in traditional areas is negative but digital continues to prosper.
In the growth world BRICs andthe Next 11 traditional and digital are blooming together, but maybe not forever.
Keep watching None of this, however, should downplay the continuing importance of free-to-air television, especially in developed markets.
In Brazil and 6.207 10.559 Mexico, dominated by Globo and Televisa respectively, that is understandable.
Indeed, we continue to be surprised by the strength of television, even in its traditional form.
We believe television inits old forms and in its 2 New world new forms in developed markets will continue to grow and remain stable at the 42% share mark.
Justas home cooking is more popular in a recession, Source: GroupM perhaps being a couch potato is too, especially sadly 1 Industrialised mature consumer economies.
