The fast read Why we exist Our mission Within the WPP Group, our clients have access to companies with To develop and manage talent: all the necessary marketing and communications skills: companies to apply that talent, with strong and distinctive cultures of their own: famous names, throughout the world, many of them.
WPP, the parent company, complements these companies for the benefit of clients: in three distinct ways.
to do so in partnership: First, it relieves them of much administrative work.
Financial to do so with profit.
matters such as planning, budgeting, reporting, control, treasury, tax, mergers, acquisitions, investor relations, legal affairs and internal audit are co-ordinated centrally.
Second, the parent company encourages and enables operating companies of different disciplines to work together for the benefit of clients.
It also plays an across-the-Group role in the management of talent, property, procurement, IT, knowledge sharing, practice development and sustainability.
And, finally, WPP itself can function as the 21st-century equivalent of the full-service agency.
For some clients, predominantly those with a vast geographical spread and a need for a wide range of marketing services, WPP can act as a portal to provide a single point of contact and accountability.
Read more about our role on page 14.
What we think Why we are Mad Men The grey swans of the Middle East, the Eurozone, soft or hard landings andWomen as well as in the BRICs markets, uncertainty over Britains place in Europe, and Maths Men and Women theunresolved US fiscal crisis will weigh on 2013.
However, the desire by Sir Martin Sorrell forbranding and differentiation in the fast-expanding economies of Asia, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East, and Central and Eastern Europe and the growth of media investment management and digital in its myriad forms mean continued demand for advertising and marketing services.
Big data, the application of technology, horizontality, and the recruitment and nurturing of the best talent from around the world will ensure WPP meets those needs.
Sir Martin Sorrells article begins on page 84.
Lessons to be Learned Unless we consciously cultivate A Theory of Mind, we risk experiencing from Robert McNamara a form of blindness that has probably contributed to more wars, family and a Pair of Long-handled alienations, political failures and wastes of marketing money than any Toe-nail Clippers other single cause.
by Jeremy Bullmore Jeremy Bullmores essay can be read in full on pages 103 to 105.
