How we behave and how were rewarded Letter from the chairman of the Compensation Committee Reward policy for management outside the Board As well as setting the policy for the executive Management share incentive plans directors, the Compensation Committee is also responsible for reviewing the policy for the most The Company uses share-based compensation across senior people at WPP outside the Board.
the workforce to incentivise, retain and recruit talent Compensation packages for these individuals are which encourages a strong ownership culture among normally reviewed every 18-24 months.
The main share plans are described below.
thepolicy for executive directors, the design of the compensation policy at WPP ensures a clear and The Restricted Stock Plan direct link between the performance of the Group and compensation.
Substantial use of performanceThe RSP is used to satisfy awards under the shortdriven compensation not only ensures the continued term incentive plans including deferred share alignment of the interests of share owners and senior bonuses ESAs as well as to grant awards to individuals within the Group, but also enables the management under the WPP Leaders, Partners and Group to attract, retain and motivate the talented High Potential program.
This program is used to people upon whom our success depends.
provide awards to about 1,600 of our key executives.
WPP is committed to encouraging strong In the program, awards are made to participants that performance through a reward system that aligns vest three years after grant, provided the participant managements interests with those of share owners.
is still employed within the Group.
From a compensation perspective, this is encouraged Executive directors are eligible to receive ESAs in a number of ways: under the RSP but ineligible to participate in any other senior executives participate in the same longaspect of the management share award program.
term incentive plan as the executive directors which is designed to incentivise growth, capital efficiency and share price appreciation: and share ownership is encouraged for the WPP Leaders approximately the top 240 executives, allofwhom have stretching ownership goals.
142 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How we behave and how were rewarded Letter from the chairman of the Compensation Committee The Executive Stock Option Plan The ExSOP is used to make special grants of options in order to attract or retain key talent.
One award was granted in 2012 one in 2011.
This plan is not generally used.
All-employee plan The Worldwide Ownership Plan is an all-employee plan that makes annual grants of stock options to employees with two years of service who work in wholly-owned subsidiaries.
During 2012, awards were made to over 48,000 employees, including over10,000 new participants.
By 31 December 2012, options under this plan had been granted to approximately 110,400 employees over 49.2 million shares since March 1997.
Executive directors are ineligible to participate in this plan.
Share incentive dilution for 2002 to 2012 The share incentive dilution level, measured on a10-year rolling basis, has remained constant at 3.7% at 31 December 2012 4.3% 2011.
It isintended that awards under all plans, other than share options, will all be satisfied with purchased shares held either in the ESOPs or in treasury.
Jeffrey Rosen Chairman of the Compensation Committee on behalf of the Board of Directors of WPP plc 22 April 2013 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 143
