How were doing Advertising agency networks Ogilvy & Mather believe that it is a silo or a discipline in its own right.
At the last count we had well over 8,000 pure digital Report by Miles Young below specialists.
So we can claim to be the worlds largest Worldwide chairman and chief executive officer digital agency: but it is by being digital at the heart that we can provide not just scale but also quality.
Itisa quality that comes from being premised on business strategy and not just on executional activities.
And that quality is being noticed.
Forrester, the highly respected global research and advisory firm, rates us as one of the top three mobile agencies: Gartner sees us as a visionary: OgilvyOne is ranked No.
1 by Forrester as a customer engagement agency, in part due to digital.
We have three digital battlegrounds in particular in which we saw remarkable progress last year.
Social@Ogilvy is now the worlds largest social network, with very strong IP, expertise and case work in social media, social insights and social 2012 was our annus mirabilis.
It was in June that measurement.
In mobile, we have a unique practice we scaled the Twin Peaks of effectiveness and which is strategically led rooted in business and creativity.
Ive always believed that it is quite easy commercial objectives so very different to the foran agency to be successful as a creative shop.
mobile as a gizmo syndrome which affects much Itsalso easy for agencies to stake out the ground ofthe business.
Finally, e-commerce represents one ofeffectiveness alone.
The really big, difficult thing of our most exciting plays.
In particular, we were and sweet spot is to do both.
pleased to sign an agreement with IBMs Smarter We were awarded the title of Most Effective Commerce Group, to form a joint venture.
Agency Network by the Effie Global Effectiveness Index, and we became Network of the Year at the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity, We were awarded the title of Most forthe first time.
Effective Agency Network by the Effie Titles, of course, come and go but the Global Effectiveness Index, and we determination to play in this space, where creativity and effectiveness measures are seen as mutually became Network of the Year at the reinforcing, will remain.
My particular thanks Cannes Lions International Festival gotoTham Khai Meng, my creative partner and of Creativity worldwide creative director, and Tim Broadbent, ourworldwide effectiveness director, as the mountain guides who prodded, chivvied and hounded us up the Twin Peaks.
One of our core assets is the ability to fuse 2012 was also Digital@Ogilvys first year as the thinking from different communication disciplines formalised community of our digital specialists from into something which provides deep integration and all of our six disciplines.
We see digital as something ahigh degree of accountability.
Fusion has continued which needs to be integrated in our day-to-day to be deployed across our client base, with both new business, especially at a strategic level.
We do not and existing clients.
The ability to provide powerful 44 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How were doing Advertising agency networks integration of this sort depends on specialist whole new dimension to our capabilities.
Our disciplines have all at the UK Direct Marketing Associations Echo hadstrong years: I am lucky to have an experienced Awards, setting a new record for winning 25 awards.
and talented group of discipline leaders.
Paul Heath To top it off, OgilvyOne UK was named Direct leads advertising, which was a major contributor to Agency of the Year by both Marketing and Campaign our awards success last year.
My colleagues Brian magazines, the latter for the third year in a row.
Fetherstonhaugh, Chris Graves, Steve Harding and Matt Giegerich all cover the progress of our direct marketing, public relations, activation and healthcare Forrester ranked OgilvyOne as the sole business fields respectively below.
Leader in its report, primarily because of Finally, 2012 was a vintage year for our people our ability to leverage and integrate the expressing their brainpower in writing.
Dimitri Maexs book, Sexy Little Numbers, underlines a full value of our network belief in data as a key strategic resource for business.
Kunal Sinha and David Mayo collaborated on Raw: Pervasive Creativity in Asia, and Christopher Graves A major new CRM assignment for iShares, an won the Grand Prix at the WPP Atticus Awards for extension of our growing global relationship with his book chapter, Cool is Not Enough.
It was one BlackRock Financial Services, signalled the rebirth of10 Atticus awards won by Ogilvy & Mather.
ofOgilvyOne West in the US, while our emerging My thanks go to all our staff across all our markets continued their strong performance.
officeswho contributed to an outstanding year.
We continue to blaze new trails in thought leadership.
As mentioned earlier, OgilvyOne New York managing director, Dimitri Maex, demystified OgilvyOne Worldwide data analytics in his new book.
We investigated the emerging discipline of Social CRM, producing a Report by Brian Fetherstonhaugh right viewpoint on how marketers can combine the twin Chairman and chief executive officer forces of CRM and social media to succeed in thefuture.
At OgilvyOne Worldwide, we pride ourselves on beingpioneers and we were both honored and thrilled to be recognized as such by the industry in 2012.
Forrester looked to the future of the marketing landscape and concluded that a new breed of datasavvy customer experience specialists, or customer engagement agencies, would prevail.
In its evaluation of 13 agencies, which included in-depth client interviews, Forrester ranked OgilvyOne as the sole Leader in its report, primarily because of our ability toleverage and integrate the full value of our network including Neo@Ogilvy, Lacek, Eicoff and Leopard.
The standout office of 2012 was undoubtedly OgilvyOne UK.
Amidst tough competition, this officelanded a fantastic new creative technologies assignment from British Airways, while adding a WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 45 How were doing Advertising agency networks Creativity, the secret sauce to any type of New, fresh and challenging work for clients such customer engagement, is our lifeblood.
We continued as DuPont, BP supporting both its London Olympic our dominance of the Direct Marketing Associations Games sponsorship and Team USA, American 2012 Echo awards, which honor both creativity and Express, Diageo, Caterpillar and Nestl demanded effectiveness, winning 19 awards in total, the most our best creative and effective thinking, and a truly ofany agency.
Other achievements included taking integrated approach that included strategic direction, home 15 John Caples Awards and contributing to cause marketing, content creation, executive profiling, 11Direct and Cyber awards at Cannes.
social media, direct marketing and advertising.
Our pioneering efforts will continue in 2013 as Ogilvy PR continued to excel in nation branding we position ourselves for future growth.
Integral to work, especially for the Mexico Tourism Board this will be a consolidation of our leadership position Mexico attracted record tourist arrivals in 2012 in the area of customer engagement.
Weve entered and a campaign for Chengdu, China that helped turn apromising new global joint venture with IBM in a formerly earthquake-stricken area into a global e-commerce, which is part of a very ambitious tourist attraction by way of a phenomenon media growth strategy over the next three years.
called Pandamonium, with its iconic pandas leading an innovative, award-winning Pambassador competition in city capitals worldwide.
Ogilvy Public Relations Report by Christopher Graves below We bolstered our capabilities with Global chief executive officer new global initiatives and specialist offerings to better serve our clients businesses, including a new corporate behavior change practice Overall, our multi-region client roster grew by 30%.
This strong organic growth reflected our ability to maintain loyal, long-term client partnerships: 90% of our top 20 clients stayed with us in 2012.
The rebuilding of a new, world-class consumer practice started with hiring Mitch Markson as our president, Global Consumer Marketing and chief creative officer, Purpose Branding, followed by In 2012, Ogilvy Public Relations continued making industry leaders Brian Maloney and Margie Fox, strong progress on our strategic drives for deep who left their own 15-year-old agency to head up the integration with other O&M disciplines a key US consumer marketing group, joining Michael Ogilvy PR differentiator in the market, more Frohlich who took up residence as EAME consumer comprehensive social media marketing work via marketing leader and UK managing director.
ouraward-winning Social@Ogilvy expertise, and We bolstered our capabilities with new global aremarkable revitalization of our core consumer initiatives and specialist offerings to better serve our marketing practice.
clients businesses, including a new corporate behavior 46 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How were doing Advertising agency networks change practice, OgilvyEngage.
The strategies were focused on: revenue formedajoint venture in Asia Pacific with Ogilvy growth and margin improvement: building our CommonHealth to create a unified, integrated creative capabilities and reputation: the evolution healthcare offering, and our global technology practice ofour Digital 6-Point Plan: balancing the growth of launched an expanded analyst relations expertise.
our existing clients: increasing penetration in Ogilvy The EAME region led the way in 2012 for & Mathers global client roster: and driving our year-over-year growth, with London continuing its Greenfields new business agenda.
streak and South Africa soaring above 2011 levels.
Despite 2012 being a challenging economic Finally, Ogilvy PR garnered more than 200 yearwe saw tremendous year-on-year growth.
awards in 2012, including Cannes PR Lions and Wegrew our two largest clients and also had strong Global SABREs The Holmes Report, Large Agency performances on Kimberly-Clark and Qualcomm, of the Year PRNews, Public Affairs Agency of the plus wins for global projects on Coca-Cola and Year The Holmes Report, the WPP Atticus Grand Unilever, as well as global opportunities on GSK, Prix, and the top Crme fide la Crme WPP WPPED Philips, Nestl and Siemens.
Cream PR award for the fifth time in six years.
Our growth was achieved due to some exceptional regional performances.
In Asia Pacific, revenues and profits grew significantly, making OgilvyAction China our second-largest market behind the UK andAsia Pacific our most profitable region.
We Report by Steve Harding below alsoexcelled in Latin America and North America.
Global chief executive officer In 2012, we won more global, regional and local creative awards than ever before, and achieved our first ever successes at Cannes with two awards for our Dubai and Rio fide Janeiro offices.
Last year was an excellent one for digital as a result of a more aggressive drive behind our Digital 6-Point Plan.
We saw significant digital client engagements including Coca-Cola in Latin America, Nestl in North America, and global initiatives with Kimberly-Clark.
2012 was a very successful year, but we need to continue that momentum into 2013 to enable us to become the worlds best brand activation network.
Building our digital capabilities, strengthening our strategic talent, allied to increased focus on creative big ideas and effectiveness, will ensure OgilvyAction continues to thrive into the future.
In 2012, OgilvyAction enjoyed a fourth consecutive year of growth, which was testament to our hard Ogilvy CommonHealth Worldwide work, and validation that our business strategy is see report on page 75 capitalising on the activation opportunities worldwide.
When the OgilvyAction Leadership Team set our strategic plans for 2012, they included ambitious butpragmatic targets, given the fluctuating global WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 47
