How were doing Consumer Insight Kantar in many markets and brought into the fold our panels in India and Nigeria.
Report by Eric Salama below Throughout the business we found ways of Chairman and chief executive officer automating our processes and shortening turnaround times for clients.
Millward Browns Link Express My overriding memory of 2012 is the way that wonnumerous awards and was adopted by many Kantar people did not leteconomic difficulties, client clients to get copy testing done in 48 hours: Kantar procurement or budget issues define ouryear.
Rather, Medias CMAG political monitoring offer in the US we have innovated and reinvented like never before, enabled the press to report on the candidates use of embraced change and laid the foundations for a creative work in the US Presidential election, having healthy and sustainable business.
We know what shortened reporting times from three days to three weneed to change and how we need to innovate.
hours: TNS revamped its Conversion Model approach We are focused on two things: making our to brand equity, incorporating automated reporting existing business better inorder to win share against and commentary, and we rolled out common traditional competitors: and changing our business operational tools to free upvalue-adding time.
model so that we stay relevant and compelling for clients for decades to come and win share against newer non-traditional competitors.
We are building capabilities, amindset and a talent pool that are Making our existing business better more technology-centric and more Performance was strong in many parts of our comfortable with connecting data business, in particular at Kantar Media Audiences from across Kantar, and outside it, where we renewed or made operational new TAM aswell as collecting data contracts in a number of key markets, established RPD services inIndia, China and the US and won the internet measurement contract in Belgium and atKantar Worldpanel which consolidated its position In thought leadership, we saw the rollout of PowerRankings in China from Kantar Retail: awards given to Kantar Health from PRIME for itswork with Sudler & Hennessey and Hill Knowlton Strategies on healthcare community programs: and from Samra to our businesses in South Africa.
There were awards to Jon Puleston for his work on gamification in surveys and Ola Mobolade and David Burgos for their book on Marketing To The New Majority : numerous ARF Ogilvy Effectiveness awards: and corporate awards forbest agency to Millward Brown UK and IMRB inIndia for an unprecedented sixth time and best employer in the UK Sunday Times rankings to Kantar Worldpanel and Added Value.
We are also driving forward data visualisation as a way of radically improving the impact of our work, with thecooperation of David McCandless and others.
66 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How were doing Consumer Insight We continued to use collaboration to innovate, amindset and a talent pool that are more technologywith joint offers between TNS and Millward Brown centric and more comfortable with connecting data incorporating Needscope segmentation into Link from across Kantar, and outside it, aswell as collecting copy testing, Kantar Media TGI Clickstream which data.
We made good progress in 2012: matches brand attitudes behaviour with online, Millward Brown incorporated facial recognition TheFutures Company and TNS incorporating capability into its copy testing, with the public Digital Life segments into Global Monitor trends, support of Unilever and Coca-Cola in rolling out.
and Kantar Media and Kantar Worldpanel in China, TNS is incorporating facial recognition into its Spain and France matching media consumption innovation work.
This adds value to clients Red Dot Squares virtual reality technology is in ways that others cannot.
Especially pleasing were being used by retailers and manufacturers to improve numerous examples of cooperation between Kantar their supply chain and to test concepts while we are and other WPP businesses.
adapting the technology for use in virtual car clinics.
We ended 2012 with a stronger capability, We partnered with Lumi and Reality Mine to roll through the acquisition ofbusinesses such as Cadem out mobile panelsin several markets and to increase in Chile, ZEG Berlin Centre for Epidemiology, Press substantially the proportion ofmobile surveys.
Index in Europe, Oasis in Pakistan, organic start-ups Lightspeed and GMI internet access panels now by TNS and Millward Brown in Cambodia and have 100,000 people who allow us to incorporate Myanmar, as well as the recruitment of many people their Facebook profiles so that we can combine who have strengthened our offer.
theirattitudes and social media behaviour.
We embedded new capabilities through the Changing our business model acquisition of CIC Chinas leading social media player and Adgooroo worldwide leader in paid We are also focused on radically changing our business search evaluation, and through increased model around Ask shorter, more predictive surveys, investments in Affectiva facial expression analysis Listen integrate social media, Watch integrate andEnprecis real-time customer satisfaction.
We are building capabilities, We progressed our ambition to have all face-toAbove, left to right: David Geiger, CEO, Center Partners, Sharon Potter, CEO, KantarOperations, JosepMontserrat, CEO, Kantar Worldpanel, ThomasPuliyel, CEO president, IMRB, Janine Hawkins, CEO, Added Value, David Day, CEO, Lightspeed Research WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 67 How were doing Consumer Insight face research carriedout electronically, with the Our extensive development curriculum, our proportion of that work using tabletsincreasing graduate programs inChina and South Africa and to50%, even in markets such as Africa.
our womens mentoring program are evidence of For an increasing number of clients, we work ourcommitment to building a more diverse, with the WPP Data Alliance and other partners to representative and performing talent pool.
connect and make sense of multiple datastreams Our output is rarely visible.
But we know and andto enable our data to be used in novel ways.
cantake increasing pride in the quality of the work wecarry out.
Some of that pride relates to the intrinsic quality and impact of the work: some to the public Our extensive development benefit inherent in it.
Much of our healthcare and political social work, such asthe work we carried out curriculum, our graduate programs for the Red Cross in China on HIV AIDS prevention inChina and South Africa and our in conjunction with John Hopkins University, or for womens mentoring program are the World Bank in India on making the Ganges cleaner and less polluted, innumerous studies for evidence of our commitment to building governments on social policy and how to maximise a more diverse, representative and itseffectiveness, is public and a visible expression performing talent pool ofthe good to which we can put our skills.
Above, left to right: Will Galgey, CEO, TheFutures Company, Wayne Levings, CEO, Kantar Retail, Lynnette Cooke, CEO, Kantar Health, Masanori Miyajima, CEO, Kantar Japan, Eileen Campbell, CEO, Millward Brown, Jean-Michel Portier, CEO, Kantar Media 68 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012
