How we behave and howwere rewarded Directors report Report by Philip Lader left Chairman of the Dear share owner Company and chairman of the Nomination and No elephant in this room Governance Committee midst these pages reports are an artists WPPs 2012 performance evidences, in the playful animals, prompting this chairman Boards estimate, the continued vision and energy, to comment on a particular elephant.
entrepreneurial instinct, strategic judgement and A Share owners undoubtedly will be prudent financial management of an exceptional pleased to note the Companys new records: revenue, CEO, one who is invested in this Company to an profit, geographic scope, headline margin, creative extraordinary degree.
And there is no sign of his excellence and earnings per share, among others.
Market capitalisation has exceeded $20 billion for Share owners can be certain that nothing less the first time: dividends per share rose 60% over the willbe required by this Board.
They have charged last two years, and the dividend pay-out ratio uswith WPPs long-term stewardship, ensuring reached almost 40%.
Our creative talent has been thatthis remarkable Company continues to be an recognized by this industrys top Oscar in each of industry leader, responsible employer and corporate the first two yearsitwas awarded.
citizen, and share owner wealth-builder well beyond All this was achieved in an extremely challenging the career of any single individual.
Business confidence has been Sir Martin, like all of us, is not immune from fragile.
being hit by the proverbial bus.
And someone having Credit goes, deservedly, to the Groups 165,000 celebrated 68 birthdays, who has routinely worked people, literally around the globe.
But much in the 80 -hour weeks for 27 years, may one morning medias eye has been one individual.
decide to start a new venture or even seek to As likely from an opinionated group of genuinely discoverwhat weekends can be like.
independent-minded directors, animated debates are That elephant has not been overlooked by not infrequent around WPPs Board table.
unanimous, however, in the judgement that Martin Succession planning, we recognise, is one of our Sorrell is the best chief executive officer in this most fundamental duties.
industry and the person who can best serve the Thats why, at virtually every Board meeting interests of share owners in this role atthis time.
overthe past several years, there has been a review Yet as chairman, I am expected to ask What  options and management have you done for us today?
And I hasten to add development throughout the Groups operating What about tomorrow?
Within each annual WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 113 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report cycle, more than 100 individuals, including senior Identifying another Martin will not be our management, are thereby reviewed by the entire objective.
The stages of corporate evolution, we Board.
For the people business that WPP is, realise, require different talents.
Any of a variety webelieve there is no better use of such hours.
ofprofiles, management styles and organization Additionally, each time we meet, operating structures could be preferable, at that point, to companies key leaders and rising stars make leadthis Company to future successes.
presentations and engage in spirited, in-depth Ultimately confronting the succession elephant discussion with non-executive directors.
Over will be part science, part art.
meals, these regular exchanges continue on a more There is no more important responsibility of your personal level.
And inthis way, as well as through Board: and we earnestly endeavour to remain formal performance reviews, your Board genuinely prepared for this inevitable transition.
knows and evaluates the Groups senior talent.
That time, however, is not now.
How would we treat CEO succession if it were It is not coincidental, I believe, that, of Fortunes required, for any reason, in the near future?
That most recent list of The Worlds Most Admired question is our entire focus twice each year, after Companies, seven of the top 10 are what an editor thechief executives input is sought, at extended, notes as one-man phenomenal, the reflection confidential non-executive director meetings, when ofasingle individual.
Indeed, in 2012 Martin mission and candour are palpable.
Session-bywasvoted the UKs Most Admired Leader by session, specifics occasionally change, as we Management Today.
Obsessive attention to detail, considerpotential interim Group leadership, indefatigable energy, laser-like focus on performance theCEO selection process, and the strengths and and growth, the financial incentives of substantial development needs of potential internal candidates.
ownership, a subconscious devotion to legacy: what Some dozen of WPPs operating companies, if share owner would not value such traits in a CEO?
independent, would rank among the industrys largest The same commentator observes, nevertheless, enterprises.
Our senior executives, client team leaders that a company can rocket to industry dominance and Group senior managers therefore comprise a and a towering valuation in the space of a founders poolthat would be the envy of any headhunter.
career, but it can also fall right back down.
We welcome scrutiny of WPPs corporate Your Board knows this.
We are convinced that, governance.
Yet our Board insists that confidentiality as2012s results manifest, WPP is on the right track, is essential to our succession planning.
that the Group has the best CEO for this Company, Disclosure might impair WPPs increasing at this time.
Yet we underscore that, as enormous as horizontality, which requires close cooperation Martins impact has been over nearly three decades, among our occasionally competing operating WPP is far more than one individual.
Even such strong WPP talent would profound sense of responsibility for the future of this becompeting against the best external candidates Company, for the clients we serve, for the welfare of identified in a rigorous process then assisted our people and the investment of our share owners.
byamajor international executive search firm.
Theres no elephant in the WPP Board room.
Experienceand skill-sets in a broad universe of industries warrant examination.
And a leading candidate in 2013 especially amidst the rapid Philip Lader changes in the services we provide and the 22 April 2013 technologies we employ may well not be the best choice when succession ultimately will be actionable.
114 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report Review of the Companys Board refreshment governanceandthe Nomination andGovernance Committee 2012-14 is an important transitional period for thisBoard.
With the demands of her Saudi Arabian-based Report by Philip Lader commercial and international public-interest Chairman of the Nomination and commitments leading to Lubna Olayans not standing GovernanceCommittee for re-election, the institutional memory and industry judgement of several long-standing non-executive Nomination and Governance Committee members directors were especially important last year.
Meetings Professor John Quelch CBE then-Dean of Philip Lader chairman 5 theChina Europe International Business School, Esther Dyson 5 aswellas former Dean of London Business School Orit Gadiesh 5 and Senior Associate Dean of Harvard Business School has served for 25 years as a WPP nonBy invitation: executive director, contributing both a global Bud Morten 4 perspective and the always-current insights of oneofthe worlds leading marketing authorities.
Dear share owner Bud Morten, having served on this Board for 22 years, is truly a directors director: an independentCommittee responsibilities and how they were minded challenger to senior-most management, discharged in 2012 commonly-accepted assumptions, and premises ofevery sort, it is Bud who also invariably finds hroughout 2012, Board performance themisplaced participle in a legal document or andsuccession planning not only for missing digit in financial projections.
senior management, but also for nonPaul Spencer a nine-year veteran of this Board Texecutive directors were the principal whose CBE honors a long career in finance and wide focus of the Nomination and Governance recognition of competencies evidenced in his service Committees five formal meetings and frequent as chairman of Hermes Asset Managers Ltd and informal exchanges between Committee members Independent Trustee of BT, BA and Rolls-Royce and our fellow directors.
At most of these sessions Group pension funds has been nothing short of a and in several 2013 Committee meetings, all superb chairman of the Audit Committee: Little that directors were invited to participate: and the could possibly affect the Groups performance and Committees recommendations to the Board reputation escapes his close scrutiny: direct straightgenerally reflected the consensus of opinions from talk is his manner.
The Board has been privileged such larger number of non-executive directors.
Additionally, at two lengthy meetings of nonKoichiro Naganuma, from his leadership role executive directors, members of this Committee inone of Japans major advertising agencies, addressing issues raised at Committee meetings contributed insights into industry and economic played a central role in consideration of how the trends in that important market.
WPP Board could be increasingly effective and John, Bud, Paul and Naganuma-san will not whatpreparations should be made to deal with bestanding for re-election to the Board.
And they, potential personnel, industry, and client challenges like Lubna, will be very much missed.
Buds, Johns and Naganuma-sans institutional memory and ready continuing assistance will be WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 115 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report ensured, however, by their appointment to WPPs Committees work and his in-depth understanding Advisory Board for the coming year.
ofthe Group as senior independent director.
Over the years, I have conveyed the Boards Esther Dyson and I shall also retire from the unanimous belief, that a directors independence Compensation Committee in December 2013. should be determined on a factual, rather than ThisCommittees continuity would be ensured, meretimeline basis.
With its scale and range of however, by the continuing service of Colin Day commercial activities, WPP benefits enormously from andTim Shriver, who would be joined by current directors who have long history with the Company non-executive directors Ruigang Li and Sol Trujillo and are actively engaged in the Groups governance.
and, as follows, new members of the Board.
Continuity of effective, truly independent directors, To succeed Jeffrey as Compensation Committee in your Boards opinion, serves owners best interests.
chairman in January, 2014, a highly-qualified That said, the Board has taken several actions candidate has been selected by the Board and has affecting non-executive directors tenure.
agreed to serve, but potential client conflicts cannot All WPP directors stand for annual share in the judgement of WPPs counsel be sufficiently ownerre-election.
cleared before the June 2013 AGM.
Such conflict Newly-elected non-executive directors shall clearance is expected perhaps even before the AGM, notstand for re-election after having served for the but subsequent to printing of this Annual Report, period of their independence under applicable US and the Board believes share owners interests would and UK governance authority, that presently being be very well served by the experience, judgement and the nine-year rule.
independent thinking of this individual, who would This policy will also apply generally to currentlybe appointed upon final clearance.
A dedicated member of the Audit Committee, To ensure an effective boardroom transition, Colin Day the former group finance director OritGadiesh and Esther Dyson the former, chair ofReckitt Benckiser and Aegis and non-executive ofBain & Company: the latter, an international director of Cadbury, Imperial Tobacco and other investor in web-based businesses and leading public companies, as well as the current CEO of authorityon all matters digital: who are both Filtrona plc is exceptionally well qualified to chair extremely valuable directors and, in the Boards the Audit Committee and, if re-elected as a nonview, genuinely independent, notwithstanding executive director at this AGM, would immediately theirhaving served for more than nine years succeed Paul Spencer in that position.
He would be areproposed for re-election as directors.
But they assisted by Jeffrey, Sol and, as detailed below, new willretire from the Board prior to the 2014 AGM.
To direct implementation of this Board Committee leadership and service transition, the Board has asked me to remain, subjectto re-election, as chairman of the Board and Jeffrey Rosen has served on this Board since 2005 the Nomination and Governance Committee at this andhas devoted enormous time and effort to the role time.
Orit and Esther would continue as members ofCompensation Committee chairman.
Given the ofthis Committee and be joined by Jeffrey, Tim, complexity of the Groups remuneration plans and the Ruigang and several new non-executive directors.
need for their major revision this past year, the Board asked Jeffrey, and he agreed, to continue in this role New non-executive director appointments through December 2013.
He now stands for re-election as a non-executive director and, though stepping down To continue this tradition of candid, highly from that committee at that time, would continue to competent and thoroughly engaged non-executive apply his international financial experience to the Audit directors, the Committee undertook an exhaustive 116 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report process of considering the skills and experience Committee Nomination and composition Audit Remuneration Governance ofanextremely broad range of potential candidates.
following 2013 AGM Committee Committee Committee Supplementing the many names proposed by Philip Lader until Dec 2013 l chair l currentBoard members, the executive recruitment Roger Agnelli l l l Jacques Aigrain l l firm, Egon Zehnder International, utilized its Colin Day chair l l consultants around the globeto identify, evaluate, Esther Dyson until Dec 2013 l l and screen a  of individuals.
Orit Gadiesh l Our criteria focused ondiversity in its broadest Ruigang Li l l sense: gender, geography, career discipline, Jeffrey Rosen l chair until Dec 2013 l l professional perspective, and technical skills.
Hugo Shong l l l Traditional qualifications, financial competencies, Tim Shriver l l media-related, marketing-services and developingSally Susman l markets experience, independence, time availability Sol Trujillo l l and the level of commitment were scrutinised, New chair identified subject to clearance.
leading to many current directors interviews ofseveral dozen candidates.
Consequently, the Board will appoint the Thus, all members of the Audit and following new non-executive directors, who Compensation Committees, and a majority of willstand for election at the June 2013 AGM: themembers of the Nomination and Governance Roger Agnelli: Brazil non-executive director, Committee, would have served for fewer than nine ABB: former chief executive officer, Vale and years on this Board.
Bradespar and non-executive director, Spectra Energy, Inco, Duke Energy, Latas fide Aluminio, Continuing board refreshment andother public companies: Dr. Jacques Aigrain: France chairman, The Board refreshment process continues actively: LCHClearnet and non-executive director, Qatar andwe propose to appoint two or three additional Financial Centre Authority: former chief executive new, similarly highly-qualified non-executive directors officer, Swiss Re Ltd and investment banker, J. P. in the coming year as we prepare for the retirement Morgan Chase & Co. : ofother incumbents.
Hugo Shong: China : president, International Among a number of outstanding candidates Data Group-China and executive vice president, interviewed in the past 24 months is a short-list of IDG: non-executive director, China Jiuhao Health exceptionally qualified candidates, in addition to Industry Group, Mei Ah Entertainment Group Ltd: currently-serving non-executive directors, to succeed founding general partner, IDG Capital Partnersme as chairman of the Board.
Until such appointment, Asia Pacific: former managing editor, Electronic planned for 2014, WPPs Board transition and BizChina: succession planning will be among my top priorities.
Sally Susman: US executive vice president In addition to customary governance, management forExternal Affairs & Communications: Pfizer oversight and representational duties, I shall be Corporation and, formerly, Este Lauder assisting our new colleagues in their familiarization Companies:former head of Public Relations, with this Companys many dimensions, continuing American Express Europe.
share owner consultations to resolve any outstanding Subject to AGM approval, the composition of our compensation and governance issues, and three main committees would be: participating in the work of committees.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 117 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report Terms of reference Review of the Audit Committee The committees terms of reference, which are reviewed with the Board annually and most recently Report by Paul Spencer in November 2012, are on the Companys website Chairman of the Audit Committee atwww.
Audit Committee members Meetings Sustainability Paul Spencer chairman 9 Colin Day 8 Paul Richardson, chairman of the Companys Sol Trujillo 9 Sustainability Committee, presented a comprehensive Jeffrey Rosen 9 assessment of the Groups sustainability performance and risks to the committee for 2012.
Particularly By invitation: noteworthy among the Groups new sustainability Philip Lader 9 undertakings were the Sustainability Navigator, Bud Morten 9 providing details about sustainability experts across all operating companies, and a privacy and data protection code and training programs, which the Dear share owner committee recognised as increasingly important totheexercise of WPPs corporate responsibility.
e held nine meetings during the year, which were attended by the external Committee and Board evaluation auditors, the Companys chairman, the W Group finance director, Bud Morten, As with the overall Board self-evaluation, the annual the director of internal audit, the Group chief evaluation of the committees effectiveness was counseland the Company Secretary.
undertaken by the chairman and senior independent Preparatory meetings were also held with the director through a questionnaire soliciting all internal and external auditors as well as members of members opinions and suggestions.
Responses were the Companys senior management.
The committee shared with the committee, which concluded that received presentations from the heads of internal itcontinued to operate effectively, was making audit, finance, tax, compliance and treasury and substantial progress in Board refreshment, but must theGroupM worldwide CFO.
The committee also continue such concerted efforts.
Along with the Board received reports from the Disclosure Committee on recruitment process, Egon Zehnders consultants financial reports.
The Board received regular reports asdiscussed in the How we comply section of this on all matters of particular significance arising at Annual Report rendered candid evaluations of our thecommittee meetings.
Boards and this committees performance.
Their The committees terms of reference, which are recommendations, in addition to the directors reviewed with the Board annually and most recently self-evaluation, will be intensely reviewed by this in November 2012, are on the Companys website committee in upcoming meetings, with proposals atwww.
tothe full Board as to increasing its effectiveness.
The committee and its members were formally assessed by the chairman of the Company as part of the annual evaluation process described on page 158 Philip Lader for their technical suitability to be members and also 22 April 2013 for its overall effectiveness.
The Board has designated 118 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report me as the committees financial expert for Sarbanesreports submitted by the internal and external auditors: Oxley Act SOX purposes and as having recent and reviewing the procedures and supporting training relevant financial experience for the purposes of the programs implemented by the Group in response UK Corporate Governance Code.
Each member of tothe UK Bribery Act and US Foreign Corrupt the committee has considerable financial and Practices Act and increased regulatory focus: financial services expertise as set out in their reviewing the Groups reporting systems and biographies on pages 108 to 111. backoffice integration initiatives: reviewing issues raised on our Right to Speak Committee responsibilities and how they were helpline and the actions taken in response to discharged in 2012 thosecalls: reviewing the funding strategy for the Groups The main matters we dealt with during 2012 were pension plans in response to new legislation and asfollows: increased funding requirements in the US and the monitoring the integrity of the Companys UK: and financial statements and reviewing significant reviewing the Groups initiatives and policies financial reporting judgements: ondata privacy and internet security.
reviewing internal financial control and internal audit activities: Financial reporting and significant assisting the Board in meeting its responsibilities financialjudgements in respect of reviewing and reporting on the systems and key elements of risk management as they affect Deloitte reported to and discussed with the the Group: committee whether suitable accounting policies reviewing the Group Treasury policy with hadbeen adopted in the financial statements for particular focus on debtors, funding foreign theyear ended 2012 and whether management exchange and cash management and the continued hadmade appropriate estimates and judgements.
ability of the Group to adopt the going concern Themain areas of focus in 2012 and matters basisin preparing financial statements: wherewe specifically considered the judgements reviewing reports on any material litigation or thathave beenmade were: regulatory reviews involving Group companies: the appropriateness of the restructuring charge reviewing the Groups mergers and acquisitions taken in 2012.
The committee reviewed the strategy, any significant acquisitions, due diligence accounting standard criteria, the methodology procedures and integration processes and the debt adopted by management to quantify the charge financing by the Group: andthe presentation of the charge and agreed reviewing GroupMs trading model and its risk thatmanagement had appropriately presented, assessment processes: recognised and valued the restructuring charge: reviewing the Groups Code of Business Conduct the assessments made for goodwill impairment and supporting training programs: and we confirmed, based on managements reviewing the Groups tax strategy and domicile: expectations of future performance of certain monitoring the accounting and legal reporting businesses, the level of goodwill impairment requirements, including all relevant regulations of chargesrequired in 2012: theUK Listing Authority, the SEC and NASDAQ the judgements made in respect of tax, in and the Jersey Financial Services Commission: particular deferred tax assets including their overseeing the progress towards compliance with recoverability and the level of tax provisioning.
Section 404 of SOX for 2012, through regular status Wesupported managements assumptions in both WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 119 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report these areas and believe the current level of provisions such as ethical standards issued by the Auditing is reasonable: Practices Board and SOX.
Other categories of work the going concern assessment and key forecast may be provided by the auditors if appropriate and if assumptions.
We concur with managements going pre-approved by the committee, either as individual concern assumptions as set out on page 167: assignments or as aggregate amounts for specified the approach taken to calculating fair value categories of services.
All fees are summarised adjustments in respect of acquired businesses periodically for the committee to assess the aggregate andspecifically provisions for non-corporate tax, value of non-audit fees against audit fees.
The level property and legal exposures which the committee offees for 2012 is shown in note 3 on page 189. considered was appropriate and in line with expectations: and Succession accounting for the judgemental elements of remuneration including holiday pay, pensions, bonus This is my ninth year as chairman of the Committee accruals and share-based payments.
We agreed that the and I will continue to serve through an orderly assumptions applied by management are reasonable.
transition to Colin Day who will be my successor following the AGM.
External audit I would like to thank my colleagues on the committee, the parent company executives and Deloitte has been WPPs auditor since 2002. theexternal advisors for their endeavours in 2012.
Thelead partner rotates every five years and the last rotation was in 2010.
In line with the committees responsibility to review and appoint the external Paul Spencer auditors and approve their remuneration and terms 22 April 2013 of engagement, in 2012 we monitored Deloittes independence, objectivity and performance with reference to frequent reports from Deloitte during theyear covering the overall audit strategy and the progress and results of the audit.
The committee concluded that it continues to be satisfied with the performance of Deloitte and that Deloitte continues to be objective and independent.
The committee recommends the reappointment of Deloitte at the AGM on 12 June 2013.
The committee will recommend a course of action to the Board during 2013 to respond to the new requirement in the Code that the external audit contract is put out to tender at least every 10 years.
Non-audit fees The committee has established a policy regarding non-audit services that may be provided by the external auditors, which prohibits certain categories of work in line with relevant guidance on independence, 120 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012
