Why we exist Our mission Within the WPP Group, our clients have access to companies with all the necessary marketing To develop and manage talent: and communications skills: companies with strong to apply that talent, and distinctive cultures of their own: famous names, throughout the world, many of them.
WPP, the parent company, complements these companies in three distinct ways.
for the benefit of clients: First, it relieves them of much administrative to do so in partnership: work.
Financial matters such as planning, to do so with profit.
budgeting, reporting, control, treasury, tax, mergers, acquisitions, investor relations, legal affairs and internal audit are co-ordinated centrally.
For the etween them, WPP companies have tens of operating companies, every administrative hour thousands of individual clients.
They range saved is an extra hour to be devoted to the pursuit from Fortune 500 global giants through of professional excellence.
Bsingle-nation start-ups to the smallest of Second, the parent company encourages and specialist charities.
Diverse as they are, they have one enables operating companies of different disciplines thing in common: in pursuing their objectives, they to work together for the benefit of clients.
Growing affluence in collaborations have the additional benefit of many parts of the world combined with overcapacity enhancing the job satisfaction of our people.
The and over-supply in almost every significant consumer parent company also plays an across-the-Group role market has put more and more power into the hands in the following functions: the management of talent, of consumers, accelerated by technology.
including recruitment and training: in property As always, if they are to succeed or even to management: in procurement and IT: in knowledge survive with profit every competitive company sharing and practice development with an needs an intrinsically appealing product or service.
increasing emphasis on corporate responsibility Increasingly, part of that appeal must lie in a and sustainability.
companys evident sense of a wider responsibility: And finally, WPP itself can function as the one that extends beyond share owners, employees 21st-century equivalent of the full-service agency.
and consumers and recognises a duty to the For some clients, predominantly those with a vast environment and to society as a whole.
Todays most geographical spread and a need for marketing successful companies are founded on strong values.
services ranging from advertising through design But even all that, though remaining the most and website construction to research and internal fundamental of requirements, is seldom enough.
communications, WPP can act as a portal to Just as competitive costermongers arrange their provide a single point of contact and accountability.
apples in appealing displays and polish them lovingly No two clients are structured in precisely the to catch their customers eyes, so all companies need same way.
Within WPPs operating companies, to display their wares compellingly.
teams can be tailor-made to match any and all.
They need access to high-quality information, strategic advice and specialist communications skills.
And its in the nature of specialist and creative talent that it is unlikely to flourish within the confines of a client company.
People with specialist talents work best and contribute more when recruited, trained and inspired by specialist companies.
