How were doing Letter to share owners Sustainability matters Future challenges The Groups commitment to, and investment in, A colossal amount remains to be done challenging sustainability initiatives supports major business our clients, and therefore us.
It seems certain that wins.
We estimate that clients who engaged with once these objectives areachieved, they will be WPP on our approach to sustainability were worth replaced by new ones.
Ascompanies grow in size, $1.2 billion to the Group in 2012. most chairmen and CEOs become concerned that We are in business for the long term and, like their organisations may become flabby, slow to allleading companies today, we recognise our respond, bureaucratic and sclerotic.
Any sensible responsibilities to clients, our people and the world business leader aggressively resists this phenomenon: atlarge.
Sustainability at WPP cuts across all areas we all seek thebenefits of size and scale without of our business.
From the work we do for clients, to sacrificing thesuppleness and energy of a smaller the time we donate to causes through pro bono work firm.
And, forthefirst time, new technologies now and the way we run our company and look after our make this possible on a global platform.
Sustainability issues are ever more important the scale and resources of the largest firm together to our clients, and our own track record gives us with theheart and mind of a small one.
credibility as advisors on these topics.
A summary of the Groups approach to sustainability can be found on pages 145 to 153.
And finally... Pleasealso see our annual Sustainability Report onthe work our clients and our people do in these All our most successful marketing clients follow increasingly important areas.
marketings most fundamental rules: understand your consumers: know what they want: anticipate change: Sustainability performance summary provide the answers: be constant in your delivery.
2012 2011 2010 WPP, too, is a marketing company.
Our consumers Value of client business are our clients.
And we try very hard to follow those supported by our same fundamental rules.
A significant change that we sustainability credentials $1.2bn $1bn were early to identify and first to satisfy has been the Gender diversity % of women total employees 54% 54% 54% demand among some clients to be served not by a Gender diversity % of women series of specialist agencies but by a dedicated team: Board directors executive ateam made up of specialists from all relevant leaders 32% 31% 31% Investment in training and communications disciplines, who remain members welfare 57.8m 58.3m 48.9m oftheir specialist agencies, while at the same time Carbon footprint tonnes of collaborating on a daily basis to provide a truly CO per person 2.45 2.44 2.51 2 integrated client service with no joins showing.
This Social investment million 16.2m 15.3m 14.3m at least in part is what we mean by horizontality.
V alue of clients who requested information on our sustainability policies and Rapid changes in technology, the fragmentation performance through their supplier management process.
of media and the acknowledged success of many of the early teams have made this approach increasingly attractive to certain clients.
As a structure, it is less radical than it probably sounds.
In the far-off days of the full-service agency, a clients working account group the only unit of real importance to the client would be 40 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How were doing Letter to share owners formed from specialists from each department: account management, planning, creative, media and any of many others according to a specific clients specific needs.
The team approach is similar: and, much like the agency account group, expects its members to have something approaching dual nationality.
They are at once paid-up members of their specialist tribe, be it department or company and committed members of the dedicated client team.
The needs of no two clients are the same.
The team approach will never be universal.
But seamless collaboration of this kind, with no compromise on quality, requires high degrees of understanding of the bigger picture which, of course, is precisely why theclient values it so highly.
Last years Group performance, as detailed in this report, was made possible by tens of thousands of talented individuals: each with a particular individual skill: some working entirely in groups within their companies and some in dedicated client teams: and all contributing to a greater whole.
They have earned our very public gratitude.
Philip Lader Chairman Sir Martin Sorrell Group chief executive Paul Richardson Group finance director WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 41
