How were doing WPP Digital Report by Mark Read right Chief executive officer WPP Digital made excellent progress during 2012 indeveloping the Groups offer at the intersection ofmarketing and technology.
POSSIBLE became afully-fledged global digital network, acquiring market-leading businesses in fast-growing markets.
We deepened our integration around data and analytics, particularly with the growth of The Data Alliance see below.
We start 2013 with an even stronger footprint in the markets and specialist sectors which will drive further growth.
Were proud that our work this year has been world class.
Johannes Leonardo won the first Mobile Grand Prix at Cannes Lions for its campaign to make display ads sexy and Blue State Digital sent nearly six billion hyper-targeted emails to power President Obama to his second term.
The quality ofour work has been reflected in big client wins: network of websites.
Through a partnership with F. bizwon regional accounts with Motorola and Jumptap, 24 7 Media was first tomarket with a Unilever and Rockfish added 20 new clients during cross-screen offering that enables advertisers to reach the year.
an unduplicated audience on both display and mobile In 2012, POSSIBLE was transformed into a truly devices.
It also signed a strategic partnership with global digital agency.
The acquisitions of Carnation in Microsoft that brought enhanced scale, optimization Hungary, Grape in Russia and Fortune Cookie in the and automation to clients of both WPP and Microsoft.
UK and Poland give POSSIBLE a particularly strong footprint in faster-growing markets it now operates in all the BRIC markets.
ZAAZ, the performance Clients increasingly value our marketing agency, joined POSSIBLE and strengthened role as the curator and conduit to the its offer in marketing science and analytics.
And innovation, entrepreneurs and trends ZAAZs Shane Atchison was appointed CEO of POSSIBLE in March 2012 with a mission to establish which will shape the digital future a leading global digital marketing agency with strong roots in both creativity and analytics.
WPP Digitals marketing technology company, WPP Digital continues to incubate and provide 24 7 Media, focusedon new services which reflect the ahome for specialist digital and technology evolution of digital advertising technology.
It launched businesses which complement the wider Groups 24 7 Connect, which simplifies and optimizes media capabilities.
In 2012 we acquired Acceleration, a transactions across reserved and real-time-bidded marketing technology solutions provider with 150 inventory.
As online video advertising becomes an technologists on four continents.
WPP agencies have imperative in the industry, 24 7 Media continued to quickly embraced the opportunity to partner with add a range of video capabilities and proprietary video Acceleration tooffer their clients highly-specialised formats to its publisher monetization platform and its marketing technology expertise.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 81 How were doing WPP Digital WPP Digital also continues to lead cross-WPP David Moore below initiatives to harness the exponential growth of data.
Chairman and chief executive, 24 7 Media The Data Alliance an initiative to connect diverse data sets across WPP is now live with its first product: an automated audience segment-builder foronline advertising.
Our portfolio of investments in high-growth, innovative companies continues to perform well.
com, an aggregator for online retail with unique insights about online shopper behaviour.
We sold our investment in Buddy Media when it was acquired bySalesforce, realising proceeds of $60 million.
Clients increasingly value our role as the curator and conduit to theinnovation, entrepreneurs and trends which will shape the digital future.
Our Stream digital unconference series was named byWired magazine as one of the Worlds Best Shane Atchison below TechConferences in 2012 and isexpandingits Chief executive officer, POSSIBLE geographic footprint in 2013.
In May we hosted asuccessful e-commerce tour in London the worldsmost advanced e-commerce market.
Our priorities at the start of 2012 were mobile, social, e-commerce and data.
We have made significant progress in all four acquiring new businesses, developing proprietary technology, launching new products and winning awards for ourwork.
Our focus remains on strengthening our skills, creativity and technology in these same areas, with mobile and e-commerce a particular focus.
WPP Digital is a diverse team of highly-talented creatives, designers, developers, analysts, technologists and entrepreneurs.
It is this mix which makes us unique, and it is their passion and hard work which makes ussuccessful.
We would like to thank all of them for their contribution to a great 2012, and we look forward to an even better 2013 together.
82 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How were doing WPP Digital WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 83
