How we comply Corporate governance and the guidance in the Turnbull Report as well as Rules 13a-14 and 15 under the Securities Exchange Act 1934.
In the opinion of the Board, the Company has complied throughout the year and up to the date of the approval of this Annual Report and Accounts with the Turnbull Report andhas also complied with the relevant provisions of the Securities Exchange Act 1934.
How we comply For ease of reference we have structured this section around the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Leadership The role of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of the Company by directing and supervising the Companys policy and strategy and is responsible to share owners for the Groups financial and operational performance.
Responsibility for the development and implementation of Group policy and strategy and for day-to-day management issues is delegated by the Board to the Group chief executive and theother executive directors.
The list of matters reserved to the Board can be downloaded from the website www.
During 2012, the Board met seven times formally and held 21 committee meetings throughout the year.
Audit Compensation Nomination and Attendance at meetings Board Committee Committee Governance Committee 1 Philip Lader chairman 7 9 7 5 Sir Martin Sorrell 7 Paul Richardson 7 Mark Read 7 Colin Day 6 8 6 Esther Dyson 7 6 5 Orit Gadiesh 5 5 Ruigang Li 2 2 Bud Morten 7 9 7 4 Koichiro Naganuma 1 3 Lubna Olayan 2 John Quelch 4 Jeffrey Rosen 6 9 7 Paul Spencer 6 9 Tim Shriver 6 6 Sol Trujillo 6 9 1 By invitation, the chairman attended all of the Audit Committee meetings.
2 By invitation, Bud Morten attended all Audit and Compensation Committee meetings and all but one of the Nomination and Governance Committee meetings.
3 Lubna Olayan retired on 13 June 2012.
156 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How we comply Corporate governance The role of the chairman Effectiveness The Board is chaired by Philip Lader, who chairs the Nomination and Governance Committee, andwould The composition of the Board continue to serve as a member of the Compensation The Board was composed of 15 directors in 2012 Committee through December 2013 and, at the following Lubna Olayans decision to step down invitation of the Audit Committee chairman, attended atthe2012 AGM.
Three members are executive all meetings of that committe.
The chairman provides directors and 11, plus the chairman, are non-executive the leadership of the Board and isthe main point of directors.
The independence of each non-executive contact between the Board and the management team.
director is assessed annually by the Board.
The Board The chairman represents theBoard in discussions with has confirmed that all of the non-executives standing share owners, investor bodies, ensures that systems are for re-election at the 2013 AGM continue to in place to provide directors with timely and accurate demonstrate the characteristics of independence.
information, represents the Company in extensive external gatherings, and is also responsible for the Succession: Board and committee membership Board governance principles.
In 2012 WPP commenced a comprehensive review of the Boards composition and effectiveness, directed by The role of the senior independent director the Nomination and Governance Committee with the The senior independent director is Jeffrey Rosen who assistance of Egon Zehnder International, a prominent is available to share owners and acts as a sounding Board recruitment and advisory firm.
Geographic and board for the chairman and as an intermediary gender diversity together with skills and experience in forthe other directors with the chairman when marketing services, finance and pertinent technologies necessary.
The senior independent directors role are among the priorities of our Board succession.
includes responsibility for the chairmans appraisal As a consequence of this review the composition and succession.
Jeffrey Rosen has been the senior ofthe Board and the committees are being refreshed.
Four of the longest serving non-executive directors, BudMorten, John Quelch, Paul Spencer and Koichiro Non-executive directors Naganuma are not standing for re-election at the 2013 The non-executive directors have a diverse range AGM.
TheCompensation Committee chairman, of skills, experience and backgrounds.
As detailed Jeffrey Rosen, will step down from the committee in intheir biographies on page 108, the non-executive December 2013, as will Esther Dyson and Philip Lader.
directors work across the globe in media and If elected to serve as newly-appointed non-executive advertising, investment banking and investment directors, Roger Agnelli, Jacques Aigrain and Hugo management, pension fund oversight, international Shong would join Colin Day, Sol Trujillo, Tim Shriver management consulting, private equity and angel and Ruigang Li on the Compensation Committee, investing, business education, manufacturing, withan identified, well-qualified individual whose consumer products and retail management, internet client conflict clearance, as discussed in the Nomination start-ups, government and non-profit organisations.
and Governance Committee report, cannot be finalised They provide constructive challenge and assistance prior to the AGM to be appointed upon such clearance tothe Group chief executive in developing the and to serve as its chair.
All directors have access to the If re-elected as a director, Colin Day would services of the Company Secretary and may take succeed Paul Spencer as chairman of the Audit independent professional advice at the Companys Committee, accompanied by continuing members, expense in conducting their duties.
The Company Sol Trujillo and Jeffrey Rosen, and to be joined by provides insurance cover for its directors and officers.
Jacques Aigrain, Roger Agnelli and Hugo Shong as WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 157 How we comply Corporate governance well as, potentially, the individual identified above In2012 a review of the Boards performance was who would be Compensation Committee chairman.
undertaken facilitated by the Group chief counsel If elected, Roger Agnelli, Tim Shriver, Jeffrey onthe basis of a questionnaire which tested areas Rosen, Ruigang Li, Hugo Shong and Sally Susman including strategy, risk and governance processes, would join Esther Dyson and Orit Gadiesh on the levels of participation, skills, and the effectiveness Nomination and Governance Committee, with ofthe Board and its committees.
The chairman of the conversations were held between each director Board participates asanex-officio member of all andeither the chairman or the senior independent Board committees.
From these findings, we concluded that the Board had been effective and is prepared for a variety Time commitment of potential macroeconomic, industry, client and Letters of appointment for non-executive directors personnel challenges.
As part of the aforementioned do not set out a fixed time commitment for Board Egon Zehnder International consultancy assignment, attendance and duties but give an indication of the that firm interviewed directors, worked closely with likely time required.
It is anticipated that the time the Board chairman and senior independent director required by directors will fluctuate depending on to analyse governance strengths and deficiencies, and thedemands of the business and other events.
continues to advise the Board as to additional ways that its effectiveness might be enhanced.
Development On joining WPP, non-executive directors are given Re-election aninduction which includes one-to-one meetings The directors submit themselves for annual re-election withmanagement and the external auditors, briefings at each Annual General Meeting, if they wish to on the duties of directors of a Jersey company, the continue serving and are considered by the Board Model Code, WPP Code of Conduct and the UK tobe eligible.
Directors may be appointed by share Corporate Governance Code.
The induction also owners by ordinary resolution or by the Board on the covers the Board committees that adirector will recommendation of the Nomination and Governance join.
All directors are fully briefed onimportant Committee and must then stand for re-election at the developments in the various business activities next Annual General Meeting where they may be whichthe Group carries out worldwide and regularly re-elected by ordinary resolution of the share owners.
receive extensive information concerning the Groups With only specific exceptions to ensure Board operations, finances, risk factors and its people, continuity as noted in the Nomination and enabling them to fulfil their duties and obligations Governance Committee report, non-executive directors asdirectors.
The directors are also frequently advised shall not stand for re-election after they have served for on regulatory and best practice requirements which the period of their independence, as determined by affect the Groups businesses on a global basis.
At then-applicable UK and US standards: that currently theBoard meeting held in France in 2012 the Board being a period of nine years.
Further, a transition in received briefings from all the heads of the Groups theBoard chairmanship is also planned for 2014.
Diversity Evaluation WPP recognises the importance of diversity, including WPP undertakes an annual review of the Board, its gender, at all levels of the Group as well asthe Board.
The chairmans WPP is committed to increasing diversity across its performance evaluation by the non-executive subsidiaries and supports the development and directors is led by the senior independent director.
promotion of talented individuals, including women.
158 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How we comply Corporate governance In2012, women comprised 13% of the WPP Board, risksof failure to achieve WPPs objectives.
For 32% of Board members and executive leaders in the certain joint ventures and associates, WPP operates subsidiaries, 47% of senior managers and 54% of total controls over the inclusion of their financial data but employees.
Our aspiration is to increase the female places reliance upon the systems of internal control representation on the Board to 30% of non-executive operating within our partners infrastructure and directors as part of the Board refreshment process.
theobligations upon partners boards relating to theeffectiveness of theirown systems.
Directors conflicts of interest The principal elements of internal control are The Companys Articles of Association permit describedbelow.
theBoard to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a director has an interest that conflicts, Control environment or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the The quality and competence of our people, their Company Situational Conflicts.
TheBoard has integrity, ethics and behaviour are all vital to the aformal system in place for directors to declare maintenance of theGroups system of internal control.
Situational Conflicts to be considered for authorisation The Code of Business Conduct which is regularly by those directors who have no interest in the matter reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board and being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a was updated in 2012, sets out the principal obligations Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted directors must of all employees.
Directors and senior executives act honestly and ingood faith with a view to the best throughout the Group are required to sign this interests of the Company and they may impose limits Codeeach year.
The WPP Policy Book which orconditions when giving the authorisation, or wasupdatedin 2011 includes the Code of Business subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
Conduct and human resource practices, aswell Any Situational Conflicts considered, and any asguidance on practices in many operational areas.
authorisations given, are recorded in the relevant Breaches or alleged breaches of this Code of Conduct minutes.
The prescribed procedures have been are investigated by the director of internal audit, followed in deciding whether, and on what terms, headof compliance and the Group chief counsel.
toauthorise Situational Conflicts and the Board The Group has an  believes that the systems it has in place for reporting helpline, Right to Speak, to enable our people to and considering Situational Conflicts continue report issues that they feel unable to raise locally.
Anumber of issues have been raised during 2012 through 42 calls to this helpline, all of which have Accountability been followed through and investigated where appropriate and reported to the Audit Committee.
Internal control The Board which receives advice from the Audit Risk assessment Committee has overall responsibility for the system Risk monitoring of all of the Groups operations of internal control and risk management in the throughout the world is given the highest priority by Group and has reviewed the effectiveness of the the Group chief executive, the Group finance director, system during the year and up to the date of this the chairman of the Audit Committee and the Board, report.
In the context of the scope and complexity as it is essential to the creation and protection of share ofthis system, theBoard can only give reasonable, owner value and the development of the careers of not absolute, assurance against material ourpeople.
The Board realises that WPP is a misstatement or loss.
Thesystem of controls is communication services company and its ongoing designed to manage, but may not eliminate, the prosperity depends on being able to continue to WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 159 How we comply Corporate governance provide aquality serviceto its existing and potential Control activities and monitoring clients in a creative, efficient and economic way.
Policies and procedures for all operating companies Identification, management and monitoring of are set out and communicated in the WPP Policy sustainability risks including social, environmental Book, internal control bulletins and accounting and ethical risks is fully integrated into the Groups guidelines.
The application of these policies and risk management processes.
procedures is monitored within the individual At each Board meeting, the Group chief businesses and by the Companys director of executivepresents a Brand Check review of each of internalaudit and the Group chief counsel.
the business operations, including an assessment of Operating companies are required to maintain the risk in each business, providing feedback on the and update documentation of their internal controls business risks and details of any change intherisk and processes.
This documentation incorporates an profile since the last Board meeting.
analysis ofbusiness risks, detailed control activities The Brand Check covers such issues as: and monitoring, together with controls over security the possibility of the win or loss of major business of data and the provision of timely and reliable e. g. as a result of a change of senior management at information to management.
IT and financial a major client : controls are also included.
the addition or loss of a key executive of the Group: The internal audit department was responsible introduction of new legislation in an forreviews and testing of the documentation and the importantmarket: relevant controls for a majority of the Group during sustainability, including risks relating to 2012, the results of which were reported to the marketing ethics, privacy and employment: AuditCommittee.
political instability in an important market: and changes in accounting or corporate Financial reporting governancepractice.
Each operating company annually updates a threeEach operating group undertakes monthly and year strategic plan which incorporates financial quarterly procedures and day-to-day management objectives.
Theseare reviewed by the parent activities to review their operations and business companys management and are agreed with the risks.
These are formally communicated to the chief executive of the relevant operating company.
Group chief executive, other executive directors The Group operates a rigorous procedure for the andsenior executives in monthly reports and development of operating company budgets which quarterly review meetings and, in turn, to the Board.
During the final quarter Paul Richardson provides an annual assessment of each financial year, operating companies prepare of sustainability risks and performance to the detailed budgets for the following year for review by Nomination andGovernance Committee.
TheGroups budget is reviewed The Board is firmly of the opinion that the bythe Board before being adopted formally.
monitoring of risk is strongly embedded in the Operating company results are reported monthly culture of the Company and of the operating andare reviewed locally, regionally and globally companies, in a manner which the Board considers bythe business groups and by Group management goes beyond the Turnbull recommendations and on a consolidated basis and ultimately by the Board.
therequirements of Rules 13a-14 and 15 under The results arecompared to budget and the previous theSecurities Exchange Act 1934. year, with full-year forecasts prepared and updated quarterly throughout theyear.
The Company reports to share owners four times ayear.
160 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How we comply Corporate governance At each year-end, all operating companies supply thisprogram includes regular visits to investors, their full-year financial results with such additional particularly by the Group chief executive, the Group information as is appropriate.
This information is finance director, the deputy Group finance director consolidated to allow the Group to present the and the head of investor relations, in the UK, necessary disclosures for International Financial Continental Europe and the major financial centres Reporting Standards IFRS including International in North America and also in Asia Pacific and Latin Accounting Standards IAS.
The Companys non-executive chairman The Disclosure Committee gives further isavailable to meet with investors and regularly assurance that publicly-released information is consults with investors governance representatives freefrom material omission or misstatement.
The Company provides a preliminary announcement, an interim management Remuneration statement at the end of the first and third quarters which includes a trading update, an interim report The level and components of remuneration athalf year and a trading update and presentation Non-executive directors do not participate in the atthe Annual General Meeting.
Companys pension, share option or other incentive The Company ensures that it has a proper plans, but may receive a part of their fees in ordinary dialogue with share owners and their representative shares of the Company and may participate in the bodies through executive and non-executive directors Companys deferred compensation program.
in relation to remuneration and corporate governance The Board considers that the non-executive matters.
In 2012 and 2013 the chairman and senior directors remuneration conforms with the independent director held extensive rounds of requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
discussions with share owners and advisory groups The fees payable to non-executive directors regarding senior executive compensation, the represent compensation in connection with Board and proposed new 2013 long-term incentive plan, and Board committee meetings and where appropriate for CEO and Board succession planning.
The chairman devoting additional time and expertise for the benefit and senior independent director provide thorough of the Group in a wider capacity.
feedback to the Board on issues raised with them Details of directors remuneration and service byshare owners.
contracts form part of the report of the Compensation WPPs website, www.
com, provides current Committee which commences on page 122. and historical financial information, including trading statements, news releases and presentations Relations with share owners and the Companys statement of its corporate governance practices.
Dialogue with share owners The relationship with share owners, potential share The AGM owners and investment analysts is given high priority The 2013 AGM will be held on Wednesday 12 June by the Company.
2013 at 12pm at the Savoy Hotel, Strand, London The Company has a well-developed and WC2R OEU.
A separate notice convening the continuous program to address the needs of share meeting is distributed to share owners and will be owners, investment institutions and analysts for published on WPPs website, www.
All aregular flow of information about the Company, resolutions for which notice has been given will be itsstrategy, performance and competitive position.
Given the wide geographic distribution of the Companys current and potential share owners, WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 161
