How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review Sustainability issues are important to WPP in the Client relationships and revenue support work we do for our clients, the way we run our offices and consider our people and other stakeholders.
Sustainability issues influence our clients business Ourfive areas of focus are: strategies in all markets and they increasingly look to The impact of our work for clients our companies for advice on these topics.
Our ability Marketing standards to anticipate and understand the implications of Employment practices social and environmental trends enables us to Environmental performance respond to the growing number of sustainabilitySocial investment including pro bono work related marketing briefs.
From integrating high ethical standards, to reducing Many client tender processes now include our impact on the environment and supporting requests for information on our sustainability charities through pro bono work, our commitment policies and performance.
Clients who engaged with tosustainability supports our business strategy.
WPP on our approach to sustainability were worth atleast $1.2 billion to the Group in 2012.
Strategic priorities and financial targets Attracting and retaining the best people As stated on pages 7 and 31, WPPs four core There is fierce competition for talent in our industry.
strategic priorities are to: Leading employment practices help us to attract and Increase the geographic share of revenues from retain the best people, while our efforts to create the faster-growing markets: adiverse and inclusive culture widen our potential Increase the share of revenues from new media: talent pool.
Increase the share of more measurable marketing Potential recruits frequently raise questions services, with a focus on digital and consumer relating to our sustainability performance, insight, data analytics and the application of demonstrating that our commitment supports newtechnology: and recruitment and retention.
Our involvement in Achieve horizontality by ensuring our people probono work also supports employee engagement.
work together for the benefit of clients.
By implementing this strategy effectively we Meeting investor expectations willbe well positioned to deliver on our long-term financial targets: WPP share owners continue to show interest in how Revenue and gross margin growth greater we manage sustainability risks and opportunities.
Europe has the largest market for responsible Annual improvement in operating margin investment, with approximately 5 trillion of assets of0.5margin points or more.
The US has $3 trillion, and Annual organic PBIT growth of 5-10%, Asiais predicted to have $4 trillion by 2015. and by acquisition by another 0-5%.
Improved cost efficiency How sustainability supports our strategy Our climate change strategy reduces costs associated with business travel and energy use in offices.
Our commitment to sustainability supports these Initiatives to improve the health and wellbeing priorities and targets by creating revenue growth ofour people can help to improve productivity and andminimising costs in the following ways: reduce costs related to time off work due to illness.
