What we think Why we are Mad Men and Women as well as Maths Men and Women A friendlier frienemy Other digital companies are playing catch-up.
Google has its feet planted in multiple sectors, a Google, of course, remains the best-placed online five-legged stool, whereas Facebook is still really company in the world, with its dominance in purely a social network and is developing a mobile leg.
It appears to have cleared We did not spend as much with Facebook last year regulatory hurdles in the US, although maybe not as we expected $300 million against a projected somuchrecently in Europe.
are more display, video withYouTube, social and mobile.
For now, our biggest relationship In the past, we have characterised Googles with a media owner is with News Corporation, where relationship with us as being that of a frienemy.
Google may soon surpass it.
These days they are certainly a friendly frienemy.
Our spendingwith Google went from $1.6 billion to$2billion last year, a rise of 20% to become our Local heroes and heroines second-biggest media owner relationship after NewsCorp.
As globalisation continues apace, companies increasingly centralise their operations, like a CocaTop 25 US websites ranked by unique visitors Cola, which operates in more than 200 countries.
2013 2012 Ascounter-balance, there is a need tofocus locally, rank rank Domain inour case on local clients, talent and acquisitions.
com Company structures are certainly 4 4 youtube.
com getting squeezed regionally, but you 6 7 amazon.
com So the squeeze organisationally will be on 12 10 live.
com regional managers, particularly as technology 13 13 microsoft.
com easesthe flow of information in a flat, networked 14 23 target.
Both global and local emphasis is key.
com Company structures are certainly getting squeezed 16 14 craigslist.
org regionally, but you will see power concentrate at a 17 12 blogspot.
com global and local level.
It is essential that we make 18 19 ehow.
com sure we have the best people locally, working with 20 17 about.
com the best local companies, and that we identify the 21 21 apple.
