10 Introduction Our Strategy profitable growth, shareholder value.
Our vision What we do Our vision is to be the worlds Pl an best infrastructure consultancy.
We plan every aspect of our clients projects, from cost and risk planning, feasibility studies and logistics to We define infrastructure impact assessments and stakeholder engagement activity.
as the physical systems that are vital for any nation or communitys productivity and development, including transportation, utilities, sewage, water, electricity and large scale built environments.
Increasingly, we also define infrastructure D esign as the information and technologies required to Atkins designs intellectual capital such as management enable physical systems systems and business processes.
We also design physical in areas such as security.
structures such as ofce towers, schools, bridges and highways.
E nable Our clients trust us with the management of projects, people and issues, ensuring that deadlines are met, costs are controlled and success is delivered.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Introduction 11 Our strategy Our priorities Our core strategy remains 1.
Operational excellence to focus on growth and, We are driving operational performance across the Group to improve our operating selectively, to increase our margin and cash conversion across all businesses and regions.
Key initiatives include an increased focus on managing the Groups working capital requirements, with geographic footprint through an emphasis on billing, cash collection and competitive payment terms: and targeted international a continuous review of utilisation to ensure we optimise client facing time.
expansion, while continuing Operational excellence will provide a solid platform for future growth.
to deliver good financial performance in all our markets and geographies.
We are accelerating our delivery of the strategy through focusing on three priorities over the short to 2.
Portfolio optimisation medium term: operational We will continue to review our portfolio and make appropriate decisions about our ongoing ownership as we seek to improve our margin and enhance the excellence, portfolio Groups growth prospects.
The UK asset management business was identied as a non core business within the Group.
This divestment marked an important stage in strategically focusing the Group on higher growth, higher margin activities.
Sector focus As we review our portfolio it is clear that a number of our existing sectors have attractive growth prospects.
We will expand our offering primarily in geographic areas where we already have a presence through small to medium sized acquisitions that complement our organic growth as we balance our client and sector mix.
We will also redirect and leverage resources and technical capabilities to address attractive market sectors.
These may evolve over time, but currently include the following areas: Energy, aerospace, security, water.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Introduction 12 Introduction Our Strategy continued Our sectors Successful performance A combination of our technical Energy excellence and outstanding regional and segmental capabilities enables us to Energy has been identied for investment and reported separately in our results continue to deliver good results despite for some time.
the challenging economic environment in a number of our markets over the last few years.
climate Our current geographic balance helps Increasing ageing increased investment in change us to deliver sustainable results, proving demand infrastructure new and existing assets imperative that we can grow organically, in new areas and through acquisition.
Today, more than 50% of the Groups revenue Aerospace comes from clients outside of the UK.
Aerospace represents another key area, where we will grow from a relatively small Over the last year our strategic focus base.
We are targeting the North American aircraft manufacturing market as part has enabled the Group to make of our regional growth plan and have recently opened an ofce in Seattle to excellent progress in a number support this.
of key areas: carbon investment in Increasing high fuel costs emissions development of new demand pressure technologies Security Security issues, particularly in regions such as the Middle East, are becoming more prevalent: we have outstanding capabilities in both this market and region.
increasing increased investment Growing threat environment use of to secure physical and technology information assets Water Water is a very significant market for the Group.
Our skills in the UK and North America can be marshalled and augmented to address this market worldwide, with an immediate focus on the southern states of North America.
50% more than 50% of the Groups revenue comes from clients outside increased demand for of the UK.
Population ageing resource comprehensive resource growth infrastructure scarcity management strategies Segmental performance.
Pages 16-35 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Introduction 13 Our objective is simple: to drive shareholder value with unrelenting focus on operational excellence and to implement our growth strategy with the priority on portfolio optimisation and focused sector, as well as regional, expansion www.
com investor-relations Future performance We have the right leadership and UK organisational structure to deliver our growth strategy.
In the UK we have pre-emptively repositioned our businesses to address Our medium term margin target is to ongoing market challenges through the generate a margin above 8% across active deployment of staff, recruitment all our businesses and regions.
in growth areas and the increasing use of our Bangalore operations to deliver We are adjusting the geographic a competitive cost base.
balance of the Groups operations and, in the medium term, aim to generate more than 75% of our revenue from North America our non UK and Energy businesses, In North America the integration of resulting in less than 25% of our the acquisition of PBSJ in October 2010, revenue being derived from the UK.
together with operational efficiency initiatives, has delivered margin Atkins is a well managed organisation improvement in the consultancy with strong leadership delivering good business, as a platform for growth.
financial performance in all our markets and geographies.
We will capitalise profitable on growing organically and through Middle East acquisition, including larger, growth, In the Middle East we have achieved strategically focused transactions targeted geographic expansion in areas to drive our Groups growth and shareholder of high essential infrastructure spend, profit performance.
as well as sector diversication.
We have added skills to address the buoyant value infrastructure market, with headcount growing signicantly during the year.
Asia Pacic and Europe In Asia Pacic and Europe we have improved service quality and have gained access to increased opportunities through the addition of high prole resources.
8% Energy Our medium term margin target is to In our Energy business we have generate a margin above 8% across invested for growth, particularly all of our businesses and regions.
through acquisition and our n. triple.
Pages 16-35 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Introduction
