16 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance Solid performance in difficult market conditions.
United Kingdom Key performance indicators 2012 2011 Change Financial metrics Revenue 859.9m 926.5m -7.2% Operating profit 51.6m 61.4m -16.0% Operating margin 6.0% 6.6% -0.6pp Work in hand 65.4% 56.5% 8.9pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 8,924 9,640 -7.4% Average staff numbers for the year 9,260 10,119 -8.5% 8,924 People employed in the United Kingdom 8 59.9m Revenue WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews 17 Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers -7 % -1 6% -8 % 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 Revenue by sector Revenue by client type Roads 32% Public sector: local government 29% Rail inc. mass transit 20% Public sector: national government 24% Defence and security 13% Regulated 20% Water and environment 9% Private sector 27% Aerospace and aviation 6% Education 4% Buildings 4% Urban development 3% Other 9% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 1,097.9 1,051.2 983.5 926.5 859.9 69.2 68.2 77.3 61.4 51.6 11,968 12,015 10,905 10,119 9,260 Reviews 18 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued United Kingdom Performance Business model Operations The UK region performed in line with This region comprises businesses that Rail expectations as we continue to navigate are primarily focused on the UK market, As anticipated, our rail business had a difficult market conditions, notably where we plan, design and enable our difficult year as a consequence of major in our rail business.
clients capital programmes in and around signalling work being slow to come to the built environment.
This had an impact on operating In October 2011 we announced the sale consultancy, providing advice and margins as we elected to maintain stafng of our UK asset management business, engineering design for public and private levels in anticipation of project awards which employed around 550 staff, to sector clients.
Our multidisciplinary skills by Network Rail.
The position has now Sodexo for an initial cash consideration allow us to draw on expertise across improved, justifying the decision, as Atkins of 5m.
This accounts for 29% of the the business to deliver complex projects has been awarded work on two Network reduction in revenue and the majority in the UK and to support other Rail signalling major project frameworks of the headcount reduction in the year.
for Sussex Wessex and Kent Anglia, The disposal masks underlying growth worth in excess of 400m over a seven in headcount since the half year when Strategy year period.
While projects are now headcount, excluding asset management, As we have previously identied, material beginning to be awarded out of these was 8,870 and reects our proactive growth in this segment will be difficult in frameworks, there remain delays to work management of the composition of the the near term due to challenging market actually starting.
Group, focusing on core growth sectors.
Therefore, our focus remains on driving operational efficiency through In addition to these two frameworks, Our broad multidisciplinary offering cost reductions and supplementing skills we have secured a number of rail design has helped to mitigate the impact of with niche acquisitions where appropriate.
These include constrained public sector spending by We continue to invest in developing our the Wolverhampton resignalling project providing competitive, cost effective, people, focusing on quality, technical and in April 2012 the contract to prepare high quality expertise.
In addition, added excellence and innovation.
preliminary designs for the high speed resilience is brought to the UK business line through the Country South section through its support of projects for the In addition, added resilience is brought of High Speed 2.
to our UK business by its ongoing support on projects for our overseas businesses, Highways and transportation We are delighted with the progress on together with the increasing use of our Following significant restructuring in the the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Bangalore operations to deliver a year ended 31 March 2011, the highways Games, for which we are the ofcial competitive cost base.
and transportation business had a good engineering design services provider.
year with increased workload, helped This multiple award winning project Business drivers by the UK government announcement is an excellent example of Atkins at its The economic environment signicantly in November 2011, which brought best as we demonstrate the breadth affects the opportunities available to the forward previously delayed projects.
and depth of our skills while showcasing region, and we continue to reposition British engineering expertise on the ourselves to address these challenges.
The consultancy business had a number world stage.
Our diversied business provides some of significant wins, including the Highways resilience to market uctuations as does Agency Specialist Project Support the fact that a number of our markets Framework and the related Department remain well funded.
for Transport Technical Engineering Advice and Research Framework.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews 19 Atkins is the UKs largest engineering design consultancy www.
co. uk The initial design work for the M25 Faithful Gould Management consultancy widening is complete, with the first Faithful Gould has continued to perform Our management consultancy business sections fully open to trafc in advance of well in a challenging but stable market, performed well.
We strengthened our the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic delivering project and cost management position in the UK security and intelligence Games.
The M25 30 year operation and services to a wide range of clients across market and we continue to work maintenance joint venture contract is the public and private sectors.
on the BAA IT outsourcing contract progressing in line with our expectations.
in partnership with Capgemini, This joint venture brings together Balfour Design and engineering leveraging our position in aviation.
Beatty 52.5%, Egis 15% and Atkins Our role as the ofcial engineering design 32.5% and provides services in network services provider for the London 2012 Outlook management, asset inspection, trafc Olympic and Paralympic Games has The outlook for the UK is stable.
management, tunnel operations, incident progressed very well and will culminate Work in hand has improved and stands management and routine and winter with the Games in July, August and at 65% 2011: 56% of next years maintenance for the entire M25, September.
Our work on transforming budgeted revenue.
including over 250 miles of spur the former industrial site, through a roads and junctions.
comprehensive integrated approach We are the market leader in UK spanning many disciplines, not only engineering consultancy, with preOur highway services business continues provides the regenerated platform for the eminent rankings in the roads, rail and to operate with strong work in hand, Olympics but will provide a lasting legacy defence sectors.
This industry leading helped by recent success with the once the Games have ended.
We expect position, together with our diversied Highways Agency Area 2 contract, which our work to continue when the Olympic platform and breadth of quality expertise, extends to 2017.
The first of our other Park transitions into the next phase of its enables us to navigate short term market Highways Agency and local authority life as the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park.
challenges and will help us to exploit contracts is not scheduled for renewal opportunities when growth returns until 2013.
Defence, aerospace and in the medium term.
communications Water and environment Our defence, aerospace and In our water and environment business communications businesses have we are seeing volumes improving on the performed well during the year, five year regulatory Asset Management focusing on high technology industries, Programme AMP5 framework contracts predominantly in the UK but also we have with a number of the UK water supporting Europe and the Middle East.
companies, as their asset management Our aerospace business performed investment programmes progress.
particularly strongly and we continue Our geotechnical, environmental and to expand our offering and geographic planning businesses continue to support footprint with key clients such as Airbus large projects such as High Speed 2, and Rolls Royce.
Communications and where we have been awarded the security remain strong market segments contract to carry out the environmental for our skills and capabilities within both impact assessments for the Rural North the UK and the Middle East.
section covering Warwickshire and Staffordshire.
Other large projects include Crossrail and the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews
