58 Governance Board of Directors Allan Cook CBE Dr Uwe Krueger Heath Drewett Alun Grifths Chairman Chief executive Group finance Group HR director officer director Allan Cook is a chartered Dr Uwe Krueger is a Heath Drewett Background Alun Grifths has a engineer with more than physicist who studied is a graduate in background in human and experience 30 years international at the University of mathematics from resources management experience in the Frankfurt, graduating with Peterhouse, Cambridge.
and management automotive, aerospace a PhD in complex system He started his career at consultancy.
He has and defence industries.
Uwe has spent  worked in a number of He was chief executive the majority of his career where he qualied as a business management of Cobham PLC until the leading engineering and chartered accountant.
and corporate roles, end of December 2009. consulting organisations He held a variety of senior including HR strategy Prior to this he held in North America, finance and corporate and marketing.
In his senior roles at GECEurope, the Middle development roles at management consultancy Marconi, BAE Systems East and Asia Pacic.
British Airways plc BA career, he has led a wide and Hughes Aircraft.
and The Morgan Crucible range of projects in the He began his career Company plc.
He spent areas of restructuring, He was awarded a CBE in at international seven years in BAs organisational the Queens New Years strategy consulting rm finance team, most development and Honours list in 2008 and A T Kearney, followed latterly holding the privatisation in the UK is a fellow of the Royal by leadership positions position of head of and worldwide.
He is an Academy of Engineering.
at Hochtief AG, an business performance.
economics graduate and international provider a fellow of the Chartered of construction services.
Institute of Personnel and Development.
More recently he was chief executive officer of Swiss company Oerlikon.
He joined Atkins from Texas Pacic Group and Cleantech Switzerland.
Allan was appointed a Uwe was appointed an Heath was appointed an Alun joined Atkins in Date of non-executive director in executive director in June executive director in 2009 1986, was appointed appointment September 2009, taking 2011, taking up the post when he joined Atkins as Group HR Director in 2003 up the post of chairman of chief executive officer Group finance director.
and was appointed as an on 1 February 2010. on 1 August 2011. executive director in 2007. s Chairman, SELEX s Board member, s None s Non-executive director, External Galileo Ltd STR Holdings UK Resource Centre for appointments s Deputy chairman, Connecticut, USA Women in Science, Marshall of Cambridge s Board member, ONTEX Engineering and Holdings Limited S. A. Zele, Belgium Technology UKRC s Member of the s Board member, SUSI s Non-executive operating executive Partners AG Zurich, director, The McLean board, J. F. Lehman Switzerland Partnership Limited & Company s Chairman, UK Trade & Investments Advanced Engineering Sector Advisory Board s Chairman, Sector Skills Council for Science, Engineering and Manufacturing Technologies SEMTA s Chairman, Skills & Jobs Retention Group s Director, Baker Dearing Educational Trust s Chairman, Nomination s None s None s None Committee Committee membership WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 59 Admiral the Lord Fiona Clutterbuck Joanne Curin Dr Raj Rajagopal Rodney Slater Boyce KG GCB OBE DL Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive director director director director director Lord Boyce had a Fiona Clutterbuck has Joanne Curin is a Dr Raj Rajagopal held A lawyer by profession, distinguished career substantial experience chartered accountant several positions at BOC Rodney Slater is currently in the Royal Navy and in all areas of corporate and has a broad range of Edwards before being a partner at law rm the Ministry of Defence finance, including a international experience appointed chief executive, Patton Boggs LLP, where that culminated in his particular focus on the gained during her career a position he held until he is a leader of its becoming First Sea Lord, financial institutions as a senior finance November 2006.
He was transportation practice, professional head of the sector, gained during executive for large-scale an executive director of working on projects Royal Navy, in 1998 and 15 years at Hill Samuel organisations in a the BOC Group plc until related to transportation then Chief of Defence and HSBC and seven years diverse range of sectors November 2006. infrastructure.
Staff, professional head at ABN AMRO.
She has including property and of the Armed Forces, from a LLB Hons from the construction, ports, He was awarded an Prior to this he was 2001 to 2003.
He was University of London shipping and logistics, honorary doctor of science secretary of transportation elevated to the peerage in and qualied as a oil and gas, pulp and degree by Craneld under president Bill 2003, was appointed Lord barrister in 1980. paper and engineering University in 2004 and the Clinton between 1997 Warden and Admiral of technologies.
She has Institution of Engineering and 2001.
He served the Cinque Ports and worked for global and Technologys IET as Administrator of the Constable of Dover Castle businesses based in the IEE Eric Mensforth United States Federal in 2004.
Between 2004 UK, New Zealand and International Gold Highway Administration and 2010 he was a Australia and more recent Medal for outstanding from 1993 to 1996 and non-executive director public company roles contribution to was assistant attorney of VT Group plc and was have been as Finance manufacturing technology general for the State made a Knight of the Director for Lend Lease and management in 2003. of Arkansas earlier Garter in 2011.
In his He is a fellow of each of tenure as secretary of the Royal Academy of transportation, one of his Engineering, the IET, the notable achievements was Institution of Mechanical the successful passing of Engineers, the Chartered the Transportation Equity Institute of Management Act for the 21st Century.
and the Institute of Directors.
Lord Boyce was appointed Fiona was appointed a Joanne was appointed Raj was appointed a Rodney was appointed a non-executive director non-executive director in a non-executive director non-executive director a non-executive director in May 2004.
March 2007. in February 2009. in June 2008. in September 2011. s Chairman of the s Head of Strategy, s Director, DeepOcean s Non-executive s Partner, Patton Boggs advisory board, D Group Corporate Development Group Holding AS director, Bodycote plc LLP Washington DC, Advisory Group and Communications, Norway s Non-executive USA s Appointments on a Phoenix Group director, e2v plc s Non-executive number of charities, s Non-executive director, Verizon including: Chairman, director, Spirax-Sarco Communications, Inc. Royal National Engineering plc USA Lifeboat Institution: s Chairman, HHV s Non-executive director, Chairman, HMS Victory Pumps Private Ltd Kansas City Southern Preservation Company: s Chairman, USA Trustee, National The University of s Non-executive director, Maritime Museum Manchester I3 Limited Transurban Group USA s Member of the Advisory s Member of Board, Centre for Congressional Business Research of Awards Foundations Cambridge University non-profit Board s Member of United Way Worldwide non-profit Board s Senior independent s Member, Audit s Chairman, s Chairman, Remuneration s Member, Nomination director Committee Audit Committee Committee Committee s Member, Nomination s Member, Nomination s Member, Nomination s Member, Audit s Member, Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee s Member, Remuneration s Member, Remuneration s Member, Nomination Committee Committee Committee WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance
