60 Governance The Companys articles of Directors Report association may be viewed at: www.
com investors constitution WS Atkins plc is the ultimate holding s Principal subsidiary undertakings and indemnification of and insurance company of a group of companies the countries in which they operate cover for directors and ofcers that plans, designs and enables capital note 41 to the Financial Statements Directors and ofcers of the Company and programmes that resolve complex on page 153 its subsidiaries benefit from directors and challenges in the built and natural ofcers liability insurance cover in respect s Acquisitions and disposals made by the environment.
The Companies Act 2006 of legal actions brought against them.
In Group during the year note 16 to the the Act and the UK Listing Authoritys addition, directors of the Company are Financial Statements on page 128 Listing Rules and Disclosure and indemnified in accordance with article s Post balance sheet events Business Transparency Rules the LRs and DTRs 138 of the Companys articles of Review page 38 and note 43 to the respectively require the directors to set association to the maximum extent Financial Statements on page 154. out in the annual management report that permitted by law.
Prior to the adoption of accompanies the Financial Statements and new articles of association by shareholders The Annual Report will be laid before the independent auditors report together on 3 September 2008, all directors in shareholders at the annual general the Annual Report a fair review of the appointment on that date had separate meeting AGM to be held at the Lincoln business of the Group during the financial deeds of indemnity.
These indemnities, Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London, year ended 31 March 2012.
This review which still remain in force, are available WC2A 3ED at 1100 on Wednesday is required to include a full description of for inspection by shareholders at the 1 August 2012.
Details of the business the Groups principal activities, business, Companys registered ofce during to be considered at the AGM, together performance, significant contracts, likely normal business hours and will be with an explanation of each of the future developments and principal risks available for inspection at the AGM.
resolutions, are set out in the separate and uncertainties known as a Notice of Meeting.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnities provide cover where the relevant director Directors The information that fulls the Business or officer has acted fraudulently The names and biographies of those Review requirements is incorporated into or dishonestly.
persons serving as directors of the this report by reference and can be found Company as at the date of this report in the following sections: Articles of association are set out in this Annual Report The Companys articles of association s Chairmans Statement pages 6 and 7 pages 58 and 59.
Uwe Krueger was set out the Companys internal regulation s Chief Executive Ofcers Statement appointed as a director with effect from and cover such matters as the rights pages 8 and 9 14 June 2011 and replaced Keith Clarke of shareholders, the appointment and as chief executive officer following removal of directors, the power to issue s Our Strategy pages 10 to 13 his retirement from the position on and buy back shares and the conduct of s Business Review pages 14 to 39 31 July 2011.
Rodney Slater was appointed the Board and general meetings.
A copy s Principal risks and uncertainties as a non-executive director with effect of the Companys articles of association pages 40 to 43 from 9 September 2011.
Sir Peter Williams is available on the Groups website: retired as a non-executive director s Human Resources Review www.
com or on on 8 September 2011. request from the company secretary.
pages 44 to 49 Amendments to the articles of association s Corporate Responsibility Review Under the Companys articles of must be approved by at least 75% of pages 50 to 57 association all directors must retire at the those voting in person or by proxy at s Financial instruments and financial risk first AGM following their appointment by a general meeting of the Company.
the Board and may offer themselves for management note 2 to the Financial Statements page 112. election by shareholders.
Rodney Slater, In accordance with the Companys articles following his appointment by the Board of association, directors can be appointed Additional information required under as a director from 9 September 2011, will or removed by the Board or by stand for election at the AGM.
In line with the Act, the LRs and or the DTRs to shareholders in general meeting.
Subject be disclosed in the directors annual the requirements of the UK Corporate to the provisions of relevant legislation, Governance Code, which has applied to management report is included within the Companys articles of association and this report or is incorporated into this the Company since 1 April 2011, all other any directions given by a special resolution directors, will retire at the AGM and, report by reference, where it can be of the shareholders, the Board of directors found in the following sections: being eligible, will offer themselves for may exercise all the powers of the re-election.
The Board considers that the s Corporate Governance Report Company and may delegate authorities performance of each of the directors to committees and management as it sees pages 64 to 72 continues to be effective and that each of t. Details of the main committees of the s Remuneration Report them demonstrates a strong commitment Board are contained in the Corporate pages 73 to 93 to their role.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 61 Research and development initiatives supporting infrastructure power to refuse to register any transfer The Group develops and delivers development and maintenance.
Political of certicated shares that does not innovative technical solutions to its clients, donations to individual candidates and satisfy the conditions set out in the the costs of which are expensed to the political parties will only be made via their articles of association.
The Group obtains afliated PACs, which remain funded enhanced tax relief for these costs in entirely by employee contributions.
Shares acquired through Atkins employee certain territories.
share schemes rank equally with all other Charitable donations ordinary shares in issue and have no Suppliers During the year, the Group made special rights.
The trustees of the The Groups policy is to agree terms and charitable donations of 98,810 Companys Employee benefit Trusts EBTs conditions for its business transactions 2011: 134,996.
The beneciaries have waived the rights of the EBTs to with suppliers and to endeavour to abide of these donations were local charities receive dividends on shares they hold, by these terms and conditions, subject serving the communities in which the with one EBT fully waiving this right and to the supplier meeting its obligations.
Group operates or charities working in another waiving the right to dividends in areas relevant to the Groups activities.
In addition No one supplier arrangement is The Group intends to continue its neither of the EBTs exercises its right to considered to be essential to the business focus on local charities in the current vote in respect of such shares.
in trust on behalf of participants in the Atkins Share Incentive Plan are voted by The Company, as a holding company, Shares the trustee, Capita IRG Trustees Limited, did not have any amounts owing Share capital as directed by the participants.
Details to trade creditors as at 31 March 2012.
As at the date of this report, the of share-based payments, including Companys share capital consists of information regarding the shares held by Political donations and expenditure 104,451,799 issued and fully paid ordinary the EBTs, can be found in note 34 to the The Group made no political donations shares each with a nominal value of 0.5p, Financial Statements page 148. and incurred no political expenditure listed on the London Stock Exchange, and in the UK or European Union during American Depositary Shares ADSs.
At the AGM held in 2011 shareholders the year ended 31 March 2012 Shares may be held in certicated or granted authority for the directors to allot 31 March 2011: nil.
Further details of the relevant securities up to approximately Companys authorised and issued share one third of the issued share capital and On 1 October 2010 the Group completed capital, including changes during the year, a further one third in connection with the acquisition of The PBSJ Corporation can be found in note 33 to the Financial an offer by way of a rights issue.
The and its subsidiaries the acquired Statements page 147. directors intend to seek shareholder companies.
On acquisition, the acquired approval to renew this authority at this companies had, in accordance with The rights and obligations attaching to the years AGM, details of which are relevant US Federal and state election Companys ordinary shares are contained contained in the Notice of Meeting.
laws, historically made political donations in the Companys articles of association.
in the US both directly and to afliated In summary, the ordinary shares and ADSs The Company is not aware of any US state and Federal political action allow holders to receive dividends and to agreements between shareholders that committees PACs.
As a result, political exercise one vote on a poll per ordinary might result in the restriction of transfer donations in the US of US$16,360 share for every holder present in person or voting rights in relation to the shares 10,317 were made in the six months or by proxy at general meetings of the held by such shareholders.
Shares held in treasury are The afliated PACs were funded partly not entitled to vote or receive dividends.
Share purchases by contributions from the acquired There are no restrictions on the transfer At the AGM held in 2011, the Company companies and partly by employee or sale of ordinary shares or ADSs and was granted authority by shareholders contributions.
no requirements for prior approval of to purchase up to 10,011,000 ordinary any transfers, except as described shares, representing approximately 10% Political donations in the US from below.
Under the Companys articles of of the Companys ordinary share capital as 1 April 2011 to 30 June 2011 totalled association, the directors have the power at 15 June 2011.
No ordinary shares were US$4,820 3,017.
As from 25 June 2011 to suspend voting rights and the right to purchased pursuant to this authority any political donations from the acquired receive dividends in respect of ordinary during the year ended 31 March 2012 companies have been made via their shares and to refuse to register a transfer or to the date of this Annual Report.
afliated PACs, funded entirely by of ordinary shares in circumstances where This authority will expire at the employee contributions.
From 1 April the holder of those shares fails to comply forthcoming AGM and, in accordance 2012 the acquired companies may with a notice issued under section 793 with current best practice, the Company contribute directly to non-partisan ballot of the Act.
The directors also have the will seek to renew it.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 62 Governance Directors Report continued 4,341,000 ordinary shares of 0.5p each, The Company is not a party to any other In preparing the Financial Statements, representing approximately 4.2% of the significant agreements that take effect, the directors are required to: Companys issued share capital, were alter or terminate upon a change of s select suitable accounting policies held in treasury the treasury shares control other than its funding facilities, and then apply them consistently throughout the year and to the date which provide that in such a situation the s make judgements and accounting of this Annual Report following a share Company is unable to draw down any estimates that are reasonable and buy back programme.
further amounts under the facilities prudent and or that they may be cancelled.
significant shareholders s state whether applicable IFRSs as As at the date of this report, the Company Directors statement of responsibility adopted by the European Union have had been notied of holdings of 3% or The directors are responsible for preparing been followed, subject to any material more of the total voting rights attaching the Annual Report, the Remuneration departures disclosed and explained in to its issued share capital as detailed Report and the Financial Statements the Financial Statements in table 1. in accordance with applicable law s prepare the Financial Statements and regulations.
on the going concern basis, unless Change of control it is inappropriate to presume that No agreement with a director or Company law requires the directors to the Group and the Company will prepare financial statements for each employee of the Company provides continue in business.
for compensation for loss of ofce financial year.
The directors have prepared or employment whether through the Group and Company Financial The directors are responsible for keeping resignation, purported redundancy Statements in accordance with applicable adequate accounting records that are or otherwise that occurs as a result law and International Financial Reporting sufficient to show and explain the of a change of control.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Companys transactions and disclose European Union.
Under company law the with reasonable accuracy at any time the All of the Companys employee share directors must not approve the Financial financial position of the Company and the schemes contain provisions relating to Statements unless they are satisfied that Group and that enable them to ensure a change of control of the Company.
they give a true and fair view of the state that the Financial Statements and the Under these provisions, a change of of affairs of the Company and the Group Remuneration Report comply with the control would normally be a vesting and of the profit or loss of the Company Act and, as regards the Group Financial event, facilitating the exercise of options and the Group for that period.
Statements, Article 4 of the International or transfer of allocations subject to Accounting Standard Regulation.
They are any relevant performance conditions also responsible for safeguarding the being satisfied.
assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Number and percentage of voting rights per last notication received by the Company.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance 63 Cautionary statement The directors are responsible for the Going concern Under the Companies Act 2006, a companys maintenance and integrity of the The directors have a reasonable directors report is required, among other matters, corporate and financial information expectation that the Company and the to contain a fair review by the directors of the companys and, if applicable, groups business included on the Companys website.
Group have adequate resources to through a balanced and comprehensive analysis of Legislation in the UK governing the continue in operational existence for the the development and performance of the business preparation and dissemination of financial foreseeable future and therefore continue of the company and group and the position of the statements may differ from legislation in to adopt the going concern basis in company and group at the year end, consistent with the size and complexity of the business.
The directors report set out above, including the Each of the directors, whose names and Auditors Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executive Ofcers Statement, Our Strategy, the Business Review, functions are listed in this Annual Report The Companys independent auditor, the Human Resources Review, the Corporate pages 58 and 59, confirm that, to the  LLP, has Responsibility Review, the Corporate Governance best of their knowledge: expressed its willingness to continue Report, the Remuneration Report and certain notes to the accounts incorporated into it by reference in ofce and resolutions for its s the Directors Report contained in the together, the Directors Report, has been prepared reappointment and to authorise Annual Report includes a fair review only for the shareholders of the Company as a whole the directors to determine its and its sole purpose and use is to assist shareholders of the development and performance to exercise their governance rights.
In particular, the remuneration will be proposed of the business and the position of the Directors Report has not been audited or otherwise at the forthcoming AGM.
Group, together with a description of independently veried.
The Company and its directors and the Groups employees are not the principal risks and uncertainties Approved by the Board and signed responsible for any other purpose or use or to any that it faces other person in relation to the Directors Report.
on its behalf by s the Group Financial Statements, which The Directors Report contains indications of likely have been prepared in accordance with future developments and other forward-looking Richard Webster IFRSs as adopted by the European statements that are subject to risk factors associated Company secretary with, among other things, the economic and business Union, give a true and fair view of the 13 June 2012 circumstances occurring from time to time in the assets, liabilities, financial position and countries, sectors and business segments in which profit or loss of the Group.
These factors include, but are WS Atkins plc, Woodcote Grove, not limited to, those discussed under Principal Risks Ashley Road, Epsom, Surrey, and Uncertainties pages 40 to 43.
These and other Disclosure of audit information KT18 5BW, England factors could adversely affect the Groups results, The directors confirm that, as at the date strategy and prospects.
Forward-looking statements Registered in England and Wales involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
They this report was approved, so far as each No.
1885586 relate to events and or depend on circumstances director is aware there is no relevant audit in the future which could cause actual results and information of which the Companys outcomes to differ materially from those currently anticipated.
No obligation is assumed to update any auditor is unaware and that he or she has forward-looking statements, whether as a result taken all the steps that he or she ought to of new information, future events or otherwise.
have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Governance
