44 Reviews Human Resources Review Making Atkins a great place to work is not just a desirable objective it is central to our shareholder proposition.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews 45 Overview Our main areas of growth were the We track progress in lling vacancies Making Atkins a great place to work Middle East 25%, which benefited across the Group.
At the year end, is not just a desirable objective it is from important contract wins in Qatar, 27% of open positions were at offer central to our shareholder proposition.
and Energy 19%, which experienced stage, 32% were at interview stage and By providing an environment in which strong organic growth and benefited the remaining 41% at sourcing stage, engineers, planners, architects and a from the Pyry acquisition.
These conrming that we are keeping pace myriad of related professionals ourish, increases were partly offset by reductions with the growth in demand.
we support our clients both in meeting in North America -2.4%, as this region their current needs and in addressing improved efficiency and underlying Globally we have increased our use of tomorrows challenges.
internet search capabilities to raise the prole of Atkins vacancies using both Achieving this goal relies on our ability Vacancy levels continued to increase well-established channels such as job to attract and retain the most talented, steadily throughout the year from boards and newer ones such as LinkedIn, motivated professionals in their respective around 1,100 at the start of the year Google and Facebook.
To this end, people performance is to 1,850 at the end of March 2012, recruitment teams work closely together an important element of Atkins business reecting increased confidence in to ensure knowledge and candidates are performance and is managed via a many of our businesses.
We continue structured process of business reviews to improve internal mobility to support which evaluate metrics such as headcount, Recruitment performance was good, growth and leverage capability between retention, vacancy levels and employee although there are a number of areas regions to develop new client and engagement alongside broader where competition for people remains market opportunities.
assessments of our future skill and high notably Energy and aerospace.
resource needs to meet future client Figure 1: FTE headcount growth and market needs.
18,000 While the three years to 2011 witnessed 17,800 significant restructuring across the Group, 17,600 2012 was largely a year of stability, during 17,400 which we concentrated our efforts on 17,200 supporting growth in our Middle East and Energy businesses alongside initiatives 17,000 to support other businesses in meeting 16,800 changing market conditions.
16,600 16,400 Headcount 16,200 Underlying headcount increased by Apr 11 May 11 Jun 11 Jul 11 Aug 11 Sep 11 Oct 11 Nov 11 Dec 11 Jan 12 Feb 12 Mar 12 approximately 600 people to 17,420 Atkins Group Total excluding asset management after allowing for the divestment of our UK asset management business and the Global experienced hire vacancies departure of some staff in April as a result 2,000 of restructuring actions implemented at the end of the previous financial year.
1,800 This is an encouraging result, reecting 1,600 our view that the significant headcount reductions of recent years are over.
1,400 1,200 1,000 800 Apr 11 May 11 Jun 11 Jul 11 Aug 11 Sep 11 Oct 11 Nov 11 Dec 11 Jan 12 Feb 12 Mar 12 Global hire vacancies Trend WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews 46 Reviews Human Resources Review continued Our UK recruitment team was voted The reduction in Middle East turnover Engagement Recruitment Team of the Year by was encouraging, as this was set In a people based business, it is essential Recruiter magazine for the second against a backdrop of improving market that we maintain regular and open year running.
The increase in the UK reects communications with staff at all levels growing demand for staff in several areas, on information ranging from the Groups We are targeting a graduate intake of notably aerospace and water.
Similarly, strategy and performance through to 540 for 2012.
This is a significant increase the increase in Energy reects high changes in policy and process affecting on recent years, particularly in the UK demand for staff in oil and gas their daily work.
We achieve this through where the graduate intake has increased in the UK and North America.
a variety of channels that include regular by 50% to 325 and where we remain chief executive officer letters to all staff, one of the biggest and most popular We also monitor the stability of our management briengs and the Groups recruiters of newly graduated engineers.
workforce using an index which calculates intranet.
In particular, following the the proportion of current employees announcement of the Companys full and We are seeking over 100 more new with one or more years service as half year results, we issue updates on the graduates in India and will also be a proportion of the total workforce Companys performance via our staff recruiting graduates in North America, employed 12 months ago.
This allows intranet, and online presentations from the Middle East and Asia.
We have also us to assess our performance in our chief executive officer and Group increased our intake of apprentices, retaining more experienced employees.
finance director, which are also available recognising that this is becoming an The stability index by region and for the in transcript form and as recorded increasingly attractive entry route for telephone messages.
The chief executive Group was: young people.
officer and Group finance director also Business area 2012 2011 conduct preand post-results brieng UK 85.0% 81.6% Retention teleconferences with our worldwide North America 75.0% 84.8% Staff turnover remains at a relatively low management team.
Middle East 79.3% 68.2% level in most regions, reecting both market conditions and the appeal of We ask Atkins people around the world to Asia Pacic Atkins as an employer.
Turnover by complete our annual Viewpoint employee and Europe 82.7% 77.8% region was: engagement survey to help us understand Energy 88.9% 90.1% 2012 2011 their views on working for Atkins.
Atkins 80.1% 81.3% Business area Turnover Turnover This year we refreshed the survey with UK 9.20% 8.53% Although the overall index has fallen a new questionnaire to address the North America 8.70% 10.65% slightly, an index of 80.1% represents most important issues across the good performance.
We also launched the survey in Asia Pacic September, rather than April, which has In several regions of our business, we and Europe 17.50% 16.55% aligned it with our corporate calendar and track feedback from colleagues who have Energy 16.80% 13.33% ensured that staff in North America had left the Group via an online process which Atkins 10.60% 10.40% been part of the Group for a full year guarantees anonymity.
Of those who by the time they took the survey.
completed a questionnaire, 87.6% said they would work for Atkins again and 85.8% said they would recommend Atkins as a place to work.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews 47 We are targeting an intake of Atkins is ranked at number over 500 graduates in 2012, 53 in The Times Top 100 the largest in our history Graduate Employers This years survey also incorporated We remain committed to fully discussing Technical development remains at the a new engagement model measuring survey results in our teams to create an heart of our learning and development our peoples alignment relationship ongoing dialogue through which we can strategy, accounting for over 60% of with management : involvement sustain our strengths and continuously our training spend.
We use our Technical relationship with their jobs : and loyalty improve our employee engagement.
Network Chairs continuously to drive relationship with the organisation.
excellence in key skill areas by capturing On a less positive note, we were and promulgating best practice, and by Our results showed that we are ahead disappointed not to be ranked among encouraging cross-regional collaboration.
of global sector averages on engagement The Sunday Times Top 25 Best Big This year our Network Chairs met in see scorecard below.
Our overall Companies, something we have achieved Bangalore for a three-day workshop employee engagement score is also for six of the last eight years.
The to set the agenda for technical ahead of the professional services sector feedback from this survey is being used development across Atkins.
A key benchmark: Atkins 64% positive, alongside our Viewpoint results to focus output from this was the requirement average 58% positive.
for common design principles and core project delivery tenets that recognise the The results provide very positive feedback Investment in people evolutionary stages of a design from that our people care about Atkins Developing the skills and capabilities of concept to final delivery.
our people is a strategic imperative for success, feel treated with fairness and respect, have the necessary knowledge driving our performance and growth.
Project management is a core capability to perform their roles and feel that we in successfully delivering our clients value the diversity of our people.
At 15m, this years Group training spend engineering solutions.
We continued during the year was slightly up on to improve project management using The results also indicate where we need previous years, reecting heightened Enterprise Advantage, our project to improve to make Atkins an even better spend in key areas such as Energy.
Over the next year we also increased our investment in project framework based on the Association will take action to improve collaboration management and leadership capabilities, of Project Managers APM framework across our businesses and our approach which are critical in achieving our growth has been launched, supported by a range to personal development and strategy: over 1,000 project managers of development tools, including an career planning.
and 2,000 line managers attended these e-learning portal, to support our development programmes.
Employee engagement scorecard The bars depicting super alignment involvement loyalty show the percentage of respondents ticking strongly agree at each of the engagement questions.
The bars beneath these are the combination of strongly agree agree %positive.
Alignment Involvement Loyalty Relationship with management Relationship to my job Relationship with my organisation Norm 57% Norm 61% Norm 57% Super aligned 13 Super involved 20 Super loyal 18 Overall alignment 63 Overall involvement Overall loyalty 63 67 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews 48 Reviews Human Resources Review continued significant progress was also made in We also conducted an extensive review of senior employees with those of our people development and leadership of the remuneration framework for senior shareholders.
A discretionary bonus programmes, with several of our business staff to provide a reward structure to scheme covers the wider Atkins units launching bespoke people attract high-calibre senior managers and population: this year, we expect to pay management programmes.
We also reward them for delivering stretching a bonus to around one-third of staff, redesigned our career development growth objectives aligned with our recognising individual contribution centres and senior management strategy.
Key elements include an and performance.
development programme to embed increased element of bonus paid for the leadership capabilities that will meeting demanding personal objectives Good progress has been made in drive our growth strategy.
and restructured long-term share awards implementing the Groups UK pension to reward long-term profits and share strategy.
The objectives are to fide-risk the We are improving the balance between price growth.
These proposals will be dened benefit sections of the Atkins classroom and online learning to provide subject to shareholder approval at the Pension Plan the Plan and the Atkins an efficient, engaging experience.
section of the Rail Pension Scheme whilst North American virtual university delivered improving engagement for the members over 2,000 online courses this year, with Employee share ownership is encouraged of the dened contribution sections investment planned for an online learning to facilitate alignment of employee and of the Plan.
In the UK, portal and online performance and development review process in 2012 13. employees are given the opportunity In January we completed a consultation to become shareholders through the with approximately 1,300 members of Reward Companys Share Incentive Plan SIP.
the dened benefit section who had prior Although some of our markets are Approximately 12% of eligible employees accrued rights under the Plan, which were experiencing higher levels of wage participate in the SIP.
In addition, at its revalued annually in line with changes ination than in recent years, we annual general meeting in August, the in salary.
As a result of the changes continued to exercise pay restraint across Company will be seeking approval of agreed with each member during the the Group.
Salary increases were targeted further all-employee share plans with consultation process, these staff will now to focus on promotion candidates, the potential for operation in countries become deferred members of the Plan but instances where individual salaries fell where the Group has a significant will benefit from revaluation in line with below market rates and regions and presence.
Further details are provided RPI subject to a cap of 5% per annum.
business units experiencing high market in the Directors remuneration report They will also benefit from transitional demand and associated salary ination, pages 73 to 93. relief for a period of six years whilst they for example China, India and our remain in employment with Atkins.
Approximately 1,000 senior leaders across the Group participate in our executive Concurrently, we reviewed how best An extensive remuneration benchmarking bonus scheme EBS.
This provides an to respond to the projected need to review was conducted across all our key incentive to deliver above-average results signicantly increase contributions for talent markets the UK, North America, and rewards staff to the extent that their staff who are members of the Atkins the Middle East, Asia Pacic and Europe business and the Group meet stretching section of the Rail Pension Scheme.
to ensure that we provide remuneration targets.
Under the terms of the EBS they Following consultation, proposals have in line with our international markets.
are required to defer one third of any been submitted to the Trustees to provide bonus paid into a share award.
This lower cost options for members of the deferral further aligns the interests Atkins section.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews 49 We aspire to have one third of our Board members as women by 2015 Our UK dened contribution membership age, religion or belief, disability, sexual includes almost 10,000 staff: in common orientation, gender identity, marriage with many large organisations we are and civil partnership status, pregnancy, concerned that the majority do not take parental obligations and background, an active interest in managing their subject to the laws of the jurisdictions retirement funds.
We are working with in which we work.
the Trustee to rectify this by providing a better investment platform for managing The Group encourages recruitment, their pensions, supported by an extensive training, career development and communications programme.
promotion on the basis of aptitude and ability, without regard to disability.
In North America, we have been working It is also committed to retaining and with our insurers to mitigate significant retraining as necessary employees projected increases in the cost of medical who become disabled during the insurance by offering the option of high course of their employment.
deductible health plans, supported by health improvement programmes.
These Focusing particularly on gender diversity, encourage employees to minimise health while we have seen some improvement at claims and share the costs and benets a senior level in recent years, with female more equitably between the Company representation of 22.2% at Board level and employees.
and 15% within the senior leadership team, the proportions within the wider Diversity senior management population and the The Group is committed to eliminating organisation as a whole remain largely discrimination and encouraging diversity unchanged at 11% and 27% respectively.
The aim is for the This is despite significant effort across Groups employees to be representative the Group, where we have implemented of all sections of society and for each regional action plans, including employee to feel respected and able to establishing womens networks and give their best.
The Group believes this participation by a number of women in a supports the attraction and retention of targeted career development programme.
the best people, improves effectiveness, promotes excellence in delivery and This remains a concern, as we believe that enhances the success of the Company.
Atkins will fail to realise its potential unless we are able to attract, retain and develop Policies have been adopted to ensure talented individuals from a broader range this commitment is implemented from of backgrounds than we traditionally have.
the point of recruitment and continues throughout an individuals employment We will continue to challenge our with the Group.
Employees are provided performance and make changes to with the opportunity to develop to their improve the diversity of our business, full potential regardless of sex, race, particularly regarding gender and ethnicity.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews
