20 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued Improving consultancy margins against a backdrop of challenging market conditions.
North America Key performance indicators 2012 2011 Change Financial metrics Revenue 421.9m 279.2m 51.1% Operating profit 21.2m 13.8m 53.6% Operating margin 5.0% 4.9% 0.1pp Work in hand 59.5% 46.7% 12.8pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 3,255 3,336 -2.4% Average staff numbers for the year 3,314 1,858 78.4% 3,255 People employed in North America 4 21.
9m Revenue WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews 21 Further detail is given in our overview of the business and segmental performance Business Review.
Pages 14-35 Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers 5 1% 5 4% 7 8% 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 Revenue by sector Revenue by client type Roads 36% Public sector: local government 57% Water and environment 18% Public sector: national government 13% Buildings 17% Private sector 30% Urban development 5% Aerospace and aviation 4% Defence and security 3% Other 17% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 47.8 58.1 55.0 279.2 421.9 2.5 3.8 3.4 13.8 21.2 591 605 533 1,858 3,314 Reviews 22 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued North America Performance Strategy Business drivers The North American region performed The acquisition of PBSJ was a major step Approximately 57% of our work currently well, delivering an operating profit in our strategy to develop a number comes from state and local government of 21.2m.
This is in line with our of home markets.
It has increased our clients, with around a further 13% from expectations, in what remains a slow presence in North America to over federal contracts, providing a relatively market, and includes an increase in the 3,000 staff and provides us with access stable underlying workload of repeat consultancy margin to 6.6% 2011: 5.7%, to the worlds largest engineering business.
Our workload is therefore six months only as we have focused consultancy market.
dependent on public sector funding, on operational efficiencies.
Addressing which remains under close political weaker market demand in the second half Our strategy in the region is consistent scrutiny and is subject to protracted of the year, we reduced our headcount with the Groups strategy of combining negotiation within local and federal by around 100 through the last quarter, technical excellence with regional government, with consequent delays likely closing the year at 3,255 2011: 3,336. multidisciplinary capability delivered ahead of the US presidential elections.
through our local network of ofces.
This is the first set of full year results for This allows us to draw on expertise from The disaster response and emergency our North America segment, following across the region to deliver complex management aspects of our federal work the acquisition of PBSJ on 1 October projects in North America and to provide arise as a consequence of natural disasters 2010.
This acquisition, which included the specialist skills from within North America and emergencies and, as such, are Peter Brown construction management to strengthen the Groups offering in unpredictable in nature and timing.
business which employs just under other segments.
An example of this 100 staff, transformed the scale of our is our work in the Middle East on the Operations operations in the region and augmented Jeddah airport project, where we Consultancy our established 500 person strong deployed world class airport planning Highways and transportation Faithful Gould business.
and engineering expertise from within Our highways and transportation our North America business.
business, of around 1,150 staff, has had a Constraints on federal spending continue, good year and has achieved a number of with some uncertainty about the timing We expect to grow our operations in the successes.
We have continued our work and funding of awarded projects due region, both by extending our technical on the Florida turnpike toll system and to budget restrictions and delays ahead offering and by expanding geographically have secured a new intelligent transport of the US presidential elections in across North America.
We are looking to systems contract in Atlanta for trafc November 2012. expand our relationships with the US Air operations management centres.
Force and the US Army Corps of Engineers We continue as general engineering Business model USACE : to position ourselves for private consultant for five Florida Department of We are primarily focused on the sector opportunities as we see increased Transport FDOT districts and for the state North American market where we plan, activity in some regions: to expand wide intelligent transportation systems design and enable our clients capital regionally where well funded public general consultant contract.
We operate from over markets exist: and to continue to grow general engineering consultant to FDOTs 91 locations in 28 states plus Puerto Rico, in the energy, hospitality and water Florida Turnpike Enterprise, one of the Trinidad and Canada and serve a range infrastructure markets.
nations top toll road organisations of public and private sector clients.
overseeing nearly 500 miles of toll roads.
We currently focus on multidisciplinary In addition, our growth in the North design and engineering consultancy American market will be supported services in highways and transportation, by increasing the use of technical water and environment and infrastructure resources from across the Group.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews 23 Our North America primary markets are in highways and transportation, water and environment and infrastructure related projects The National Transportation Bill remains project is designed to protect water Faithful Gould held up through Congress, which has quality in Chesapeake Bay by removing Our Faithful Gould business continues reduced the volume of work coming to excess nutrients and to meet new efuent to win work for public and private sector market.
We expect this to remain the case standards required for wastewater clients, providing project management until after the presidential elections, but treatment plants discharging efuent and cost control services in a cost once the Bill is passed, the significant into the Bay.
backlog of infrastructure maintenance and upgrade work should begin Our water and environment business of Peter Brown to be addressed.
around 460 staff has had a challenging Peter Browns new leadership team has year, with a shortfall in workload in the worked hard to address a number of Design and engineering second half of the year, which resulted project issues previously reported, limiting Overall, our design and engineering in some restructuring.
Currently, we are the loss for the year to 1.1m.
The business of around 700 staff performed providing oodplain mapping and related business operates in a very competitive in line with expectations.
Recent key technical services for approximately one sector and we face challenges securing federal wins include new contracts with third of the US with over 100 employees workload at acceptable margins.
the Headquarters Air Combat Command, supporting the Federal Emergency USACE Huntsville District and USACE Management Agency FEMA.
We Outlook Louisville District jointly with continue to make progress in the energy The outlook for North America is stable Faithful Gould.
market, providing environmental and with a future order book of 59% of next National Environmental Policy Act NEPA years budgeted revenue 2011: 47%.
Under a framework agreement with the services in shale gas and offshore wind However, continued uncertainty National Park Service, Atkins continues farms, as well as feasibility and routing surrounding federal and local funding to provide construction management, studies for gas and electric transmission and the impact of the US presidential administration and oversight for safety lines.
Our water resources staff and elections is causing a more cautious upgrades and structural repairs to many environmental scientists are preoutlook, resulting in reduced market of Americas most treasured national positioning for the upcoming demand.
In the medium term, the regions parks.
We have recently been selected $230bn Texas water market.
need to address its ageing infrastructure for projects at the Statue of Liberty, remains a key driver for future growth Castillo fide San Marcos in St Augustine International in which we expect to participate as and Alcatraz Islands famous There has been no change in the view we broaden our service offering and penitentiary building.
taken by management regarding the geographic presence.
longstanding matter self reported by PBSJ Water and environment in 2009 to the Department of Justice and We have been expanding our water and the Securities and Exchange Commission wastewater infrastructure expertise into that predates the acquisition by Atkins the California and Arizona markets.
and relates to potential Foreign Corrupt We were recently selected by San Diego Practices Act violations see note 37.
County and the City of Los Angeles, We are not able to estimate the extent, California, to provide wastewater if any, of penalties that might be assessed services on an as needed basis.
One of and so have not, therefore, made our signature projects, the Little Patuxent provision for any penalties.
The Water Reclamation Plant Addition No.
7 investigation by the government project in Howard County, Maryland authorities continues.
This state of the art WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews
