32 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued Our Energy business continues to perform well with revenue up more than 30% year on year.
Energy Key performance indicators 2012 2011 Change Financial metrics Revenue 128.4m 98.6m 30.2% Operating profit 11.4m 8.5m 34.1% Operating margin 8.9% 8.6% 0.3pp Work in hand 32.4% 28.5% 3.9pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 1,182 993 19.0% Average staff numbers for the year 1,095 970 12.9% 1, 1 82 People employed in Energy 1 28.4m Revenue WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews 33 Operating profit m Average staff numbers Revenue m 34% 1 3% 3 0% 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 Revenue by sector Revenue by client type Oil and gas 54% Public sector: national government 5% Nuclear 34% Regulated 40% Power inc. renewables 12% Private sector 55% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 39.0 72.4 82.0 98.6 128.4 4.4 7.8 8.4 8.5 11.4 424 716 805 970 1,095 Reviews 34 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued Energy Performance Successful integration of the Pyry In nuclear we continue to see a similar Our Energy business continues to perform teams, the resulting enhanced geographic focus on keeping existing facilities well, with revenue and profit up more footprint and the ability to deliver process operating safely for longer, with an than 30% year on year, operating at led multidisciplinary projects have all ongoing requirement for technical support a margin of 8.9%.
The margin reects helped us to secure significant framework around nuclear decommissioning.
In ongoing investment in the strategic contracts in the Middle East, Norway and addition, many countries around the growth of this sector through the UK.
world are still planning new build of acquisitions and joint ventures.
nuclear power plant as part of their long In February we extended our strategic term solutions for decarbonisation, In June 2011 we acquired Pyrys 130 nuclear alliance, n. triple.
a, with French despite the Fukushima Daiichi power people strong oil and gas business for engineering consultancy Assystem, station incident.
Our valuable nuclear a cash consideration of 15.0m and we to support EDFs nuclear new build skills are in high demand across the are delighted with its performance and programme in the UK.
Business drivers Across the whole of our Energy business, Business model Our business in the energy market is the limitation on growth is the availability The Energy business operates worldwide underpinned by the requirements of of skills.
We therefore continue to invest in in several home markets, competing both a sector that is dealing with increasing our in house training academy, which this in its own right and through several joint demand in areas of high population year welcomed more than 300 staff on ventures, against a wide range of and income growth, dwindling to its courses.
competition from large multinational natural resources and an imperative engineering consultancies to specialist to decarbonise.
Nuclear High oil prices drive demand to keep Our nuclear business remains busy Strategy existing facilities operating longer, on existing nuclear generation and We remain focused on nuclear, oil and drawing on our safety and integrity decommissioning work, continuing to gas, conventional power generation and services.
At the same time, with the build on its established base in the UK.
In these industries we are industry seeking to maximise more We continue to support EDF Energy as applying our high end engineering skills to challenging reserves, such as marginal a strategic partner, providing engineering, assure the integrity of existing operational and deepwater elds, there is a continued safety and environmental services on the facilities and design new facilities.
increase in demand for our advanced existing UK fleet as well as support engineering skills.
to its Japanese Earthquake Response We continue to look at investment programme.
opportunities, selectively extending our geographic footprint and service offering Work won in the year includes the design through organic growth, partnering contract for the proposed plant extension arrangements and targeted acquisitions.
for Urencos largest plant in the UK, the technical advisor role for the United Arab Emirates peaceful nuclear energy programme and support for EDFs nuclear new build programme in the UK.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews 35 Our Energy performance reects ongoing investment in the strategic growth of this sector Our role as architect engineer, as part A significant part of our design focus Renewables of the Engage consortium, continues on has been on difficult or marginal eld We have continued to build on our the 3bn International Thermonuclear developments, where our strong technical previous successes in the offshore Experimental Reactor ITER programme skills have supported the development renewables sector by securing in the south of France.
ITER is the next of new concepts in oating production, multidisciplinary technical support step in a global research and development storage and ofoading facilities.
Allied frameworks with Forewind, E. ON and programme to harness nuclear fusion to this, we successfully completed the RWE on developments across the UK, to generate electricity.
subsea front end engineering design for as well as individual contracts with the Chevron Alder high pressure, high Dong Energy on its portfolio of projects We have also continued our work across temperature HPHT eld and recently across Northern Europe.
These contracts all the UK Magnox sites for the design of won a similar study for the HPHT are in addition to design commissions facilities for the retrieval and processing of Culzean development for Maersk.
undertaken on meteorological mast, wind solid intermediate level radioactive waste.
turbine generator and offshore substation Power structures for developers, vendors, Oil and gas Our power business remains busy fabricators and installation contractors.
Our oil and gas business has experienced following the successful integration of the strong demand for its services within Technical Services Scotland consultancy We continue to provide expert a buoyant sector.
In addition to our acquired in the last financial year.
This has engineering design advice as part of existing major framework agreements led to significant expansion in our client the high prole Beatrice Offshore Wind with Chevron, BP, Shell and Talisman, base for example, becoming lead Alliance supporting Scottish and Southern we have added Nexen, Statoil and Maersk technical provider to both Drax and Energy plc in its drive to boost marine as clients, and strengthened relationships Eggborough, and an increasing role renewable energy provision.
with Apache and Premier Oil.
Outlook Our work on liqueed natural gas LNG In addition, our five year contract renewal The outlook for our Energy business projects in Singapore and Poland to play a key role in National Grids remains very good: we are well positioned continues with the addition in the year complex construction programme in growth markets and have work in hand of work on Australias largest LNG further strengthens our position ahead of last year at 32% 2011: 28%.
development, Ichthys, through the Pyry in the UK energy sector.
acquisition, as well as a two year design contract of an onshore gas processing plant for Block 60 in the Sultanate of Oman.
We are also leading on safety for a major operator who is pioneering oating LNG FLNG, which positions us well for further opportunities in the developing FLNG market.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews
