Directors report Results and dividend Exploration and research and development Our financial results are set out in both the financial information Our commodity business units carry out exploration and research and Financial review sections of this report.
and development activities that are necessary to support and expand their operations and their commitment to the environment.
Our Board recommends a final dividend of US31.5 cents per share amounting to $933 million.
The total 2012 dividend is US45.5 cents Political and charitable donations per share or $1,346 million.
Our shareholders will be asked to In accordance with our corporate social involvement CSI policy, no approve the dividend at our Annual General Meeting on 16 May political donations were made in 2012.
Our CSI expenditure supports 2013, for payment on 7 June 2013 to ordinary shareholders whose initiatives that benefit communities located close to our operations names were on our register on 24 May 2013. in the areas of health, education, sport and the arts, community development, job creation and enterprise.
In 2012, Xstrata set aside Principal activities over $85 million for CSI initiatives.
Donations during the year to UK Xstrata is a major global diversified mining group headquartered in registered charities totalled 930,550.
We have a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange and a Secondary Listing on the SIX Swiss Exchange.
Employee policies and involvement Additional information on our operations is provided in the CEOs Our policy and performance regarding employee involvement, strategic review and Business review.
disabled employees, labour relations and employee share schemes are provided throughout the Strategy section on pages 2 to 19. Review of the business, future developments and post balance sheet events Board of directors A review of our business and future developments is presented in our The directors during the year under review were Sir John Bond, Chief Executive Officers strategic review and the Business Review Chairman, Mick Davis Chief Executive Officer, Dr Con Fauconnier from pages 2 to 30 and forms part of this report by reference.
independent non-executive, Ivan Glasenberg non-executive, A full description of acquisitions, disposals, and changes to our Peter Hooley independent non-executive, Claude Lamoureux companies undertaken during the year, including any post balance independent non-executive, Aristotelis Mistakidis non-executive, sheet events, is included in the Financial review on pages 5 to 10.
Tor Peterson non-executive, Sir Steve Robson independent non-executive, David Rough Deputy Chairman, Senior In November 2012, Xstratas shareholders approved the Merger Independent Director, Trevor Reid Chief Financial Officer, between Xstrata and Glencore.
Completion of the Merger remains Ian Strachan independent non-executive, and Santiago conditional upon the receipt of the outstanding regulatory approval Zaldumbide executive director.
in China and completion of the Xstrata court process as further set out in the New Scheme Document in connection with the Merger Further details about the directors, their skills and experience and published by Xstrata on 25 October 2012 and Glencore giving effect their roles are given in the directors biographies on pages 36 to the commitments required by the European Commission.
Corporate governance Directors conflicts of interest A report on corporate governance and compliance with the Under section 175 of the Companies Act 2006, a director of a principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code on company must avoid a situation in which he has, or can have, a direct corporate governance is set out on pages 38 to 44 and forms part of or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the this report by reference.
The duty is not infringed if the matter has been authorised by the directors of the relevant company.
Under the Financial instruments Act, the board of directors of the relevant company has the power Our financial risk management objectives and policies, details of to authorise potential or actual conflict situations.
Our Board has our financial instruments, hedging activities and exposures to price effective procedures in place that enable our directors to notify the risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are discussed on Nominations Committee of any actual or potential conflict situations.
pages 5 to 10 of the Financial review and in note 36 of the The Nominations Committee reviews these notifications in detail and financial statements.
makes recommendations to the Board regarding authorisation.
Our Board will, if appropriate, authorise these conflict situations, subject Creditor payment policy and practice to conditions and for a period of one year.
All directors conflict The international nature of our business means that there is no situations are reviewed annually.
A Conflicts Register of specific Group-wide policy in respect of payments to suppliers.
Our individual operating companies are responsible for agreeing terms and conditions for their business transactions and ensuring Directors liabilities that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment.
It is our policy The Company has granted qualifying third-party indemnities to that payments are made in accordance with these, provided that each of its directors against any liability that attaches to them all trading terms and conditions have been met by the supplier.
in defending proceedings brought against them, to the extent permitted by the Companies Acts.
In addition, directors and officers Xstrata plc is a holding company with no business activity other than of the Company and its subsidiaries are covered by directors and the holding of investments in the Group and therefore had no trade officers liability insurance.
creditors at 31 December 2012 and was not invoiced by any suppliers in 2012.
Health, safety, environment and community HSEC An overview of health, safety and environmental performance and community participation is provided throughout the Strategy section on pages 2 to 19.
com 59 Directors report continued Directors and their interests In addition to the above interests in shares, the executive directors Details of interests in the share capital of the Company of those also have interests in the share capital of the Company in the form directors in office as at 31 December 2012 are given below.
None of conditional rights to free shares and options to subscribe to shares of the shares were held non-beneficially.
No director held interests under the Long Term Incentive Plan and Executive Bonus Plan.
in the shares of any subsidiary company.
Details of these interests are disclosed in the Remuneration report on pages 45 to 58.
Ordinary Ordinary shares held shares held Share capital beneficially as at beneficially as at 1 January 31 December At the date of this report, the ordinary share capital of the Company Name of Director 2012 2012 was $1,501,346,038 represented by 3,002,692,076 ordinary shares of $0.50 each.
Executive Mick Davis 2,517,549 The Company has in place an equity capital management Trevor Reid 539,491 647,365 programme ECMP, under which up to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company can be purchased in the market by Batiss Santiago Zaldumbide 26,728 Investments Limited Batiss.
Batiss currently holds 28,428,786 Non-executive ordinary shares, 0.96% of Xstratas current issued ordinary share Sir John Bond 1,000 1,000 capital.
Batiss waives its rights to receive dividends on the ordinary Con Fauconnier shares that it holds from time to time.
Ivan Glasenberg Shares held by Xstrata plc Employee Share Ownership Trusts Peter Hooley At 31 December 2012, the independent trustee of the Xstrata plc Claude Lamoureux 27,000 Employee Share Ownership Trusts held 14,144,089 shares under the terms of the trusts for the benefit of employees and former Aristotelis Mistakidis employees of the Company.
These trusts are discretionary and Tor Peterson the shares are held to meet employees entitlements under the Sir Steve Robson Companys Long Term Incentive Plan and Executive Committee David Rough 25,250 3,000 Bonus Plan.
Employees have no voting rights in relation to the shares Ian Strachan 43,098 43,098 while they are held in trust.
The trustee has full discretion to exercise voting rights or to abstain from voting.
Shares acquired by During the period from the end of the financial year to 10 April 2013, employees through the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan the following changes in directors interests occurred: on 14 March rank pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights.
2013 Trevor Reid sold 250,000 shares: and on 15 March 2013 Trevor On occasion, the trustee of the Employee Share Ownership Trusts Reid sold 250,000 shares.
waives its right to receive dividends on ordinary shares that it holds.
Major interests in shares As at 1 April 2013, the Company had been notified of the following interests representing 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Number of ordinary Number of ordinary shares of $0.50 each % of ordinary issued shares of $0.50 each % of ordinary issued Publicly disclosed major shareholders at 31.12.12 share capital at 01.04.13 share capital 1 Glencore International plc 1,010,403,99933.65%1,010,403,999 33.65% Qatar Holding LLC 350,410,601 11.67% 350,410,601 11.67% BlackRock, Inc 127,927,230 4.26% 139,220,764 4.64% 1 The voting rights associated with this interest are directly controlled by Finges Investment BV, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Glencore International plc 60 Xstrata | Annual Report 2012 | www.
com Significant contractual arrangements 600 million notes due 2015 Glencore International AG is Xstratas major shareholder and, at the On 23 May 2008, Xstrata Canada Financial Corporation issued date of this document, holds 33.65% of Xstratas issued share capital.
600 million 6.25% guaranteed notes due 2015 and 500 million A Relationship Agreement regulates the relationship between Xstrata 7.375% guaranteed notes due 2020 the 2008 MTN Notes.
The and Glencore to ensure all commercial arrangements are transacted 2008 MTN Notes are guaranteed by each of Xstrata plc, Xstrata on an arms-length basis.
Glencore is the sole distributor of Xstratas Schweiz AG, Xstrata Finance Dubai Limited and Xstrata Finance nickel, cobalt and ferronickel production, has sales agreements with Canada Limited and were issued pursuant to the $6.0 billion Euro Xstrata Copper for some of its copper concentrate and copper Medium Term Note Programme.
cathode and is the marketing agent for much of Xstrata Alloys Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the 2008 MTN Notes, if: ferrochrome and vanadium.
Glencore has a market advisory role with Xstrata Coal.
Full details of related party contractual arrangements i a change of control occurs as defined in the terms and conditions are provided in note 35 of the financial statements.
of the 2008 MTN Notes : and The Companies Act 2006 requires disclosure of the following ii the 2008 MTN Notes carry, on the relevant announcement date significant agreements that contain provisions entitling the of the change of control: counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the a an investment grade credit rating is either downgraded to event of a change of control of the Company: a non-investment grade credit rating or is withdrawn: or Relationship Agreement b a non-investment grade credit rating is downgraded by one The Company is party to the Relationship Agreement with Glencore or more notches or is withdrawn: or International AG Glencore dated 20 March 2002.
The Agreement regulates the continuing relationship between the parties.
In c no credit rating and a negative rating event as defined in particular it ensures that a the Company is capable of carrying on the terms and conditions of the 2008 MTN Notes occurs, its business independently of Glencore as a controlling shareholder each holder has the option to require Xstrata Canada as such term is defined in the Agreement : b transactions and Financial Corp. to redeem such 2008 MTN Notes in cash at relationships between Glencore or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates the principal amount plus interest accrued to but excluding and the Company are at an arms length and on normal commercial the date of redemption.
terms: c Glencore shall be entitled to nominate up to three directors US$6.0 billion syndicated facility or if lower or higher such number of directors equal to one less than On 24 October 2011, Xstrata Schweiz AG and the Company the number of directors who are independent directors: and, entered into a $6.0 billion multicurrency revolving syndicated loan d directors of the Company nominated by Glencore shall not be facility agreement with the banks and financial institutions named permitted to vote on any Board resolution, unless otherwise agreed therein as lenders the Syndicated Facilities Agreement and Barclays by the independent directors, to approve any aspect of the Capital acting as facility agent.
Companys involvement in or enforcement of any arrangements, agreements or transactions with Glencore or any of its subsidiaries or Upon a change of control, no borrower may make a further utilisation affiliates.
The Agreement provides that, save to the extent required unless otherwise agreed.
The majority lenders, as defined in the by law, the parties agree that they shall exercise their powers so that agreement, can also require that the Syndicated Facilities Agreement the Company is managed in accordance with the principles of good is immediately terminated and declared that all outstanding loans governance set out in the Corporate Governance Code and that the become immediately payable.
Alternatively, if the majority lenders provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in the Corporate do not require cancellation, but a specific lender does on the basis Governance Code are complied with by the Company.
It is of internal policy, that particular lender can require that its expressed that the Agreement terminates in the event that Glencore commitments are cancelled and all amounts outstanding in respect ceases to be a controlling shareholder of the Company following of that lenders commitments shall become immediately payable.
a sale or disposal of shares in the Company or if the Company US$3.0 billion multi-tranche notes ceases to be listed on the Official List and traded on the London On 3 November 2011, Xstrata Finance Canada Limited issued Stock Exchange.
$800 million 2.85% notes due 2014, $700 million 3.6% notes due US$500 million notes due 2037 2017, $1.0 billion 4.95% notes due 2021 and $500 million 6.0% On 30 November 2007, Xstrata Finance Canada Limited issued notes due 2041.
The notes are guaranteed by the Company.
The $500 million 6.90% notes due 2037, guaranteed by the Company, terms of the notes contain change of control provisions, in substance, Xstrata Schweiz AG and Xstrata Finance Dubai Limited.
The terms identical to those set out in the referenced US$500 million notes due of these notes require Xstrata Finance Canada Limited to make an 2037 above.
offer to each noteholder to repurchase all or any part of such holders US$4.5 billion multi-tranche notes notes at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate On 18 October 2012, Xstrata Finance Canada Limited issued principal amount of the notes so repurchased plus any accrued and $1.25 billion 1.8% notes due 2015, $1.75 billion 2.45% notes due unpaid interest on the principal amount of the notes repurchased to 2017, $1.0 billion 4.0% notes due 2022 and $500 million 5.3% notes the date of repurchase, if both of the following occur: due 2042.
The terms i a change of control as defined in the terms and conditions of of the notes contain change of control provisions, in substance, the notes of Xstrata: and identical to those set out in the referenced US$500 million notes due 2037 above.
ii the notes are rated below investment grade by each of Moodys and Standard & Poors on any date from 30 days prior to the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a change of control as defined in the terms and conditions of the notes until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of a change of control.
com 61 Directors report continued 2.25 billion multi-tranche notes redeem all of the deferred shares in issue at any time but subject to On 15 November 2012, Xstrata Finance Dubai Limited issued the minimum capital requirement of the Companies Act 2006 at a 1.25 billion 1.5% guaranteed notes due 2016 and 1.0 billion price not exceeding 1.00 for each share to be paid to the relevant 2.375% guaranteed notes due 2018 the 2012 MTN Notes.
The registered holders of the shares.
2012 MTN Notes are guaranteed by each of Xstrata plc, Xstrata Special voting share Schweiz AG, Xstrata Canada Financial Corporation and Xstrata Certain rights, that are inalienable under Swiss law, have been Finance Canada Limited and were issued pursuant to the preserved in our Articles of Association by creating a special voting $8.0 billion Euro Medium Term Note Programme.
share that carries weighted voting rights sufficient to defeat any Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the 2012 MTN Notes, if: resolution that could amend or remove these entrenched rights.
The holder of the special voting share is the Law Debenture Trust i a change of control occurs as defined in the terms and conditions Corporation plc which has entered into a voting agreement with of the 2012 MTN Notes : and the Company, specifying the conditions upon which it is entitled ii the 2012 MTN Notes carry, on the relevant announcement date to exercise its right to vote.
The special voting share does not carry of the change of control: a right to receive dividends and is entitled to no more than the amount of capital paid up in the event of liquidation.
a an investment grade credit rating is either downgraded to a non-investment grade credit rating or is withdrawn: or Voting rights b a non-investment grade credit rating is downgraded by one Subject to the rights and restrictions attached to any class of shares: or more notches or is withdrawn: or i on a show of hands, every member present in person or by proxy c no credit rating and a negative rating event as defined in the has one vote save that neither the holder of the special voting terms and conditions of the 2012 MTN Notes occurs, each share nor any holder of deferred shares shall be entitled to vote holder has the option to require Xstrata Canada Financial and a proxy appointed by a member on behalf of such members Corp. to redeem such 2012 MTN Notes in cash at the shareholding shall also have one vote: principal amount plus interest accrued to but excluding ii on a poll: the date of redemption.
a every member present in person or by proxy except the Xstrata plc Long Term Incentive Plan holder of the special voting share and any holder of the The rules of our employee share plans set out the consequences of deferred shares shall have: any change of control of the Company on employees rights under the plans.
Generally such rights will vest on a change of control and i one vote for each fully paid share: and participants will become entitled to acquire shares or, in some cases, ii for each partly-paid share, such proportion of the votes attached to the payment of a cash sum of equivalent value.
to a fully paid share as would mean that such proportion is the same as the proportion of the amount paid up on the total issue Articles of Association price of that share: Our Articles of Association adopted by special resolution on 19 March 2002 and amended by special resolutions passed on b the holder of the special voting share shall, on an Entrenched 9 May 2005, 6 May 2008, 5 May 2010 and 20 November 2012 may Rights Action, have enough votes to defeat the resolution but, only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the on all other decisions, shall have no votes: and shareholders.
c the holders of the deferred shares shall not be entitled to vote.
Share rights Restrictions on transfer of shares The rights and obligations attached to our ordinary shares are set out There are no restrictions on the transfer of our ordinary shares in the Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from other than: Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
i the right of the Board to refuse to register the transfer of a Subject to the Companies Acts as defined in the Articles of certificated share that is not a fully paid share provided that the Association, and without prejudice to any rights attached to any refusal does not prevent dealings in shares of that class in the existing shares or class of shares, any share may be issued with such Company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The rights or restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution Board may also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated determine or, subject to and in default of such determination, as share, unless the instrument of transfer a is lodged, duly the Board may determine.
stamped if applicable with the Company and except where the Ordinary shares shares are registered in the name of a recognised person and no Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote certificate shall have been issued therefore is accompanied by the at general meetings of the Company, and to appoint proxies relevant share certificate and such other evidence of the right to to exercise their rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may receive transfer as the Board may require : b is in respect of one class a dividend and on a winding up may share in the assets of of share only: and c is in favour of not more than four persons: the Company.
ii pursuant to our share dealing code whereby our directors require, Deferred shares and employees may require, approval to deal in Xstratas shares: The holders of deferred shares have neither the right to receive iii certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and notice of any Company AGM or to attend, speak or vote at any such regulations for example, insider trading laws : and meeting.
The deferred shares have no rights to dividends and, on a winding up or other return of capital, entitle the holder only to the iv where a person whose shares represent at least a 0.25% interest repayment of the amounts paid upon such shares after repayment in our shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has of the nominal amount paid up on the ordinary shares, the nominal failed to provide the Company with information concerning amount paid up on the special voting share plus the payment of interests in those shares, except as otherwise provided in 100,000 per ordinary share.
The Company may, at its option, the Articles.
com The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares and for voting rights.
The Board must decline to register any transfer of the special voting share unless approved in accordance with a voting deed between the Company and the holder of the special voting share.
Electronic copies of the annual review and financial statements 2012 and other publications A copy of the 2012 Annual Report which includes the Business review and financial statements, Directors report incorporating a Corporate Governance report and Remuneration report, the Notice of the AGM and other corporate publications, reports, press releases and announcements are available at www.
Responsibility statement Pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
12, all of the directors have confirmed to the best of their knowledge: i the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and ii the Directors report including those sections incorporated therein by reference includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Disclosure of information to auditors Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of our auditors, each director confirms that so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which our auditor is unaware.
Each director has taken all necessary steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that our auditor is aware of that information.
Going concern The directors believe, after making inquiries that they consider to be appropriate, that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The directors have made this assessment after consideration of the Companys budgeted cash flows and related assumptions, including appropriate stress testing thereof, key risks, undrawn debt facilities, debt maturity review, and in accordance with Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 published by the Financial Reporting Council.
By order of the Board Richard Elliston Company Secretary 10 April 2013 Xstrata | Annual Report 2012 | www.
