Business model Our success depends on our ability to create and deliver shared Working in partnership value to all our stakeholders in a sustainable manner.
We form mutually beneficial partnerships with the stakeholders in our business, including local communities, governments, customers, Devolved authority shareholders and employees.
We aim to work together with our Our commodity businesses are accountable for all aspects of their partners to enable us to make the substantial long-term investments business and are mandated to improve the net present value of their required to develop mineral resources while creating lasting benefits underlying business.
from our presence in a region.
Through our decentralised structure we ensure decisions are made Our ability to attract and retain the best people with appropriate where the best information exists, through creating a strong sense skills at every level is vital to the successful execution of our of ownership at the local level.
We provide industry-leading career development, a nonempowered to take pro-active and prompt decisions on operational, discriminatory workplace, and fair and competitive remuneration community, environmental and people issues and to build within a decentralised, non-bureaucratic culture.
meaningful partnerships with local stakeholders at a site or divisional level.
Industry-leading approach to sustainable development We aim to manage our business to balance economic, environmental Our devolved management model encourages the rational riskand social considerations.
Responsible environmental management taking required to foster an entrepreneurial spirit and supports and community engagement enable us to gain access to new the identification and implementation of opportunities to grow resources, maintain a licence to operate, attract and retain the best or optimise the value of our business, through acquisitions, people, access sources of capital, identify business opportunities and divestments, project development and strategic partnerships.
optimise our management of risks.
We seek to embed a culture that maintains a disciplined approach to creating value for all our stakeholders.
Our industry-leading sustainable development assurance programme evaluates the performance of every managed operation and project Our decentralised business model is underpinned by a robust against our international best practice standards and policy, with governance framework that incorporates stringent checks and results reported to the Board.
balances at Group and commodity business levels.
This is supported through effective internal communication and comprehensive risk We aim to operate with zero harm to our people and prioritise management and assurance processes.
safety at every operation and project.
We work to promote a nondiscriminatory and equitable workplace to enable us to attract and Diversified assets retain the best people.
We aim to deliver more stable returns through our diversified We set aside a minimum of 1% of profit before tax each year to fund business structure by improving our ability to manage risks community initiatives and pro-actively consult with communities associated with foreign exchange rate fluctuations, commodity price about our operations, with the aim of securing broad-based, ongoing cycles, operating locations and end-use customer segments.
Our support for our activities.
portfolio is diversified by commodity, geography, currency and customer industries.
The continuous improvement of our assets is an ongoing imperative, including safety performance, environmental management and our contribution to the communities in which we operate.
Our philosophy is to effect small improvements on a continuous basis that cumulatively have a decisive impact on the quality of our operations and our performance.
Since 2001, we have progressively developed an extensive range of organic growth options.
Our approved and near-term projects will substantially reduce our operating costs.
Beyond this, a range of earlier stage opportunities are being assessed for their potential to provide the next phase of growth as market conditions permit.
Our projects and operations have a substantial mineral reserve and resource base, with an average mine life in excess of 50 years.
Financial strength Our commitment to maintaining a robust balance sheet and investment-grade rating provides access to a broad range of funding sources.
We are the fourth largest diversified mining company globally, with a market value in excess of $40 billion.
Mining is capital-intensive and new deposits are increasingly in more challenging regions.
Scale enables mining companies to invest in multiple large projects without risking a substantial portion of capital in any one region or to any one project.
Size also brings an improved ability to access capital, talent and new resources and to capture external opportunities.
Our commodity businesses are positioned within the lower half of their respective industry cost curves on average.
We are focused on achieving real unit cost savings to improve the quality of our business and in 2012 we achieved operating cost savings of $176 million.
