Board of directors Sir John Bond Peter Hooley Chairman, aged 71 Non-executive director, aged 66 Appointed in May 2011 Appointed in May 2009 Committee membership: Chairman of the Nominations Committee Committee membership: Chairman of the Audit Committee.
and member of the Remuneration Committee.
Skills and experience: Mr. Hooley was, until 2006, Group Finance Skills and experience: Sir John Bond resigned as chairman and nonDirector of Smith & Nephew plc, a global medical devices business executive director of Vodafone Group plc on 26 July 2011.
He was previously Group Financial Controller appointed to the board of Vodafone in 2005 and became chairman of BICC plc.
Until August 2012, Mr. Hooley was a director and the in 2006.
He is a director of A. P. Moller-Maersk A S Denmark, the chairman of BSNmedical Luxembourg Holding Sarl, a medical international shipping and investment company, and Shui On Land textiles business group.
Ltd, a Hong Kong quoted property development company External appointments: None specialising in China.
He retired as Group Chairman of HSBC Holdings plc in 2006, having also been its Group Chief Executive Ivan Glasenberg from 1993 to 1998.
He holds advisory roles with Northern Trust Non-executive director, aged 56 Corp, US, and with KKR Asia.
He is also a member of various advisory bodies in China: China Development Forum: China Banking Appointed in February 2002 Regulatory Commission International Advisory Board: and Tsinghua Committee membership: None School of Economics and Management at Tsinghua University.
Skills and experience: Mr. Glasenberg is the Chief Executive Officer External appointments: Director of A. P. Moller-Maersk A S and of Glencore International plc, a leading integrated commodities Shui On Land Ltd. producer and marketer.
He previously worked in the coal department of Glencore in South Africa for three years and in Australia for two Mick Davis years.
From 1989 to 1990, he managed Glencore Internationals Chief Executive Officer, aged 55 Hong Kong and Beijing offices.
In 1991 he became Head of Appointed Chief Executive in October 2001 and then Chief Glencores Coal Department and in 2002 Chief Executive Officer Executive of Xstrata plc upon incorporation in February 2002. of Glencore International.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Executive Committee, External appointments: Director of United Company RUSAL plc and a member of the Health, Safety, Environment and Community and Glencore International plc.
Claude Lamoureux Skills and experience: Previously, Mr. Davis was Chief Financial Non-executive director, aged 70 Officer and an executive director of Billiton Plc, appointed in July 1997, and served as Executive Chairman of Ingwe Coal Corporation Appointed in May 2008 Limited from 1995.
He joined Gencor Limited in early 1994 from Committee membership: Member of the Audit and Health, Safety, Eskom, the South African state-owned electricity utility, where he Environment and Community Committees.
Skills and experience: Mr. Lamoureux was President and Chief External appointments: None Executive Officer of the Ontario Teachers Pension Plan Board until 1 December 2007.
Previously he spent 25 years as a financial David Rough executive with Metropolitan Life in Canada and the US.
Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, aged 62 External appointments: Director of Cordiant Capital, Maple Leaf Appointed in April 2002 Foods Inc. Atrium Innovations Inc. and Industrial Alliance Insurances Committee membership: Chairman of the Remuneration and Financial Services Inc. Committee and a member of the Nominations, Audit and Health, Safety, Environment and Community Committees.
Aristotelis Mistakidis Non-executive director, aged 52 Skills and experience: Mr.
Rough was a director of Legal & General Group Plc before retiring from Legal & General in June 2002.
As Appointed in May 2011 Group Director Investments, Mr.
Rough headed all aspects of fund Committee membership: None management within Legal & General Investments.
Skills and experience: Aristotelis Mistakidis is Co-director of External appointments: Director of Land Securities Group plc, Glencores Zinc Copper Lead commodity department, a position Brown, Shipley & Co Ltd and LME Holdings Ltd. he has held since February 2000, having joined Glencore in 1993.
He is jointly responsible for overseeing the marketing business Con Fauconnier and industrial assets of the department, including strategy and Non-executive director, aged 65 operations.
He is also a director of Katanga Mining Limited and Appointed in May 2010 Recylex S. A and is chairman of Mopani Copper Mines Plc.
Before Glencore, he worked at Cargill for six years, where he worked in Committee membership: Member of the Health, Safety, and gained experience in the nonferrous metals industry.
Environment and Community and Remuneration Committees.
External appointments: Director of Katanga Mining Ltd, Recyclex Skills and experience: Dr. Fauconnier was Managing Director of S. A. Mopani Copper Mines plc, and Porto Vesme SRL.
Iscor Mining in 1999, before being appointed as Chief Executive of Kumba Resources Limited in 2001.
From 2006 until his retirement in August 2007, he served as Chief Executive Officer of Exxaro Resources Limited, a newly formed company from the merger of Eyesizwe Mining and the non-iron ore assets of Kumba Resources.
External appointments: None 36 Xstrata | Annual Report 2012 | www.
com Tor Peterson Santiago Zaldumbide Non-executive director, aged 48 Executive director and Chief Executive of Xstrata Zinc, aged 70 Appointed in May 2011 Appointed in February 2002 Committee membership: None Committee membership: Member of the Executive Committee.
Skills and experience: Tor Peterson is Director of Glencores Skills and experience: Mr. Zaldumbide is currently Executive Coal Coke commodity department, a position he has held since Chairman of Asturiana fide Zinc.
He is a previous Chief Executive 2002, having joined Glencore in 1992.
He is responsible for Officer and Director of Union Explosivos Rio Tinto and of Petroleos overseeing the global marketing business and industrial assets of del Norte.
In 1990, Petroleos del Norte became part of the Repsol the department, including strategy and operations.
Before Glencore, Oil Group where Mr. Zaldumbide was responsible for establishing he worked for five years for PhibroSalomon Inc. as a marketer, the international structure of the enlarged Repsol Oil Group.
In being based in New York, London and the Ivory Coast.
1994, he was appointed Chief Executive Officer of the Corporacin Industrial fide Banesto and, in December 1997, Chairman and Chief External appointments: None Executive Officer of Asturiana fide Zinc.
Sir Steve Robson CB External appointments: None Non-executive director, aged 69 Appointed in February 2002 Committee membership: Member of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Skills and experience: Sir Steve retired as Second Permanent Secretary at HM Treasury in January 2001.
He had joined HM Treasury after leaving university.
His early career included a period as Private Secretary to the Chancellor of the Exchequer and a twoyear secondment to Investors in Industry plc 3i.
From 1997 until his retirement, his responsibilities included the legal framework for regulation of the UK financial services industry, public private partnerships, procurement policy including the private finance initiative and the Treasurys enterprises and growth unit.
External appointments: Member of the Financial Reporting Council and KPMG Chairmans Advisory Board.
Chairman of KPMGs Public Interest Committee.
Trevor Reid Chief Financial Officer, aged 52 Appointed in February 2002 Committee membership: Member of the Executive Committee.
Skills and experience: Mr. Reid joined Xstrata in January 2002.
Prior to joining Xstrata, he was Global Head of Resource Banking at the Standard Bank Group.
He joined the Standard Bank Group in 1997 from Warrior International Limited, a corporate finance boutique specialising in the minerals sector.
External appointments: None Ian Strachan Non-executive director, aged 69 Appointed in May 2003 Committee membership: Chairman of the Health, Safety, Environment and Community Committee and a member of the Audit Committee.
Skills and experience: Mr. Strachan was Chairman of Instinet Group from 2003 to 2005 and Chief Executive of BTR plc from 1996 to 1999.
Mr. Strachan joined Rio Tinto plc formerly RTZ plc as Chief Financial Officer in 1987, and was Deputy Chief Executive from 1991 to 1995.
External appointments: Director of Rolls-Royce plc, Transocean Inc. and Caithness Petroleum Limited.
