REPORTING SEGMENTS 1 Platforms & Services US, with 21,300 employees, comprises the US-headquartered Land & Armaments business, with operations in the US, UK, Sweden and South Africa, together with US-based services and sustainment activities, including ship repair and munitions services.
Operational key points Growth in US ship repair activities Executing munitions infrastructure and facility operations management contracts Strategic international win with Korean F-16 upgrade down-select Continued to protect Bradley franchise with $376m 231m in related awards Awarded a $750m 462m contract for CV90 armoured combat vehicles to Norway Letter of Request received from Indian government for 145 M777 howitzers Continued consolidation in the Land & Armaments business Business disposals of Safety Products, Safariland and Tensylon completed Financial key points 1 Sales reduced by 2% in Support Solutions business and by 23% in Land & Armaments business Return on sales increased to 8.8% in Support Solutions business and reduced to 8.6% in Land & Armaments business 1,4 3 Support business delivered an increase in order backlog and strong operating cash flow Sales analysis: activity % Sales analysis: platforms and services % 18 75 19 21 25 15 3 24 Q Ship repair Q Tracked vehicles Q Military & Technical Services Q Other support services Q Wheeled vehicles Q Platforms Q Protection Systems Q Artillery munitions 1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2012 2011 2010 2 Earnings before amortisation and 1 KPI Funded order intake 5,010m 5,077m 5,605m impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA 1,4 Order backlog 8.4bn 8.7bn 9.1bn excluding non-recurring items see page 31.
1 3 Net cash inflow from operating activities KPI Sales 4,539m 5,305m 7,671m after capital expenditure net and financial 2 KPI Underlying EBITA 394m 478m 728m investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets Return on sales 8.7% 9.0% 9.5% contributed to Trust.
4 Comprises funded and unfunded 3 KPI Cash inflow 314m 410m 967m unexecuted customer orders.
Support Solutions: Land & Armaments: US naval ship repair and modernisation Tracked combat vehicles Complex infrastructure services and Tactical wheeled vehicles operations support Artillery, ammunition and naval armaments Aircraft sustainment and modernisation Soldier survivability products 64 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 PLATFORMS & SERVICES US Reporting segments performance review The US Naval Air Warfare Center Aircraft Division awarded a follow-on Financial performance five-year, $193m 119m contract to provide Command, Control, 1 Sales were 4.5bn 2011 5.3bn, representing a like-for-like Communications, Computers and Intelligence C4I, lifecycle 1 reduction of 13%.
Sales at Support Solutions were just 2% below support, integration and test engineering, and technical services, 1 2011.
Like-for-like sales at Land & Armaments reduced by 20% supporting a broad range of air, land and sea platforms.
primarily reflecting the completed Family of Medium Tactical Vehicles The business was awarded a $60m 37m task order under the US programme, and lower volumes on Bradley, Caiman and Mine Department of Defenses Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles.
Organization contract to develop and implement a five-year training 2 programme.
Return on sales reduced to 8.7% 2011 9.0%.
Return on sales at Support Solutions Support Solutions continues to pursue international aircraft upgrade increased from 7.5% to 8.8% benefiting from certain legal and modification opportunities.
In August, the Republic of Korea settlements.
Return on sales at Land & Armaments reduced from selected BAESystems to upgrade avionics and electronic systems 9.9% to 8.6% reflecting accelerated rationalisation charges in on its fleet of more than 130 F-16 aircraft.
The programme is respect of the Newcastle vehicle manufacturing site in the UK and expected to be contracted in 2013 and is forecast to be worth over certain legal claims.
3 Operating cash inflow reduced to 314m 2011 410m reflecting In November, the business was awarded a contract by the US Navy for continued investment in the UK munitions facilities in the Land & depot level maintenance and logistics support for more than 360 3 Armaments business.
Excluding pension deficit funding, cash flow T-34 T-44 T-6 training aircraft.
If all options are exercised, the contract 2 conversion of underlying EBITA at Support Solutions and Land & would be valued at more than $400m 246m over five years.
BAE Systems is pursuing a potential bid as prime contractor for the US Air Forces T-X programme to replace the T-38 jet training system Operational performance with its Hawk trainer aircraft.
The programme is valued at between Support Solutions $11bn 7bn and $17bn 10bn.
The US Air Force is expected to The US-based ship repair business achieved 2012 commitments announce the timing of its request for proposals in 2013. under its Multi-Ship, Multi-Option contract vehicles with the US Navy, In the Protection Systems business, contracts have been secured receiving superior scores on award fee assessments.
The business totalling over $200m 123m for the supply of Enhanced Small was awarded new commercial maritime construction contracts Arms Protective Inserts, Tactical Vests and Modular Lightweight Load totalling $190m 117m, including four platform supply vessels and Carrying Equipment.
In November, the Group announced a definitive agreement to acquire In the complex infrastructure services market, the business secured Marine Hydraulics International, Inc. a marine repair, overhaul and the Holston Army Ammunition Plant award of a follow-on five-year, conversion company with shipyard, pier and waterfront facilities in $145m 89m contract for facility operations.
In addition, the Norfolk, Virginia.
The proposed acquisition, which is expected to business completed the planned transition to begin operating the complete during the first quarter of 2013, complements the existing Radford Army Ammunition Plant on 1 July 2012 under a contract ship repair business.
worth approximately $850m 523m over ten years.
In October 2012, the business was notified that it had not been awarded the Land & Armaments Lake City Army Ammunition Plant management contract.
During 2012, Land & Armaments completed the disposals of its Safety Products, Safariland and Tensylon businesses.
The disposal of The business won a five-year, $44m 27m Navy Munitions the Commercial Armored Vehicles business is expected to complete Command Hawaii contract to handle and store munitions, which in the first quarter of 2013.
In September, the business announced continues more than 27 years of distinguished service recognised by that production of military equipment at its Fairfield, Ohio, facility the US Navy.
BAE Systems is a leading provider of ship repair and modernisation services to the US Navy.
In addition, building on the successful completion of the construction of the commercial tanker, American Phoenix, the business has been awarded multiple new commercial maritime construction contracts, which continue to diversify the portfolio and position the business for additional build-to-print opportunities.
Ship repair Complex infrastructure services In the complex infrastructure services market, the business continues to expand its portfolio, with the award of a follow-on contract for facility operations at the Holston Army Ammunition Plant.
BAE Systems began operating the Radford Army Ammunition Plant in July 2012 under a ten-year contract.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 65 REPORTING SEGMENTS CONTINUED PLATFORMS & SERVICES US and a 43m order for 110 RG32 patrol vehicles for the Swedish would be moved to Sealy, Texas, in early 2013.
The Protection Defence Force that were secured in December 2011.
Systems business, formerly reported in Land & Armaments, was transferred to Support Solutions at the start of the year.
Management The business secured places on all the amphibious trade studies, of the Combat Vehicles UK business was transferred to Platforms & demonstrators and hull survivability demonstrations, allowing the US Services UK from 1 October 2012.
Marine Corps customer to evaluate design concepts based on a new design or an upgrade to current vehicles.
Vehicle Systems This division comprises the franchises in tracked and wheeled vehicles.
In November, Denmark announced that eight bids had been received in response to its requirement for up to 450 armoured vehicles.
The business received a $306m 188m contract modification in BAESystems bid a version of the CV90, which Denmark already August to upgrade 353 Bradley fighting vehicles, extending Bradley operates.
The award decision is expected in late 2013. activity into 2014.
This production contract is in addition to $70m 43m to purchase upgrade materials for the Bradley programme.
In Canada, following a one-year delay, a new request for proposal was The business has received the Paladin Integrated Management PIM released for up to 138 Close Combat Vehicles.
BAE Systems Low-Rate Initial Production request for proposal scheduled for submitted a proposal based on its CV90 armoured combat vehicle.
Testing continues on the contracted The business was unsuccessful in its bid for the Tactical Armoured prototypes activity.
An award decision is expected in 2013.
Patrol Vehicle programme for the Canadian armed forces.
On the Ground Combat Vehicle GCV programme, the business Weapons Systems & Support This division comprises munitions and continues test work under the $450m 277m technology artillery activities.
Continuing development testing demonstrates In naval armaments, orders for six Mk110 57mm naval guns were that the technology provides more power, efficiency and vehicle received for the US Coast Guard and to equip the US Navys Littoral performance than comparable conventional drive systems.
In January 2012, the business was awarded a 65m contract to During the year, Australia announced its intention to buy 19 M777 supply 48 BvS10 armoured all-terrain vehicles and associated howitzers to augment the 35 it already operates.
In addition, the support to Sweden.
The business was also awarded a 38m contract Indian government has issued a Letter of Request to the US to regenerate the British Royal Marines fleet of BvS10 vehicles.
The government under the US Foreign Military Sales process for the last of 53 BvS10s ordered by France was delivered by year end.
supply of 145 M777 howitzers for the Indian Army.
In June, the business was awarded a $750m 462m contract to Under the 15-year Munitions Acquisition Supply Solution contract, the upgrade Norways existing 103-vehicle CV90 fleet and build new UK Ministry of Defence placed an order to meet its 2015 munitions vehicle chassis to deliver 144 CV90s in five different configurations, requirement reflecting lower demand and quantities deferred from including a variant equipped with a sensor suite for improved previous years.
This anticipated lower volume results from armed surveillance capability.
force cuts and the draw-down of Afghanistan operations.
Efficiencies All deliveries of the Caiman Multi-Terrain Vehicle were delivered to achieved through a 123m transformation of UK munitions contract schedule, with re-fit and integration of 592 vehicles manufacturing facilities and support from the UK Ministry of Defence completed at the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected MRAP position the business to offset this reduction with exports.
Joint ventures FNSS, BAE Systems Turkish joint venture, continues to In August, the business was selected as part of the industry team led produce and upgrade tracked and wheeled military vehicles for by Lockheed Martin for the engineering and manufacturing international customers.
Design work and successful mine testing development phase of the US governments potentially large Joint were completed on a $559m 344m programme to produce 259 Light Tactical Vehicle programme.
8x8 wheeled armoured vehicles in 12 different variants for the Malaysian Army.
Production has commenced and the first Infantry The South African business continues to execute on a 39m contract Fighting Vehicles are scheduled to be delivered in 2013. for 73 RG31 Mobile Mortar Platforms for the United Arab Emirates The CV90 family of vehicles, manufactured in Sweden, is in service with six nations Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and the Netherlands.
In 2012, the business won an order from Norway to upgrade its existing CV90s and supply new vehicles in multiple configurations.
Incorporating lessons learned from Norwegian operations in Afghanistan, the new vehicle fleet will have enhanced protection, survivability, situational awareness, intelligence and interoperability.
Tracked vehicles Wheeled vehicles The RG35, manufactured in South Africa, is one variant in BAESystems family of wheeled vehicles.
The RG35 family of vehicles can be deployed in many different roles and offers a choice of variants and configurations while maintaining 80% vehicle commonality.
RG35 combines the high levels of survivability of the RG31 Mine Protected Vehicle with the tactical capability of an infantry fighting vehicle.
66 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Reporting segments performance review Looking forward Employee safety Businesses to demonstrate improvement Efforts to reduce the US governments budget deficit are likely to 15% stretch against 2011 performance on impact all areas of government spend.
A Continuing Resolution on targetachieved recordable accidents the 2013 fiscal budget has been passed through to March 2013 and Continue to progress against the the risk of further reductions in US defence budgets remains, Achieved Safety Maturity Matrix including the impact of sequestration.
Diversity and inclusion In February 2013, the Group was notified that the US Navy was Demonstrate continued progress against the considering the potential to cancel, defer or descope 13 ship Achieved Diversity & Inclusion Maturity Matrix availability contracts, resulting in the decision to issue conditional Establish milestones targets to underpin Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification WARN Act notices to Confirmed 1 delivery of the stated 2015 position nearly 3,600 employees in the ship repair business.
Environment Whilst downward pressure will be seen across the services market as Continued progression against the Achieved a whole, potential cancellations and delays in new programmes may Environmental Sustainability Maturity Matrix present opportunities to sustain and modernise existing platforms.
2 Reduction in energy Target achieved 2,3 In the near term, Land & Armaments continues to operate in a Reduction in water Target achieved challenging market environment.
To offset these pressures and 2 Reduction in waste Target achieved remain viable in the future, the business is investing to protect current programme positions like Bradley modernisation and UK Environment A new  facility was opened in munitions, establish new US domestic programmes such as PIM and Sterling Heights, Michigan, during 2012.
The new facility GCV, and to win export programmes.
The business continues to drive consolidated existing buildings into one new purpose-built campus.
rationalisation efforts, efficiencies and cost reduction in order to The building uses 15% less energy and 40% less water than a remain competitive.
conventionally designed building, and waste generated is managed through a recycling programme.
Non-financial performance People Support Solutions has a diverse and highly skilled workforce, Employee safety During 2012, the business achieved a 16% which is a key discriminator and plays an important role in the reduction in the Recordable Accident Rate.
Support Solutions ship performance of the business in an increasingly competitive market.
repair business built on the success of its employee Anchored in The business remains committed to building a culture that recognises Safety campaign by introducing an interactive Safety Boot Camp to performance, creates new opportunities for employees, and focuses keep employees focused on safety.
During 2012, Land & Armaments on long-term goals that promote a healthy and viable business.
continued to increase employee awareness and understanding of Through the Land & Armaments Talent Committee, high-potential safety by maintaining its Start Safe, Talk Safe, Home Safe employees are being engaged to address key strategic opportunities.
campaign, focusing on potential safety issues and safe work habits.
By being part of the programme, which has also been designed to Diversity and inclusion Platforms & Services US supported US-wide support the Groups commitment to diversity and inclusion, future diversity and inclusion activities, including inclusive leadership leaders are receiving fast track development.
training, launching a multi-cultural network, and introducing diverse candidate shortlists and panels for executive roles.
In Support 1 Businesses have put in place plans to 2015 to support and progress the Solutions, a campaign was targeted at managers to improve their Groups long-term goal to build a high-performing workforce that more closely awareness of diversity and inclusion.
Land & Armaments introduced reflects the diversity of the local communities in which its businesses operate.
a mentoring programme to support successor candidates for 2 Data is derived from internal recording systems and is not subject to external leadership roles and introduced a Talent Committee to facilitate verification or audit.
3 Data excludes Ordnance Solutions Inc. Protection Systems is a leading provider of soldier protective and load carrying equipment in the US, producing a significant portion of the nations body armour, tactical vests, combat helmets and load carrying systems.
The business is focused on the design, development and production of leading-edge survivability products.
Protection Systems Artillery The M777 howitzer is in service with US, Canadian and Australian armed forces.
Production continues and further orders are anticipated, including to India following the issue of a Letter of Request to the US government under the US Foreign Military Sales process.
