REPORTING SEGMENTS OVERVIEW The Group has five principal reporting segments which align with the Groups strategic direction.
Performance on many contracts beyond the first year is contingent upon the receipt of funding, which the US government typically authorises on an annual basis.
The order book metric presented 1,2 in previous years excludes the unfunded element of these multi-year contracts.
The order backlog metric presented above provides visibility of the total value of contracts won, not just the funded value as recorded in the order book.
In the US businesses, this metric gives a 1,2 more meaningful measure of the sustaining business levels.
An example of order backlog is the ship repair business within Platforms & Services US.
Multi-Ship, Multi-Option contracts for five years aresecured, but then only funded by the customer incrementally.
Order 1,2 backlog recognises the remaining period of the contracts awarded, but yet to be funded.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted customer orders.
3 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items see page 31.
4 Net cash inflow outflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets contributed to Trust.
54 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Reporting segments performance review 2,5, 6 2,5, 6 Order backlog by reporting segment % Top 15 programmes in order backlog % 2,5, 6 53% of the order backlog is The Group has a 42.4bn 8 5 1,2 represented by the Groups top 15 order backlog.
38 2 20 programmes, with the remaining 47% spread across the five 21 principal reporting segments.
Q Electronic Systems Q Platforms & Services US 49 Q Cyber & Intelligence Q Platforms & Services UK Q Platforms & Services US Q Platforms & Services International Q Platforms & Services UK Q Remaining order backlog 47 10 Q Platforms & Services International Top 15 programmes summary Programme Description End user Design and manufacture of seven nuclear-powered attack Astute Class Submarines Royal Navy submarines Queen Elizabeth Class Aircraft Carriers Design and manufacture of two 65,000 tonne aircraft carriers Royal Navy Supply of 12 Typhoon and eight Hawk aircraft and in-service Oman Typhoon and Hawk Aircraft Royal Air Force of Oman support Air forces of the UK, Typhoon Tranche 3A Aircraft Manufacture of 88 Typhoon combat aircraft Germany, Italy and Spain Air forces of the UK, Typhoon Tranche 2 Aircraft Manufacture of 236 Typhoon combat aircraft Germany, Italy and Spain Availability Transformation Tornado Aircraft Contract Availability service for Tornado aircraft, including maintenance, Royal Air Force ATTAC support and training Supply of products and services to enable 57 Hawk aircraft to be India Hawk Aircraft Indian Air Force and Navy built under licence in India Design of nuclear-powered submarine to carry the UKs nuclear Successor Submarine Royal Navy deterrent Saudi British Defence Co-operation Programme, Provision of support to operational capability, including the Royal Saudi Air Force 7 including Saudi Aircraft Acquisition provision of training aircraft, manpower, logistics and training 7 Saudi Typhoon Aircraft Supply of 72 Typhoon combat aircraft Royal Saudi Air Force Design, production and supply of two 27,000 tonne amphibious Landing Helicopter Dock Royal Australian Navy Landing Helicopter Dock ships French, Italian and Royal Aster Phase 3 Full-scale production of Aster 15 and 30 missiles navies, French Air Force and Italian Army Munitions Acquisition Supply Solution Capability provision and manufacture of general munitions British Army Management, operation and maintenance of the Radford Army Radford Army Ammunition Plant US Army Ammunition Plant Supply of 144 new and 103 upgraded CV90 armoured combat Norway CV90 Armoured Combat Vehicles Norwegian Army vehicles 5 Excluding HQ.
6 Including share of equity accounted investments order backlog and before the elimination of intragroup order backlog.
7 The appropriate work share of the Saudi Typhoon Aircraft and Saudi Aircraft Acquisition contracts is reported within Platforms & Services UK.
