BOARD OF DIRECTORS two spells at Duke Energy Corporation and its predecessor companies, Chairman culminating in his appointment as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.
He was subsequently Chairman of Spectra Energy Corporation until Dick Olver Chairman 2009 and in the intervening period he served as Managing Director and Appointed to the Board: 2004 Nationality: British Chief Executive Officer of BHP and, subsequently, of the newly merged BHP Billiton.
Skills and experience: A chartered civil engineer with extensive experience of managing complex international engineering projects, he held a variety of Other appointments: Non-executive director of BP p. l. c. senior management positions in the oil industry culminating in his Other past appointments: Non-executive director of BHP Billiton Plc, Qantas appointment to the board of BP p. l. c. as CEO of Exploration and Production in Airways Limited and Spectra Energy Corporation.
Subsequently appointed Deputy Group Chief Executive of BP in 2003, stepping down from that role when he assumed the chairmanship of Committee membership: Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility BAESystems.
Committee and member of the Nominations Committee Other appointments: Member of the Prime Ministers Business Advisory Group, Business Ambassador for UK Trade & Investment, and member of the Harriet Green OBE Non-executive director Prime Ministers India UK CEO Forum.
Also a member of the Multinational Appointed to the Board: 2010 Nationality: British Chairmans Group and the Trilateral Commission, a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, Chairman of the Education for Engineering E4E Skills and experience: Appointed Chief Executive Officer and executive Policy Group, and adviser to HSBC and Clayton, Dubilier & Rice.
director of Thomas Cook Group plc in July 2012.
She was previously Chief Executive Officer and executive director of Premier Farnell plc, a leading, high Other past appointments: Non-executive director of Thomson Reuters plc.
service, multi-channel technology distribution group.
Harriet Green has Committee membership: Chairman of the Nominations Committee and the significant global business experience having run volume distribution Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee businesses in four continents for Premier Farnell and volume distributor, Arrow Electronics, Inc. Executive directors Other appointments: Non-executive director of Emerson Electric Co. Ian King Chief Executive Committee membership: Corporate Responsibility Committee Appointed to the Board: 2007 Nationality: British Lee McIntire Non-executive director Skills and experience: Appointed as Chief Executive in 2008 having been originally appointed to the Board as Chief Operating Officer, UK and Rest of Appointed to the Board: 2011 Nationality: US the World.
He was previously Group Managing Director of the Companys Skills and experience: Lee McIntire is Chairman and Chief Executive of CH2M Customer Solutions & Support business and, prior to that, Group Strategy HILL, a leader in consulting, design, design-build, operations, risk and Planning Director.
Prior to the BAe MES merger he was Chief Executive management and programme management for public and private clients.
of Alenia Marconi Systems, having previously served as Finance Director of Prior to joining CH2M HILL, he was an executive at Bechtel Group Inc. where Marconi Electronic Systems.
he served on the board of directors and was Executive Vice President for the Other appointments: Non-executive director and Senior Independent Director parent company.
of Rotork p. l. c. Committee membership: Remuneration Committee Committee membership: Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee Sir Peter Mason KBE Non-executive director Linda Hudson President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc.
Appointed to the Board: 2003 Nationality: British Appointed to the Board: 2009 Nationality: US Skills and experience: Chairman of Thames Water and Senior Independent Skills and experience: Appointed to the Board as President and Chief Director of Subsea 7 S. A. an international offshore engineering, Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. Linda Hudson was previously construction and services contractor.
Non-executive member of the board of President of the Companys US-based Land & Armaments business.
Formerly Chairman and Chief Executive of Balfour Beatty Limited, joined the Company in 2006 from General Dynamics where she had worked and Chief Executive of AMEC plc, Sir Peter has extensive experience in since 1992 in a variety of roles culminating in her appointment as Corporate engineering, construction and long-term contracting.
Vice President and President, Armament and Technical Products.
Other past appointments: Executive director of BICC plc and Chief Executive Other appointments: Member of the Bank of America Board of Directors, the of Norwest Holst Group PLC.
Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum Board of Directors, the Committee membership: Audit Committee, Corporate Responsibility Executive Committee of the Aerospace Industries Association, and the Committee and Nominations Committee.
He served as the Companys University of Florida Foundation Board.
She also serves on advisory boards Senior Independent Director for a number of years before stepping down for the University of Floridas College of Engineering.
from that role in January 2013.
Committee membership: Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee Paula Rosput Reynolds Non-executive director Peter Lynas Group Finance Director Appointed to the Board: 2011 Nationality: US Appointed to the Board: 2011 Nationality: British Skills and experience: Paula Rosput Reynolds is Chief Executive Officer and Skills and experience: Peter Lynas, a qualified accountant, was appointed to President of the business advisory group, PreferWest, LLC.
She had the Board as Group Finance Director in April 2011.
He previously served for a previously spent over 20 years in the energy sector in a variety of operational number of years as Director, Financial Control, Reporting & Treasury.
He roles, culminating in her appointment as President and Chief Executive joined GEC-Marconi in 1985 having previously worked for other companies in Officer of AGL Resources in 2002.
She subsequently served as President the UK and Europe.
After progressing through a number of positions he was and Chief Executive Officer of Safeco Corporation, an insurance company appointed Finance Director of GECs Marconi Electronic Systems business, located in Seattle, Washington, until its acquisition by Liberty Mutual Group which was subsequently acquired by British Aerospace in 1999 to become in 2008.
She was then appointed as Vice Chairman and Chief Restructuring BAE Systems.
Officer of American International Group, Inc. AIG from October 2008 to September 2009, overseeing AIGs divestiture of assets and serving as chief liaison with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Non-executive directors Other appointments: Non-executive director of Delta Air Lines, Inc. Anadarko Paul Anderson Non-executive director Petroleum Corporation and TransCanada Corporation.
Appointed to the Board: 2009 Nationality: US Other past appointments: Non-executive director of Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. and Air Products and Chemicals, Inc.
Skills and experience: Paul Anderson has extensive global business experience in the energy and mining sectors.
He spent more than 20 years in Committee membership: Audit Committee 78 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Governance Nick Rose Non-executive director and Senior Independent Director Carl Symon Non-executive director Appointed to the Board: 2010 Nationality: British Appointed to the Board: 2008 Nationality: British US Skills and experience: Nick Rose held the position of Chief Financial Officer of Skills and experience: Carl Symon has an extensive background in global Diageo plc for over ten years until October 2010 where, in addition to his business operations and management, retiring in 2001 after a long career at finance responsibilities, he was also responsible for supply, procurement, IBM during which he held senior executive positions in the US, Canada, Latin strategy and IT on a global basis.
His financial experience has encompassed America, Asia and Europe, including that of Chairman and Chief Executive a number of roles since joining Diageos predecessor company, Grand Officer of IBM UK.
Metropolitan, in 1992, including group treasurer and group controller, having Other past appointments: Non-executive director of BT Group plc, Rexam PLC spent his earlier career with Ford Finance.
He assumed the chairmanship of and Rolls-Royce Group plc, and Chairman of HMV Group plc.
the Companys Audit Committee in August 2011 and was appointed the Companys Senior Independent Director on 21 January 2013.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Other appointments: Chairman of Williams Grand Prix Holdings PLC and Edwards Group Limited.
Non-executive director of BT Group plc.
Company Secretary Other past appointments: Non-executive director of Mot Hennessy SNC and David Parkes Scottish Power plc.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Audit Committee, and member of the Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee Back row from left to right: Sir Peter Mason KBE, Carl Symon, Harriet Green OBE, Paul Anderson, Ian King, Lee McIntire, Linda Hudson, Nick Rose, Paula Rosput Reynolds Seated from left to right: Peter Lynas, Dick Olver BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 79
