REPORTING SEGMENTS 1 Platforms & Services UK, with 27,900 employees, comprises the Groups UK-based air, maritime and combat vehicle activities, and certain shared services activities.
Operational key points 46 Typhoon Tranche 2 aircraft delivered to the partner nations 2.5bn Typhoon and Hawk contract for Oman secured 446m contract awarded for European support on Typhoon First F-35 Lightning II aircraft accepted by the UK Ministry of Defence MoD Fifth Type 45 destroyer accepted off-contract and support provided for all Royal Navy Type 45 deployments Settlement reached with the Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago in respect of the cancelled Offshore Patrol Vessels OPV programme Two OPVs delivered to the Brazilian Navy 0.8bn of customer funding received for ongoing design and development of the Successor submarine, and continuing production of the fourth Astute Class submarine 4 0.7bn of research and development expenditure in 2012 Financial key points 1 Order backlog increased by 2.5bn on significant awards for Oman Typhoon and Hawk and Saudi training aircraft 1 10% decrease in sales pending recommencement of Salam Typhoon deliveries in 2013 Return on sales improved to 12.2% 3 Strong cash flow performance on significant contract advances Sales analysis: activity % Sales analysis: platforms and services % 57 36 64 43 Q Military Air & Information Q Military & Technical Services Q Maritime Q Platforms 1 Including share of equity accounted 2012 2011 2010 investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and 1 Funded order intake KPI 8,077m 4,355m 3,968m impairment of intangible assets, finance 1 costs and taxation expense EBITA Order backlog 21.2bn 18.7bn 21.0bn excluding non-recurring items see page 31.
1 KPI 3 Net cash inflow from operating activities Sales 5,646m 6,258m 6,529m after capital expenditure net and financial 2 KPI Underlying EBITA 689m 658m 522m investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets Return on sales 12.2% 10.5% 8.0% contributed to Trust.
3 4 Includes both Group-funded and KPI Cash inflow 1,719m 69m 191m customer-funded expenditure.
Multi-year through-life programmes Maritime: Full spectrum of maritime systems Military Air & Information: capabilities, including design, build, Full spectrum of military aircraft capabilities, integration and commissioning, in-service including design, development, manufacture, support and training for naval ships, in-service support and training for combat and submarines, radar and combat management trainer aircraft, and design and development systems, and underwater systems of Unmanned Air Systems Defence information systems, such as the Combat Vehicles UK : Falcon secure deployable communication Design, build and through-life support of system armoured vehicles 68 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 PLATFORMS & SERVICES UK Reporting segments performance review Delivery of the first F-35 Lightning II aircraft was accepted by the UK Financial performance MoD.
The business has delivered a further 42 production aircraft 1 Funded order intake in the year increased to 8.1bn following the fuselage assemblies to Lockheed Martin.
Interim funding of 234m award of significant contracts for the supply of 12 Typhoon and eight for the fifth and sixth Low-Rate Initial Production contracts was Hawk aircraft to Oman 2.5bn, and for training aircraft for the Royal secured in the year and negotiations continue in respect of final Saudi Air Force 1.6bn.
1 Sales in 2012 were 5.6bn, 10% lower than 2011, reflecting no Support continues to be provided to operators of Hawk trainer aircraft contractual aircraft deliveries on the Salam Typhoon programme in around the world.
In partnership with Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, 2012 and the completion of South African Gripen aircraft deliveries in production of 66 Batch 1 Hawk aircraft has been completed in India.
Deliveries of materials and equipment in support of licence production of the 57 Batch 2 aircraft continue and aircraft assembly 2 Underlying EBITA was 689m 2011 658m.
Return on sales in India is ongoing.
The business has provided an initial response to a increased to 12.2% benefiting from strong programme execution, request for proposal for an additional 20 aircraft to India.
particularly on the European Typhoon and Type 45 programmes.
Following the 2011  Memorandum of 3 There was an operating cash inflow of 1,719m 2011 69m Understanding, BAE Systems and Dassault Aviation have jointly reflecting advances received on the Omani and Saudi contract secured an order from the UK and French governments for a Future awards.
These were partially offset by the utilisation of advances on Combat Air System demonstration programme preparation phase to the European Typhoon programme and costs against the provision on plan how to mature and demonstrate critical technology and the Omani Offshore Patrol Vessel OPV programme.
operational aspects for an Unmanned Combat Air System.
In the defence information domain, the Falcon secure deployable Operational performance communication system is now in service with the British Army and Military Air & Information RAF.
Deliveries of Typhoon Tranche 2 aircraft to the four European partner Under a continuing focus on cost reduction and efficiency, there has nations totalled 46 in the year.
At the end of 2012, cumulative aircraft 1 been a net headcount reduction of approximately 1,400 in the year.
deliveries to the four nations were 169 of the contracted 236.
The first ten Tranche3 front fuselage sub-assemblies were manufactured Maritime during the year.
Manufacture of sub-assemblies continues in advance Cumulative savings of 342m have been reported to the MoD of recommencement of deliveries of Typhoon aircraft to Saudi Arabia against commitments made under the 15-year Terms of Business in 2013.
Agreement ToBA, significantly ahead of target.
In line with the ToBA, the Group is progressing discussions with the MoD regarding future In December 2012, a 2.5bn contract was awarded for the supply of shipbuilding strategy after completion of block build for the Royal 12 Typhoon and eight Hawk aircraft, associated training, and support Navys new aircraft carriers, and as the business transitions to the to the Royal Air Force of Oman.
design and manufacture phase of the Type 26 Global Combat Ship.
The business continues to support its UK and European customers The largest hull section of the first of the Royal Navys new aircraft Typhoon and Tornado aircraft, and their operational commitments carriers, the Queen Elizabeth, has been delivered to Rosyth for through availability-based service contracts and support operations.
assembly with the other completed hull sections.
Block manufacture Orders of 668m were received in the year, including a contract worth for the second ship, Prince of Wales, is well underway.
BAE Systems 446m for Typhoon support operations across Germany, Italy, Spain and its Aircraft Carrier Alliance partners are working to finalise the and the UK.
Support volumes on Tornado are expected to decline as detailed design changes required for operation of the short take-off the number of aircraft and flying hours reduce in advance of the and vertical landing variant of F-35 Lightning II on the carriers.
Typhoon is now in service with six air forces.
In total, 571 Typhoon aircraft have been ordered by the four European partner nations, Saudi Arabia, Austria and Oman.
As well as Typhoon manufacture, BAE Systems also provides availability and in-service support services.
In 2012, the Group was awarded a 446m contract for Typhoon support operations across Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK.
Typhoon F-35 Lightning II BAE Systems is a major subcontractor on the F-35 Lightning II combat aircraft.
The Group has the lead in manufacture of the aft fuselage, vertical and horizontal tails and wing tips, and is responsible for a number of subsystems and equipment, including the electronic warfare suite.
Almost 2,000 people in the US, UK and Australia are employed on the F-35 Lightning II programme.
See page 57 for more information on the Groups involvement on F-35 Lightning II BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 69 REPORTING SEGMENTS CONTINUED PLATFORMS & SERVICES UK Defender, the fifth Type 45 destroyer, was accepted by the Royal Navy the customer and long lead procurement has commenced on the in July.
The final ship, Duncan, has undertaken her sea trials and is on sixth and seventh boats.
The Type 45 support contract met all BAE Systems secured a further 383m of funding from the UK MoD ship deployment dates during the year.
for the design and development phase of the Successor submarine Settlement with the Government of the Republic of Trinidad and programme, to replace the Vanguard Class fleet, and now has Tobago, in respect of the cancelled OPV programme, was reached in approximately 1,000 people engaged on the programme.
November at an amount consistent with provisions held.
In January Combat Vehicles UK 2013, 101m of the 131m cash settlement was paid, with the The Terrier combat engineer vehicle contract concluded its reliability remainder due in May 2013.
Following the agreement in December growth confirmation trials, which identified a number of required 2011 for the sale of the OPVs to the Brazilian Navy, the first two engineering changes.
This has resulted in an increase in costs to vessels were delivered in the year, with the third ship due for delivery complete the contract.
Final trials are complete and deliveries of the in 2013.
Following an incident at sea during gunnery trials on the first Khareef Following delivery of the Terrier vehicles, the Newcastle facility will Class corvette for Oman, detailed engineering, schedule and contract close, and support to Terrier and existing vehicles used by the British reviews have resulted in revised delivery dates for the ships.
This has Army customer will be provided from the remaining facility at Telford resulted in an increase in costs to complete the contract.
The ships and satellite offices.
are expected to be delivered in 2013 and 2014.
The Type 26 Global Combat Ship assessment phase contract Looking forward continues and is intended to be completed by the end of 2014.
The Type 26 is planned to replace the Royal Navys Type 23 frigates.
Platforms & Services UK has a strong order backlog of long-term committed programmes and an enduring support business.
The warship support modernisation initiative contract, for delivery of services at Portsmouth Naval Base, continues to exceed contract In Military Air & Information, sales are underpinned by military aircraft performance.
A new maritime support delivery framework will replace production on Typhoon, Hawk and F-35 Lightning II, and in-service the existing contract in 2013. support for existing and legacy combat and trainer aircraft.
There are significant opportunities to secure future Typhoon export contracts to The Advanced Radar Target Indication Situational Awareness Malaysia, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia.
Navigation ARTISAN 3-D radar successfully passed its factory acceptance test and the first of class has been fitted to HMS Iron In Maritime, sales are underpinned by the Queen Elizabeth Class Duke, a Type 23 frigate.
The programme continues on track towards carrier and Astute Class submarine manufacturing programmes, the full production.
15-year ToBA, the maritime support delivery framework, and the design of the Successor submarine and Type 26.
The through-life The Maritime Composite Training System, a shore-based warfare support of these platforms and Type 45, together with their operator training solution, was declared ready for training by the Royal associated command and combat systems, provides sustainable Navy in August having completed a year of initial training.
Over 3,000 business in technical services and mid-life upgrades.
Royal Navy personnel have now been trained through the facility.
In Combat Vehicles UK, sales beyond the Terrier programme depend The Sting Ray lightweight torpedo delivery contract for the Norwegian upon through-life support of legacy platforms.
government was completed in December.
Ambush, the second of class Astute submarine for the Royal Navy, departed for sea trials in the second half of the year.
The operational handovers of both HMS Astute, the first of class, and Ambush are planned for 2013.
Pricing for the fourth boat has been agreed with In 2012, Taranis, the UKs Unmanned Combat Air System technology demonstrator, successfully completed a series of key tests on the way to commencing flight trials in 2013.
BAESystems, as prime contractor, provides many elements of Taranis, including systems integration, control infrastructure, full autonomy elements, and the creation and integration of the low observable technologies.
Unmanned Air Systems Queen Elizabeth Class carriers The largest hull section of the first of the Royal Navys Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft carriers has been delivered to Rosyth for assembly with the other completed hull sections.
Block manufacture for the second ship, Prince of Wales, is well underway.
70 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Reporting segments performance review Diversity and inclusion Platforms & Services UK launched its Non-financial performance diversity and inclusion framework during the year, the aim being to set Employee safety the goals and actions for diversity and inclusion over the next five Businesses to demonstrate improvement years.
15% stretch against 2011 performance on targetachieved To support the framework, a working group was established to help recordable accidents progress the following actions: develop more gender-balanced supply Continue to progress against the of appropriately qualified employees for leadership positions: hire Achieved Safety Maturity Matrix and select a diverse mix of top-performing people: build inclusive Diversity and inclusion leadership competence and capabilities: establish greater workplace Demonstrate continued progress against the flexibility: foster a more inclusive culture: and engage with employees.
Achieved Diversity & Inclusion Maturity Matrix During the year, progress included female executives being mentored through an Executive Committee mentoring programme and Establish milestones targets to underpin Confirmed 1 unconscious bias training being scoped for senior managers.
delivery of the stated 2015 position Environment Environment During 2012, Platforms & Services UK s Continued progression against the environmental sustainability working group developed consistent Achieved Environmental Sustainability Maturity Matrix environmental standards across the businesses by aligning 2 approaches to programmes and target setting.
Reduction in energy Target achieved 2 Reduction in water Target achieved To further increase energy savings and actively promote awareness 2 Reduction in waste Target achieved amongst fellow employees across the businesses, the Energy Matters campaign Switch on to switching off continued to be Employee safety During 2012, the business achieved a 44% supported.
The campaign involved training energy champions across reduction in the Recordable Accident Rate.
the business to actively promote the benefits of energy conservation amongst fellow employees.
Businesses across Platforms & Services UK helped achieve safety targets by putting in place employee engagement programmes People In 2012, there were successes for young people engaged in focused on the importance of workplace safety.
Campaigns included the Groups early careers graduate and apprenticeship programmes, the Good to Go process in the Submarines business looking at the including a team of apprentices winning the government-sponsored safety responsibilities of individuals both office-based and Make it in Great Britain competition for the design and manufacture operational, supervisors and managers, with specific safety of an innovative rehabilitation aid for amputees.
In addition, an information targeted at each group.
apprentice won the inaugural Apprentice Champion of the Year Award which recognises inspirational role models and outstanding During 2012, the businesss Safety First programme achieved a advocates for apprenticeships in the UK.
Gold award in the Chairmans Award category of Transferring Best Practice.
Safety teams worked together to develop an employee The Leading for Total Performance development programme aims to programme that improves levels of safety and can be easily ensure that the leadership engages fully with the Groups strategy.
The programme also received external As part of a suite of measures designed to foster employee recognition, including the British Safety Council International Safety engagement, a new Employee Assistance Programme was launched.
Awards, the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents, Gold Awards for Occupational Health and Safety, and the Safety and Health Practitioner Institution of Occupational Safety and Health Awards.
The programme has been endorsed by Lloyds Register 1 Businesses have put in place plans to 2015 to support and progress the Groups long-term goal to build a high-performing workforce that more closely Quality Assurance and the UK Health and Safety Executive.
reflects the diversity of the local communities in which its businesses operate.
2 Data is derived from internal recording systems and is not subject to external verification or audit.
Production of the Royal Navys Astute Class nuclear-powered submarines continues, with Ambush, the second of class, undergoing sea trials in late 2012.
The 97 metre-long Astute Class submarines are powered by a sophisticated nuclear propulsion system, which never needs refuelling.
The sonar system has the processing power of 2,000 laptops and can track ships 3,000 miles away.
Armed with both Tomahawk land attack missiles and Spearfish torpedoes, its missiles have a target range of 1,200 miles with accuracy measured in metres.
Astute Class submarines UK Sport technology partnership During 2012, BAE Systems 1.5m, five-year technology partnership with UK Sport contributed to a significant number of medals for Team GB at the London Olympics.
The Groups technology partnership enabled its employees to share its unique engineering capabilities with the sporting community and thousands of young people through its education programmes.
BAE Systems is finalising a new four-year technology partnership with UK Sport to provide 800,000 of engineering time, equipment and materials to support British athletes.
The partnership will run from 2013 to 2016.
