OUR STRATEGY Our Strategy defines the direction and shape of the Group over the long term.
Our Vision We believe that by embodying the four elements of Total Performance Our Vision provides a clear definition of the future that we wish to wherever we operate, we will deliver growth in shareholder value and attain.
become the premier global defence, aerospace and security company.
While our Vision defines our destination, commitment to Total Our Strategy Performance guides our actions for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Our Strategy defines the direction and shape of the Group over the This is embedded in our Mission.
This enables us to prioritise the deployment of our resources in a challenging environment.
We are committed to Our Mission implementing our Strategy in the most effective manner and will Our Mission describes our overall goal and the philosophy that remain agile and adapt to the changing environment.
Meeting our Mission is key to achieving our Vision.
We anticipate that defence budgets in certain of our major markets will experience reductions.
Our Strategy focuses on the growing Shareholder value is defined as share price appreciation and importance of winning international business, where growth markets dividend growth, driven by increased earnings per share and strong remain.
The key elements of our Strategy are to: Total Performance is demonstrated in every aspect of the way we do business Customer Focus, Programme Execution, Financial Support our customers in safeguarding their vital interests Performance and Responsible Behaviour.
We operate in the defence, aerospace and security markets, which Our Vision is to be the premier global defence, aerospace and security company Our Mission is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value through our commitment to Total Performance Customer Focus Programme Execution Financial Performance Responsible Behaviour Our Values are Trusted, Innovative and Bold Our Strategy Support our customers in safeguarding their vital interests Inspire and develop our people to drive our success Drive shareholder value by improving financial performance and competitive positions across the business Strategic Actions Grow our Cyber, Drive value Increase our Improve profit and Intelligence Grow Electronic from our Platform international cash generation and Security Systems and Services business business positions Integrated Business Plans 16 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012
