REPORTING SEGMENTS 1 Cyber & Intelligence, with 8,200 employees, comprises the US-based Intelligence & Security business and UK-headquartered BAESystems Detica business, and covers the Groups cyber, secure government, and commercial and financial security activities.
Operational key points The US-based business continues to perform well on existing programmes and secured strategic contract awards with existing customers The US-based business continues to invest in differentiating technologies, such as activity-based intelligence and cybersecurity, including a leading-edge network operations and security centre environment, to support a pipeline of submitted bids of $2.9bn 1.8bn at the end of 2012 BAE Systems Detica continues to invest in products and capability, including its Security Operations Centre BAE Systems Detica awarded a contract by Vodafone for next-generation enterprise secure networks for mobile devices Financial key points 1 1 Funded order intake and sales were broadly unchanged from 2011 Return on sales impacted by investment in the BAE Systems Detica business for future growth 3 2 Cash flow conversion of underlying EBITA at 91% Sales analysis: activity % Sales analysis: government and commercial % 27 90 10 10 11 10 21 21 Q Information Technology Q SpecTal Q Government & Cybersecurity Solutions Q BAE Systems Detica Q Commercial Q GEOINT-ISR government Q Global Analysis Q BAE Systems Detica commercial 1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2012 2011 2010 2 Earnings before amortisation and 1 KPI Funded order intake 1,454m 1,443m 1,300m impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA 1,4 Order backlog 1.0bn 1.1bn 0.9bn excluding non-recurring items see page 31.
1 3 Net cash inflow from operating activities KPI Sales 1,402m 1,399m 1,201m after capital expenditure net and financial 2 KPI investment, dividends from equity Underlying EBITA 124m 136m 108m accounted investments, and assets Return on sales 8.8% 9.7% 9.0% contributed to Trust.
4 Comprises funded and unfunded 3 KPI Cash inflow 113m 123m 89m unexecuted customer orders.
Intelligence & Security: systems and imagery mapping tools for the US Delivers cost-effective IT solutions that solve intelligence and defence communities complex problems of collaboration and BAE Systems Detica: security for the US national security community Expanding in the fast-growing cybersecurity Delivers real-time threat assessments that market rapidly inform critical security actions.
The Increasing focus on products and services for business is a leading provider of specialised the financial services and security and intelligence operational support telecommunications sectors and solutions in the US Providing core intelligence technology and Delivers automated, efficient and reliable managed services for government clients intelligence processing, data management 60 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 CYBER & INTELLIGENCE Reporting segments performance review business has virtualised hundreds of applications and deployed data Financial performance centre infrastructure to 13 sites, now supporting over 12,000 global 1 1 Funded order intake and sales were broadly unchanged from 2011. analyst workstations.
The NGDE is an enterprise networking environment based on virtual desktop infrastructure.
There is a significant number and value of competitive bids in the Intelligence & The Security Operations Centre in the US protects the Groups Security business awaiting award decisions.
networks by monitoring its global intranet, with more than 100,000 network interfaces serving employees across five home markets and 2 Underlying EBITA was 124m 2011 136m.
Return on sales offices in over 100 countries.
Services include security engineering, reduced to 8.8% 2011 9.7% reflecting increased levels of risk analysis, support of IT hardware and software, IT engineering and investment in the BAE Systems Detica business in support of applications, and global enterprise monitoring and security incident targeted future growth in commercial and international markets.
3 Operating cash inflow was 113m 2011 123m, which represents GEOINT-ISR Geospatial Intelligence Intelligence, Surveillance and 2 a conversion of underlying EBITA of 91%.
Reconnaissance develops and supports software systems and mission applications for geospatial tasking, including data collection, Operational performance processing, exploitation and dissemination, as well as mission planning, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance ISR, Intelligence & Security precision targeting, and command and control for the US defence The US-based Intelligence & Security business delivers a broad and intelligence communities.
range of services, including secure IT solutions, cybersecurity, geospatial solutions and intelligence analysis to enable the US The business was awarded a five-year, $106m 65m contract by the military and government to recognise, manage and defeat threats.
National  Agency NGA, under which The business is structured into four key business areas that provide engineers will design, develop and implement a transformational specific domain expertise, whilst working closely together to provide solution enabling the US government to evolve from its current image enterprise-wide support to a range of customers, and key agencies in library to a standardised image storage, management and the intelligence, defence, homeland security and civilian markets.
This is an important strategic win that will drive future GEOINT and imagery systems development.
Information Technology & Cybersecurity Solutions develops, deploys and maintains mission applications focused on information sharing, In December 2012, BAE Systems was awarded a multi-year, $60m knowledge management and enhanced enterprise mission IT 37m contract to provide activity-based intelligence systems, tools solutions for the US federal, civilian and defence intelligence and support for mission priorities for the NGA.
This award is a task communities.
The business also provides analytics, cyber analysis order under the NGAs Total Application Services for Enterprise and real-time network forensics.
Requirements programme, a five-year IDIQ contract.
Through 2012, work continued on the Solutions for the Information Global Analysis provides mission-enabling analytic solutions and Technology Enterprise Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity IDIQ support to operations across the US homeland security, law contract, with the business as the prime contractor, receiving task enforcement, defence, intelligence and counterintelligence orders now worth a total of $344m 212m.
began, approximately 700 security-cleared IT experts, deployed The business continues to provide approximately 450 security across 84 locations in 14 countries, have assisted the US Defense cleared analysts working alongside forward deployed US defence Intelligence Agency in delivering IT services to 50,000 Department of personnel as part of the Counter Improvised Explosive Device C-IED Defense personnel by standardising global IT operations and programme, with a total value of funded orders of approximately reducing the time taken to deliver technician services.
$450m 277m over the two years of the contract.
The business is Continuing work on the Next-Generation Desktop Environment now working with the customer to manage staffing levels in line with NGDE programme for the US Defense Intelligence Agency, the reducing mission requirements.
BAE Systems provides critical cybersecurity and network defence solutions in support of the US government.
Capabilities, such as digital forensics and cyber investigations, play a role in the ongoing battle to protect computer networks from cyber threats.
Information Technology & Cybersecurity Solutions GEOINT-ISR The Group develops Geospatial Intelligence GEOINT and Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance ISR hardware and software platforms, and mission applications for the defence and intelligence communities.
The Groups advanced tools and applications allow defence and intelligence communities to quickly process high volumes of data to help military and law enforcement officials confront or avoid threats on the battlefield and give troops operating around the world the accurate, real-time situational awareness they need to make informed, tactical decisions.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 61 REPORTING SEGMENTS CONTINUED CYBER & INTELLIGENCE The business is executing well on the Full Motion Video and Services The business, which provides consultancy, systems Geospatial Imagery Analysis contract awarded in 2011, with a integration and managed services, was impacted by challenging contract value of $402m 248m and over 400 employees being market conditions in both the UK government and commercial utilised.
SpecTal provides US government customers with specialised security Orders in the year included a contract under a business change and intelligence mission support, including intelligence analysis, programme for a complex UK cross-government programme and a targeting operations support, training and IT deployment.
managed services contract with Vodafone for the provision of next-generation enterprise secure networks for mobile devices.
The With the 2011 acquisition of L-1 Identity Solutions Intelligence business was unsuccessful in its bid to provide services under the Services Group, a key contract with an intelligence community UK governments Disclosure and Barring Service.
The contract has since been re-competed and SpecTal was part of the winning bid team serving as a major The business continues to develop opportunities internationally, in subcontractor on the five-year programme.
both the Middle East and, with the addition of stratsec, the Asia Pacific region.
BAE Systems Detica BAE Systems Detica continues to build a business that provides Looking forward security and intelligence products and services to both government and commercial customers.
In July, the stratsec business in Efforts to reduce the US governments budget deficit are likely to Australia, acquired in 2011, and a new security entity in India were impact all areas of government spend.
A Continuing Resolution on integrated into BAE Systems Detica.
The business is also focused on the 2013 fiscal budget has been passed through to March 2013 and developing opportunities in the Americas commercial market.
the risk of further reductions in US defence budgets remains, Cyber Security Demand is growing across both government and including the impact of sequestration.
commercial sectors, with contracts secured with a global law firm and Growth opportunities remain, particularly in critical, mission-focused a US financial institution in 2012.
The Security Operations Centre areas, such as next-generation ISR, Multi-INT fusion the seamless became fully operational in 2012, providing services to detect and synthesis of the individual intelligence disciplines to enable more remediate advanced cyber attacks for clients.
complete situational awareness, counter intelligence and enterprise The business was one of four companies selected by the UKs solutions for big data problems.
Government Communications Headquarters GCHQ to work in The US market is experiencing delays in procurement awards and partnership on a new Cyber Incident Response pilot programme, a descoping of existing contracts as US government agencies look to government quality-assured service that organisations can turn to reduce IT budgets.
Sales in 2013 are expected to be impacted by the when they have suffered a cybersecurity incident.
completion of the C-IED contract as the US withdraws from Detica NetReveal As a provider of risk, fraud and compliance Afghanistan.
However, the business expects an enduring need to solutions to the global financial services industry, orders of 74m provide data management solutions, including the rapid collection, were received during the year, including contracts in new business processing and dissemination of data to intelligence community areas of healthcare and insurance in the US.
customers and the US military.
The business is well prepared to compete in this price-sensitive market through its customer intimacy, Global Communications Solutions is a provider of specialist innovation and continued cost management.
communications equipment, including monitoring and lawful intercept solutions, for use by government and commercial clients.
BAE Systems Detica expects growth in cyber and intelligence, both in the UK and overseas government markets, with increasing demand During 2012, a review of routes-to-market was carried out, resulting for products and services in commercial markets to manage cyber in necessary changes which adversely impacted the 2012 financial threats, counter financial fraud and improve compliance, including performance of the business.
next-generation security for mobile devices.
The US-based Intelligence & Security business provides mission-enabling analytic solutions supporting a number of US government departments.
BAE Systems tactical analysts work alongside warfighters around the world to provide them with the insight they need to successfully complete their missions through a number of specialised analytic and support capabilities.
Global Analysis SpecTal The US business provides specialised security and intelligence consulting services to the US government.
62 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Reporting segments performance review Non-financial performance At the start of 2012, BAE Systems Detica launched its diversity and inclusion plan and steering group to drive progress throughout the Employee safety year.
Activities within the plan included reviewing the businesss Businesses to demonstrate improvement recruitment and succession planning processes.
During the year, a 15% stretch against 2011 performance on dedicated communications campaign was aimed at engaging targetachieved recordable accidents employees.
Continue to progress against the Achieved Environment Intelligence & Security focused on reducing waste Safety Maturity Matrix during 2012, including the launch of an employee awareness Diversity and inclusion programme to reduce and recycle waste within the work environment.
Demonstrate continued progress against the Achieved During 2012, BAE Systems Detica broadened its environmental Diversity & Inclusion Maturity Matrix impact analysis to cover two new site locations and the Australian Establish milestones targets to underpin Confirmed 1 stratsec business.
This analysis enables BAE Systems Detica to delivery of the stated 2015 position understand and monitor the effect of its operations on various Environment environmental factors, including energy consumption, waste Continued progression against the disposal and recycling.
Achieved Environmental Sustainability Maturity Matrix 2 People The Intelligence & Security business employs over 5,700 Reduction in energy Target achieved people, many of whom are deployed alongside customers in the US 2 Reduction in water Target achieved and overseas, with the latter including active service deployments.
2 Reduction in waste Target achieved Where people are deployed overseas, the Group makes available support services to ensure families can stay in touch.
Employee safety During 2012, the business achieved a 46% reduction in the Recordable Accident Rate.
BAE Systems Detica instigated its first apprenticeships with a new programme launched at its Leeds, UK, facility.
Elsewhere, the The Intelligence & Security business has continued to mature its business continues to recruit to support its growing customer base.
safety culture by engaging its offsite employee population to identify workplace hazards and increase overall accountability.
BAE Systems Detica continued to progress its performance in safety.
To help increase awareness and understanding of safety, a leadership toolkit and safety tours were introduced for directors, and an online safety training course was launched for employees.
Diversity and inclusion Intelligence & Security supported US-wide diversity and inclusion activities, including inclusive leadership training, launching a multi-cultural network, and introducing diverse candidate shortlists and panels for executive roles.
At a local level, a communications programme targeted at employees was launched.
1 Businesses have put in place plans to 2015 to support and progress the Groups long-term goal to build a high-performing workforce that more closely reflects the diversity of the local communities in which its businesses operate.
2 Data is derived from internal recording systems and is not subject to external verification or audit.
The UK-headquartered BAE Systems Detica business has been working with energy company E. ON on its Smart Metering Customer Programme, which will see the installation of smart meters in homes across the UK.
Smart metering will provide up to 35,000 gas and electricity consumption readings per household per year.
Drawing on its experience, knowledge and previous central involvement in UK Smart Metering, BAE Systems Detica conducted a programme-level data security review to help ensure its security and the privacy of customers data.
BAE Systems Detica smart metering BAE Systems Detica analytics platform BAE Systems Detica has a bespoke analytics platform which integrates a range of applications to identify behaviours, activities and connections in data for fraud, cyber and communications monitoring activities.
