REPORTING SEGMENTS 1 Electronic Systems, with 13,000 employees, comprises the US and UK-based electronics activities, including electronic warfare systems and electro-optical sensors, military and commercial digital engine and flight controls, next-generation military communications systems and data links, persistent surveillance capabilities, and hybrid electric drive systems.
Operational key points Sustained a leadership position in the airborne electronic warfare market Strengthened position in high growth commercial aircraft electronics market Won key development contracts in the classified area Continued focus on increasing productivity and efficiency Business recovery complete following disruption from flood damage at the Johnson City facility 5 0.2bn of research and development expenditure in 2012 Financial key points 1,4 Underlying order backlog increased in challenging business environment 1 Sales reduction from operational tempo-driven activity on Thermal Weapon Sights Return on sales of 14.2% 3 2 Cash flow conversion of underlying EBITA at 95%, before pension deficit funding Sales analysis: activity % Sales analysis: defence and commercial % 23 83 17 17 21 19 20 Q Electronic Combat Q Defence Q Survivability & Targeting Q Commercial Q Communications & Control Q Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance ISR 1 Including share of equity accounted Q Commercial Aircraft electronics HybriDrive propulsion investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance 2012 2011 2010 costs and taxation expense EBITA 1 KPI Funded order intake 2,540m 2,620m 2,894m excluding non-recurring items see page 31.
3 Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,4 Order backlog 3.6bn 3.6bn 3.5bn after capital expenditure net and financial 1 investment, dividends from equity KPI Sales 2,507m 2,645m 2,969m accounted investments, and assets 2 KPI Underlying EBITA 356m 386m 455m contributed to Trust.
4 Comprises funded and unfunded Return on sales 14.2% 14.6% 15.3% unexecuted customer orders.
5 Includes both Group-funded and 3 KPI Cash inflow 256m 268m 367m customer-funded expenditure.
Broad base of programmes, with more than Cutting-edge technology and capabilities, with 5,000 active contracts significant levels of research and development No programme greater than 5% of sales invested in the business Over 67% of 2012 sales were fixed price- 17% of total sales are to commercial based customers 56 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS Reporting segments performance review Financial performance testing providing advanced radar warning and countermeasure capabilities is scheduled to begin in March 2013.
The business 1,4 Order backlog, excluding the impact of US dollar exchange continues to pursue other export opportunities for the DEWS suite.
translation, increased despite the impact of contracting delays as the Also in international markets, the business received three contracts US administration operated federal budgets under Continuing totalling $86m 53m to provide F-16 support equipment, test Resolution limitations.
systems and spares to the governments of Oman, Indonesia and Iraq 1 On a like-for-like basis, sales reduced by 7% on 2011 primarily for delivery by early 2014. reflecting the completion of deliveries of Thermal Weapon Sights as Survivability & Targeting In early 2012, the US Army awarded the operational tempo-driven activity reduces.
Sales in the Commercial business a two-year, $38m 23m contract to develop the Common Aircraft electronics business increased by 11%.
Using its Boldstroke system, 2 Underlying EBITA was 356m 2011 386m.
Return on sales was an integrated aircraft survivability system for protecting aircraft from 14.2% 2011 14.6%.
infrared-guided missiles and other threats, the business will provide 3 2 increased system capability in a smaller, more energy efficient Cash flow conversion of underlying EBITA was 95%, before pension package.
Following a competitor protest, the award was upheld by the deficit funding.
US Government Accountability Office and work restarted in June.
Initial test systems are in progress, with the first units scheduled for Operational performance government acceptance ahead of schedule.
Following severe flooding in September 2011, operations formerly The Advanced Precision Kill Weapon System programme passed conducted at the Electronic Systems facility in Johnson City, New tests on several airborne platforms.
With deployment in theatre and York, have been moved to Endicott, New York.
After a year of recovery positive performance feedback, the US Navy has authorised Full-Rate efforts, operational capability has been restored and programmes Production of the system and awarded a base contract valued at are back on schedule.
$28m 17m for 985 units and a Full-Rate Production option of Electronic Combat The business maintains its leadership position in $41m 25m for 1,476 units.
the electronic warfare market, with continued focus on the F-35 Under a $37m 23m subcontract, BAE Systems continues to Lightning II Systems Design and Development programme, planning support the engineering and manufacturing development of the Joint for the flight test programme starting in 2013.
The business and Allied Threat Awareness System, a next-generation warning progressed Low-Rate Initial Production LRIP Lot 5 and 6 deliveries system to enhance aircraft survivability for the US Navy.
during the year, and has responded to the LRIP Lot 7 request for proposal, which includes production aircraft for international The Thermal High-Altitude Area Defence seeker programme provides customers.
a transportable, rapidly deployable, ground-based capability to intercept and destroy ballistic missiles inside or outside the In support of the US Navys Next-Generation Jammer, which will atmosphere during their final phase of flight.
BAE Systems has replace the ageing jammer currently on certain US Navy aircraft, a received an initial amount of $87m 54m in combined US $20m 12m modification was received to expand the scope of the government and Foreign Military Sales to the United Arab Emirates existing technology maturation contract.
BAESystems is one of three on the programme, including a base quantity of 146 seekers with an bidders on the next phase technology development contract valued option for up to a further 147. at approximately $300m 185m.
Deliveries of Thermal Weapon Sights to the US Army in support of The Digital Electronic Warfare System DEWS continues to secure military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan were completed.
new contract awards, including a six-year, $0.4bn 0.2bn contract to upgrade 70 F-15 aircraft for the Royal Saudi Air Force.
Initial flight BAE Systems is responsible for a number of subsystems and equipment on the F-35 Lightning II, including the electronic warfare suite.
The flight test programme for the electronic warfare suite is planned to commence in 2013.
See page 69 for more information on the Groups involvement on F-35 Lightning II Electronic Combat Survivability & Targeting The Advanced Precision Kill Weapon System is a laser-guided rocket that provides a low-cost surgical strike capability.
In 2012, the programme passed tests on several airborne platforms and achieved initial operational capability.
The system has been deployed in theatre and received positive performance feedback.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 57 REPORTING SEGMENTS CONTINUED ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS BAE Systems has responded to a US Army request for proposal for its system upgrades, which have been incorporated into products Joint Effects Targeting System programme, which has been designed deployed on multiple US Department of Defense platforms.
to enhance dismounted, forward-deployed soldiers ability to Production has begun and is expected to continue to the end of the accurately locate positions and target precision-guided munitions fire decade.
An award decision is expected in the first half of 2013 for a Commercial Aircraft electronics The business continues to be well 26-month Engineering and Manufacturing Development phase, which positioned for growth in worldwide demand for commercial aviation will be followed by a Low-Rate Initial Production award competition.
through its engine and flight controls activities.
Communications & Control The F-35 Lightning II programme FADEC Alliance, a new joint venture between FADEC International a continues to be a key platform for the Groups avionics products.
joint venture between BAE Systems and Sagem and GE Aviation, Deliveries continue on plan for the active inceptor system out of began development of the Full-Authority Digital Engine Controls for Rochester, UK, and the vehicle management system out of Endicott, CFM Internationals LEAP and GE Aviations Passport family of New York.
The business has continued to pursue additional engines.
opportunities expanding its content on the platform.
Ongoing development of the primary flight control electronics and Leveraging commercial technology to create a low size, weight and active side sticks for Embraers KC-390 military transport aircraft is power design, the business launched the PHOENIX family of raising the Groups profile in the emerging Brazilian aerospace networking radios to integrate easily into US Army ground combat industry.
The first flight of the KC-390 is expected in 2014. vehicles.
In October, the business responded to the US Armys next-generation Mid-tier Networking Vehicular Radio request for HybriDrive propulsion BAE Systems has delivered 3,800 hybrid proposal with its two-channel PHOENIX-SC radio, with an award diesel-electric propulsion systems since 2004, which are now in decision expected in 2013. service with over 60 operators.
Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance ISR The business In April 2012, European bus manufacturer, Iveco Irisbus, announced continues to provide Wide Area Airborne Surveillance capability for that it had been awarded Europes largest single order for 132 the US Air Force and US Army.
These key programmes are based on diesel-electric hybrid buses for Dijon and Bordeaux in France.
Prior two wide-area, high-resolution imaging sensor systems, the Airborne tothis award, Iveco Irisbus had delivered approximately 20 Wide Area Persistent Surveillance System, which has been diesel-electric hybrid buses equipped with BAE Systems propulsion operational for over 12,000 hours in theatre, and the Autonomous systems.
Real-time Ground Ubiquitous Surveillance Imaging System.
These The business has progressed solutions for battery reliability issues systems enable observation of very wide areas of interest with in the field from its first-generation lithium-ion battery packs.
In sufficient imagery resolution to meet intelligence and surveillance addition, ownership of the current battery supplier has changed and needs.
the business is working with the new owner to minimise the impact The business is providing state-of-the-art processing capabilities to on the Group and its customers.
Boeing for the US Navys P8A Poseidon programme.
The mission computer suite has robust, flexible and rugged open architecture Looking forward providing high performance in the military environment.
Over 30 initial systems have been delivered and a contract for Full-Rate Efforts to reduce the US governments budget deficit are likely to Production Lot 1 has been awarded.
impact all areas of government spend.
A Continuing Resolution on the 2013 fiscal budget has been passed through to March 2013 and As a leader in the Identification Friend or Foe market, the business the risk of further reductions in US defence budgets remains, 4 has a strong order backlog driven by the Mode 5 cryptographic including the impact of sequestration.
4 Comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted customer orders.
BAE Systems research and development investment and innovations in technology have resulted in two significant helmet-mounted display products: the Striker and the Q-Sight helmets.
The Striker helmet variant for Typhoon integrates night vision and full crew head protection.
The Q-Sight helmet uses quantum wave guide technology to directly couple the output of an LCD projector to a combining lens, eliminating the need for intermediate lenses.
Communications & Control Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance ISR BAE Systems is a leading provider of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance capability, producing tactical identification, sensing and intelligence exploitation systems for airborne, maritime, land and space-based applications.
NASAs Curiosity rover vehicle successfully landed on Mars and began transmitting images back to Earth in August.
Two BAESystems RAD750 computers controlled the flight from Earth and the landing on Mars, and will continue to control the rover during its two-year mission.
58 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Reporting segments performance review Whilst likely funding reductions and the resultant slow down or training, launching a multi-cultural network, and introducing diverse cancellation of ongoing and new programmes could impact the candidate shortlists and panels for executive roles.
business, Electronic Systems remains well positioned with a Locally, Electronic Systems focused on increasing the speed and balanced portfolio that will enable it to respond to changing US rigour of its diversity efforts.
The business recruited a dedicated Department of Defense priorities whilst maintaining its emphasis on diversity and inclusion manager, and introduced a diversity and cost reduction.
The business expects to benefit from its incumbent inclusion personal development objective for leaders.
positions on core platforms, and from positions in areas such as commercial aircraft electronics and international defence Environment To support progress in environmental sustainability, the programmes.
business launched an Environment Policy to help progress business-wide reduction targets in energy, water and waste, and launched a recording system to drive consistency in data collection.
Non-financial performance To help employees support reduction targets, an education Employee safety programme was launched to raise awareness of how each employee Businesses to demonstrate improvement 15% stretch could personally contribute to reducing energy used and waste against 2011 performance on targetachieved created.
recordable accidents People Electronic Systems operates a successful One Team Award Continue to progress against the Achieved recognition programme.
Each quarter, the programme recognises Safety Maturity Matrix teams that have been nominated for exemplifying one or more of five Diversity and inclusion imperatives demonstrated through end-user impact: community Demonstrate continued progress against the Achieved focus: technology innovation: collaboration: best practices: and Diversity & Inclusion Maturity Matrix overall value to the business.
Establish milestones targets to underpin Confirmed 1 delivery of the stated 2015 position Environment Continued progression against the Achieved Environmental Sustainability Maturity Matrix 2 Reduction in energy Target achieved 2 Reduction in water Target achieved 2 Reduction in waste Target achieved Employee safety During 2012, safety remained a priority for Electronic Systems, achieving a 17% reduction in the Recordable Accident Rate.
This performance was supported during the year by the introduction of a safety awareness campaign and training programme for employees.
Diversity and inclusion Electronic Systems supported US-wide diversity and inclusion activities, including inclusive leadership 1 Businesses have put in place plans to 2015 to support and progress the Groups long-term goal to build a high-performing workforce that more closely reflects the diversity of the local communities in which its businesses operate.
2 Data is derived from internal recording systems and is not subject to external verification or audit.
Many of the worlds commercial aircraft employ BAE Systems engine and flight controls.
Worldwide demand for commercial aviation is expected to grow.
In 2012, BAE Systems secured a commercial aircraft electronics position in Brazil.
Commercial Aircraft electronics HybriDrive propulsion The Groups efficient, low emission HybriDrive propulsion technology has been in service on buses since 2004.
In 2012, European bus manufacturer, Iveco Irisbus, was awarded an order for 132 buses using BAE Systems HybriDrive propulsion systems.
