OTHER STATUTORY AND REGULATORY INFORMATION The average number of days credit provided in 2012 by suppliers Principal activities was 30 days 2011 35 days.
BAESystems is a global defence, aerospace and security company.
The BAESystems Group delivers, through its subsidiaries and equity Employees accounted investments, a wide range of products and services for Regular internal communication, including newsletters, air, land and naval forces, as well as advanced electronics, security, management meetings and the intranet, keeps employees information technology solutions and support services.
Company registration The Group has constructive relationships with trade unions, and BAESystems plc is registered in England and Wales with the regularly communicates and discusses business developments registered number 1470151. which impact the Group and its employees.
Directors The Group welcomes employees becoming shareholders in The current directors who served during the 2012 financial year are BAESystems, and offers a number of employee share plans to listed on pages 78 and 79.
In addition, Michael Hartnall retired support this.
The Group is committed to giving full and fair consideration to Dividend applications for employment from disabled people who meet the An interim dividend of 7.8p per share was paid on 30 November requirements for roles, and making available training opportunities 2012.
The directors propose a final dividend of 11.7p per ordinary and appropriate accommodation to disabled people employed by share.
Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be the Group.
paid on 3 June 2013 to shareholders on the share register on 19April 2013.
Principal customers The Groups most significant customers are the governments of the Annual General Meeting AGM US, UK, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia.
In the US, The Companys AGM will be held on 8 May 2013.
The Notice of BAESystems is subject to a Special Security Agreement that Annual General Meeting is enclosed with this Annual Report and safeguards US national security interests, as a result of which details the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting.
BAESystems is allowed to supply products and services of a highly Ofce of Fair Trading undertakings sensitive nature to the US government.
Agreements between the As a consequence of the merger between British Aerospace and the governments of the UK and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia relating to former Marconi Electronics Systems businesses in 1999, the defence co-operation programmes remain essential to the Company gave certain undertakings to the Secretary of State for development of the Groups business in Saudi Arabia.
In Australia, Trade and Industry now the Secretary of State for Business, BAESystems is subject to an Overarching Deed with the Innovation and Skills.
In February 2007, the Company was Commonwealth of Australia that protects their national security and released from the majority of these undertakings and the remainder other interests, and allows the Group to own certain Australian have been superseded and varied by a new set of undertakings.
Compliance with the undertakings is monitored by a compliance Indian government policy on Foreign Direct Investment mandates officer.
Further information regarding the undertakings and the that foreign partners can hold a maximum of 26% equity in defence contact details of the compliance officer may be obtained through ventures.
the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office or through the Companys website.
Charitable donations During 2012, the amount donated for charitable purposes in the UK profit forecast was 1.8m 2011 1.4m.
In line with the Community Investment In its full year results announcement on 16 February 2012 and programme, this included: Annual Report 2011, the Group made the following statement, which is regarded as a profit forecast for the purposes of the 688,800 given to armed forces charities, including donations to Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rule 9.2.
18: Combat Stress and Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Families Association SSAFA Forces Help: Whilst little sales growth can be expected for the Group in 2012 in the current market conditions, modest growth in underlying 893,800 donated to education charities, with major donations earnings per share is anticipated, assuming a satisfactory being made to Enthuse Charitable Trust, EngineeringUK, the conclusion to Salam negotiations in 2012 and excluding the benefit Queen Elizabeth Prize for Engineering Foundation and The of the 2011 Research & Development tax settlement.
Princes Trust: and On 19 December 2012, the Group announced that discussions the remaining 249,100 donated for other charitable purposes, continued towards agreement of definitive pricing for the supply of including the advance of health and culture heritage.
72 Typhoon aircraft to the Royal Saudi Air Force contracted in 2007 Globally, the Group and its employees through its Community under the  Salam programme and that, Investment programme contributed over 11m to local, national in the event of an acceptable agreement not being reached before and international charities and not-for-profit organisations.
the Groups full year results announcement on 21 February 2013, the impact on 2012 trading guidance would be to reduce the Political donations Groups underlying earnings per share by approximately 3 pence per No political donations were made in 2012. share.
At 20 February 2013, discussions continue and, Issued share capital consequently, modest growth in underlying earnings per share in As at 31 December 2012, BAESystems issued share capital of 2012 has not been achieved.
Underlying earnings per share 89,691,828 comprised 3,587,673,101 ordinary shares of 2.5p excluding the R&D tax benefit was 39.7p in 2011.
In 2012, each and one Special Share of 1. underlying earnings per share was 38.9p.
Treasury shares Supplier payment policy As at 1 January 2012, the number of shares held in treasury It is Group policy that suppliers should be paid in accordance with totalled 351,756,854 having a total nominal value of 8,793,921 the payment terms and conditions stated in the applicable purchase and representing 9.8% of the Companys called up share capital at order.
In the UK, the Group is a signatory to the governments Prompt 1 January 2012.
During 2012, the Company used 14,942,858 Payment Code see www.
uk, under which treasury shares having a total nominal value of 373,571 and it has undertaken to pay suppliers on time, give clear guidance on representing 0.4% of the Companys called up share capital at payment procedures and encourage the adoption of the code 31December 2012 to satisfy awards under the Free and Matching throughout its supply chain.
See assurance statement on www.
com  114 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Governance the directors shall not register any allotment or transfer of any elements of the Share Incentive Plan 8,867,329 shares in shares to a foreign person, or foreign persons acting in concert, aggregate, awards vested under the Performance Share Plan who at the time have more than a 15% voting interest in the 2,728,737 shares, the Restricted Share Plan 47,568 shares Company, or who would, following such allotment or transfer, have and the Share Matching Plan 2,916,565 shares, and options such an interest: exercised under the Executive Share Option Plan 382,659 shares.
The treasury shares utilised in respect of the Share Incentive Plan, the directors shall not register any person as a holder of any the Performance Share Plan, the Restricted Share Plan and the shares unless they have received: i a declaration stating that Share Matching Plan were disposed of by the Company for nil upon registration, the share s will not be held by foreign persons consideration.
The 382,659 shares disposed of by the Company in or that upon registration the share s will be held by a foreign respect of the Executive Share Option Plan were disposed of by the person or persons: ii such evidence if any as the directors may Company for an aggregate consideration of 902,164.
As at require of the authority of the signatory of the declaration: and iii 31December 2012, the number of shares held in treasury totalled such evidence or information if any as to the matters referred to 336,813,996 having a total nominal value of 8,420,350 and in the declaration as the directors consider appropriate: representing 9.4% of the Companys called up share capital at 31December 2012. the directors may, in their absolute discretion, refuse to register any transfer of shares which are not fully paid up but not so as to The rights to treasury shares are restricted in accordance with the prevent dealings in listed shares from taking place : Companies Act and, in particular, the voting rights attaching to these shares are automatically suspended.
the directors may also refuse to register any instrument of transfer of shares unless the instrument of transfer is in respect Rights and obligations of ordinary shares of only one class of share and it is lodged at the place where the On a show of hands at a general meeting every holder of ordinary register of members is kept, accompanied by a relevant certificate shares present in person and entitled to vote shall have one vote, or such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require to and every proxy entitled to vote shall have one vote unless the show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: proxy is appointed by more than one member in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been the directors may refuse to register an allotment or transfer of instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by shares in favour of more than four persons jointly: one or more members to vote against the resolution: or if the proxy where a shareholder has failed to provide the Company with has been instructed by one or more shareholders to vote either for certain information relating to their interest in shares, the or against a resolution and by one or more of those shareholders to directors can, in certain circumstances, refuse to register a use his discretion how to vote.
On a poll, every member present in transfer of such shares: person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
Subject to the relevant statutory provisions certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and the Companys Articles of Association, holders of ordinary and regulations for example, insider trading laws : shares are entitled to a dividend where declared or paid out of restrictions may be imposed pursuant to the Listing Rules of the profits available for such purposes.
Subject to the relevant Financial Services Authority whereby certain of the Groups statutory provisions and the Companys Articles of Association, on employees require the Companys approval to deal in shares: and a return of capital on a winding-up, holders of ordinary shares are entitled, after repayment of the 1 Special Share, to participate in awards of shares made under the Companys Share Incentive Plan such a return.
There are no redemption rights in relation to the are subject to restrictions on the transfer of shares prior to vesting.
The Company is not aware of any arrangements between its Rights and obligations of the Special Share shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of The Special Share is held on behalf of the Secretary of State for shares and or voting rights.
Business, Innovation and Skills the Special Shareholder.
Certain significant direct and indirect holders of securities provisions of the Companys Articles of Association cannot be As at 31 December 2012, the Company had been advised of the amended without the consent of the Special Shareholder.
These following significant direct and indirect interests in the issued provisions include the requirement that no foreign person, or ordinary share capital of the Company: foreign persons acting in concert, can have more than a 15% voting Percentage interest in the Company, the requirement that the majority of the Name of shareholder notified directors are British, and the requirement that the Chief Executive AXA S. A. and its group of companies 5.00% and any executive Chairman are British.
Barclays PLC 3.98% The holder of the Special Share is entitled to attend a general Invesco Limited 13.02% meeting, but the Special Share carries no right to vote or any other Franklin Resources Inc. and affiliates 4.92% rights at any such meeting, other than to speak in relation to any Legal & General Group Plc 3.99% business in respect of the Special Share.
Subject to the relevant statutory provisions and the Companys Articles of Association, on Silchester International Investors LLP 3.01% a return of capital on a winding-up, the holder of the Special Share Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes shall be entitled to repayment of the 1 capital paid up on the The Trustees of the employee trusts do not seek to exercise voting Special Share in priority to any repayment of capital to any other rights on shares held in the employee trusts other than on the members.
direction of the underlying beneficiaries.
No voting rights are The holder of the Special Share has the right to require the exercised in relation to shares unallocated to individual beneficiaries.
Company to redeem the Special Share at par or convert the Special Restrictions on voting deadlines Share into one ordinary share at any time.
The notice of any general meeting shall specify the deadline for Restrictions on transfer of securities exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in The restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company are as relation to resolutions to be proposed at the general meeting.
The follows: number of proxy votes for, against or withheld in respect of each resolution are publicised on the Companys website after the the Special Share may only be issued to, held by and transferred meeting.
to the Special Shareholder or his successor or nominee: BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 115 OTHER STATUTORY AND REGULATORY INFORMATION CONTINUED Conicts of interest Appointment and replacement of directors As permitted under the Companies Act 2006, the Companys Subject to certain nationality requirements mentioned below, the Articles of Association contain provisions which enable the Board to Company may by ordinary resolution appoint any person to be a authorise conflicts or potential conflicts that individual directors director.
The majority of directors holding office must be British.
Otherwise, To avoid potential conflicts of interest the Board requires the the directors who are not British shall vacate office in such order Nominations Committee to check that any individuals it nominates that those who have been in office for the shortest period since for appointment to the Board are free of potential conflicts.
In their appointment shall vacate their office first, unless all of the directors otherwise agree among themselves.
Any director who addition, the Boards procedures and the induction programme for holds the office of either Chairman in an executive capacity or new directors emphasise a directors personal responsibility for Chief Executive shall also be British.
complying with the duties relating to conflicts of interest.
The procedure adopted by the Board for the authorisation of conflicts The Company must have six directors holding office at all times.
If reminds directors of the need to consider their duties as directors the number is reduced to below six, then such number of persons and not grant an authorisation unless they believe, in good faith, that shall be appointed as directors as soon as is reasonably this would be likely to promote the success of the Company.
As practicable to reinstate the number of directors to six.
The Company required by law, the potentially conflicted director cannot vote on an may by ordinary resolution from time to time vary the minimum authorisation resolution or be counted in the quorum.
authorisation granted may be terminated at any time and the director At each AGM of the Company, any director who was elected or last is informed of the obligation to inform the Company without delay re-elected at or before the AGM held in the third calendar year should there be any material change in the nature of the conflict or before the then current calendar year must retire by rotation and potential conflict so authorised.
The Nominations Committee has such further directors must retire by rotation so that in total been asked to review on an annual basis any authorisations granted one-third of the directors retire by rotation each year.
A retiring and to make recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
director is eligible for re-election.
It is the Boards intention that all Directors indemnities directors will stand for election or re-election in 2013 in compliance The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with all its with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
current directors and those persons who were directors for any part Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association of 2012 which are qualifying indemnity provisions for the purpose of The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a the Companies Act 2006. special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Where The directors of BAESystems Pension Funds Trustees Limited, class rights are varied, such amendments must be approved by the BAESystems 2000 Pension Plan Trustees Limited, BAESystems members of each class of shares separately.
Executive Pension Scheme Trustees Limited and Alvis Pension In addition, certain provisions of the Articles of Association cannot Scheme Trustees Limited benefit from indemnities in the governing be amended without the consent of the Special Shareholder.
These documentation of the BAESystems Pension Scheme, the provisions include the requirement that no foreign person, or BAESystems 2000 Pension Plan, the BAESystems Executive foreign persons acting in concert, can have more than a 15% voting Pension Scheme and the Alvis Pension Scheme, respectively, which interest in the Company, the requirement that the majority of the are qualifying indemnity provisions for the purpose of the directors are British, and the requirement that the Chief Executive Companies Act 2006. and any executive Chairman are British.
All such indemnity provisions are in force as at the date of this Powers of the directors Directors Report.
The directors are responsible for the management of the business Change of control significant agreements of the Company and may exercise all powers of the Company The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling subject to applicable legislation and regulation, and the Articles of the counterparties to exercise termination, alteration or other Association.
similar rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: At the 2012 AGM, the directors were given the power to buy back a The Group has entered into a 2bn Revolving Credit Facility dated maximum number of 323,805,150 ordinary shares at a minimum 8 December 2010 which provides that, in the event of a change price of 2.5p each.
The maximum price was the higher of i an of control of the Company, the lenders are entitled to renegotiate amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market terms, or if no agreement is reached on negotiated terms within a quotations of the Companys ordinary shares as derived from the certain period, to call for the repayment or cancellation of the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days facility.
The Revolving Credit Facility was undrawn as at immediately preceding the day on which such ordinary shares are 31December 2012. contracted to be purchased, and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on The Company has entered into a Restated and Amended the London Stock Exchange as stipulated in Article 5 1 of the Shareholders Agreement with European Aeronautic Defence and Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation.
This power will expire at the Space Company EADS N. V. EADS and Finmeccanica S. p. A. earlier of the conclusion of the 2013 AGM or 30 June 2013.
A Finmeccanica relating to MBDA S. A. S. dated 18 December special resolution will be proposed at the 2013 AGM to renew the 2001 as amended.
In the event that control of the Company Companys authority to acquire its own shares.
passes to certain specified third-party acquirors, the agreement allows EADS and Finmeccanica to exercise an option to At the 2012 AGM, the directors were given the power to issue new terminate certain executive management level nomination and shares up to a nominal amount of 26,981,064.
This power will voting rights, and certain shareholder information rights of the expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the 2013 AGM or 30 June Company in relation to the MBDA joint venture.
Accordingly, a resolution will be proposed at the 2013 AGM exercise of this option, the Company would have the right to to renew the Companys authority to issue further new shares.
At require the other shareholders to purchase its interest in MBDA the 2012 AGM, the directors were also given the power to issue new at fair market value.
issue shares up to a further nominal amount of 26,981,064 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
This authority too The Company and EADS have agreed that if Finmeccanica will expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the 2013 AGM or acquires a controlling interest in the Company, EADS will increase 30June 2013, and a resolution will be proposed at the 2013 AGM its shareholding in MBDA to 50% by purchasing the appropriate to renew this additional authority.
number of shares in MBDA at fair market value.
