REPORTING SEGMENTS Platforms & Services International, with 15,500 1 employees, comprises the Groups businesses in Saudi Arabia, Australia, India and Oman, together with its 37.5% interest in the pan-European MBDA joint venture.
Operational key points Salam price escalation negotiations ongoing 5.0bn of orders received under the Saudi British Defence Co-operation Programme SBDCP for training aircraft and support to the end of 2016 First Landing Helicopter Dock hull arrived in Australia for completion and second hull launched in Spain MBDA export order for MICA air-to-air missiles to India Financial key points 1 Order backlog increased reflecting multi-year support and training awards under the SBDCP 1 Like-for-like increase in sales of 9% on increased support activity on the Salam Typhoon programme and weapons deliveries under the Tornado Sustainment Programme TSP 3 Strong operating cash flow reflecting acceleration of advances on TSP Sales analysis % Sales analysis: platforms and services % 54 54 16 30 46 Q Saudi Arabia Q Military & Technical Services Q Australia Q Platforms Q Other 2012 2011 2010 1 Including share of equity accounted 1 KPI Funded order intake 5,266m 3,319m 2,694m investments.
1 2 Earnings before amortisation and Order backlog 9.3bn 8.3bn 9.1bn impairment of intangible assets, finance 1 KPI costs and taxation expense EBITA Sales 4,071m 3,794m 4,325m excluding non-recurring items see page 31.
2 KPI Underlying EBITA 417m 449m 449m 3 Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial Return on sales 10.2% 11.8% 10.4% investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets 3 Cash inflow KPI 506m 80m 190m contributed to Trust.
Saudi Arabia: India: Long-term contracts from the Royal Saudi Air Long-standing military aircraft relationships Force for equipment, training and support, MBDA: including Salam Typhoon aircraft Pan-European guided weapons joint venture Support to Royal Saudi Navy minehunter Oman: programme In-service base across air, land and maritime Australia: products Strategic capability and sustainment provider to the Australian Defence Force Delivering defence contracts across the air, land, maritime and electronics domains 72 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 PLATFORMS & SERVICES INTERNATIONAL Reporting segments performance review was awarded in May to upgrade the RSAFs aircrew training aircraft, Financial performance involving the supply of, and initial support for, Hawk Advanced Jet 1 Order intake increased to 5.3bn 2011 3.3bn reflecting the Trainer and Pilatus PC-21 training aircraft.
The business was also award of orders for continuing support of the operational capability awarded orders totalling 3.4bn for support to the end of 2016, and training of the Saudi armed forces under the Saudi British including the provision of manpower, logistics and training to the Defence Co-operation Programme SBDCP to the end of 2016.
Contracts were previously let on an annual basis.
Under the Tornado Sustainment Programme TSP, the upgrade of the 1 Sales in 2012 were 4.1bn, 9% higher than 2011 on a like-for-like RSAF Tornado fleet is complete, with all of the contracted aircraft basis, reflecting increased support activity on the Salam Typhoon having been delivered back into the RSAF fleet.
Delivery of Storm programme and weapons deliveries under the Tornado Sustainment Shadow missiles to the RSAF under the TSP is progressing in line Programme TSP.
with the agreed programme schedule.
Return on sales Work continues on the first ship re-fit on the minehunter mid-life reduced to 10.2% 2011 11.8% as 2011 benefited from strong update programme.
The ship is due to be handed back to the RSNF performance and risk reduction on the Tornado upgrade and core customer during the second half of 2013. support programmes in Saudi Arabia.
On the C4I Command, Control, Communications, Computers & 3 Operating cash inflow of 506m 2011 80m reflected Intelligence programme, the business continues to seek an acceleration of advances on TSP.
acceptable closure of the contract with the customer.
Australia Operational performance Integration of the first of two Landing Helicopter Docks commenced at the Williamstown shipyard following the arrival of the hull from Saudi Arabia subcontractor Navantia in Spain.
The second hull was launched at Through the entry into service of Typhoon and the continued Navantias Ferrol shipyard.
development of the in-country industrial base, the Group remains committed to developing a greater indigenous capability in Saudi A total of nine hull blocks have been constructed and delivered under Arabia.
the A$209m 134m Air Warfare Destroyer contract, completing the Groups involvement in the first two ships of the three being built.
On the Salam programme, UK final assembly of the remaining 48 of the 72 Typhoon aircraft has commenced and deliveries are expected In 2012, the business completed the multi-year project to modernise to resume in 2013.
Work to expand the multi-role capabilities of the 431 M113 armoured personnel carriers for the Australian Army.
Royal Saudi Air Force RSAF Typhoon is progressing to schedule.
The first of seven Royal Australian Navy ANZAC Class frigates is being The initial three-year Typhoon support contract finished at the end of upgraded with anti-ship missile defence capability at the Henderson June and two subsequent six-month extensions have been secured.
shipyard under a A$267m 171m contract signed in January 2012.
Discussions continue with the customer on the next five years of The business has been selected as the preferred tenderer to provide support.
ongoing in-service support for the Royal Australian Air Forces Hawk Discussions on Typhoon price escalation with the Saudi Arabian Lead-In Fighter fleet and contract negotiations are ongoing.
Negotiations are also ongoing for the The business was awarded an in-service electronic warfare support provision of maintenance and upgrade facilities in-Kingdom, and contract for the Wedgetail airborne early warning and control aircraft further capability enhancement of the aircraft.
fleet to 2015 with a value up to A$68m 43m.
The business continues to support the operational capability of both the RSAF and Royal Saudi Naval Forces RSNF.
A 1.6bn contract Final assembly of the remaining 48 of the 72 Typhoon aircraft for the Royal Saudi Air Force RSAF has commenced and deliveries are expected to resume in 2013.
The Saudi Typhoon support contract is an availability contract supporting the aircrafts entry into service with the first of the RSAFs Typhoon squadrons.
See page 19 for more information Saudi Arabia Typhoon manufacture and support Saudi Arabia Tornado Sustainment Programme As part of the Saudi British Defence Co-operation Programme, BAESystems has substantial training and support activities in Saudi Arabia.
In partnership with the Royal Saudi Air Force RSAF, the Tornado Sustainment Programme has successfully upgraded all of the RSAF Tornado fleet.
See page 21 for more information BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 73 REPORTING SEGMENTS CONTINUED PLATFORMS & SERVICES INTERNATIONAL Whilst the business submitted a bid for the next-generation MBDA Battlespace Communications System, the decision was taken to In the export market, a significant order was received from India in withdraw from this competition after a breach of tender protocols had early 2012 for MICA air-to-air missiles as part of the Indian Air Forces occurred during its participation in the initial tender process.
India In the domestic market, the business secured an important support Following a strategic review of the Defence Land Systems India DLSI contract for the Principal Anti-Air Missile System and a development joint venture, it has been jointly agreed that Mahindra & Mahindra will contract for the Future Local Anti-Air Defence System.
The business acquire BAE Systems 26% shareholding in DLSI.
This decision is a continues to pursue the Anglo-French joint development and reflection of the shareholders belief that they can best meet production opportunity for the Future Anti-Ship Guided Weapon Anticustomer requirements and address market opportunities on a Navire Lger.
case-by-case basis, including continuing to explore opportunities for Development programmes continue to progress well.
The Meteor co-operating on specific defence projects.
beyond visual range air-to-air missile successfully concluded its BAE Systems is participating as a subcontractor to Bharat guided firing programme.
Electronics Limited BEL on the Tactical Communications Systems programme for the Indian military, for which BEL has been selected Looking forward as one of two design authorities.
In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the Group seeks to build upon its The Indian government has issued a Letter of Request to the US long-term presence through delivering current programmes and government under the US Foreign Military Sales process for the industrialisation, and developing new business in support of the supply of 145 M777 howitzers for the Indian Army.
Saudi military and security forces.
Together with its Eurofighter industry partners, the Group continues Following agreement of the training aircraft and support orders under to monitor the Medium Multi-Role Combat Aircraft competition and the SBDCP in 2012, the focus turns towards mobilising activities on stands ready to support the Indian governments procurement the next phases of these programmes.
In Australia, BAE Systems will continue to support the Department of The Group has received a request for proposal for a third batch of Defence by working with the customer to deliver cost and service Hawk Advanced Jet Trainer aircraft for the Indian Air Force.
The business continues to explore and secure Oman opportunities in adjacent markets, including commercial maritime The contract for the supply of Typhoon and Hawk aircraft awarded in repair and support, and commercial fabrication for the natural December 2012 builds on the close partnership with the Omani resources industry.
armed forces and provides the platform to ensure this relationship is In India, significant aircraft and artillery opportunities continue to be further developed.
The Group has a long history of working closely pursued.
with the Omani armed forces, and currently supports their existing air, land and maritime platforms, such as air defence radars, Challenger In MBDA, whilst domestic budgetary pressures continue, export tanks, and Jaguar and Hawk aircraft.
markets are anticipated to grow, potentially benefiting from significant military aircraft procurements.
BAE Systems is the prime contractor for two 27,000 tonne Landing Helicopter Docks, the largest ships ever to be built for the Royal Australian Navy.
The completed hull of the first Landing Helicopter Dock arrived at the Williamstown shipyard in October from the subcontractor Navantia in Spain and integration activity has commenced.
Australia Landing Helicopter Docks Australia air platforms BAE Systems provides systems integration and sustainment solutions to Australias current and future military air platforms.
The Group has an F-35 Lightning II manufacturing plant in South Australia.
74 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Reporting segments performance review In Australia, a Flexible Working handbook was launched to support a Non-financial performance flexible work culture and aspirations for female representation were Employee safety set for executives.
Businesses to demonstrate improvement 15% stretch In India, a Diversity & Inclusion Essentials course was rolled out to all against 2011 performance on targetachieved line managers, which aims to increase awareness and understanding recordable accidents of how diversity and inclusion can create value for the business.
A Continue to progress against the womens forum was introduced to provide personal development and Achieved Safety Maturity Matrix networking opportunities for women in the workplace.
Diversity and inclusion Environment In Saudi Arabia, environmental sustainability has been Demonstrate continued progress against the Achieved built into the procurement teams processes and major Diversity & Inclusion Maturity Matrix subcontractor reviews.
This is also being done in Australia.
Establish milestones targets to underpin Confirmed 1 During the year, both Saudi Arabia and India launched environmental delivery of the stated 2015 position conservation programmes.
In Saudi Arabia, water conservation and Environment re-use is now a priority, and employee training was launched in India.
Continued progression against the Achieved Environmental Sustainability Maturity Matrix The Australian business implemented and sustained compliance 2 processes to meet environmental regulatory reporting requirements, Reduction in energy Target achieved 2,3 such as the National Greenhouse Energy Reporting Act.
Reduction in water Target achieved 2 Reduction in waste Target achieved People In Saudi Arabia, the Saudisation programme is crucial to the long-term sustainability of the business.
BAE Systems remains Employee safety During 2012, the business achieved a 17% committed to recruiting and training local nationals, with local reduction in the Recordable Accident Rate.
employees currently filling 60% of positions in-Kingdom.
In 2012, the Saudi business selected 24 high-potential people to participate in its Regrettably, during 2012, an employee died in a road traffic accident Mustakbal Management Development Programme, which leads to whilst at work in Saudi Arabia.
Chartered Management Institute internationally recognised All businesses launched safety training and communications qualifications.
campaigns targeted at employees to increase safety awareness and In Australia, the Bright Stars programme has been launched to to reinforce the message that safety is everyones responsibility.
develop the next generation of leaders, actively engaging 13 Each business addressed specific safety priorities.
In Saudi Arabia, a high-performing people to provide opportunities, leadership and working group was established to progress safety performance, with mentoring to fast track their career prospects.
key activities including safety on customer bases and road safety In India, the Group has entered into a long-term partnership awareness weeks.
In Australia, safety objectives for senior leaders agreement with Smile Foundation, a national level development were rolled out across the business.
In India, the focus has been on organisation with an outreach of over 200,000 underprivileged embedding safety processes across its offices and a Safety, Health & children, women and youth across 25 states.
Diversity and inclusion The businesses have launched a number of initiatives to progress diversity and inclusion.
1 Businesses have put in place plans to 2015 to support and progress the In Saudi Arabia, BAE Systems has developed a female employment Groups long-term goal to build a high-performing workforce that more closely strategy and five-year plan to support the establishment last year of reflects the diversity of the local communities in which its businesses operate.
its female office in Riyadh.
In total, 117 women are now employed by 2 Data is derived from internal recording systems and is not subject to external the business, including 43 in Saudi Arabia.
BAE Systems has received a request for proposal for a third batch of Hawk Advanced Jet Trainer aircraft for the Indian Air Force.
The potential addition to the Indian fleet, one of the largest fleets of Hawk in the world, would take the number of Hawk aircraft ordered worldwide to over 1,000.
Customers for Hawk include Australia, Canada, South Africa, Bahrain, India, the Royal Saudi Air Force and the Royal Air Force.
The Royal Air Force aerobatics team, the Red Arrows, has used the BAE Systems Hawk since 1979.
India Hawk Advanced Jet Trainer MBDA BAE Systems is a 37.5% shareholder in MBDA, a leading global guided weapons manufacturer.
MBDA is the prime contractor for a series of multi-national programmes, including Storm Shadow, an Anglo-French air-launched cruise missile that can be carried by Tornado aircraft.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 75 GOVERNANCE In this section: Board of directors 78 Chairmans corporate governance letter 80 Corporate governance report 83 Remuneration report 93 Other statutory and regulatory information 114 Statement of directors responsibilities 117 BAE Systems places great importance on the way it conducts its business.
This section explains the Groups approach to governance.
76 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Governance Photo credit: US Army Operating the Radford Army Ammunition Plant BAE Systems is the operating contractor of the Radford Army Ammunition Plant in Virginia, managing, operating and maintaining the plant under an initial ten-year contract from the US Army.
The Radford plant, established in 1941, is a government-owned, contractor-operated facility that manufactures propellants for military munitions.
