Strategic review in turn have their own unique market drivers.
Our Strategy is to also make us more competitive to win future business.
All our understand and respond to the needs of our customers in each of operations in the defence, aerospace and security markets must these markets, and anticipate that these needs may be subject to strive to increase value and eliminate non-value-added activity rapid change.
We need to be agile as an organisation, to enable us whilst maintaining our commitment to Total Performance.
to identify and prioritise capabilities which support our customers Strategic Actions vital interests, creating demand for our products and services.
This Strategy translates into the five Strategic Actions.
These directly flow from our Vision, Mission and Strategy, and are designed to Inspire and develop our people to drive our success shape our business portfolio and strengthen performance over the We recognise that we can only deliver our Mission through the performance of our people.
We believe that if we engage with our long term.
These actions translate the Groups over-arching strategy people we can inspire the will to succeed and develop skills to drive into operational plans that are delivered through our lines of improvements in performance, enabling us to compete more business.
effectively in an increasingly challenging environment.
Integrated Business Plans The Integrated Business Planning process is an annual, two-stage See page 26 for more information on this new element of our Strategy process that culminates in a five-year strategic and financial plan, Drive shareholder value by improving financial performance and which is used to shape the Strategic Actions.
competitive positions across the business See page 84 for more information on the Integrated Business Planning The current environment is increasingly competitive and, to deliver process growth in shareholder value, we need to focus on generating strong cash flows and profits.
Improving efficiency in our operations will 1 2 3 4 OUR BUSINESS MODEL BAE Systems delivers a wide range of products and services for air, land and naval forces, as well as advanced electronics, security, information technology solutions and support services.
Delivering sustainable growth in shareholder value through Total Performance 1.
Responsible Behaviour The Groups priority to all its The Groups performance is The Group sets itself Responsible Behaviour is customers is to understand dependent on the successful challenging financial targets embedded within the business.
their evolving needs and execution of its projects.
It is through its Integrated Business The Groups Code of Conduct is expectations, and deliver on its important that the Group wins Planning process.
Financial a summary of the principles and commitments throughout the and contracts for high-quality Performance is measured standards of business conduct life of the products and services new programmes, and delivers through a range of key financial expected of all employees.
Customer on those projects within tight salients derived from the Together with the Groups satisfaction is a key indicator of tolerances of quality, time and Groups consolidated financial Responsible Trading Principles, Customer Focus.
cost performance in a reliable, statements, including funded the Code of Conduct underpins 1 1 predictable and repeatable order intake, sales, underlying its business activities.
Key indicators of EBITA, underlying earnings per are used to measure safety, performance include outturn share and operating business diversity and inclusion, and 4 projections of, and movements cash flow.
in, margin of key customerfunded projects and customer satisfaction.
See page 18 for more See page 20 for more See Financial Performance on See Corporate responsibility information information page 30 for more information review on page 39 for more information across multiple markets and opportunities by five reporting segments BAE Systems benefits from a broad and diverse market base, The Group has five principal reporting segments which align with the focused on five home markets the US, the UK, Saudi Arabia, Groups strategic direction Electronic Systems, Cyber & Australia and India.
In addition, export markets provide a significant Intelligence, Platforms & Services US, Platforms & Services UK ongoing opportunity for the Group.
See page 22 for more information See page 24 for more information underpinned by key resources and a strong governance framework.
The Groups key resources and arrangements include the people it The Operational Framework sets out how the Group does business, employs, its relationships with suppliers, research and wherever it operates in the world, based on principles of good development, and intellectual property.
It provides a stable foundation from which to deliver our Strategy, improve performance and develop our culture of Total Performance.
See pages 18 to 21 for more information See page 84 for more information 1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items see page 31.
3 Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and non-recurring items see note 8 to the Group accounts.
4 Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets contributed to Trust.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 17 OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED 1 2 3 4 TOTAL PERFORMANCE Our business model See page 17 CUSTOMER FOCUS DELIVERING ON COMMITMENTS TO OUR CUSTOMERS Customer Focus means the understanding of the customers evolving needs and expectations, and delivering on our commitments throughout the life of the products and services we deliver.
The Groups strong relationships with its customers include joint development of major platforms, transitioning technology to operational use, and providing improved training and logistics Delivering savings in Type 45 programme costs for support.
The provision of support services to ensure mission the UK Royal Navy customer accomplishment underpins the Groups focus.
The Group often responds to urgent operational requirements driven by a customer A new, more effective way of working between the UK Ministry of need for an immediate solution that can be fielded rapidly.
Defence and BAE Systems has demonstrated significant cost and schedule adherence benefits for the customer on the six-ship Type 45 contract.
The focus has been on the project plan, budgets, quality and risk mitigation, working in tandem with the customer.
Issues are identified early, and solutions sought and agreed, which both protect the programme and minimise cost.
A culture of co-operation is reflected in the collaborative enterprise and joint acceptance teams, comprising major stakeholders who meet on a regular basis to resolve issues.
The project team has consistently achieved its programme delivery dates and savings of 86m have so far been attributed to this partnering approach, which is also expected to enable savings on other major naval ships programmes, most notably on the Type 26 Global Combat Ship programme.
significant investment in R&D OUR KEY RESOURCES The Groups key resources and The Groups Research & Development R&D activities cover a wide arrangements include the people it range of programmes, and include technological innovations and employs, its relationships with suppliers, techniques to improve the manufacturing and service of products.
research and development, and intellectual Examples include: BAE Systems latest research on an advanced property.
positioning system that exploits existing transmissions, such as Wi-Fi, TV, radio and mobile phone signals, to calculate the users location to within a few metres: and BAE Systems Headborne Energy Analysis and Diagnostic System HEADS, a small sensor mounted inside a combat helmet that records the severity of blasts or impacts during an explosion, helping to identify potential combat-related head and brain injuries.
HEADS was named a US Army greatest invention of 2011.
18 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Strategic review Utilising systems experience on F-16 aircraft to offer Supporting Typhoon aircraft in service with the Royal avionics upgrades for South Korea Saudi Air Force BAE Systems is a leading provider of integration, avionics and The Saudi Typhoon support contract is an availability contract mission computers for F-16 aircraft, and has been down-selected supporting the aircrafts entry into service with the first of the to be the sole source systems integration contractor for upgrading Royal Saudi Air Forces RSAF Typhoon squadrons.
Working as more than 130 F-16s for the government of the Republic of Korea.
One Team with the customer on-base, the Group has supported The Korean programme will build on BAE Systems experience the RSAF in establishing and successfully delivering all key with the F-16, providing cost-effective upgrade solutions.
The elements of their Typhoon operational readiness, including air Group supports 270 of the US Air National Guards upgraded crew and ground crew training, maintenance facilities, technical F-16s and 50 of the Turkish Air Forces upgraded F-16s.
For the support, spares and repairs, aircraft availability, and aircraft Korean fleet, BAESystems will perform a range of services, capability upgrades.
including systems engineering and integration, software and electronics engineering, obsolescence management and logistics support.
See page 15 for more information on the Groups Customer Focus KPI generating substantial intellectual property.
Intellectual property is important to the Groups success in obtaining observance of intellectual property law, so that returns made from and maintaining a competitive advantage.
the investment in R&D and technological innovation are protected, and commercial and business innovations are adequately Like any industrial concern, BAE Systems does not just produce safeguarded.
products or provide services for its customers: in the process, intellectual property may be created which often has a value to the In 2012, the Group filed patent applications covering approximately Group far greater than is reflected in the value of the particular 250 new inventions.
One of the Groups patented inventions has contract or programme of work under which it was created.
It takes assisted in BAE Systems obtaining a development contract, which in many forms, including products, processes and knowhow.
turn will create valuable future opportunities for production contracts.
The Groups Operational Framework mandates a policy to protect the At 31 December 2012, BAE Systems had a total portfolio of patents Groups intellectual property including patents, registered designs, and patent applications covering more than 2,000 inventions and registered trade and service marks through appropriate use and worldwide.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 19 OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED 1 2 3 4 TOTAL PERFORMANCE Our business model See page 17 PROGRAMME EXECUTION DELIVERING ON PROJECTS TO QUALITY, TIME AND COST Programme Execution means delivering on projects within tight tolerances of quality, time and cost performance in a reliable, predictable and repeatable manner.
BAE Systems utilises Lifecycle Management LCM as part of its project management processes to ensure effective delivery of its programmes.
LCM provides a benchmark approach which includes early engagement of business leadership, applying the full set of Group capabilities, and requiring experienced independent validation Transformation of UK munitions plants under a of project status and results.
Early identification of risk, and long-term partnering agreement implementing mitigation steps, are key features.
Opportunities for improved results are Munitions Acquisition Supply Solution is a 15-year partnering identified and included in future project phases.
Whether delivering a agreement with the UK Ministry of Defence MoD to transform complex system enhancing a current capability, improved operational three UK munitions manufacturing facilities into centres of support or a customised solution, BAE Systems uses its world-class excellence.
Following investment by BAE Systems, two new management processes and tools.
facilities have been created at Radway Green and Washington, with a major modernisation at Glascoed.
The transformation programme is reviewed jointly by the MoD and BAESystems against critical milestones.
All major milestones have been met.
Key measures met to date include improved delivery of defined munitions products, and a reduction in labour costs and scrap rework levels.
1 A skilled workforce of 88,200 employees OUR KEY RESOURCES The Groups key resources and BAE Systems investment in its current and future workforce is arrangements include the people it designed to give it the capabilities to deliver its strategy, and ensure employs, its relationships with suppliers, that the Group is able to grow and develop talented people to meet its research and development, and intellectual challenges and opportunities.
Through the Groups ability to attract, property.
retain and engage its people, BAESystems is able to deliver on its Total Performance goals.
See page 26 for more information 1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
20 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Strategic review Providing maintenance and modication services to Upgrading Saudi aircraft under the Tornado the US Navy customer Sustainment Programme BAE Systems Ship Repair in Norfolk, Virginia, is home to In partnership with the Royal Saudi Air Force RSAF, the Tornado approximately 1,600 employees primarily working on US Navy Sustainment Programme TSP has successfully upgraded all of vessels.
Located at the Groups Norfolk site is the Titan drydock, the RSAF Tornado fleet.
Central to the upgrade is a new digital the largest floating drydock on the East Coast of the US.
In weapons and avionics system.
New RSAF facilities were January 2012, the first ever tandem drydocking of two US Navy contractually placed in the custodianship of BAE Systems Saudi Aegis guided missile destroyers, USS Mason and USS Bulkeley, Arabia until completion of the TSP embodiment programme.
This unique and highly cost-effective use of the peak throughput, a Tornado was delivered back to the RSAF every facility enabled both destroyers to stay in drydock until the end of 12 working days, all on schedule.
Concurrently, 29 additional April 2012 for routine maintenance and modifications.
aircraft underwent major maintenance under this complex and technically challenging combined maintenance and upgrade package.
See page 15 for more information on the Groups Programme Execution KPI and thousands of suppliers who share our values.
The Group buys a wide range of major equipment, services, materials 2,200 are small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs.
and components that contribute to the products and services it BAESystems has a strong interest in supporting the SME sector provides to customers, and it depends on its suppliers to help it andpromoting innovation by investing in their businesses where deliver these both on time and to a high quality, and to provide appropriate.
Many play a key role in the Groups business by innovative, cost-effective solutions.
The Group expects these supplying unique goods and expertise.
In turn, they benefit from suppliers to work to the same or equivalent standards as access to new markets and the financial security inherent in the BAESystems on issues ranging from responsible trading and ethical long-term nature of many of the Groups projects.
conduct to health and safety, and encourages them to adopt BAE Systems is a founding member of the ADS Groups Aerospace, sustainable environmental best practices.
Defence, Security and Space industries association 21st Century In the UK, the Group is the largest manufacturer and provider of Supply Chains SC21 programme designed to improve efficiency in complex military and security equipment and technology.
It works the UK aerospace, defence, security and space supply chains.
with approximately 7,500 UK suppliers, of which approximately BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 21 OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED 1 2 3 4 TOP TEN CONTRACTOR TO THE US OUR MARKETS DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE BAE Systems is a top ten US defence contractor, offering a balanced Our business model portfolio of products and services See page 17 in defence, aerospace and security domains, including the operational support of equipment used around the world by US forces and their allies.
US 34,500 1 EMPLOYEES AN INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS POSITIONS IN FIVE HOME MARKETS WITH EXPORT OPPORTUNITIES Today, our business is based around five home markets the US, the UK, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Australia and India.
Established positions in five home markets... OUR MARKETS BAE Systems has a broad geographic base with business operations Top 10 defence markets accessible for business by the Group in five home markets around the world, in the US, the UK, the $bn Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Australia and India.
These home markets 800 are identified as having a significant and sustained commitment to 700 687.6 defence and security.
They are countries that welcome foreign 600 investment to develop and sustain a domestic defence industrial 500 capability, building long-term and trusted customer relationships.
400 Importantly, they are also markets where BAE Systems can achieve 300 and demonstrate high standards of business conduct.
200 100 59.6 58.5 58.4 46.9 43.9 36.2 34.7 28.3 27.2 0 Q Home markets Q Overseas Contingency Operations budget Source: BAE Systems internal analysis based on 2011 total defence expenditure BAE Systems is an established part of the defence industrial capability in the US, the UK, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia where its principal operations are based, and continues to develop its position in India, the Groups newest home market.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
22 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 US UK France Japan Saudi Arabia Germany Brazil India Republic of Korea Australia Strategic review LARGEST SUPPLIER TO THE UK MINISTRY OF DEFENCE SUPPLIER TO THE INDIAN MINISTRY OF DEFENCE BAE Systems plays a vital role in the UKs India continues to develop as a home defence capabilities across air, maritime and market.
BAE Systems is investing in its land platforms, including military and technical presence through technology sharing and service contracts.
BAE Systems also plays a key inward investment in this growing defence role in security and intelligence with customers and security market.
in both government and commercial markets.
UK 32,800 1 EMPLOYEES INDIA 200 1 KINGDOM OF EMPLOYEES SAUDI ARABIA LARGEST IN-COUNTRY DEFENCE SUPPLIER 5,900 1 EMPLOYEES In Australia, BAE Systems supplies leading capability across air defence, land combat systems, naval systems and security.
LEADING IN-COUNTRY DEFENCE SUPPLIER BAE Systems is a leading in-country defence supplier, supporting the AUSTRALIA operational capability of the Royal Saudi 5,500 air and naval forces, and investing in the 1 EMPLOYEES development of Saudi indigenous defence capabilities.... delivering a broadly-based business portfolio...... with export opportunities in growth markets.
1 1 Sales by home market Non-US and UK funded order intake % bn Q US 12 39 8 11.2 Q UK 7 Q Saudi Arabia 10 Q Australia 8 Q Other 13 6 4.8 4.3 4 33 2 0 10 11 12 With near-term budget pressures in some markets, the Groups broad BAE Systems has a strong international market presence with geographic base provides a resilient business portfolio.
well-established relationships, supported by regional offices.
The Groups strategy continues to focus on the importance of winning international business, where growth markets remain.
Success in these international defence and security markets is evident in the 1 increasing order intake in markets outside the US and UK.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 23 OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED OUR BUSINESSES OUTSTANDING CAPABILITIES The Group has five Electronic Systems Cyber & Intelligence principal reporting segments which align Electronic Systems has advanced Cyber & Intelligence comprises governmenttechnology, high integrity electronics focused intelligence-based services, and with the Groups capabilities with a large portfolio of government and commercial cybersecurity annually-funded contracts, and significant activities.
Group-funded research and development include IT-based services and the provision invested in the business.
of analysts and analysis-based services.
Cybersecurity activities include product Electronic Combat combines the Electronic provision, service output and consulting Protection, Electronic Warfare and Electronic contracts.
Attack product lines, and provides a depth of capability in integrated electromagnetic Intelligence & Security delivers a broad systems for airborne applications.
range of services, including IT, cybersecurity and intelligence analysis to enable the US Survivability & Targeting includes situational military and government to recognise, awareness, targeting and survivability manage and defeat threats.
systems, such as electro-optic sensor products, guidance systems, handheld The business delivers: targeting and infrared countermeasures cost-effective IT solutions that solve systems for soldiers and vehicles.
complex problems of collaboration and security for the US national security Communications & Control has a strong community: footing in radio frequency communication real-time threat assessments that rapidly and datalinks, and provides military aircraft inform critical security actions: and controls and displays, together with platform automated, efficient and reliable integration capabilities.
intelligence processing, data Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance management systems and imagery ISR addresses the market for airborne mapping tools for the US intelligence and persistent surveillance, identification defence communities.
systems, signals intelligence and space BAE Systems Detica collects, manages products.
and exploits information to enable Commercial Aircraft electronics addresses government and commercial clients to the commercial aircraft electronics market, reveal intelligence, maintain security, including fly-by-wire flight controls, full optimise performance and manage risk.
authority digital engine controls, cockpit Alongside its secure government-focused controls, head-up displays, cabin activities, the business is a supplier of management systems and power information assurance products and management systems.
services to the financial services and telecommunications sectors.
Primary HybriDrive propulsion delivers power and operations are in the UK, Denmark, Ireland energy management solutions, including and the US.
A STRONG PORTFOLIO OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 1, 2, 3 Sales by reporting segment % KPI Q Electronic Systems 14 Q Cyber & Intelligence 8 Q Platforms & Services US 22 Q Platforms & Services UK 25 Q Platforms & Services International 31 1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Before elimination of intra-group sales.
See page 56 for more information See page 60 for more information 24 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Strategic review 1 2 3 4 Our business model See page 17 Platforms & Services US Platforms & Services UK Platforms & Services International Platforms & Services US comprises the Platforms & Services UK is the focus for the Platforms & Services International Land & Armaments business which Groups UK prime contracting platform and comprises businesses in Saudi Arabia, includes a range of funded development systems integration contracts, with a large Australia, India and Oman, as well as a activity and fixed-price production and order backlog of multi-year development, 37.5% shareholding in MBDA.
services contracts, and US-based services, production and services contracts.
In Saudi Arabia, the business provides sustainment and systems integration Military Air & Information includes operational capability support to the activities which may be contracted over programmes for the production of Typhoon countrys air and naval forces on multi-year arrangements.
combat and Hawk trainer aircraft, F-35 UK Saudi  Support Solutions is a major supplier of Lightning II fuselage and empennage contracts.
Contracts, such as the Saudi ship repair services to the US Navy and manufacture, support for Typhoon, Tornado British Defence Co-operation Programme, complex munitions facilities management and Hawk aircraft, and development of nexttend to be multi-year and fixed price.
for the Holston and Radford facilities.
Other generation Unmanned Air Systems and In Australia, the business delivers support activities in the US include fixed defence information systems, such as the production, upgrade and support and rotary wing aircraft support services.
Falcon secure deployable communication programmes for the Australian government system.
Land & Armaments is engaged in the across the air, maritime and land domains.
design, development, production, support Maritime programmes include the Services contracts include the provision of and upgrade of armoured combat vehicles, manufacture of two new Queen Elizabeth support and upgrades.
Platforms contracts tactical wheeled vehicles, artillery systems, class aircraft carriers for the Royal Navy, the include naval ships, such as the Landing naval guns, missile launchers and Type 45 anti-air warfare destroyers and the Helicopter Dock programme for the Navy.
Astute class submarines, the design of the Contracts are often multi-year and fixed Successor submarine and Type 26 frigate, price.
Vehicle Systems focuses on the tracked, and in-service support.
wheeled and amphibious vehicle markets, In India, the Group continues to develop its servicing both US and international Combat Vehicles UK includes the software joint venture and build on its customers.
UK-based armoured vehicle and support long-standing relationship with Hindustan services business transferred from Land & Aeronautics Limited, which is Weapons Systems & Support focuses on Armaments on 1October 2012.
The manufacturing Hawk aircraft under licence weapons, munitions and field support principal programme is for the design and in India.
markets, servicing US, UK and international manufacture of 60 Terrier combat engineer customers.
Weapons include the The business is developing its position in vehicles for the British Army.
manufacture of artillery systems, such as the Oman, building on a long history of M777 howitzer, as well as naval guns and relationships with the Omani armed forces, missile launchers.
The business is the with resulting orders placed with the principal supplier of munitions to the British relevant reporting segments.
See page 64 for more information See page 68 for more information See page 72 for more information BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 25 OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED 1 2 3 4 OUR PEOPLE Our business model See page 17 INSPIRE AND DEVELOP...... OUR PEOPLE TO DRIVE OUR SUCCESS The Groups people strategy of through-career capability development and emphasis on high levels of employee engagement seeks to maximise the contribution 1 that its 88,200 strong workforce makes to the Total Performance of the business.
Continuous professional and personal development The people strategy enables every member of the team to fulfil their personal potential.
The success of this strategy is measured The Group has continued to demonstrate its commitment to the ultimately in the success of the business as a whole.
continuous professional and personal development of its workforce.
Development planning is supported by flexible training and education programmes that encourage a culture of lifelong Leadership development learning and help employees to develop their skills to maximise their potential.
The Group continues to focus on the development of its current In 2012, the Group continued to invest in learning programmes for and future leaders with structured global programmes linked to all employees that support its culture of responsible business Total Performance Leadership, an integrated performance conduct.
Extensive use is made of e-learning media, classroom management and leadership development framework.
In 2012, training and partnerships with academic institutions to provide leaders took part in development programmes designed to help development and learning offerings.
participants succeed as leaders and provide a strong talent pipeline to meet the demands of changing markets.
A common Sustaining and developing capability relies on developing the Management Resource Review, which includes succession and existing workforce and hiring talented people to meet current and development planning, is conducted at Group and business level.
Developing current and future leaders...... recruiting talented people... Group development programmes complement business activities, Veterans of the armed services are an important source of talent for such as the Mustakbal Management Development Programme for the business.
In the US, for example, GI Jobs Magazine rated Saudi nationals, supporting the future sustainment of leadership BAESystems in its top 100 list of military friendly employers.
talent in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
26 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 26 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Strategic review Employee engagement Education and early careers programmes The Group recognises the importance of engaging its employees The Group works with the education sectors in each of its home to help them make their fullest contribution to the business.
markets to help shape the workforce of the future with a particular Through a variety of media, the Groups leadership seeks to listen emphasis on encouraging young people to pursue careers in to employees views and opinions, and keep them informed about science, technology, engineering and mathematics.
developments and prospects for the business.
In 2012, there In the US, BAE Systems is partnering with the National Math and was more frequent use of leadership blogs and other e-enabled Science Initiative to support the development of science, communication channels.
technology, engineering and maths curricula to engage young A major focus for engagement has been the fostering of a more students, with the goal of inspiring them to become future diverse and inclusive working environment.
programmes have been produced to assist leaders in engaging In the UK, the Group has teamed with the Royal Air Force in staging further with their teams and demonstrating the contribution that a Schools Road Show, taking a theatre-based class to over 250 each individual can make to the success of the Group.
schools, engaging 25,000 pupils in 2012 about careers in When redundancies have been necessary to align with customer engineering.
requirements for products and services, management works with In Saudi Arabia, BAE Systems has established a University employees, trade unions, and local and national bodies to Collaboration Agreement with King Saud University in Riyadh, mitigate the impact on people and communities affected.
under which it will sponsor 30 engineering undergraduates.
In Australia, the business sponsors school pupils to participate in the FIRST For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology LEGO League and FIRST Robotics Competition, both aimed at encouraging more young people to engage in science, technology, engineering and maths.
In India, BAE Systems has entered into a long-term partnership agreement with Smile Foundation, a national level development organisation with an outreach of over 200,000 underprivileged children, women and youth across 25 states.
The partnership enables the Group to support development programmes in the areas of primary education and healthcare.... improving engagement...... and investing in the future.
In 2012, the Group piloted the use of the Great Place to Work Trust During 2012, the Group recruited 650 people globally to join its Index with sample surveys in each of the home markets.
The Great apprenticeship and graduate programmes to enrich its future Place to Work Institute is a globally recognised organisation that workforce, some of whom may potentially form part of its future identifies, creates and sustains great workplaces, and provides a leadership population.
benchmark measure that supports the Groups ambition to maximise employee engagement and contribution.
See Corporate responsibility review on page 39 for more information See pages59 to 75 for more information on how the Groups reporting segments are inspiring and developing our people BAE Systems Annual Repor BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 t 2012 27 27 Most people dont see a cyber attack until its too late.
We are not most people Understanding and counteracting illegal cyber activities is crucial in preventing future cyber attacks and helping law enforcement professionals locate cyber criminals.
Digital forensics is the process of collecting physical evidence from a digital device.
Digital forensic analysis requires systematic processing, documentation and strict adherence to the chain-of-custody process.
As technology continues to advance, so do the techniques used by the digital forensic experts at BAE Systems.
Digital forensic professionals stay ahead of the proliferation of new operating systems, software applications and mobile devices.
28 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Group performance review GROUP PERFORMANCE REVIEW In this section: Financial Performance 30 Corporate responsibility review 39 Risk management 44 Principal risks 46 This section provides a commentary on the Groups financial and non-financial performance, and its approach to the management of corporate responsibility and risk.
