Our Business Our Business | Operating Review | Infrastructure Investments Infrastructure Investments How are we performing?
Having created significant value through 1 nancing and developing greeneld Revenue including JVs and associates infrastructure assets, we have also been successful in managing our portfolio 16% more actively generating additional 2012 636m cash from disposalsand reinvesting in 2011 756m areas thatalign with the Groups target 2010 682m geographies and market sectors.
Pre-tax result before What do we do?
1,2 non-underlying items t Operate a UK portfolio of PPP concessions, mainly in education, health, roads street lighting, renewables and student accommodation t Operate a US portfolio of military housing and student accommodation 37% PPP concessions 2012 97m Whats happened?
2011 71m t Leveraged US military housing experience to establish a student accommodation portfolio in US and UK 2010 30m t Made significant progress in UK waste and energy projects t Successfully disposed of two assets, achieving 84 million of proceeds and gains of 52 million Divisional KPI t Completed first round of fundraising for managed investment fund Directors valuation While there are numerous factors that Whats next?
contribute to the movement in the year, t Continue to make progress in new geographies such as Canada, Directors valuation of our investments India and Australia isagood indicator of the value we create inour portfolio.
The Directors valuation t Deliver sustainable returns on our investments through the continuation was 734 million at year end despite the ofour disposal programme disposal of two assets in 2012. t Achieve financial close on the six projects where we are currently preferredbidder 1% 2012 734m 2011 743m 2010 671m 1 Including subordinated debt interest income and netinterest income from PPP subsidiaries seeNotes 6 and 7.
2 Re-presented to reect the classication of BarkingPower Ltd as a discontinued operation from2 March 2011.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41 Our Business | Operating Review | Infrastructure Investments Our strategy Although the family housing programme Our strategy is to earn fees and returns isin its final stages, we anticipate new bynancing and developing greeneld opportunities in single soldier housing assets.
In line with the Groups focus, we over the next few years.
Meanwhile, the invest principally in infrastructure assets, skills we have accumulated are bearing and in geographies where the Group has fruit in the wider PPP market for apresence.
We integrate capabilities from instance, our student accommodation across the Group and with the knowledge business is confident of growth across and skills available to us, we believe we theUS.
can make investments that deliver PPP is beginning to be used more widely superior returns.
as a procurement model for US economic We are diversifying our investment infrastructure projects, and our investment activity to align with the Groups target team has been collaborating with our We made significant market sectors and broaden into regions USconstruction business to identify outside the UK and US.
We see potential attractive projects.
progress in the year in transportation, social infrastructure and towards diversifying In Canada, where there is an established renewables such as offshore transmission PPP market along similar lines to the UKs, our activities into and energy-from-waste: and we also want we have established ofces in Toronto todevelop the business in the Groups new sectors and and Vancouver to address the growing target geographies such as Canada, new geographies, opportunities in social and economic Indiaand Australia.
reducing the Two years ago we announced our businesss reliance Rest of the world intention to recycle our portfolio actively In addition to Canada, we see Australia, on PFI in the UK and and reinvest the capital in new projects.
India and potentially Brazil, as exciting These more regular asset disposals military housing in markets where investment activity can release some of the accumulated value the US.
support the Groups growth strategy.
inour portfolio, generating additional Ian Rylatt income and cash for the Group.
In 2012 Investment management business Chief Executive officer, we decided to accelerate the disposal In November 2010 we announced plans Infrastructure Investments programme for the 20132015 period toset up an investment management tobenet from favourable conditions, business.
Our objective was to leverage namely the portfolios good growth our capabilities into greater pools of trajectory, an active secondary market capital, earning both a return on our andconsiderable opportunity to make capitaland advisory fees.
We launched this business, Balfour Beatty Number of homes that the Our marketplace Infrastructure Partners BBIP, in 2011 Gloucestershire residual waste UK with the appointment of four fund project is expected to power Following a UK Government review begun management experts.
Since then they in 2010, the PFI model was relaunched as have worked on obtaining the relevant PF2 in December 2012.
The new model registrations, establishing a presence tackles the issues of lifecycle costs and inLondon and New York, identifying 55m transparency with modest but effective investors and pursuing the initial assets modications.
We are now awaiting new forthe fund to invest in.
Investments made in 2012 investment opportunities coming to In January 2013 the BBIP fund reached market under the new model.
first close with US$317 million of Regardless of the development of this commitments, of which Balfour Beatty model, there are numerous opportunities has committed US$110 million.
In for investment in a range of economic and February 2013, the commitments social infrastructure projects including increased to US$420 million and waste, student accommodation and subsequent levels of close are expected offshore transmission assets.
In Scotland, during 2013, ultimately reducing the our focus is mainly on roads and Groups share in the fund to around 10%.
healthcare through the Non-profit Drawdowns will depend on the timing of Distribution NPD programme.
investments by the fund, but we expect our commitment to be invested over the There is also an active secondary market next three to four years.
to accommodate our disposal strategy, focused on our mature UK PFI assets.
We The BBIP fund will make investments in had considerable success in the disposal predominantly browneld operational of two assets in 2012 and expect the assets in its key target sectors of market to remain conducive to further transport, energy and utilities across disposals in the near future.
theUK, Europe and North America.
North America Financial performance In the US we are the largest and most Infrastructure Investments showed successful provider of housing to US asignicant increase in profit with military personnel and their families.
underlying pre-tax profit up to 97 million 42 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Business Our Business | Operating Review | Infrastructure Investments 2011: 71 million.
This increase was wereappointed preferred bidder for We are preferred bidder for three other driven by disposal gains increasing from theUniversity of Edinburghs Holyrood USstudent accommodation projects on 20 million in 2011 to 52 million in 2012, postgraduate student accommodation anon-PPP basis, and in contention for with the profits on the targeted disposals andoutreach centre project.
This was aPPP detention centre project.
not only signicantly ahead of their value followed by another success in February Putting our developer skills together with in the Directors valuation, but also ahead 2013, when we announced our preferred the Groups rail and professional services of our expectations.
UK PPP profits were bidder appointment for the Aberystwyth expertise, we strengthened our bidding down 1 million, principally because of the University student accommodation resources in Canada to address the profits foregone from disposed assets.
We are also making significant growth in the transportation sector which Bidding costs and overheads increased progress in this market in the US, giving is anticipated in a number of provinces.
us an opportunity to share learning and best practice across geographies for the Rest of the world Operational performance benefit of our clients.
Over the past few years we have been The Investments division has had another developing our capability in the waste excellent year operationally.
We made North America sector in the UK which we are applying investments totalling 55 million into our In military housing, we achieved financial tonew opportunities in Australia.
We are projects while laying the groundwork to close on the US$362m Western Group now actively developing a biomass power expand the business into new sectors and continue to make progress with our project there which is the first in a pipeline andgeographies.
preferred bidder positions on Northern of similar opportunities which we are Group and ACC Group III.
Sustainability remained an integral part 12 months we have built over 650 new ofour business in 2012.
Following the In India we continue to bid on a number homes and renovated 960 homes on announcement that we were chosen ofpower transmission projects working 20military bases across the US.
tobuild the largest solar powered inpartnership with Tata Projects.
community in the US at Fort Bliss military We remain committed to developing and Looking forward base, our US military housing division managing residential communities that We made significant progress in the year showcased a sustainability initiative, maximise value for both our partners and towards diversifying our activities into Switch4Good, at the prestigious White residents and increasingly that value is new sectors and new geographies, House-sponsored Energy Datapalooza focused on sustainability.
reducing our reliance on PFI in the UK which is designed to reduce community In 2012, in the student accommodation andmilitary housing in the US.
We see energy consumption see case market, we signed a development significant opportunity to develop the studybelow.
agreement with Lake Forest College for model further.
UK Energy-from-waste and waste treatment are growth segments we have been targeting in the last two years.
In 2012 Switching Fort Bliss on to solar wewon the Essex Waste Partnerships The largest single energy consumer in the US is the Defense residual waste treatment contract in joint Department.
And withour help it aims to meet 25% of its energy venture with Urbaser.
Once operational, the facility will treat up to 417,000 tonnes needs renewably by 2025. of municipal waste a year.
It will At Fort Bliss in Texas we are creating theworlds largest solar powered community incorporate a visitor and education centre by placing 13.2MW of solar power across 4,700 rooftops.
When we have nished, for the benefit of thelocal community.
sunshine will produce up to 26% of the communitys electricity needs.
The US Army Gloucestershire residual waste project, aims to make FortBliss a net zero installation, producing as much energy as it our second joint venture with Urbaser, uses, and we are its sole net zero partner formilitary housing.
reached financial close in February 2013.
This 28-year PPP project involves the design, build and operation of an energyfrom-waste facility for Gloucestershire County Council.
This will divert over 91% of Gloucestershires residual municipal waste from landll and generate an estimated 116,000MW hours of electricity annually enough to power more than 25,000 homes.
In the offshore wind development market, where Transitional Round 1 of built farms has been completed, we are preferred bidder for two of the largest Offshore Transmission Owner OFTO projects, Thanet and Greater Gabbard.
We are currently bidding for Gwynt y Mor OFTO in Transitional Round 2.
We have established our position in the student accommodation market over the past 12 months having been successful on two projects.
In August 2012 we Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43
