Our Governance | Board of Directors Board of Directors 8 10 5 7 6 11 4 3 1 2 9 non-executive director of VT Group.
He is Hespent 13 years at Exel in a number of Chairman and president of Construction Industry Relief, senior finance roles in both the UK and executive Directors Assistance and Support for the Homeless US, latterly as director of investor relations 1 Steve Marshall Ltd, the construction and property and financial strategy.
Prior to this he Non-executive Chairman industry charity for the homeless, and worked at Price Waterhouse.
Appointed a Director in 2005 chairman of governors of Woldingham non-executive director of Brammer plc andChairman in May 2008.
and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered non-executive chairman of Wincanton plc Accountants.
3 Andrew McNaughton and a non-executive director of Halma Deputy Chief Executive & 5 Peter Zinkin p. l. c. He is a former chairman of Delta, Chief Operating officer Planning and Development Director Torex Retail and Queens Moat Houses.
Appointed to the Board as Chief Age 59.
Joined the Group in 1981 and He was chief executive of Thorn and of Operating officer in 2009, he additionally became Planning and Development Railtrack Group, having also served as assumed the role of Deputy Chief Director in 1991 after a series of senior group finance director at each company.
He joined Balfour positions in the finance function.
He is His earlier career included a wide range Beatty in 1997, having spent 12 years with responsible for the Groups merger, ofcorporate and operational roles at the Kier Group, and held the position of acquisition and divestment activities Grand Metropolitan, Black & Decker, managing director of Balfour Beatty Civil aswell as the development of Group BOCand Burton Group.
He is a Engineering from 2004 to 2007, when he strategy.
Previously, he worked at the Fellowofthe Chartered Institute became Group managing director with London Business School and UMIST.
responsibility for civil engineering in the Heis a governor of Birkbeck College, 2 Ian Tyler UK and the Groups interests in the Middle University of London.
He is a Fellow of the Institution of Age 52.
A Director since 1999, he became Civil Engineers, a Liveryman in the Non-executive Directors Chief Executive in January 2005, having Worshipful Company of Engineers and 6 Robert Amen been Chief Operating officer since avice-president of the Institution of Non-executive Director 2002and prior to that, Finance Director.
He joined Balfour Beatty in 1996 from Until 2009, he was chairman and chief 4 Duncan Magrath theHanson Group where he was finance executive officer of International Flavors Chief Financial officer director of ARC, one of its principal &Fragrances Inc IFF.
Appointed to the Board in 2008. subsidiaries.
He is a non-executive IFF in 2006, he spent over 25 years at He joined Balfour Beatty in 2006 as director of Cable & Wireless International Paper Company in a deputy finance director from Exel.
Communications Plc and a former 64 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Governance Our Governance | Board of Directors succession of roles culminating in his Heis also chairman of Wilton Park, main board of Linde AG, the worldwide appointment as president and member anindependent and non-profit making producer and supplier of industrial and ofthe board.
He was also a director of Executive Agency of the British Foreign medical gases.
He was previously a Wyeth, the US pharmaceutical and and Commonwealth Ofce and lead member of the European management healthcare company, until its acquisition independent director at the Department board of Whirlpool Europe and was by Pzer in October 2009.
He is a for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.
alsochairman of its German operating non-executive director of New Page He was formerly a non-executive director company, and has previously held Corporation, a US manufacturer of of Sygen International.
non-executive directorships in the UK for coatedpapers, and currently serves as Wassall and Thorn Lighting Group.
He is 9 Maureen Kempston Darkes  at Columbia currently chairman of the supervisory Non-executive Director Business School.
boards of Eckelmann and Bauknecht Age 64.
Hausgeraete, deputy chairman of United 7 Mike Donovan She joined General Motors Corporation in Power Technology and an advisory board Non-executive Director 1975 and held a number of progressively member of Kepler Capital Market Age 59.
He senior roles during her time with the Investment Bank.
was chief operating officer of Marconi business, culminating in her appointment from 2001 to 2005.
Prior to that, he was as group vice-president for General 11 Graham Roberts chief executive officer of Marconi Motors Latin America, Africa and Non-executive Director Systems and was previously responsible MiddleEast operations.
Appointed a Director in 2009. for managing major divisions of British General Motors in 2009.
She has a Heis chief executive of Assura Group, a Aerospace, Vickers and the Rover Group.
portfolio of non-executive directorships UK primary healthcare property company including Brookeld Asset Management, and was formerly finance director of The 8 Iain Ferguson CBE Bridgepoint Health Foundation, Enbridge British Land Company between 2002 and Senior Independent Director Inc, Irving Oil Company and Canadian 2011.
Prior to that, he spent eight years at Age 57.
Andersen, latterly as a partner specialising Until 2009, he was chief executive of in the real estate and government services Tate& Lyle.
Prior to joining Tate & Lyle 10 Hubertus Krossa sectors.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of in2003, he spent 26 years at Unilever in Non-executive Director Chartered Accountants.
asuccession of roles culminating in his Age 65.
Appointed a Director in 2008. appointment as senior vice-president, Until 2008, he was chief executive officer corporate development.
He is nonof KION Group, a leading international executive chairman of Berendsen plc and material handling equipment manufacturer.
a non-executive director of Greggs plc.
Prior to that, he spent seven years on the Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 65
