Our Business | Our Strategy Strategic Imperative 1 Our Strategy Grow in New Having built a world class Geographies and infrastructure business with global Market Sectors reach, we now aim to sustain this We are already one of the largest and grow it into new areas.
global infrastructure players, but the growth opportunities in our traditional UK and US markets are currently limited.
To achieve further growth we are looking to increase our footprint Over the past 18 months we have been working tofaster growing geographies and sectors.
We already have a significant toimplement the strategy for growth, based on presence in the Middle East and Asia: applying our knowledge across the lifecycle of now we are looking to expand our infrastructure assets and harnessing the broad reach further into other growth economies Australia and Canada, platform that we have evolved around the world where we already have a presence todeliver greater value to infrastructure owners through Professional Services, and around the world.
South Africa, India and Brazil and intensify our focus on the buoyant Our vision is to become a truly global organisation, recognised transport, power and energy, water asone of the worlds leading infrastructure businesses and andmining sectors.
acclaimed for the quality of service that we deliver to our clients.
The end-to-end knowledge that we have accumulated across In 2012, we have seen progress in thewhole infrastructure lifecycle differentiates us from our these areas in line with our expectations.
competition, which, added to our strength as an asset owner, willallow us to build relationships with, and offer leading servicesto clients.
Our clients are predominantly local or national organisations that own assets in a single market sector and rarely venture across borders.
We recognise that we are at our best when we are involved with creating assets which are critical tothe delivery ofthe service our clients provide in their community, and we are Key Performance Indicators adapting our business to better support our clients in this respect.
Ian Tyler has positioned our business to take advantage ofthe opportunities we have in new growth markets.
63 % Over the next few years I will continue to pursue Group order book in target market our strategy, which is built around operating across sectors transport, power and energy, the lifecycle of infrastructure assets andfocuses water, mining as Group % 2011: 59% on key geographies and market sectors.
Now isthetime to inject even more pace into our strategic development.
48% 1 Revenue from target market sectors transport, power and energy, water, mining as Group % 2011: 48% 14% Andrew McNaughton 1 Revenue from higher growth Deputy Chief Executive markets outside Europe and North and Chief Operating officer America as Group % 2011: 12% 1 Including joint ventures and associates.
Risk Economic environment Expansion into new territories and by acquisition Legal and regulatory Key to risk: Bidding Increased risk No change to risk Strategic Imperatives p16 Risk p58 12 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Business Our Business | Our Strategy Strategic Imperative 2 Strategic Imperative 3 Strategic Imperative 4 Deliver Greater Improve Operational Continue to Show Value to Clients Performance and Leadership in Values Cost Effectiveness and Behaviour We deliver greater value to clients byleveraging our end-to-end asset In recent years, our unique breadth To be recognised as a global leader in knowledge.
This allows us to better ofcapabilities and geographical reach infrastructure services we continue to understand our clients own strategic hasbeen a result of a sustained period focus on securing a sustainable, long objectives and contribute through the ofexpansion including a number of term future for the Group and providing infrastructure solutions we create.
In 2012, a legacy within the communities in Itenables us to develop infrastructure recognising the more difficult which we serve.
We must also be solutions that are better value, better macroeconomic conditions, we focused aleader in areas such as business quality and faster and safer to create on generating efficiencies across all ethics, talent management, safety andmaintain.
It means we can offer ouroperations and back ofce support andthe environment.
afullrange of services from finance functions to ensure we operate as anddevelopment, through design and The safety of our people and everyone efficiently and as profitably as possible.
project management to construction we come into contact with remains a andmaintenance.
We aim to increase Group operating key imperative and is embedded across margin to a level of 3.54% by 2015 our business.
However, whilst most Every year, Roads and Bridges magazine mainly through better utilisation of areas of the business improved in inthe US surveys 10,000 government resources, efficiency savings and relation to safety performance in 2012, ofcials and asks them which design rm improved business mix.
we still have progress to make and they prefer to work with.
In the industry, ourZero Harm activity has been this is called the Go-To List.
Our cost reduction programmes remain reinvigorated for 2013. on course, but margin progress in 2012 While they only cover our professional was hindered by difficult market We have challenged ourselves to services business, these rankings are a conditions in our traditional UK and US reduce our impact on the environment.
good example of the strength of our track markets and 2013 is expected to be In 2012, we made good headway in record and reputation with our clients.
We also experienced water and waste, but our target to operational issues in some areas of the reduce CO2 emissions made little business which hindered progress.
progress due to the mix of energy intensive projects we have worked on.
Go-To List rankings for Key Performance Indicators Key Performance Indicators Parsons Brinckerhoff 2.8% 6% No.
1 1,2 Group operating margin Accident Frequency Rate decreased In the Road & Highway and 2011: 3.0% by 6% to 0.16% 2011: AFR 0.17% Airport categories 2011: No.
2 Achieved in cost efficiencies Greenhouse gas emissions In the Bridge and Mass Transit by the end of 2012 2011: 15m reduced by13% categories 2011: No.
3 In the Design-Build category 2011: No.
4 55 awards During 2012 the Group received 55awards from customers and industrybodies in recognition of its achievements 2011: 29 Risk Risk Risk Bidding Economic environment Legal and regulatory Project execution Bidding Business conduct Health, safety and sustainability Project execution People Health, safety and sustainability Project execution Health, safety and sustainability Strategic Imperatives p20 Strategic Imperatives p21 Strategic Imperatives p23 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
