Our Business | Operating Review | Construction Services Construction Services How are we performing?
In the face of difficult construction markets, the restructuring of our UK Order book and US operations is increasing cost efficiency, agility and collaboration 6% while positioning us toleverage our 2012 8.0bn capabilities more effectively into our 2011 8.5bn target market sectors.
t Civil and ground engineering Revenue including JVs and associates t Rail engineering t Building 1% t Refurbishment and t-out t Mechanical and electrical services 2012 6,959m 2011 7,050m Whats happened?
2010 6,734m t Construction profit decline for the second year in a row t UK and US organisations streamlined and restructured t Target run rate achieved for Phase 1 of cost efficiency programme profit before non-underlying items t US business recognised as a national leader in sustainable construction, withgreen sales of over US$2 billion as well as ranking #85 in Fortune magazines 100 Best Companies to Work For list 28% t 28 health and safety awards won in the UK business t Major wins for Hong Kong business, including biggest solo contract 2012 122m 2011 169m Whats next?
2010 201m t Focus on cost and risk management in difficult trading conditions in the UK t Grow in healthcare, mission critical and multi-family housing and expand water expertise across our whole US footprint Divisional KPI t Capitalise on the increasing number of design-build and PPP opportunities in the US Secured orders and ABNC t Develop a vertically integrated rail capability in growth markets while realising as % of revenue value from our Mainland European rail businesses The secured order book and the awarded but not contracted orders ABNC are t Continue implementing Phase 2 of cost efficiency programme leading indicators of future revenue.
Good pipeline in the US and Hong Kong has offset weaker orders in the UK in 2012.
3% 2012 174% 2011 177% 2010 188% 32 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Business Our Business | Operating Review | Construction Services Our strategy thecurrent inadequate infrastructure, The strength of our construction business andfunding looked more likely to be lies in our ability to integrate and manage forthcoming since it would come from local supply chains to deliver projects theregulated industry.
But Government onbudget and on time.
Historically, our delays in clarifying key elements of energy proposition to clients has been to deliver policy, such as carbon pricing and strike speed, quality and low cost: today we are prices, caused utility companies to defer differentiating ourselves on the basis of investment decisions.
innovation and leveraging capability across Towards the end of the year market the Group.
conditions were further depressed by Our asset knowledge across the Group is thegrowing financial strains on the crucial in meeting the complex needs of supplychain and subcontractors, infrastructure customers.
We see this, reducingour ability to negotiate terms As 2013 begins, we and our ability to deploy resources from with them that matched the terms our across the Group, as competitive clients were requiring.
see opportunities advantages that differentiate us from US in pockets of the ourpeers.
To this end, we have launched In the US, where more than 80% of US, such as the Group wide initiatives to aid collaboration.
ourbusiness is in building construction, As well as colocating operations in the Northwest and activity levels were depressed from same ofces, we are equipping them Houston, with private historical highs but stable.
withthe tools, processes and culture to investment returning support knowledge sharing and put our In civil infrastructure, some projects have strongest collective offering together for moved to the tender stage following the to the market.
long awaited approval of the Transportation Robert Van Cleave Bill.
Where these are procured on a As a fragmented industry, construction Chief Executive officer, PPPor design-build basis, our ability to has lagged behind other industries in Construction Services US combine our construction capability with developing innovative technologies.
Parsons Brinckerhoffs design capability Wesee tremendous opportunities to gives us competitive advantage.
differentiate ourselves as we innovate to reduce waste.
We believe it is possible As 2013 begins, we see opportunities in tocontrol waste through technology, pockets of the US, such as the Northwest processes andteaming.
Through and Houston, with private investment investment in technologies such as returning to the market.
Market segments Building Information Management BIM with the greatest promise are ofces, and offsite fabrication, we aim to be at healthcare, and mission critical.
We also theforefront ofinnovation in our industry.
see significant opportunities in the water sector and energy retrots, upgrading In markets that are extremely competitive, buildings to higher standards of particularly in the UK, we are making energyefciency.
particular efforts to enhance margins through cost efficiency programmes as Rail well as effective cost and risk management.
Conditions in our traditional rail markets inEurope have been challenging.
In Italy Our marketplace and Spain, activity levels have reached a UK critically low level.
In Germany and the UK In 2012 the Governments public intense competition has driven increasing expenditure cuts and the financial commoditisation.
However, we continue constraints generally in the UK economy to see attractive opportunities in the major hit the construction sector hard.
As we signalling and electrication projects that completed projects won as early as we deliver internationally.
2008, it became increasingly difficult to replenish the order book with equally large The US rail transit market continues to projects.
Social infrastructure spending trend towards design-build procurement onschools and hospitals reduced for large, complex projects.
We are well considerably: and while the commercial positioned to combine the Groups property market fared reasonably well services and serve as a one-stop partner inLondon, it agged in the rest of the for clients seeking to design, build, country.
Some of the transportation operate, maintain and finance projects.
projects that had been ringfenced from International the cuts, notably Crossrail, were tendered In Hong Kong, the market has been in smaller pieces making them less buoyed by a strong programme of suitable for applying significant innovation government spending on both to reduce overall cost, but accessible to transportation infrastructure and more bidders.
Spending on power generation plants had The Dubai market has stabilised, been seen as one area of likely growth: andisnow showing some signs of there is a clear need for investment in improvement.
We also see opportunities Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33 Our Business | Operating Review | Construction Services in the Middle East for our mechanical Construction Services saw the centralised support functions.
anticipatedreduction in profitability with model, operational from January 2013, underlying operating profit at 122 million consists ofstreams for: Financial performance 2011:169 million.
There was a drop in The construction order book nished the t Major infrastructure focused on profits in US construction as a result of year at 8.0 billion, down 6% from a year complex projects in key market sectors more competitive pricing in the market.
The most significant decrease was such as energy and transportation Inthe UK, whilst we benefited from inthe US, down 17% from the end of successfully completing some long term t Regional civil engineering and building 2011.
However, the awarded but not projects, wesaw overall profits reduce.
working through partnerships and contracted position has improved, keeping This was largely a consequence of lower frameworks to provide our strategic the overall pipeline broadly stable.
US margins inthe regional businesses as a customers with locally delivered, revenue was down by 1% on a like-for-like result oftightening markets and was exible and fully integrated civils basis and upby 8% including the exacerbated by delivery margins being andbuilding services contribution fromacquisitions.
t Regional mechanical and electrical In the UK the order book was up 1%: In the year, the profitability of our Mainland covering all sectors.
however, we have seen a significant shift European rail business weakened due to in the year from major works to smaller alow level ofactivity as well as one-off The new organisation is more agile, contracts, with the order book for the issues.
Wecontinue to believe that 2013 fosters collaboration within the regional building and civil business up will be adifcult year for Construction construction business as well as with 15% since the end of 2011 while the order Services notwithstanding the benets other divisions, and will ensure that we book for major construction work declined ofthe cost reductions we are achieving.
emerge from the current downturn in by 24%.
UK revenue was down by 6% UKconstruction as a more operationally Operational performance inthe year, with most of the decline efficient business.
Each stream is also UK occurring in the second half.
Based on organised to align with the Groups key Our UK construction business is very thisorder book prole, we expect stable market sectors, to aid global coordination diverse, serving multiple sectors and revenue in the US and a revenue decline with other geographies.
undertaking both regional and major of c. 20% in the UK in 2013.
In the rest national projects.
In 2012, westreamlined We made a good start to 2012 by winning ofthe world, Hong Kong has good and restructured the UK operations to one construction contracts in the commercial prospects, while the Mainland European business with three business streams sector worth 100 million.
On two of rail business will be adversely impacted tobetter integrate our service offering these schemes, a high percentage of byour impending divestments.
These streams will share thebuilding services engineering will So good, they made it an exhibit For its US$95 million new building, the Perot Museum ofNature and Science in Dallaswanted a shining example of modern technology with environmentally sustainable features.
It should inspire minds through nature and science and help revitalise the citys downtown economy.
Awardwinning architect Thom Maynes designcertainly met the brief and inannouncing Balfour Beatty as the chosen construction contractor, the museums CEO declared herself extremely excited to work with an internationally renowned rm with astellar reputation.
Well, the museum nowproudly displays an exhibit entitledBuilding the building.
34 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Business Our Business | Operating Review | Construction Services bedelivered using BIM and offsite California Chapter of the Construction prefabrication to reduce waste and Management Association of America.
TheJ Paul Leonard and Sutro Library at San Francisco State University won the Despite the investment delays in the DBIA-WPRs Project of the Year Award, power sector, we won several significant and the Wounded Warrior Headquarters projects.
In September, we were and Hope and Care Center at Marine selectedas one of two companies on Corps Base Camp Pendleton was a288million framework for construction, selected for a Merit Award.
These awards infrastructure and maintenance projects recognise teamwork, innovation and across all 10 sites operated by Magnox for problem solving in design-build delivery.
This work will complement a broad In 2009 we implemented an aggressive portfolio of multidisciplined activities, sustainability strategy highlighting the Our UK construction including the execution of major projects, economic, social, and environmental that we are already undertaking at benets of going green.
As a result, business is very licensed nuclear sites.
wewere ranked last year as one of the diverse, serving top five green contractors in the US with Our Investments division has reached multiple sectors and more than US$2 billion in revenue from financial close on the Essex Waste sustainable construction projects in 2011 undertaking both Partnerships residual waste treatment almost double the total we reported in regional and major and the Gloucestershire energy-from- 2010.
This growth has raised Balfour waste concessions.
We are the national projects.
4 on Engineering construction partner on both projects.
News-Records 2012 Top 100 Green In 2012, to better In a transportation market where large Contractors list.
integrate our service projects were scarce, we were awarded In September 2012, we took the next step offering to clients, along term contract, potentially worth in the evolution of our US construction we streamlined over 125 million, to manage and maintain operations by moving to a unied major trunk roads in the southwest of and restructured it operating model that allows us to better Scotland.
In January 2013 we were compete in, and lead, a changing industry.
into one business alsoawarded a 321 million design and The business was streamlined from five with three business construction contract to upgrade sections tothree regions: West, East, and Central.
of the M25 London orbital motorway for streams.
Also as part of this structural realignment, the Highways Agency.
Working as part we formed a national capability centre to Mike Peasland ofthe Connect Plus design, build, finance harness expertise, garner best practices Chief Executive officer, and operate contract which is responsible inthe eld, and deploy that knowledge Construction Services UK for the M25 and strategic arterial routes, across the national business in key areas our construction joint venture with such as research and development, Skanska will construct the infrastructure innovation, energy, sustainability, for Managed Motorways.
technology, public private partnership No.
1 In addition to these encouraging PPP and federal procurement.
businesswins, our UK construction Britains Most Admired As the US militarys Base Realignment business was also recognised for its Company in the Heavy and Closure Commission programme performance on anumber of fronts.
Construction Sector comes to a close, our US PPP business Ourcollaborative working practices has signed a US$362 million deal to woncertication to the new standard for design, build and renovate 3,268 military Collaborative Business Relationships from homes at four bases in California, the British Standard Institute, BS11000, No.
4 Wyoming, Montana and Missouri for the which acknowledges the importance of US Air Force.
The construction business Engineering News-Records collaboration in enhancing sustainable will undertake the new build elements 2012 Top 100 Green relationships, company competitiveness ofthe project.
Contractors list in the US and performance.
Since we acquired Fru-Con Construction Over the year we also received 28 awards in 2011 to leverage our local civil recognising our commitment to health infrastructure capabilities into the water andsafety from the Royal Society for the market, we have won approximately Prevention of Accidents.
And we were US$300 million in new works directly once again named Britains Most Admired related to our growth strategy.
These Company in the Heavy Construction include treatment plant projects in Sector by Management Today.
Baltimore, Maryland and Galveston, US Texas.
We plan to expand our successful For our US construction business, 2012 west coast and east coast water and was a year of significant successes if not wastewater business into areas of the a year of major project wins.
Three of our country where high population growth projects in California received industry isincreasing water demand.
We recently recognition from the Western Pacic won another project.
The Michelson Region of the Design-Build Institute of Wastewater Treatment Plant is a America DBIA-WPR and the Southern US$166.5 million project in joint venture Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35 Our Business | Operating Review | Construction Services with J. R. Filanc Construction Co. and is Through our joint venture with Tata significant in that it represents our ofcial Projects we are currently looking for entry into the Southern California water opportunities in rail infrastructure and and wastewater market.
In November we were named as best Rail value bidder, in a design-build joint venture The Rail business has had a mixed year.
with Fluor, for the Dallas Horseshoe Its financial performance was constrained project to upgrade and replace river by operational issues on a small number crossings in Dallas, Texas.
The Texas of projects in Mainland Europe, combined Department of Transportations TxDOT with low activity levels in Italy and Spain.
estimate for the design, construction, The operational and strategic review of utilities and right of way for the project our Mainland European railbusiness, isUS$798 million.
The project involves which we started in the fourth quarter, The Rail business has upgrading and replacing the I-30 and I-35E has concluded that maintaining a rail bridges and building additional lanes as had a mixed year.
Its presence in Mainland Europe is not well as the previously designed Margaret financial performance consistent with our strategy which calls McDermott bridges.
TxDOT opted for for building a strong local presence in was constrained by design-build delivery to shorten the ourgeographies in a number of market construction schedule and lower the operational issues sectors.
In Mainland Europe, we overall cost.
Parsons Brinckerhoffs on a small number of essentially operate only in rail.
Therefore, technical design and our US construction we will be divesting all of our Mainland projects in Mainland experience in design-build were crucial European rail businesses through a Europe, combined towinning the contract.
process that ensures that the businesses with low activity International and their customers continue to receive Our joint venture JV Gammon full support.
This decision has resulted levels in Italy and Construction continued to grow its inagoodwill write down amounting Spain.
But these business in Hong Kong and the wider to95 million.
As a first step in the factors were offset by region.
A string of significant contract divestment process, we have sold the considerable success awards provided convincing evidence Spanish business to its management ofthe growth potential in this market, postyear end.
in major international andwe broadened our business mix But these factors were offset by projects.
toembrace a greater number of considerable success in major international infrastructure projects in line with John Moore projects where we have a strong specialist theGroups key markets strategy.
Chief Executive officer, Rail position that we can combine with our Professional Services divisions design In March 2012, Gammon was awarded a capability to differentiate our offering.
HK$6.2 billion 507 million development contract at Hong Kong International A good example is the signalling Airport the biggest solo contract it contractwe won in joint venture with hasever won.
Ourrole in the contract integrates signalling In June Gammon also won the contract installation with programme management tobuild an extension to one of the worlds services from Parsons Brinckerhoff.
greenest science parks a project that willtarget the Leadership in Energy In the US we made significant progress andEnvironmental Design LEED with the design, procurement and utility Platinum standard.
relocations on the Eagle P3 commuter rail project in Denver.
Civil work is ongoing In December Gammon won a contract to throughout the project and systems work work on a major section of the new Shatin is ramping up.
Our performance to date to Central Link rail project in joint venture has led to an extension of our involvement with Kaden Construction.
Through the end of 2012 testament to the strength of its relationship our joint venture has reached 30% with Hong Kong mass transit operator completion and received US$233 million MTR, for whom it has delivered numerous in executed change orders, with a large projects.
four-month extension agreed due to In Dubai our JV delivered the Dubai Mall added scope on the East Corridor.
metro link ahead of schedule.
The Looking forward business also won a significant contract Over the medium term, our construction toinstall the electrical, ventilation, air businesses are positioned in their conditioning, plumbing and re protection respective markets as market leaders with systems in the new airport concourse local presence and a good track record facility that will also include new aircraft stands and passenger boarding lounges.
As the current restructuring and cost efficiency initiatives are In Indonesia, our JV successfully delivered implemented, the businesses will become an ofce building, World Trade Center II, ever more agile, closer to the client and for Jakarta Land.
36 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
