Our Business | Strategic Imperatives | Grow in New Geographies and Market Sectors Grow in New Geographies and Market Sectors This approach ensures that, wherever We are already one of the largest How are we performing?
weoperate, we will be increasing the globalinfrastructure players, but the leverage from our existing businesses growth opportunities in our traditional tomaximise the value we can bring to UKand US markets are currently limited.
It also helps us manage risk To achieve further growth we are looking 63 % effectively and allows us to target the to increase our footprint to faster growing Group order book in target market opportunities where we can command geographies and sectors.
We already have sectors transport, power and energy, higher returns more keenly.
a significant presence in the Middle East water, mining as Group % 2011: 59% and Asia where we are seeing growth: This is the strategy for all of our growth now we are looking to expand our reach geographies, but we are at different stages further in growth economies Australia of implementation.
At one end of the scale 48% and Canada, where we already have a is Australia, where we have a sizeable 1 presence through Professional Services Revenue from target market sectors Professional Services platform and have and South Africa, India and Brazil transport, power and energy, water, been taking delivery risk selectively for andintensify our focus on the buoyant mining as Group % 2011: 48% some time: at the other is Brazil, where transport, power and energy, water and weare still seeking to establish a platform.
In Australia, the majority of our 3,000 14% Why is this important?
employees work in Professional Services, 1 We do not want our growth to be limited where we are a top five player.
The nature Revenue from higher growth by the economic and cyclical constraints of engagement between clients and markets outside Europe and North in our traditional markets.
The breadth suppliers is sophisticated and plays to our America as Group % 2011: 12% ofour capabilities and the extent of our strengths especially given the strategic international reach give us access to relationships Parsons Brinckerhoff has Whats next?
anexceptionally broad range of markets with many of its clients.
Outsourcing In the year ahead, we aim to: and clients.
Our aim is to focus more opportunities are opening up in highways, t increase our revenues in target ofour activity where there are medium rail and water as we have seen in the UK geographies tolong term opportunities for global giving us the opportunity to transfer best infrastructure.
But to avoid spreading practice between geographies.
t increase our share of business ourresources too thinly we need to be intarget sectors.
Until recently our at-risk delivery work selective.
The rationale behind our choice hasbeen limited, with a small presence of target geographies and sectors is set through our rail construction and power out in the market overview on pages transmission businesses.
Given the 10and 11. competition from large local general What are we doing in our target contracting groups in the broader growth geographies?
construction market, we are initially Our chosen geographies are not virgin targeting sectors where our existing territory for us.
They are all areas where presence and global capabilities will Parsons Brinckerhoff has been active, or differentiate us.
We are making significant atleast preparing the ground, for some headway, leveraging the strong client years.
Parsons Brinckerhoffs presence, relationships that Parsons Brinckerhoff aswell as our understanding of these has already built up and importing specic markets, provides the platform for global capabilities that add value to the Groupexpansion in these regions.
In each target geography, our Professional For example, on our major Melbourne Rail Services platform gives us a basis for project, Parsons Brinckerhoff held the development.
It gives us in-depth client local client relationship and its reputation knowledge and intimacy, and an won us the right local partner.
We added understanding of the local business to the mix our experience of delivery in environment and supply chain.
Over time, complex rail environments particularly we can broaden our Professional Services the UKs East London Line.
In power offering into new areas by transferring transmission we partner with UGL as capability and knowledge from elsewhere thelocal provider and draw on our across the Group.
At the same time, we international power transmission can capture progressively greater value business: and in current power generation from the local markets by drawing on the projects we are drawing on delivery skills Groups world class delivery capability from the US.
tobroaden our offering to those clients.
1 Including joint ventures and associates.
16 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Business Our Business | Strategic Imperatives | Grow in New Geographies and Market Sectors organisations NGOs to increase local This approach is opening up a pipeline of capacity.
We are targeting further opportunities.
We are currently bidding opportunities in the management of large new projects in power generation, expect scale infrastructure programmes and in to be bidding for a New South Wales at-risk delivery across the infrastructure outsourced highways contract, and spectrum particularly in our target seeemerging opportunities in rail and market sectors.
end-to-end services for a number ofmining companies.
In India, we have an established professional services presence with In Canada, our professional services 300people and eight ofces in key cities.
platform is based on a leading rm in the We have substantially enhanced our local building sector, Halsall, which we acquired in 2010.
The purpose of our acquisition connections and influence by forming Australian highways ofHalsall was to use this platform to grow ajoint venture with the engineering Balfour Beatty has established in the Canadian market benefiting from procurement and construction business, a partnership in Australia with knowledge transfer from elsewhere in Tata Projects, one of Indias leading Transeld Services to target theGroup.
This will differentiate us state government outsourcing further in pursuing urban infrastructure We have already been able to broaden opportunities in highways opportunities.
We are focusing on ourlocal offering beyond buildings.
maintenance on the east opportunities in power transmission Bysupplementing the original Halsall coastof Australia.
Experience infrastructure, including PPP investment platform with Parsons Brinckerhoff developed in the UK is being opportunities and rail development.
expertise, we have secured several mobilised to develop best important transportation contracts, In Brazil, we are at a very early stage practice in Australia.
including the role of general engineering ofdevelopment.
We established our consultant on the CAN$818 million SoPaulo ofce in 2012 and have five 508million light rail transit in Waterloo, employees there.
However, the massive Ontario, one of thelargest infrastructure investment in infrastructure envisaged projects ever undertaken in the Waterloo bythe countrys Growth Acceleration region won by combining local Programme is already well underway.
knowledge with transport expertise Totake full advantage of these fromboth the US and the UK.
opportunities we need to build scale quickly through joint venture or Having broadened and strengthened our acquisition.
We are actively investigating Professional Services platform, we are our options in both these respects.
now actively moving into at-risk delivery work, again combining local knowledge In South Africa, India and Brazil the ethical, with global capability.
We see social, and health and safety environments downstream opportunities in power require careful attention and management.
generation and transmission, as well We will need to be selective in the work astransportation.
In recent months an we undertake and be mindful of the increase in the number of PPP projects potential risks in this respect.
Despite coming to market has allowed us to this, we are convinced of the potential moveinto this area as well.
ofthese markets and our ability to grow successfully whilst offering our leadership In South Africa, we have 400 people standard for conduct and behaviour.
working in Professional Services, focused mainly on power and mining.
The major We emphasise that our drive into these opportunity is the countrys huge need growth geographies does not mean forinfrastructure and its public sectors neglecting our more established home limited capacity to manage large scale markets in the US, UK, Middle East and infrastructure projects.
The capabilities present in our Medupi we are on the team building the core businesses in these home markets worlds fourth largest coal-red power will be instrumental in accessing new station in partnership with local electricity territories, whether by organic growth utility Eskom which last built a power oracquisition.
Our role on this world scale project demonstrates the results we can achieve by importing delivery capability, whilst at the same time working alongside local non-governmental Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 Our Business | Strategic Imperatives | Grow in New Geographies and Market Sectors In rail, we are targeting integrated and What are we doing in our target complex projects in our home markets, growth sectors?
and focusing our international activities Of the high growth markets that we are onour target growth geographies.
targeting, transportation and power and energy present particular opportunities The operational and strategic review because we already have substantial ofour Mainland European rail business, platforms and track records to build on.
which we started in the fourth quarter, has concluded that maintaining a rail In the transportation market, we are presence in Mainland Europe is not already a key player.
It is a sector that consistent with our strategy which calls engages the whole Group, in markets for building a strong local presence in allround the world and in all stages ourgeographies in a number of market oftheasset lifecycle.
We have deep Targeting waste sectors.
In Mainland Europe, we understanding of the sector, its clients projects essentially operate only in rail.
Therefore, andasset types, particularly in highways, we will be divesting all of our Mainland Building our capability in the rail and aviation.
European railbusinesses through a waste sector, we have closed Our strategy is to leverage this depth of process that ensures that the businesses both Essex waste and knowledge, along with our local presence and their customers continue to receive Gloucestershire energy-fromin specic geographies, to target major full support.
In our more established home the expertise we learnt from markets in the UK, US, Middle East and These factors were offset by considerable these projects and are applying Hong Kong where we have a strong success in major international projects it to other waste projects.
local construction presence we offer where we have a strong specialist afull service model embracing integrated positionthat we can combine with our projects and standalone services.
In Professional Services design capability ourgrowth geographies, we lead todifferentiate our offering.
onprofessional services and take on Our strategy for the power and energy selective delivery risk, drawing on our sector has a strong and well established asset knowledge and delivery experience international capability to build on.
Increasingly we professional services we are already a top are concentrating on major projects and 10 global player.
We have a strong track programmes, where our end-to-end record in transmission projects, both in expertise adds most value.
the UK, where we are market leader, and In highways there are still significant internationally, with current operations in opportunities in integrated projects in the US, Indonesia, Hong Kong, Australia theUK and US.
In our growth geographies and New Zealand.
Alongside this delivery we are addressing opportunities where capability we have been building an we have competitive advantage and investment and development portfolio avoiding smaller projects that are better inthe UK, notably in the biomass and served by local businesses.
In particular energyfrom-waste sectors and offshore we look to export our skills in operation transmission assets.
and maintenance O&M and asset As with transport, our strategy is to management as outsourcing gains combine local presence with global momentum around the world.
In power we are using our In aviation we have built a strong track engineering and procurement capability record in integrated projects in the UK and totake on, and manage more, delivery US already and have the benets of best riskselectively.
We also aim to extend practice.
We are also very well positioned ourrelationships with international power in Hong Kong, with a sizeable project and natural resource clients, in particular pipeline and have recently announced a by harnessing our experience in PPP 64 million contract at Dubai airport: over investment, in tandem with our skills as the coming years we aim to build on this aproject developer.
Global trends support to exploit aviation opportunities arising this approach: private sector ownership is inother parts of Southeast Asia initially already widespread in the sector, and the through our Professional Services use of PPP and concessions is increasing business.
We have already had success in both transmission and generation inthis area in Taiwan.
especially in emerging market economies such as India and Brazil.
18 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Business Our Business | Strategic Imperatives | Grow in New Geographies and Market Sectors In power generation the ubiquity of Wehave already made progress with this, integrated engineering, procurement and and over the medium term we aim to construction EPC contracts allows us to bring our enhanced skills to bear on our leverage our existing US capability across target growth geographies, particularly the world.
We aim to grow progressively Australia.
Here, our experience of working first strengthening our international within the UK regulatory framework gives professional services offer and further us adistinctive edge as many clients seek developing our EPC activity in generation tolearn from, and adapt, the UK model.
projects under 100MW, and ultimately In mining we are building closer increasing our EPC capability in the over relationships with our international mining 100MW market.
clients such as Xstrata, Anglo-American, Our other two target growth sectors BHP Billiton and Vale.
We are responding arewater and mining.
Here we have totheir needs by leveraging our local substantial platforms to build on and presence in the places where they operate aremaking good progress, but are at Australia, South Africa and, most recently, anearlier stage.
We are also pursuing opportunities with smaller operators, where there is In water we have a good position in the increasing use of end-to-end design build UK and a significant and growing business finance operate DBFO contracts for in the US boosted by the Fru-Con power generation and transmission assets, acquisition in 2011.
In the near term we rail links and onsite miners housing.
want to grow in the US, where the water market is very localised, by leveraging our existing regional capabilities nationally.
Creating a rail network from scratch Opportunities to develop a complete rail network dont arise very often.
But Qatar is doing it, and on an immense scale.
Qatar plans to have around 170km of new metro and light rail lines in place by the time it hosts the World Cup in 2022, as well as approximately 400km of high speed, long distance lines.
As strategic programme manager through Parsons Brinckerhoff, we are guiding one of the most challenging rail development programmes in the worldtoday.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19 Our Business | Strategic Imperatives | Deliver Greater Value to Clients Deliver Greater Value to Clients We can design better because we We deliver greater value to How are we performing?
understand the construction and clients by leveraging our endoperational issues and we can construct to-end asset knowledge.
Go-To List rankings for Parsons and operate more effectively because Brinckerhoff weunderstand the engineering issues.
This allows us to better understand our Being investors and developers, we also clients own strategic objectives and understand the owners perspective.
contribute through the infrastructure solutions we create.
It enables us to For several local authorities we provide No.
1 develop infrastructure solutions that are services to maintain street lighting.
This In the Road & Highway better value, better quality and faster and can include upgrade and PPP investment and Airport categories 2011: No.
1 safer to create and maintain.
Itmeans we from our Investments business.
Our can offer a full range of services from business is involved in the change of old finance and development, through design equipment to new which includes an No.
2 and project management, to construction enhanced technology solution to reduce and maintenance.
In the Bridge and Mass energy and increase longevity of the light.
2 Our business is also involved in the Why is this important?
provision of ongoing maintenance via For our clients, this delivers value in three localteams.
3 This end-to-end knowledge and the t early engagement allows us to better In the Design-Build category capability to harness it across projects understand strategic needs 2011: No.
4 adds value to all our work, including t using our knowledge and expertise insingle service contracts where our across the full asset lifecycle delivers understanding of the full lifecycle makes better solutions us a better designer or constructor or 55 awards maintainer or operator.
It also means we t harnessing our end-to-end knowledge During 2012 the Group received can manage large, integrated projects to projects adds value 55awards from customers and incorporating all these skills in one Upfront, early engagement with clients industry bodies in recognition of package providing a single point of through our professional services itsachievements 2011: 29 contact for our clients and managing the relationships means we better interface between the different disciplines.
understand our clients strategic Whats next?
The Eagle P3 project is part of the needs.
We work in partnership with In the next year we aim to: DenverRegional Transportation Districts themto ensure these are met through t continue to build strong 12-year multibillion dollar FasTracks plan theinfrastructure we finance, design, relationships with clients in our toexpand and build new commuter and construct or maintain.
This enables our target market sectors light rail lines throughout the Denver clients to achieve their own objectives metropolitan area.
As a public private be it better transport links, reliable and t focus on supporting clients by partnership, it transfers certain sustainable energy supply, high quality delivering innovative solutions construction and operational risks to the education or world class healthcare.
Denver Transit Partners, Our recent A11 road scheme is a 15km which includes Parsons Brinckerhoff as road widening project undertaken in the consultant, will design, build, finance, east of the UK on behalf of the Highways operate and maintain the Eagle P3 Agency.
One of the criteria for the commuter rail project, which contract award was the requirement to encompasses the East Corridor, the reduce costs by 20% by using innovative GoldLine and Northwest Rail, using skills ideas.
We achieved this and an additional from across the Group.
We are able to 500,000 saving by rethinking the design addvalue by harnessing our experience of the roundabouts at either end of the ofall elements of the project lifecycle.
We use our knowledge and expertise across the full asset lifecycle to develop innovative and market leading solutions.
This allows us to create and maintain infrastructure to a higher quality, at a lower price, faster and safer than ourcompetitors.
20 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Business Our Business | Strategic Imperatives | Improve Operational Performance and Cost Effectiveness Improve Operational Performance and Cost Effectiveness What are we doing?
Our unique breadth of How are we performing?
We started on the journey to improve our capabilities and geographical cost effectiveness with the announcement reach has resulted from a of the creation of a shared service centre SSC in Newcastle in August 2010. sustained period of expansion 2.8% Initially the scope of its activities was 1, 2 including numerous successful Group operating margin 2011: 3.0% transactional accounting and employee acquisitions in recent years.
services along with procurement of In2012, recognising the more indirect spend, ie largely ofce costs.
36m Bythe end of 2011 we had 230 employees difficult macroeconomic in Newcastle, accounting for 50% of our Achieved in cost efficiencies conditions, wefocused on UK transactions, and procuring about by the end of 2012 2011: 15m generating further efficiencies 300 million of indirect spend.
across all our operations and Whats next?
The success of this initiative convinced t complete transfer of UK accounting back ofce support functions to usto take what we had learnt, expand into the SSC by Q4 2013 theproject and consider whether it could ensure we operate as efficiently be applied elsewhere.
In March 2012 we t continue rollout of Oracle across and as profitably as possible.
announced that we were targeting to save UKoperations with a target to a further 50 million per annum by 2015, Why is this important?
complete by mid 2014 for an estimated one-off cost in a range of Our clients budgets are under pressure, t go operational with service centre in 50 million to 75 million.
This would have be they the budgets of governments, Lancaster, Pennsylvania in April 2013 a number of elements to it: regulated industries, or private entities.
They are looking to us to deliver our t investigate cost benets from t expand the scope of the services services on time and as efficiently as moving to country structures provided by the UK shared service possible by deploying the range of our centre to include IT shared services, t consult employees on ceasing skills and our scale.
This requires us to buying activities and further employee future accrual in the UK dened focus relentlessly onthe successful services such as international mobility benefit pension scheme.
delivery of clients expectations, ensuring t transfer Professional Services at the same time that we operate supportfunction roles to Lancaster, efficiently both at the project site and Pennsylvania from the high labour, high alsoback inthe ofce.
We believe that property cost environment of New York bysharing best practice internally across ouroperating units and bringing greater t reorganise the UK construction commonality to our processes, we will business from six business streams into 1 improve the consistency of our delivery Including joint ventures and associates.
three, within one operating company.
Meeting the strategic needs of our client Our regeneration partnership with NorthEast Lincolnshire Council broke new ground by combining skills in regeneration, highways, transport and planning, asset management andarchitectural support from across the Groupin a single outsourcing package.
The joint team, comprising several of our business areas, focused on real outcomes.
The 250million, 10-year contract sets targets thatrange from cutting road fatalities by 33% to securing 570 million of inward investment.
Ourjoint performance was recognised inLocal Government Chronicles 2012 Business Partnership Awards, where wewere rated best intwo categories: frontline service delivery and overall transformation of service delivery.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 Our Business | Strategic Imperatives | Improve Operational Performance and Cost Effectiveness this shared service organisation has This process involves reducing the been achieved with very little disruption number of ofces in the UK from more to our front line operations than 75to 37 and implementing a new organisational structure with t Lancaster, Pennsylvania service centre commonprocesses recruitment is underway for the new roles and the scheduled opening of the t reorganise the US construction centre by March 2013 is on track and business from five regions into three, should deliver savings of US$5 million tobetter utilise the skills across the per annum organisation using market sector expertise and to present a consistent t UK construction the new client experience management structure with a new A more agile UK business management system is in t organise Support Services to create place and consolidation into fewer amore efficient back ofce structure, construction business ofces is underway.
By April over maximising the use of the shared Our UK construction business 480employees will be colocated service centre transformation programme together inLondon.
has a simple aim: to be t coordinate our global buying particularly Savings in 2012 from the original and moreagile in meeting our in the area of telecoms, data networks and software.
expanded programme were 36 million, clients needs.
and we remain on track to deliver Whilst all of these projects have at least To get closer to clients combined annual savings of 80 million some element of focus on cost efficiency, weveintegrated six business in2015.
a number of them are also focused on streams into one business how we engage with our clients, using In 2013 we will continue to progress focused on growth market best practice processes and improving thoseprojects and will also continue sectors.
The changes will operational delivery.
toidentify other steps we can take to increase efficiency, cut costs improve operational delivery and cost and help us collaborate more In the meantime, increasingly difficult effectiveness.
Two further initiatives closely through centralised market conditions have reduced our ability thatwe will pursue in 2013 are, rstly, hub ofces.
Clientswill to absorb operational errors, intensifying consulting with c. 2,500 UK employees, benetfrom simpler access the pressures on our teams.
We have who continue to accrue service in our toa business that shares seen some operational problems in 2012, dened benefit scheme, about providing knowledge and best practice notably in our Mainland European rail and them with dened contribution pension to work better throughout the UK construction businesses.
We believe provision in future instead.
the actions we are taking to reorganise has become increasingly expensive, and our UK construction business and can potentially make us uncompetitive restructure our Mainland European rail with peers who do not have a similar cost.
business will improve performance in Secondly, having put in place back ofce 2013 and mitigate operational risks shared services on a country basis, goingforward.
wewill look to see whether there are We have made good progress on these benets to the customer and our cost initiatives, in particular: base from a more geographic based organisation structure.
t UK shared service centre a measure of the scale of activity now being 2013 will also see increasing use of our handled through the organisation is its knowledge sharing and collaboration number of employees.
These increased platform to drive the sharing of best to 420 by year end, of which 320 are in practise, both in operational excellence Newcastle and 100 employees in two and also in cost efficiency.
centres in Derby and Linlithgow.
By the end of 2013 this should rise to just under 700 employees in total.
Another measure is the volume of transactions.
The current annual run rate is 3.7billion of receipts and payments, over 1 million invoices, 380,000 payslips, 17,000 IT service requests and 200,000 calls received.
The growth in 22 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Business Our Business | Strategic Imperatives | Continue to Show Leadership in Values and Behaviour Continue to Show Leadership in Values and Behaviour Why is this important?
To be recognised as a global How are we performing?
Our reputation is crucial to winning new leader in infrastructure services business, attracting and retaining the best we continue to focus on securing people, and building high quality business partnerships.
To be seen as a true leader a sustainable, long term future 6% in our eld we need to build and protect for the Group and provide a Accident Frequency Rate decreased areputation for leadership in values and by 6% to 0.16% 2011: AFR 0.17% legacy within the communities behaviour.
In addition, the emergence inwhich we serve.
We must andincreasingly aggressive enforcement of anti corruption legislation with global alsobe a leader in areas such reach makes ethical rigour a critical risk 13% asbusiness ethics, talent management issue.
As we grow into new Greenhouse gas emissions management, safety and markets where cultural norms may differ reduced by 13% signicantly from ours, we must work theenvironment.
harder to maintain our high standards.
Our key issues and actions for 2012 in the areas of ethics, health and safety, diversity, people and sustainability are set out in more detail in The Way We Work on pages 48 to 51.
Our key achievements in 2012 include: t state of the art compliance programme t over 40,000 employees have completed the first Code of Conducttraining module t credited by Robecco SAM as thebiggest mover in terms ofsustainability in the heavy construction sector.
Opening up new energy resources Growing global demand for coal has prompted Xstrata Coal to further develop its Ulan mine in New South Wales, Australia by developing anew underground mine alongside the existing opencast workings.
The US$1.3 billion Ulan West project will produce 6.7 million tonnes of export thermal coal a year, operating for about 18 years from 2014.
Parsons Brinckerhoff is providing construction management services in delivery of the surface infrastructure on the 18,000-hectare site as part of an Integrated Owners Team, which includes input into engineering design, procurement and construction over three years.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23
