Our Governance | Directors Report Directors Report Compliance with the Code The Board Board balance The UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 The Board currently comprises 11 the Code is the standard applying to Directors, of whom seven, including the good corporate governance practice in the Chairman, are non-executive.
Details of 1 UK and the Financial Services Authority the changes during the year can be found 2 requires listed companies to disclose under the heading Board composition whether they have complied with the below.
The Directors believe that the provisions of the Code throughout the Board continues to include an appropriate financial year.
Further information on balance of skills, experience, theCode is publicly available on the independence and knowledge of the Financial Reporting Councils website Company and retains the ability to provide atwww.
effective leadership to the Group.
3 The Company has complied with the Board composition requirements of the Code throughout the The names of the Directors at the year 1 Chairman 1 accounting period, other than in respect end are shown on pages 64 and 65 2 Executive Directors 4 ofthe effectiveness of the Groups together with brief biographical details.
3 Non-executive Directors 6 whistleblowing procedures which is kept Full details of Directors service underreview by the Business Practices agreements, emoluments and share Committee and not by the Audit interests are shown in the Remuneration Committee.
The principal reason for this Report starting on page 82.
Board tenure isthat the Business Practices Committee, Maureen Kempston Darkes was in particular, focuses on the Companys appointed as a non-executive Director on business conduct, its ethics and values, 1 11 July 2012.
Anthony Rabin and Robert ensuring that procedures exist for 2 Walvis retired from the Board on 30 June employees to raise concerns in and 31 December 2012 respectively.
confidence and is an integral element inits overall remit.
However, the Audit Each of the Directors brings skills and Committee is kept informed of any experience which enhance the quality 3 allegations of fraud or poor financial ofdebate in the boardroom and provides 4 controls and internal audit participates guidance.
The Directors believe that the ininvestigations into such claims Board continues to include an appropriate andreports to the Audit Committee balance of skills and retains the ability to onthe outcome.
There are, 1 01 year 1 however, specic areas where the 2 23 years 2 non-executive Directors, in particular, Directors independence 3 45 years 4 bring with them a wealth of insight and, 4 6 years 4 At its Board meeting in March 2013, although not exhaustive, some of their aspart of its annual audit of corporate most significant strengths are highlighted governance, the Board considered the on page 67. independence of the non-executive Board geography Directors against the criteria specified inthe Code and determined that each ofthem continues to be independent.
"1 3 2 1 UK 8 2 Europe 1 3 Americas 2 66 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Governance Our Governance | Directors Report Non-executive Directors significant strengths Fi F Financ Fina anc cial ia a al l S St Stra r ra at te eg gi gic c c O Op peratin erating g M Me erg rge er rs a s an nd d Bus B Bus usiiine ne fines s ss s s manage manage g g me men nt t t fide dev five elo lopm pme ent nt p per erf fo orm rma an nc ce e a ac cq quis uisiit tion ions s iiiintegration nteg gratio at n n n n an a an nd d d pla planning planning nning a and nd deliv delive ery ry ttt33PCFS PCFSUU""N ""NFFOO tt3PC 33PCFS PCFFFSSUUU""""NNFO FO ttt."
B.. BBVSVVSFF FFFFFOOO tt.. JJLLFF%%PPOOPPWWBBOO ttt.
"J. JLLFF%P %%PPOOOPB PPPWWBBOOO, F, FNNQTU QTUPPOO%B %B %BSLSSLF LFFTTT ttt3PCFS 3PC 3PCFS 3PCFS CFSUUUU""N ""N ""NFFFOOO tt33PC PCFFSSUU""N ""NFFOO tt BBJOJO'F 'F 'FSSSHHHVVVTP TTPO POO ttt."
B.. BBVVVSSFF FFO FFFOO tt VC VCFS VCFFUSUUVT VT VTT, S, , SSPPPTT TT TTTBTBB tttt4U4U4444UUFWF FFFWF WWFF.. BBSTSTIBM IBMMM ttt BBJOJO'F 'F 'FSSSHHHVVVTPO TTPO PO tt.. BBVSVSFFFFOO, , , F, FFNQTU NNQTU QQQTUPPO POO%B %BSSLLFT FT ttt SB SB SBSBIB IIBBBBNNN33PCFS PCFSUUTT tt VCFS VCFS VCFSUUUVT VT VT, S, SSPTT PPTTTTBBB, F, FNNQTU QTUPPOO%B %BSSLF LFTT tt SB S SBSBIBN IIBN BNNN333PC 3PCFFSSUUTTT tt4U4U44U4UFFFFWF WWFF.
B.. BBSSSSTTI TIIBBBMMMMMMM tt VC VC VCFS VCCFU FSUUVUVT VTT, S, S, SSPPPPTTB TTTTTBB tt44U4UUFWF FFWF WF.
B.. BBSSSTTTIIIBBBMMMMMM tt SBSBIIBN BNN3PC 3PC 3PCF 3PCFSFU FSUUTTTT E Ethic Ethics s, , va valllue ues s Sta Sta Stak k keh eh ehol o ollder der der HR HR Ri Risk sk Health H H Health eal lth and and and E E Ex x xp per per eriiie e enc nc nce e e of of of a a and nd c cu ullt tur ure ure e e e e en ngage gagem me ent nt manage m manage manage g me me ment nt nt m manage manage g me men nt t s sa saf fet ety ty y y iin nte terna rnat tiona ional l an and a d as ssuranc surance e e ma ma mark rk rke e et t ts s s t t t. J. J. JLLLFFF%%%PPPOP OP OPWBO WBO WBO tt.
J.. JJLLLFFF%P %%PPOOOPPPWWWBBBOOO tt B B BJJJOOOO''F 'FSSHHHVVTPO TPOOO tt.
J. J. JLLLFFF%P %%PPOOOPPPWWWBBBOOO t t B BJJOO''F 'FSSHHHVVTP TPOOO ttt4U4UFFWF WF.
"B. BSSSTI TI TTTIIBBBBMMMMMM ttt.. B. BVVSSFFFFOO, , F, FNNQTU QQTUPPOOO ttt B BJOJO''F 'FSSHHHVVTPO TPOO ttt33PCFS PCFSUU""""NNFFOO ttt3PC 3P 333PCFS PCFSFSUUUU""N """"NNFO FFOO t t.. BBVVSSFFFO FO, F, FNNQQTTUUPO PO ttt SB SBSBIIIBBBNNN33PCFS PCFSUUTT %B %BSSLLFT FT ttt VCFS VCFS VCFSUUUVT VT VT, SSPTT PTTBB tt."
J. J. JLLLFFF%P %%PPOOOPPPWWWBBBOOO tt B B BBJOJJJOOO'F 'FSSHHVVTPO TPO %B %BSSLLFFTT ttt44UUFWF FWF..... BBSTIBMM STIBMMM ttt44UUFWF FWF.
B... B. BSSSTTTB IIBBMMMMM ttt SB SBSBIBN IIBBNNNN3PC 3PCF 3PCFSFUSUUUTTT ttt.
B.. BBVVVVSSFFF FFO FOOOO t t4U4U44444UFWF UFWF FFFFF.
B.. BBSSTSTTI TIBM IBBMMMMM, , F, FFNQTU NNQTU QTUPPO POO%B %B %BSSLSLLFT FFTT tttt VCFS VC VCFS VCFFFFSUUUUVT VT VTT, S, SPTT PTTBB Matters reserved for the Board The Board reviewed its list of reserved Chairmans responsibilities The Board is collectively responsible for matters in 2012 and, most recently, at the success of the Company and has a itsmeeting in March 2013.
The terms t Ensuring effective strategic formal schedule of matters reserved for ofreference of the Board and the Board planningis undertaken by the its decision which includes the matters Committees are available on request from executive Directors summarised below: the Company Secretary and are also t Ensuring corporate governance displayed on the Companys website t determining the Groups strategic isproperly maintained www.
Descriptions direction ofthe specic responsibilities which t Formally appraising the performance t approving annual budgets and financial havebeen delegated to the principal of the Chief Executive and reporting, including the annual and Board Committees are also provided reviewing with the Chief Executive half-year results and interim onpages 72 to 77. his views on the performance of management statements theother executive Directors Chairman and Chief Executive t approving interim, and recommending The two roles are complementary.
The t Providing leadership to the Board final, dividends Chairman is responsible for managing t Acting as senior ambassador thebusiness of the Board, whilst the t approving major acquisitions, disposals fortheCompany Chief Executive actually runs the and capital expenditure business.
Asthe senior executive officer t Considering Board balance, t ensuring the necessary financial and of the Company, the Chief Executive is composition and succession human resources are in place to achieve responsible to the Chairman and Board t Ensuring the smooth operation objectives and review management fordirecting and prioritising the profitable ofthe Board and its Committees performance operation and development of the Group.
The Chairman and Chief Executive keep t Providing effective communication t setting the Companys values and each other appropriately informed on the between the Board and its ethical standards others current activities.
t approving policies and systems for specifically, their roles comprise Steve Marshall spends an average of riskmanagement and assurance.
theprincipal responsibilities in the two days a week on the business of sections following: the Company.
The Board is satisfied that his role as non-executive chairman of Wincanton plc, and hisother business and charitable commitments, can be accommodated without hindering his ability to carry out his duties as Chairman.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 67 Our Governance | Directors Report Directors interests Board meetings Chief Executives responsibilities No Director had any material interest Procedures for Board meetings remain inany contract of signicance with the t Strategy development and the largely unchanged from previous years.
Group during the period under review.
stewardship of physical, financial Since the beginning of 2011, the Board TheDirectors have put in place procedures and human resources has been using an electronic portal to to ensure the Board collectively and the receive papers and to share information t Group operational and financial Directors individually comply with the see Board portal on page 70.
The performance disclosure requirements on conicts of Company Secretary is responsible for interest set out in the Companies Act t Executive leadership advising the Board on appropriate 2006.
At its meeting each January, a governance matters, ensuring good t Health, safety and environmental formal declaration of interests is reviewed information ow and ensuring that Board performance by the Board.
He also provides t Corporate values and ethics updates on legal matters of relevance to The interests of Directors in the share the Group and is available to individual capital of the Company and its subsidiary t Objective setting for the senior Directors for advice on Board procedures.
undertakings and their interests under management team thelong term incentive scheme the 2012 meeting programme t Organisational structure, succession Performance Share Plan, the Deferred In 2012 eight Board meetings were held and talentmanagement Bonus Plan, the Share Incentive Plan and atthe Companys head ofce, whilst two share options, are set out in the tables in t Major capital expenditure meetings were held elsewhere in London the Remuneration Report commencing prioritisation and allocation and one was held in Hong Kong.
The onpage 82. ofresources meeting in Hong Kong provided the Directors with the opportunity to meet Directors indemnities t Consideration of acquisitions, management and staff at Gammon, the The Company grants an indemnity to all disposals and nancing Groups Hong Kong joint venture and at ofits Directors to the extent permitted t Stakeholder management.
Included in the visit bylaw.
These indemnity amounts are were presentations on the businesses uncapped in relation to losses and Senior Independent Director andthe principal strategic issues each liabilities which Directors may incur to On 10 May 2012, Iain Ferguson faces.
There was also a wider review third parties in the course of acting as a succeeded Robert Walvis as the Senior ofpotential opportunities for the Group Director of the Company, or in any ofce Independent Director, and his principal inAsian markets.
where such duties are performed at the responsibilities are to ensure that the request of the Board, or as a result of their Each Board meeting normally lasts four views of the other non-executive appointment as Directors.
tove hours but can be longer.
Directors are properly considered and toprovide an additional communication On the evening preceding a Board channel between the non-executive meeting, the Directors generally meet Directors and the shareholders and other fordinner and sometimes take the stakeholders, as required.
Mr Ferguson opportunity to discuss predetermined will meet with the other non-executive developmental themes, led by one of Directors without the Chairman or the executive Directors, other senior executive Directors being present managers or a specialist external speaker.
For example, in 2012, the themes included investor relations and public affairs.
One of the dinners each year is attended by the Chairman and the non-executive Directors only, whilst a second includes the Chief Executive, but none of the other executive Directors.
68 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Governance Our Governance | Directors Report Each meeting addresses key strategic Finance Strategy topics for the Group which enable the Directors to engage in in-depth reviews.
t Budgets 2012 and 2013 t Group strategy development and The Board also reviews at each of its structuring options development t Annual and half-year results meetings monthly updates from the Chief of the business model to enable Executive, Deputy Chief Executive & Chief t Pensions theorganisation to operate as an Operating officer and Chief Financial integrated services group as the t Group insurances officer.
Regular reports are also provided most effective way to enhance on health, safety and environment, t Financing capacity and options shareholder value.
Consideration operational performance, corporate future cash needs of the Group was given to the shape of the communications, risk management and andvarious nancing options, operating model and the assurance, investor relations and any legal including convertible bonds and identication and development of issues.
At each meeting, the chairmen of private placements.
geographies and market sectors the various Board Committees provide a arecurring topic throughout 2012 summary of the discussions held at the t Infrastructure fund having preceding Committee meeting and the key Operational performance established a funds management actions arising.
The following topics were t Health and safety performance business, the infrastructure fund also addressed by the Board during 2012 across the Group and the status will enable the Group to utilise a under each of the themes shown.
For ofthe Zero Harm programme combination of infrastructure asset clarity, a synopsis of certain of the topics knowledge, skills and experience to has been included as well.
t efficiency programme reviews of earn a superior return on capital, as each of the four principal divisional The Board specifically addressed the well as advisory fees.
The Board cost reduction and efficiency Chief Executives objectives for 2012 received progress updates on how programmes and monitoring their which identied those key tasks over and this business was progressing progress against predetermined above his normal responsibilities, which leading up to the first close measures and milestones include ensuring that the Group achieves announced in January 2013 its overall budget performance.
Where t Business reviews operating t Approval of PPP asset disposals appropriate, each of the objectives had performance against budget and in2012: identied milestones and each one was strategic plan, risks and opportunities integral in moving the organisation and matters such as Health & Safety, North Lanarkshire schools forward along its stated strategic path.
people development and Health Management University Specic objectives included the sustainability, including: College London Hospital.
development of the market sector International Middle East, India, structure and market entry strategies, Brazil, Australia development of the Middle East, the Mergers, acquisitions Construction Services UK pursuit of the four principal efficiency anddivestments Professional Services projects across the Group, the operating Rail t Acquisition of Subsurface Group in capability of the Rail business and the Infrastructure Investments.
the US power and energy sector continued development and progress professional services business ofthe Zero Harm safety programme.
t Other opportunities review of The Chief Executive succession and HR other acquisition opportunities.
management of the transition to his t Chief Executive succession successor was also discussed by For 2013, the Board will meet eight theBoard.
t People planning, talent, diversity times.
One meeting will focus on the and succession management development of the strategic plan.
At review of detailed divisional leastone meeting will probably be held management succession plans, the outside London at one of the Groups encouragement of cross-divisional business units.
and cross-geographical moves anddiversity and inclusion policies andpractices across the Group, including associated action plans.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 69 Our Governance | Directors Report 2012 Board and Board Committee meetings Details of the number of meetings and attendance at the Board meetings and meetings of the Audit, Business Practices, Nomination and Remuneration Committees during the year are set out in the following table: Name of Director Board Audit Business Practices Nomination Remuneration Robert Amen 11 11 5 5 4 4 3 4 Michael Donovan 11 11 5 5 4 4 4 4 Iain Ferguson 11 11 2 4 3 4 5 5 Maureen Kempston Darkes 5 6 0 2 1 1 Hubertus Krossa 10 11 5 5 4 4 3 4 5 5 Duncan Magrath 11 11 Steve Marshall 11 11 4 4 4 4 5 5 Andrew McNaughton 11 11 Anthony Rabin 5 5 Graham Roberts 11 11 5 5 4 4 5 5 Ian Tyler 11 11 4 4 Robert Walvis 10 11 4 5 4 4 3 5 Peter Zinkin 10 11 The number shown in brackets is the total number of meetings the Director could attend during the year including as a result of changes to Committee memberships.
Non-attendance at meetings was due to illness or prior business commitments.
Ineach case, where the Directors have not been able to attend a Board or Committee meeting, they have reviewed the papers circulated for that meeting and provided their comments directly to the Chairman, or the Committee chairman, as appropriate.
As MrsKempston Darkes only joined the Board part way through the year, meetings she missed were attributable to business engagements which had been made prior to her appointment to the Board.
Any Director who is not a Committee member has an open invitation to attend any Committee meeting and a number of the Directors take this opportunity.
Further information about the work of each of the Boards Committees may be found on pages 72 to 77 and 82 to 96.
Professional development Board portal Board development In discussion with the Directors and Board papers are distributed by way Induction Company Secretary each year, the ofasecure electronic portal, thereby Directors undertake a thorough induction Chairman determines whether there are reducing cost and environmental impact.
programme and receive a range of any specic training needs identied by Documents are made available on the information about the Company when the Directors which can be addressed portal at least three business days in they join the Board, including access to either by the topic being included at a advance of the meeting.
The portal has the Board portal, which includes Balfour future Board meeting or on a one-to-one helped to improve Board operating Beattys Code of Conduct, processes for basis.
Directors are also enrolled in the efficiencies by enabling the Directors to dealing in Balfour Beatty shares and Deloitte Academy, a seminar-led receive papers quickly and to review these Boardprocedures, as well as the minutes programme for main board directors of UK at any time convenient to them.
It houses and papers of past Board and Board listed companies, which provides regular a secure reading room in which key data Committee meetings.
In addition, they updates throughout the year on the and documents are kept.
This reading also take part in a series of one-to-one principal governance and other matters room is maintained by the Company meetings with other members of the ofwhich directors of a listed company Secretary and regularly updated.
Board and senior executives which include should be fully aware.
Information held in the reading room briengs on the Companys business includes audit, market and competitor strategy, financial procedures, business The Directors induction programme also data, strategy papers, investor relations development, legal and other key issues.
provides the foundation for continuing and analysts reports, as well as the professional development.
This takes In the case of Mrs Kempston Darkes, this Groups principal policies relating to HR, place throughout the year by way of a process commenced immediately prior to compliance, and health and safety.
series of internal and external updates, her appointment on 11 July 2012 and was including visits to operating companies completed in January 2013.
During her tomeet local management and visits to induction she met with the senior Balfour Beatty projects, both in the UK executives in each of the divisions and and overseas.
functional heads at Group head ofce.
She also attended meetings and site visits Normally, such visits take place for each in Dallas Construction Services US and non-executive Director four times each New York Parsons Brinckerhoff.
year, although some Directors have not been able to attend all the visits whilst others have been able to participate in more of them.
70 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Governance Our Governance | Directors Report During 2012, the non-executive Directors directly with senior management For 2013, an external provider has been visited the Eagle P3 commuter rail project concerning the development of the engaged to carry out the Board evaluation: in Denver, a US$2.4 billion project to Groups capabilities in a market sector the output of this will be reported in 2014. engineer, build and operate 35 miles thatis an area of significant strategic 2012 evaluation ofnew lines under the first rail public importance for the Group.
For 2012, the Board conducted its own private partnership in the US, which In 2013, four visits are planned for the internal evaluation using an online demonstrates the integrated capabilities non-executive Directors which will structured questionnaire covering the ofParsons Brinckerhoff and the Groups concentrate, as in previous years, on key operation of the Board and its principal US rail business.
The first visit has been Committees.
Questionnaires were also The non-executive Directors also attended organised in the UK and will focus on issued, in the case of each of the Board an internal seminar on the power and power transmission.
One of the four Committees, to those other participants renewables markets where they received visitsin 2013 will be outside the UK.
who regularly attend these meetings.
presentations from senior management Thequestionnaires were supplemented and subject experts across several by individual interviews with the Directors Board evaluation businesses and geographies.
The seminar carried out by the Company Secretary Introduction included an analysis of the global power andthe emerging key themes were In keeping with the Code, the Board market, the Groups current power summarised and presented to the Board receives external evaluations normally capabilities, power networks including in April 2012. every three years, with internal transmission and power generation evaluations in the intervening two years.
The principal themes arising from the including nuclear and wind.
This enabled The last external evaluation was carried 2012 Board evaluation are set out below: the non-executive Directors to engage outin 2010.
Theme Evaluation Status Board size and composition, The Board was thought to be marginally The appointment of MrsKempston Director knowledge anddiversity onthe large size, but this was not an issue.
Darkes as a non-executive Director added A greater mix of gender, emerging markets valuable emerging markets knowledge experience, HR and complex matrix and matrix organisational experience to organisational experience should be sought.
the Boards combined experience as wellas addressing, in part, the diversity objectives set out in the Lord Davies Report on Women on Boards published inJune 2011.
Board papers and presentations Generally, a greater emphasis on trend New format Group KPI report presented information, key performance indicators to the Board on a monthly basis.
Board KPIs and measurable objectives was papers are issued via the Board portal sought and, in some cases, the timeliness onthe Friday before the Board or Board of papers.
Strategic development Certain improvements were sought in the A significant proportion of the Boards strategy review process.
agenda during 2012 was given to the development ofthe Groups business model, operating structure and overall strategy.
The Directors considered thatthe strategic planning and Board engagement process has improved signicantly during the year.
Operational performance Key performance indicators were identied Group KPI report issued monthly.
to support analysis of the business.
Reviewed and monitored the Chief Executives objectives.
Regular business reviews from the Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Operating officer and each ofthe divisional CEOs.
Risk management andassurance There was a need for the Board to define Although work in progress and to be itsrisk appetite and to define clearly those further developed through 2013, the risks for which it took direct management Board and Audit Committee have received responsibility, as opposed to providing a series of detailed business reviews oversight alone.
during the year focusing, inpart, on operating performance, risk and assurance across the divisions.
Succession planning andevaluation Board to be made aware of the Chief Reviewed and monitored the Chief Executives annual objectives and clear Executives objectives as well as a reporting against each of them.
focusin 2013 on managing the Chief Executive succession andensuring asmooth transition.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 71 Our Governance | Directors Report Audit Committee t monitor and review the effectiveness t Key contract valuation and accounting ofthe internal audit function including judgements The Committees focus in its work programme t Directors valuation of PPP concessions 2012 on risk management t make recommendations to the Board the composition of the Directors inrelation to the appointment of the valuation including the application of and assurance reviews external auditor and approve the thepre shareholder tax discount rate willbe maintained through remuneration and terms of engagement t Going concern review reaching a this year.
of the external auditor conclusion that there was a reasonable Graham Roberts chairman t assess the independence, objectivity assumption that the Group had and effectiveness of the external auditor adequate resources to continue for and develop and implement policy on theforeseeable future Meetings in 2012: 5 the engagement of the external auditor t Incidents of dishonest acts Members to supply non-audit services.
conrmation that there were no t Graham Roberts chairman Graham Roberts, a Fellow of the Institute systemic or material breakdowns in t Robert Amen of Chartered Accountants and a former controls across the Group t Mike Donovan partner at Andersen and finance director t Hubertus Krossa t Annual review of internal audit work of The British Land Company PLC, has t Robert Walvis to 31 December 2012 andndings been identied by the Board ashaving Responsibilities recent and relevant financial experience.
t Directors expenses conrmation t Financial statements Minutes of Committee meetings are ofthe process adopted for approving t Financial controls circulated to all Board members.
expenses and subsequent audit t External audit Partners from the external auditor, the t Internal audit Head of Group Risk Management and June t Risk management and assurance Assurance, and the Chief Financial officer t External audit and interim review plan regularly attend each meeting.
In addition, for 2012, audit fees and assessment of any independent non-executive Director 2011 audit process a detailed review The terms of reference for the whois not a Committee member has an of the audit scope and plans for the year Committee are based on the Guidance open invitation to attend meetings.
The and an assessment of the proposed on Audit Committees issued by the Committee also invites other executives audit and non-audit fees Financial Reporting Council.
The main from within the Group to participate in responsibilities of the Audit Committee t Risk management and assurance Committee discussions, most notably are summarised below: review: Construction Services UK in2012 the chief executive officer and apresentation by the chief executive t monitor the integrity of the financial finance director of Construction Services officer and finance director with a statements of the Group and any UK and the chief executive officer of the specic focus on the efficiency and formal announcements relating to Professional Services division.
costsavings programme theGroups financial performance In 2012, the Committees work t review the Groups internal controls programme included the following August established to identify, assess, manage principal topics in addition to the standing t 2012 half-year financial report and monitor risks, and receive reports agenda items which comprise reports on: consideration was given to projects from management on the effectiveness t accounting, financial and regulatory where isolated contract deteriorations of the systems they have established issues and contractual issues had arisen and the conclusions of any testing carried out by the internal audit function t review of non-audit work carried out t Key contract valuation and accounting and external auditor bythe external auditors, and their fees judgements t t r ris isk k managemen m t activities and t Major litigation and legal update co compl mp iance t t im imp plle ementation of and progress against December the the G Group assurance plan.
t External audit plan for 2013 and audit fees a detailed review of the audit scope and plans, and an assessment of Feb Febru rua ar ry the proposed audit and non-audit fees t tw wo o m me eetings held in this month t t 20 201 11 1 annu a al report and accounts and t Internal audit plan for 2013 a detailed p pre relimin lim ary results announcement review of the scope and priorities for co con nsi sid deration of revenue and margin the internal audit function for the year re rec co og gnition, the carrying value of t Major litigation and legal update g go oo od dw will and other intangible assets, the the ac accounting treatment of the t Risk management and assurance Ba Bar rk kingPo in wer sale and the status of review: Professional Services an p pr rov ovisions.
is Review of the proposed assessment of the key risks which the in inv five est stor presentations and proposed division faced and how these varied na nall divide d nd across each of its regions.
The risk 72 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Governance Our Governance | Directors Report management protocols in place across Deloitte LLP continues as the Companys Annual internal assessment each of the business units to mitigate external auditor, having satisfied itself A detailed assessment of the previous against the principal risks and how the ofits independence.
In reaching its years external audit process, together assurance processes were functioning conclusion, the Committee took into with any identied improvement and lessons learnt consideration the following matters: recommendations is prepared each year.
Each division and operating company t Oracle R12 update a review of Non-audit work within the Group is required to evaluate theprogramme, the methods The objective set out in the Companys the performance of the assigned appliedand costs incurred and the policy is to ensure that the external externalaudit team and to compare that assurance protocols which had been auditor is not placed in a position performance against the previous year.
implemented to assist with overall whereits independence is, or might be project management and achievement seen to be, compromised.
Under no External auditors assessment of milestones circumstances will any assignment be An assessment was carried out by the given to the external auditor, when the external auditor in consultation with the t Rail issues which had led to result is that: operating companies using a structured shortcomings on a UK rail project, questionnaire.
howthe learning was being recorded t as part of the statutory audit, it and applied elsewhere across the isrequired to report directly on The external auditors annual transparency business and conrmation sought that non-audit work report for the year ended 31 May 2012 reviews had been completed on other was reviewed.
This was prepared in t it makes management decisions on projects and that no systemic issues accordance with the provisions of the behalf of the Group had been identied Statutory Auditors Transparency t it acts as advocate for the Group Instrument 2008 made by the Professional t Committee terms of reference Oversight Board POB of the Financial review and recommend any changes t the level of non-audit fees is such, Reporting Council.
relative to audit fees, as to raise t IFRS accounting training session concerns about its ability to form External auditor rotation aseparate training session.
Audit partners are rotated every five addressed contract accounting and years.
The advisory partner changed in thedifferent risk proles associated The Companys policy identies the 2010 and the audit engagement partner with the various contract structures various types of non-audit services and changed in 2011. employed across the Group.
determines the analysis to be undertaken and level of authority required before the A number of circumstances would lead external auditor can be considered to to consideration being given to carrying In 2013, the Committee will continue to undertake such services.
Included within out an audit tender review.
For example: address the topics on its standing agenda such analysis is consideration of the and will also continue to undertake t in circumstances where the external costand efficiency benets as well as reviews of the risk management and auditors performance had been the real or perceived threats to auditor assurance practices in the divisions on a calledinto question, or where, independence.
The Committee will throughthe audit partner rotation also continue to receive targeted training There is no inconsistency between the process, no suitable replacement in order to broaden and refresh the skills Financial Reporting Councils ethical hadbeen identied and knowledge of its members.
standards and the Companys policy.
t where value for money considerations Risk management and internal control In 2012 the external auditor was had arisen Throughout 2012, the Committee has appointed to carry out various non-audit t where there was a real or perceived continued to review the Groups risk related work, including corporate finance threat to independence management and internal control services for reasons of commercial systems and processes and paid close condentiality and efficiency, as well t where conict of interests had been attention to isolated operational delivery asproviding tax advice and compliance identied issues which have arisen during the services inAustralia, Europe, India and t where issues had been raised about yearand the remedial action which has the US.
As a result, the Committee The Committee considers that the recommended to the Board that it The Committee is aware of regulations Company receives particular benets, couldproperly conclude that the Group and developing guidance in relation to including those relating to cost, quality continued to maintain sound systems of auditor tendering and rotation and will and consistency, from the advice risk management and internal control and consider the optimal timing of any tender provided by its external auditor, given that a review of the effectiveness of in the light of emerging practice and itswide and detailed knowledge these systems had beencompleted.
oftheGroup and its international External auditor independence operations.
There can also be savings andeffectiveness inmanagement time and accelerated The Committee carries out a formal delivery of work in situations where review each year to assess the rapidturnaround is required.
The independence and effectiveness of the majorityof non-audit related work external auditor, Deloitte LLP.
The wascarried out using the services of Committee has recommended that the other major international audit rms.
Board proposes to shareholders that Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 73 Our Governance | Directors Report Nomination Committee In 2012, the Committees work The executive search agency appointed programme comprised the following for the recruitment of the non-executive The transition to the principal topics: Director and for carrying out the engagement on the Chief Executives new Chief Executive and t recommending to the Board the succession has no other connections appointment of a new non-executive assessing the implications with Balfour Beatty.
Director Maureen Kempston Darkes of the evolved business and the appointment of a Deputy In 2013, the Committee will continue to strategy on the senior Chief Executive Andrew monitor the transition to the new Chief leadership team, will be McNaughton andSenior Independent Executive and the implications of the Director IainFerguson.
In seeking evolved business strategy on senior keyareas of focus in 2013. suitable candidates for the nonexecutive recruitment.
The Committee Steve Marshall chairman executive Director vacancy, Korn will also continue to monitor the Ferry, an external executive search appropriateness of the composition agency was engaged.
The Committee ofthe Board and, if thought necessary, Meetings in 2012: 4 identied the competences sought make recommendations concerning and the required experience, and the theneed for the introduction of Members agency prepared a shortlist of non-executive Directors to refresh t Steve Marshall chairman potential candidates who were theBoard.
t Robert Amen interviewed by members of the t Mike Donovan Committee and by the executive t Iain Ferguson Directors t Maureen Kempston Darkes from 11 July 2012 t as a critical part of the Chief Executive t Hubertus Krossa succession process the Committee t Graham Roberts undertook a detailed process to t Ian Tyler assess competences required of t Robert Walvis to 31 December 2012 achief executive given the strategic direction of the Group, as well as Responsibilities theinternal succession options t Structure and composition of Board forexecutive Directors and senior t Appointment of non-executive operational and functional leaders.
Directors External benchmarking was carried t Succession planning and talent out by an executive search agency, management Korn Ferry, in relation to the role of the Chief Executive.
The process involved sectoral and company mapping, the creation of experiential proles and the identication ofagreed critical competences.
Frameworks and learning leadership development tools were employed inhelping to determine the skills andleadership behavioural criteriarequired t management of the Chief Executive succession process.
74 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Governance Our Governance | Directors Report Remuneration Committee In 2012, the Committees work October programme comprised the following t Executive remuneration market Ensuring the current principal topics: update presentation made by remuneration policy and the NewBridge Street, the Committees January appropriateness of the short remuneration advisers, to take stock t Executive Directors 2011 bonus of the Groups broad executive and long term incentive consideration of the proposed remuneration strategy and to compare arrangements to properly approach to calculating the bonus this against market developments meet the needs of the payments for the 2011 financial results organisation, will be high t Executive Directors 2012 bonus December targets setting targets for the year onthe Committees agenda.
t Chief Executive succession update from Chairman ahead of Board meeting.
Iain Ferguson chairman t 2009 Performance Share Plan performance conditions an analysis of the expected 2011 financial results Further information about the work of Meetings in 2012: 5 and whether the PSP performance the Committee during the financial year conditions would be achieved is set out in the Remuneration Report Members starting on page 82. t Iain Ferguson chairman t 2012 Performance Share Plan t Hubertus Krossa performance conditions In 2013, the Remuneration Committee t Steve Marshall conrmation that the existing two will undertake a formal review of the t Graham Roberts performance conditions EPS and current remuneration policy and the t Robert Walvis to 31 December 2012 TSR should be maintained and appropriateness of the short and long setting of targets.
term incentive arrangements, to Responsibilities properly meet the needs of the t Remuneration strategy and policies t 2011 Remuneration Report Company as it implements the next t Remuneration packages reviewof the draft report phase of its business strategy.
If t Incentive plans changes are considered necessary, March theCommittee will consult with t Executive Directors bonus payments shareholders ahead of the AGM in 2014. for 2011 and 2012 PSP awards both confirmed Remuneration Report p82 t Barking Power consideration on how the impact of this asset disposal to the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund should be treated in assessing future PSP vestings June t Executive Directors 2012 salary review conrmation of adjusted salaries based on benchmarking data Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 75 Our Governance | Directors Report Business Practices Committee The Committee focuses significant t A discussion on communication attention on health and safety, values, strategy and how best this could be In light of the strategic ethics and compliance, and sustainability.
developed in order to ensure the core The Committee also addresses the messages concerning the Groups review, the Committee Groups Code of Conduct and the strategic development and progress will be focusing this year training which ensures that the Groups were effectively communicated on reputational risk and business principles are properly t Development of a series of position embedded throughout the business.
In the adequacy of business statements to address key issues addition, during the year, the Committee processes.
taking a thought leadership perspective took over responsibility from the Audit in such areas as private finance Mike Donovan chairman Committee for reviewing contract andalternative methods of funding commission arrangements.
infrastructure projects, the benets of At each of its meetings, the Committee infrastructure spend, apprenticeships Meetings in 2012: 4 receives detailed updates on health and and planning regulations Members safety performance and the current t Mike Donovan chairman statusof the Groups Zero Harm safety September t Robert Amen programme, including statistical data t The Committee undertook a detailed t Iain Ferguson andtrends, accident reporting and high review of the Groups Zero Harm t Maureen Kempston Darkes potential incidents, as well as occupational safety programme, including from 11 July 2012 health.
The Committee also reviews the performance during the 20072012 t Hubertus Krossa output from the independent health and period, lessons learnt and the next t Steve Marshall safety audit carried out across the Group.
There were Responsibilities In addition to the standing agenda items, concerns over the high number of t Corporate values, ethics and the following principal topics were fatalities in 2012 and the impact of Codeof Conduct considered at Committee meetings management changes following the t Health and safety during the year: retirement of the former head of t Stakeholder management Health & Safety during the year.
There t Sustainability would be a focus on eliminating risks March t Whistleblowing and placing emphasis on bottom up t A review of the external monitors anti t Community engagement improvements to processes.
Adopting corruption compliance report for2011, leading indicators to measure asummary of which was incorporated performance was one highlighted into the Groups 2011 Sustainability change as well as setting minimum Report and excellence targets and a series t A review of the top priorities for ofclearly articulated deliverables ZeroHarm in 2012 highlighting high andmilestones potential incidents and trends within each division, policy, procedures and December civil engineering risks t Review of the 20132015 t A review of the Groups approach to sustainability roadmap and the Government affairs both in the UK progress made against the 2012 andUS as well as in other countries minimum expectations Australia and Canada.
The intention is t Discussion on the Health & Safety to position Balfour Beatty as a thought matters covered at the September leader and over the past two years the meeting and the status on each of the Gr Group oup had raise h d its prole in policy actions in the 2012 and 2013 H&S plans ar are ea as s s su uch as procurement, PFI, including the 10 global safety principles ener energ gy y policy and transportation and how these would be promulgated tt Rec Reco ommend m ation to the Board of and adopted across the Group.
thea thead do option of the Groups 2011 Sust Sustai ain nability Report published in In 2013, the Committee will continue Ap Apri rill2 20 012 toaddress its standing agenda on Health& Safety, sustainability and J Jul uly y ethics, but will also undertake a tt A r A re ev vie iew w of the compliance function reputational risk assessment in light acr acro oss the G ss t roup and the extent to ofthe new organisational structure, wh whiich the c ch t ompliance programme has complete a detailed review of the anti b be een en embrac em ed within each of the corruption risk processes and their di divisions vision and the operating companies application and consider the adequacy ofthe business processes following tt A A d fide eta tail iled review of each of the theGroup strategic review.
p princ rinciip pa al whistleblowing cases and emer emerg giin ng trends across the Group 76 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Governance Our Governance | Directors Report Group Tender and Investment Committee Finance and General Purposes Committee The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive, or in his absence by one of Meetings in 2012: Numerous As the implementation the Deputy Chief Executive & Chief Members Operating officer or the Chief Financial of the evolved business t Ian Tyler chairman officer.
Its main purpose is to review all t Duncan Magrath strategy takes place, major proposed tenders with projected t Andrew McNaughton the Committee will values above specified levels.
The t Anthony Rabin to 30 June 2012 Committee also has authority to ensure internal approval t Peter Zinkin approve capital expenditure applications processes continue to be and any proposed acquisitions or Responsibilities appropriate in the way we t Banking facilities and other disposals over certain specified limits treasury matters determined by the Board.
For example, address major projects and t Share options currently the Committees terms capitalexpenditure.
ofreference require contracts for Ian Tyler chairman construction or services in the UK of The Committee is chaired by the avalue exceeding 100 million to be ChiefExecutive, or in his absence by submitted for review, whilst other limits one of the other executive Directors.
Meetings in 2012: Numerous vary according to geography and nature Its principal purpose is to approve of the contract.
The Committee no various routine banking and treasury Members longer automatically reviews tenders matters, grants and exercises of t Ian Tyler chairman interritories classied as high risk, as employee share options and other t Duncan Magrath following the Committees work in matters relating to share capital.
A t Andrew McNaughton previous years, the Groups compliance summary of the business conducted t Anthony Rabin to 30 June 2012 procedures in such territories are now at the meetings is provided to all t Peter Zinkin fully implemented in each division, theDirectors.
t Kevin Craven through their own divisional risk t Manfred Leger management committees.
Routine t John Moore monthly operating reviews cover issues from 1 February 2012 of territorial and security risk.
Any t Brian Osborne Director may convene a meeting of t Mike Peasland theCommittee to discuss any of the t George Pierson divisional operating reviews in more t Ian Rylatt from 1 July 2012 detail.
Minutes of Committee meetings t Steve Tarr from 11 October 2012 are made available to all Directors.
t Robert Van Cleave Responsibilities t Major contract approvals t Acquisitions and disposals t Capital expenditure Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 77 Our Governance | Directors Report t the annual review of the strategy and t the Groups policy in relation to Risk management plans of each division and of the Group staffbeing able to raise concerns, and internal control as a whole in order to identify the risks incondence, about possible The Board takes ultimate responsibility to the Groups achievement of its overall improprieties on matters of financial forthe Groups systems of risk objectives and, where appropriate, any reporting and other issues.
management and internal control relevant mitigating actions These systems are extended, as soon andreviews their effectiveness.
t monthly financial reporting against aspossible and as appropriate, to all The Groups systems and controls are budgets and the review of results and businesses joining the Group.
designed to ensure that the Groups forecasts by executive Directors and The Head of Group Risk Management and exposure to significant risk is managed line management, including particular Assurance is responsible for ensuring that properly, but the Board recognises that areas of business or project risk.
a comprehensive framework of assurance any system of internal control is designed Thisisused to update managements including internal audit exists within to manage rather than eliminate the risk understanding of the environment divisions and their operating companies offailure to achieve business objectives inwhich the Group operates and the and for coordinating risk management and can only provide reasonable and not methods used to mitigate and control activities across the Group.
No significant absolute assurance against material the risks identied failings or weaknesses have been misstatement or loss.
In addition, not all identied by the Board in carrying out t individual tender and project review the material joint ventures in which the itsreview of the effectiveness of the procedures starting at operating Group is involved are treated, for these Groups risk management and internal company and progressing to divisional purposes, as part of the Group.
and Board Committee levels if value, they are not, systems of internal control orperceived exposure, exceeds and risk management are applied as certainthresholds Other disclosures agreed between the partners to the jointventure.
Business and financial review t regular reporting, monitoring and review The Chairmans Welcome on pages 4 and of the effectiveness of health, safety Details of the Groups risk management 5, the Chief Executives Review on pages and environmental processes.
These framework and of its principal risks and 6 and 7, the strategy review on pages 12 processes are subject to independent how they are mitigated are set out on and 13 and pages 16 to 23, the Operating audit and certication to internationally pages 58 to 61.
The Board continued Review onpages 28 to 43, The Way We recognised standards toassess the effectiveness of the risk Work onpages 48 to 51 and the Chief management processes and internal t the review and authorisation of Financial Ofcers Review on pages 54 to controls during 2012 and to the date of proposed investment, divestment and 57 are incorporated by reference into the this report.
Such assessment is based capital expenditure through the Boards Directors Report.
onreports made to the Board, the Audit Committees and the Board itself Committee and the Business Practices Results and dividends t specic policies set out in the Group Committee, including: The results for the year are shown in the Finance Manual covering the financial audited financial statements presented t the results of internal audits reviews management of the Group, including onpages 99 to 161 and are explained ofinternal financial controls arrangements with the Groups bankers more fully in the Chief Executives and bond providers, controls on foreign t a Group wide certication that effective Review, the Operating Review and the exchange dealings and management internal controls had been maintained, Chief Financial Ofcers Review.
An ofcurrency and interest rate exposures, or, where any significant non-compliance interim dividend payment of 5.6p net per insurance, capital expenditure or breakdown had occurred with or ordinary share was approved by the Board procedures, application of accounting without loss, that appropriate remedial on 14 August 2012 and a final dividend of policies and financial controls action has been or is being taken 8.5p net per ordinary share will be recommended at the Annual General t legal compliance risks which are t a paper prepared by management on Meeting giving a total of 14.1p net per addressed through specic policies the nature, extent and mitigation of ordinary share, which compares with a andtraining on such matters as ethics, significant risks and on the systems total dividend per ordinary share of 13.8p competition and data protection laws ofinternal controls.
Preference dividends t a Group wide risk management Central to the Groups systems of internal totalling 10.75p gross per preference framework which is embedded control are its processes and framework share were paid in2012 2011: 10.75p throughout the Group.
Under it, key for risk management.
These accord with gross per preference share.
risks are identied and assessed and the Turnbull Guidance on internal controls The Directors continued to offer the action plans are developed to mitigate and were in place throughout 2012 and up dividend reinvestment plan, which allows or eliminate unwanted exposures.
The to the date of signing this report.
holders of ordinary shares to reinvest their results of these reviews are placed on The Groups systems of internal control cash dividends in the Companys shares risk registers and are subject to regular operate through a number of different through a specially arranged share review with material risks being processes, some of which are interlinked.
escalated as appropriate These include: t reviews and tests by the internal audit t a clear system of delegated authorities function of critical business financial from the Board to management with processes and controls and specic certain matters reserved by the Board reviews in areas of perceived high business risk 78 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Governance Our Governance | Directors Report Innovation, research and development At 31 December 2012, the Directors had Relations with shareholders The Group remains committed to authority under shareholders resolutions The Board attaches great importance enhancing stakeholder value through approved at the AGM and at the Class tomaintaining good relationships with thought leadership and innovation.
Meeting of preference shareholders held allshareholders and ensures that Innovation is a significant part of the in May 2012 to purchase through the shareholders are kept informed of day-to-day operations of the Group and is market 68,736,152 ordinary shares and significant Company developments.
integral to the development and delivery 16,775,968 preference shares at prices The Company continued its programme of of its projects.
Developed with our set out in those resolutions.
This authority communication with institutional investors partner, Imperial College London, our expires at the earlier of the conclusion and sell side analysts throughout 2012. approach to innovation aims to better ofthe Class Meeting of preference Presentations of the half-year and full-year meet our clients needs through: shareholders which will follow the 2013 results were made in accordance with pioneering solutions: encouraging AGM or on 1 July 2013. thepractice of previous years, and aculture of entrepreneurship and Throughout the year, all the Companys teleconferences have been held for knowledge sharing: and leveraging our issued share capital was publicly listed Interim Management Statements.
relationship with partners and suppliers.
onthe London Stock Exchange and it Through the year, 185 one-on-one and By delivering on these aims we are remains so as at the date of this report.
group meetings were held at regular betterable to connect the end-to-end In2012, the Company launched an intervals with institutional shareholders infrastructure knowledge that we American Depositary Receipt programme 2011: approximately 220.
Current and havearound the globe with the client to improve access to the Companys prospective shareholders, brokers and challenges we nd locally.
In this way, ordinary shares for investors in the US.
analysts were also given the opportunity weare able to deliver greater value There are no specic restrictions on the to engage with Balfour Beatty at hosted tothem and create new market size of a shareholding nor on the transfer events including: opportunities that underpin growth.
of shares, which are both governed by the t an Investor Day which involved A sustained central focus and the Articles of Association and the prevailing presentations and breakout sessions successful integration of Parsons law.
The Directors are not aware of any togive the investment community a Brinckerhoff have led to an increase in agreements between holders of the better understanding of the Groups research and development activities.
This Companys shares that may result in strategic direction is evidenced by long term relationships restrictions on the transfer of shares with thought leaders such as Princeton oronvoting rights.
t a roadshow in Zurich for local investors University and the University of Bristol Shares held by the Balfour Beatty t a site visit to the ongoing Heathrow and strategic suppliers such as Autodesk.
Employee Share Ownership Trust are Terminal 2B project for investors Successes in innovation include the notvoted.
Olympic Aquatic Centre, where t two conferences for existing and constraints on time and budget have No person has special rights of control prospective investors beenovercome through innovative over the Companys share capital and all t a presentation to the UK Shareholders thinking: our partnership with Royal Mail issued shares are fully paid.
to deliver facilities management that As at 31 December 2012, the Company isatthe forefront of business model had been notied in accordance with the The Chairman held three meetings with innovation: and our Highways Agency Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the major investors on corporate governance maintenance contracts, which are leading Financial Services Authority of the following matters and five further meetings the way in outcome based contracting.
interests in its ordinary share capital: wereheld with major shareholders bysenior executives as part of our In 2013, we will continue to look for ways Number Percentage ongoing engagement.
in which we can exploit the best practice of ordinary of ordinary we have been developing with our shares held shares held We will maintain this communication agship projects in other areas of the Prudential plc 35,103,707 5.10 programme and expand it where Groups portfolio.
We will also continue to BlackRock, Inc 34,469,134 5.01 appropriate, subject to the constraints of identify opportunities where we can Causeway Capital regulation and practice.
The 2013 investor better connect our global sector expertise Management LLC 34,296,464 4.98 programme will focus on ensuring our with local needs, as we develop new investors and the analyst community geographies and market sectors.
Since 1 January 2013, the Company has understand the Group, its operations and received a further notication advising strategy, and that international institutions Share capital and shareholders that Standard Life Investments Limited are given the opportunity to meet Details of the share capital of the has an interest of 3.65%.
Company as at 31 December 2012, including the rights attaching to each Care is exercised to ensure that any Auditor classof share, are set out in Note 27 pricesensitive information is released Deloitte LLP has indicated its willingness onpages 139 and 140.
During the year toall shareholders at the same time to continue as auditor to the Company ended 31December 2012 no ordinary or inaccordance with UK Listing anda resolution for its reappointment preference shares were repurchased for .
willbe proposed at the AGM.
866,427 ordinary shares were issued following the exercise of Executive Directors report regularly to the options held under the Companys Board on meetings or other contact with savings-related share option scheme shareholders or their representatives.
and229,220 ordinary shares were issued Thenon-executive Directors continue to following the exercise of options held believe that, through their direct and ready under the Companys executive share access to, and contact with, the Chairman option scheme.
and the Senior Independent Director and Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 79 Our Governance | Directors Report through the regular reports to the Board, Parsons Brinckerhoff Group Inc sponsors t to ensure that all employees similarly they are kept fully aware of the views of a Political Action Committee PAC.
receive fair treatment, particularly in the larger shareholders in the Company APACis an independently administered relation to training, development and and the investment community generally.
committee which receives small voluntary career progression.
contributions from Parsons Brinckerhoffs The Board continues to retain the services Applications for employment by disabled US employees and allocates the funds of independent external corporate and persons are always fully considered, received to US political candidates and investor relations consultants who provide bearing in mind the aptitudes of the other eligible stakeholders who support advice on the relationship between the applicant concerned and the support that investment in infrastructure markets Company and its institutional investors.
In the event of members of generally.
Contributions are entirely staff becoming disabled every effort is The Board regards the Companys voluntary from employees and are kept made to ensure that their employment generalmeetings as an opportunity completely separate from company funds.
with the Group continues and that tocommunicate directly with private Decisions taken by the PAC are appropriate training and other support investors and actively encourages independent of influence by Balfour isprovided.
It is the policy of the Group participative dialogue with all the Beatty.
Total PAC contributions in 2012 that the training, career development and Companys shareholders.
The chairmen were 88,019. promotion of disabled persons should, ofthe Board Committees attend the asfar as possible, be identical to that AGMeach year along with the other Corporate responsibility ofother employees.
Directors and are available to answer A full description of our approach to questions from shareholders.
Throughout the Group we use a sustainability, including information on varietyofmethods to communicate key theGroups community engagement The website www.
com is businessgoals and issues to employees programme, appears on page 49. regarded by the Company as an important and also consult and involve employees source of information on the Group, The Groups published policies on health through local publications, brieng including financial press releases, and safety, the environment, business groups, consultative meetings, training shareholder documentation, annual and conduct and ethics remain in place and programmes and working groups to assist half-year results presentations and the are subject to regular reviews.
innovation, collaboration and the process terms of reference of the principal Board of continuous improvement in the way Further information on each of these Committees.
We continue to develop the business is conducted.
In 2012, the policies and the progress which has Companys website to ensure it remains Company launched its global intranet beenmade during the year is provided aprincipal source of information on the 360 which is available to the inthe 2012 Sustainability Report at Group and its activities.
majorityofemployees and is a key www.
communicationchannel for informing Political donations them of major business and technical Employment At the AGM held on 10 May 2012, achievements.
It also aids knowledge As the Group operates across a number of shareholders gave authority for the sharing and collaboration.
business sectors in different environments, Company and its UK subsidiaries to make it has evolved a decentralised management donations to political organisations up to Events after the reporting date structure, with employment policies amaximum aggregate amount of 25,000 Details of events after the reporting date designed to suit the needs of individual in the European Union.
This approval is are set out in Note 35 on page 148. businesses.
However, each employing aprecautionary measure in view of the company is expected to comply with broad denition of these terms in the Contractual arrangements certain key principles in its design and Companies Act.
No such expenditure practice of employment policy.
The Group has contractual arrangements ordonations were made during the year with numerous third parties in support and shareholder authority will be sought These are: ofits business activities.
Disclosure in again at the 2013 AGM.
t to provide an open, challenging and thisreport of information about any of In the US and Canada, donations totalling participative environment those third parties is not considered 371,000 were made by operating necessary for the understanding of the t to enable all employees to use their companies during 2012 2011: 182,000. development, performance or position talents and skills to the full, through Most of these donations were made by ofthe Groups business.
appropriate encouragement, training Parsons Brinckerhoff: they were small and development andall were permitted by law.
They are Change of control provisions non-partisan and in the main, they relate t to communicate a full understanding The Groups bank facility agreements to support given for local campaigns, ofthe objectives and performance contain provisions that, on 30 days public bond or similar referenda to ofthe Group and the opportunities noticebeing given to the Group, the promote investment in infrastructure.
andchallenges facing it lender may exercise its discretion to Anypolitical contributions or donations are require prepayment of the loans on a t to provide pay and other benets which tightly controlled and must be approved change of control of the Company and reect good local practices and reward inadvance in accordance with the cancel all commitments under the individual and collective performance Companys internal procedures and must agreement concerned.
also adhere strictly to the Companys t to ensure that all applicants receive policies on probity set out in its Code of A number of significant joint venture fairtreatment regardless of age, origin, Conduct.
A review of existing practices andcontract bond agreements include gender, disability, sexual orientation, was undertaken during 2012 and no provisions which become exercisable by marital status, religion or belief changes to these practices were considered necessary.
80 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Governance Our Governance | Directors Report acounterparty on a change of control of t properly select and apply Statements of Directors as the Company.
These include the right of a accounting policies todisclosure of information counterparty to request additional security t present information, including toauditors and to terminate an agreement.
accounting policies, in a manner that Each of the Directors at the date of Some other commercial agreements, provides relevant, reliable, comparable approval of this report confirms that: entered into in the normal course and understandable information ofbusiness, include change of t so far as the Director is aware, there is t provide additional disclosures when controlprovisions.
no relevant audit information of which compliance with the specic the Companys auditors are unaware The Groups share and incentive plans requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to include usual provisions relating to change enable users to understand the impact t the Director has taken all the steps of control.
of particular transactions, other events thathe or she ought to have taken as and conditions on the Companys and aDirector to make himself or herself There are no agreements providing for the Groups financial position and aware of any relevant audit information compensation for the Directors or financial performance and to establish that the Companys employees on a change of control.
auditors are aware of that information.
t make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
This conrmation is given and should Payment of creditors beinterpreted in accordance with the In the UK, the Companys policy is to The Directors are responsible for keeping provisions of Section 418 of the settle the terms of payment with suppliers adequate accounting records that are Companies Act 2006. when agreeing the terms for each sufficient to show and explain the transaction or series of transactions: to Companys transactions and disclose By order of the Board seek to ensure that suppliers are aware withreasonable accuracy, at any time, Chris Vaughan ofthe terms of payment: and to abide thenancial position of the Company and Chief Corporate officer & bythese terms of payment as and when enable them to ensure that the financial CompanySecretary satisfied that the supplier has provided statements comply with the Companies thegoods or services in accordance with Act 2006.
They are also responsible for 6 March 2013 the agreed terms.
At 31 December 2012, safeguarding the assets of the Company creditors days of the Company were 26 Registered Ofce: and for taking reasonable steps for 2011: 28.
130 Wilton Road preventing and detecting fraud and London SW1V 1LQ otherirregularities.
Registered in England Number 395826 Financial instruments The Directors are responsible for the The Groups financial risk management maintenance and integrity of the corporate objectives and policies and its exposure and financial information included on the tothe following risks foreign exchange, Companys website.
Legislation in the interest rate, price and credit are detailed United Kingdom governing the in Note 36 on pages 149 to 154. preparationand dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Statement of Directors inother jurisdictions.
responsibilities The Directors confirm that to the best The Directors are responsible for oftheir knowledge: preparing the annual report and the t the financial statements, prepared in financial statements in accordance with accordance with IFRSs as adopted applicable law and regulations.
bythe EU and Article 4 of the IAS Company law requires the Directors to Regulation, give a true and fair view of prepare financial statements for each the assets, liabilities, financial position financial year.
Under that law, the and profit or loss of the Company and Directors are required to prepare the the undertakings included in the Group financial statements in accordance consolidation taken as a whole with International Financial Reporting t the Operating Review and Chief Standards IFRS as adopted by the Financial Ofcers Review, which are European Union EU and Article 4 of the incorporated into the Directors Report, IAS Regulation and they have also chosen include a fair review of the development to prepare the parent company financial and performance of the business statements under IFRSs as adopted by andthe position of the Company and the EU.
Under company law, the Directors the undertakings included in the must not approve the financial statements consolidation taken as a whole, together unless they are satisfied that they give a with a description of the principal risks true and fair view of the state of affairs of and uncertainties they face.
the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires thatDirectors: Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 81
