Our Business | Business Model Business Balfour Beatty has a distinct Model Strong local businesses Strong local businesses, close to clients, committed to local communities, in touch with local supply chain.
Established geographies Target geographies Professional Services footprint Value drivers: t Allocate capital to strategic areas of growth t Focus on economic infrastructure to increase resilience t Manage costs to facilitate consistent margins across Established geographies Target geographies business cycles.
UK Australia & New Zealand 30,000 employees 3,000 employees USA Canada 10,000 employees 350 employees Hong Kong South Africa 10,000 employees 300 employees UAE & GCC India 300 employees 300 employees Brazil 5 employees Employee gures include joint ventures and associates.
Our business model will deliver bydeveloping a rigorous approach to risk Strong local businesses To achieve our strategic Local presence allows us to align with management.
Being on-the-ground gives objectives of growth in new ourclients most of whom are based in us an intimate understanding of the local markets, delivering greater asingle country and be closer to them.
operating environment and, crucially, its That allows us to better understand and local supply chain.
As most projects in valueto the client, improving respond to their needs.
ourindustry are delivered through that operational performance and supply chain, local presence helps in It also means that, as local organisations, continuing to show leadership everypart of our business: and where our clients value the commitment we invalues and behaviour, our wetake delivery risk ourselves, its show to the communities we serve.
business model leverages our Bycommitting to and investing in thesecommunities, we provide training We have this deep rooted presence strong local presence in multiple and development, create long term inanumber of countries around the geographies alongside global, employment opportunities, and support worldalready.
This can From our foundation in the UK weve beseen across our business through builtstrong domestic businesses in the ourapprenticeship, graduate training US, Hong Kong and the Middle East.
Experience has taught us that this model With deep roots in a community we are works much better than an expeditionary also able to create resilient businesses y-in y-out approach.
24 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 e u l a v r e v i l e D e c i v r e s r Our Business e v i l e D Our Business | Business Model competitive edge End-to-end capabilities Global expertise Intensive expertise across World class solutions, global the full asset lifecycle, best practice and knowledge enhanced offerings and sharing, coupled with integrated solutions.
Develop & Finance Power and Energy see p41 Highways Service enhancers: t Relentless focus on excellent delivery Aviation t Innovative and Design & Manage sustainable solutions Rail see p28 t Safe working environments Water t Productivity.
Mining Construct & Commission Social see p32 Infrastructure Maintain & Operate see p37 value for all our stakeholders t being investors and developers, wealso contracts where were providing all We have then continued to expand ourcoverage into our chosen target understand the owners perspective.
In theseskills to one project, but also in geographies.
We arent starting from fact, we can actually develop, structure single service contracts where our scratch in these countries: we already andnance investment projects as well understanding of the full lifecycle makes have a presence, in some cases a as deliver them us a better designer, or constructor, significant one gained largely through ormaintainer, or operator.
t through design and planning, we can our acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff leverage strategic relationships and Global expertise in2009.
early engagement with clients this And our knowledge isnt just end-to-end.
For example, we now have over 3,000 means we can get early visibility of It also cuts across all of our core people in Australia, around 350 in Canada, opportunities, help to shape how geographies.
We are using this 300 in South Africa and 300 in India.
projects come to market and international expertise, across the whole  ourselves asset lifecycle, to help us grow in our These are solid foundations on which target market sectors.
We are doing this toexpand our activities in these regions.
t we can design better because we through global sector teams that link up understand the construction and End-to-end capabilities allthe different parts of the Group operational issues and conversely, Combined with our local presence, we aroundthe world that are active in these wecan construct and operate more also have global end-to-end experience sectors.
These teams are responsible effectively because we understand and understanding of infrastructure forknowledge ow, specialist resources, theengineering issues.
That gives us an edge on global strategy, and coordination of threelevels: Our end-to-end knowledge adds value globalcustomers.
Not just on integrated Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25
