Our Business | The Way We Work The Way We Work Showing leadership in values and behaviour is essential for a business such as Balfour Beatty that aspires to differentiate itself in the market and be seen as a global leader in its eld.
That is why we have made itone of our core strategic objectives: we want high ethical and professional standards to be evident in every aspect of the way we work.
Ethics and values Health and safety Across all of our businesses, we share In 2008 we set out to achieve Zero Harm thesame values integrity, teamwork, by 2012.
That meant zero deaths, zero excellence and respect.
They help to injuries to the public and zero ruined define who we are and what we want livesamong all our people: no seriously tobe known for.
Integrity is about being disabling injuries, no long term harm to honest and transparent and always doing health and an accident frequency rate what is right.
Teamwork means seeing AFR below 0.10.
While we failed to meet ourselves as part of a bigger picture in the these targets across the Group, we made way we work with colleagues, clients and important progress and remain even more suppliers.
Excellence is the standard of committed to achieving them.
performance people are entitled to expect Our overall Group performance improved from working with orforus.
Respect in 2012, with most businesses making shapes the way we treat other people, further advances towards Zero Harm.
Of inside and outside the business and the 184 2011: 189 major injuries reported thewider community and environment.
in 2012, one was permanently disabling, compared with five in 2011.
Group AFR Our programme to embed ethics and improved to 0.16 in 2012 2011: 0.17. integrity across our business covers not only bribery, fraud and competition law There were significant improvements but also data protection, human rights inmany parts of the Group, with 20 out andother areas addressed in our Code of34 operations showing either zero ofConduct.
For nearly four years we AFRoran improved AFR compared with havebeen embedding a best practice 2011.
Group AFR has reduced by 69% compliance programme founded on since 2001. ourvalues, the Code of Conduct and its There were 115 injuries to members associated training modules.
To date more ofthepublic in 2012 2011: 127, than 40,000 employees have completed areduction of 9%.
the first online training module and morethan 26,000 have completed the However, we regret that there were second module.
We have also begun eightemployee fatalities during 2012 aprogramme for site operatives which threein the UK, two in North America, should be largely completed in2013.
twoin Australia and one in Indonesia 2011:five in Hong Kong.
Every fatal As part of our programme, in 2009 accident is subject to a thorough welaunched a condential helpline for investigation and review by the whistleblowers.
Last year, for the first BalfourBeatty Board.
Lessons learnt time since its launch, we saw a slight areshared across the Group to help decrease in the number of potential improve future performance.
breaches of the Code of Conduct reported via the helpline or other whistleblowing To emphasise our commitment to the channels or detected by management to absolute necessity for Zero Harm, in 221 2011:232, excluding HR grievances.
June2012 we held our first ever Group wide safety stand down.
Over 90,000 Whilst this may indicate that our ethics BalfourBeatty and subcontractor and compliance programme is leading personnel stopped work to remember toareduction in unethical behaviour, colleagues killed at work, consider new webelieve that we are still experiencing ways of working to prevent fatal accidents under reporting in some countries and and reafrm everyones individual wewould also hope and expect to see responsibilities for keeping colleagues and anincrease in reporting, once the site members of the public safe from harm.
operative ethics training has been fully rolled out.
In 2013 and beyond, our Zero Harm goals ofzero fatalities, zero disabling injuries, During 2012 we continued to embed the zero injuries to members of the public and compliance programme and developed zero new cases of long term harm to anassurance framework, which includes health will remain.
As we head into 2013, management self assessments, we are intensifying our Zero Harm efforts, compliance function risk assessments setting clear Health & Safety expectations andinternal audits of anti corruption for all of our businesses, renewing our procedures.
This helps us to test focus on the elimination of fatal risk and implementation, address weaknesses increasing the level of personal andcontinually improve.
48 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Business Our Business | The Way We Work As we seek to grow in emerging markets, Delivering sustainability for customers it is even more important that we continue We see our sustainability performance to roll out our ethical programme.
The and expertise as a strategic asset, and aim choices that we face can be difficult, but for market leading capability in delivering we must ensure our values are at the sustainable solutions for clients.
forefront of each and every business Sustainability is increasingly important to decision.
In 2013, we will continue to clients and we work closely with many implement appropriate policies and clients to deliver sustainable solutions.
procedures to support our growth strategy We have now secured positions in in new and often higher risk markets, virtually all the renewables markets, made andto embed the culture of ethics and our delivery capability signicantly more integrity upon which, ultimately, the efficient through BIM technology and success of our programme will depend.
materials reuse, and have developed Sustainability To earn the trust acomprehensive array of water, carbon We have set out a clear path to embed and ecology tools.
Through training and ofclients and other sustainability into everything we do by knowledge sharing we have equipped stakeholders, we 2020.
At the end of 2012 we published ourbusiness development teams and must do business our roadmap for the 20132015 second design managers to advise clients on stage of this journey developed in howsustainable thinking can add value ethically at all times.
consultation with over 200 staff and totheir projects.
We focus on doing 20clients and non-governmental Environmental performance the right things organisations NGOs.
We have made good progress against and see compliance This roadmap defines our objectives, anumber of our environmental targets.
with the law as the strategies and measures in 11 focus areas: We met our target to halve our waste new markets, client engagement, tolandll by 2012 and in the UK we absolute minimum efficiency, our people, supply chain, procured 44% of our major materials we expect.
communities, climate change, waste, fromrecognised responsible sourcing water, materials and ecology.
Reducing our energy Chris Vaughan consumption has been more challenging, Chief Corporate officer In our 2012 Sustainability Report online at but in 2012 our overall Scope 1 and 2 www.
com we report our carbon intensity decreased by 13% progress against the 20092012 first followingrestatement based on more stage roadmap.
Broadly speaking, we comprehensive data.
Improvements in performed better against our profitable ourUK businesses were partially offset markets and healthy communities targets bygrowth in energy intensive projects in than the environmental limits targets.
Further details are available Within environmental limits, we inour 2012 Sustainability Report online performed betteron waste management atwww.
Four environmental incidents resulted We benchmarked our performance inenforcement action and fines in externally by participating in three key 2012across the Group 2011: 6 totalling indices securing a Silver rating in the 66,800 2011: 18,800.
These ranged Business in the Community Index, a from 160 to56,000.
Corrective actions scoreof 78 out of 100 from the Carbon have beencompleted for each violation.
Disclosure Project, and inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Europe.
Looking ahead During 2011 and 2012 an independent In 2013 we are focusing on sustainability programme was conducted by KPMG as a driver of growth, supply chain toreview ourprogress against the engagement and a more focused roadmap and help management embed approach to social performance.
We will sustainability within the business.
The also be promoting sustainable innovation quality of our reporting was recognised in products, client engagement and bythe Building Public Trust Awards efficiency such as our reuse and FTSE250 Sustainability Report award in recycling practices that have saved November 2012.
We have been credited theHighways Agency 55 million over by the asset management business, thepast three years.
Robeco SAM, asthe Sector Mover in theHeavy Construction Sector in 2012.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49 Our Business | The Way We Work Our US construction business has been People recognised as a Fortune Best Company Our competitiveness depends on how To Work For at #85 in the rankings.
well we harness the wide range of skills, knowledge and potential in our 50,000 We also continue to make progress in global workforce.
The key is to identify ourwork on diversity so that we attract and nurture the talents of all our people, and engage more than our fair share of ina values based business where they talent from the broadest possible pools.
Our people policies are Formal awards and recognition for our focused on fullling the potential in the achievements in this area, including from Group so our clients benefit from wide both Opportunity Now and Race for ranging capability, and our employees Opportunity in 2012, give us a strong from enhanced careers.
During the year we continued to enhance Respecting our communities Our competitiveness the way we identify and develop talent in Our business is centred on communities.
We supplemented our is founded on a We bring them significant benets by Group wide leadership framework, which tradition of technical creating and caring for efficient, high articulates what the business requires quality economic and social amenities.
capability and ofits leaders today, with a new set of But we also recognise the importance requirements for the people with potential collaboration, an ofengaging more directly with the who will lead the business in thefuture.
established culture communities where we operate.
We ran our first Group development of respect and centre to test these requirements with a Because our operations are so widely leadership in values range of high potential individuals.
They dispersed, we do this through local were observed by senior leaders from initiatives that t with our businesses and behaviours, across the business to extend the visibility individual objectives and provide and individual of our talent across the organisation.
motivation and engagement for our empowerment to employees.
Across the Group there is a We also launched two new programmes high degree of commitment to, and active drive improvement aimed at supporting people with potential participation in, community involvement.
at key career transition points.
The advanced management programme At Group level we work, often in Paul Raby andexecutive leadership programme partnership with clients, to support Group HR director combine thought leadership, drawn from organisations and activities that aim to the latest academic research, with the improve social cohesion and inclusion.
opportunity to address real business Inthe UK these have included the challenges in the Group and to network LondonYouth Games, Action for Children, with other participants.
the Coram Foundation and the Princes Trust.
We also donate cash and the The launch of individual personal and skill energies ofour employees to selected proles on the new Group knowledge charitable causes.
The Balfour Beatty sharing and collaboration intranet also Charitable Trust has donated over helps us identify and deploy talent more 1.75million to disadvantaged young effectively for example by promoting peoples charities since its inception in opportunities to work in different 2009, through corporate funding and businesses and locations.
We continue to build on our progress In late 2011 we reviewed our community ininstilling leadership in values and policies to take account of the Groups behaviours.
Our commitment to our increasing size and geographical spread values in the treatment of others is now and to align our community programmes increasingly embedded in the way we more closely with key social issues and work.
We can use this commitment to our core business activities.
The result extend and enhance the Groups brand was Building Better Futures, a set of inthe market so that we attract the very strategic themes focusing on young best external talent and we have already peoples employability and employment, won several new awards for companies helping the most disadvantaged young highly rated by graduates including The people in society.
Guardian UK 300 and the Job Crowds Top Companies for Graduates to Work For.
50 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Business Our Business | The Way We Work In 2012, we worked closely with Building Better Futures and our ourcharitable partners to develop sponsorship of the London Youth Games programmes that meet our common have been very successful in the UK, 1s t strategic ambitions.
We also built butwe need an approach that also strongerinternal networks to help us embraces the US and our emerging Female non-executive Director identify and promote local initiatives markets, such as South Africa.
In 2013, and managing director of a andprogrammes within the Group we will look to build on each aspect of business unit appointed thatsupport our strategic theme of ourcommunity engagement programme employability and employment.
within those markets where we have significant presence.
We continue to build a volunteering 40,000 culture across the Group.
Many of our businesses volunteering policies were More than 40,000 employees extended in 2012 and will be further have completed the first developed during 2013.
Our charitable Codeof Conduct online partners have been working with us to training module identify opportunities for our staff to become involved in their work and we plan to build on this in 2013.
We also planto incorporate a volunteering moduleinto our apprentice and graduatedevelopment programmes.
Hong Kongs first zero carbon building Our Gammon joint venture built the Zero Carbon Building in Kowloon Bay which may be small in scale but its impact on green construction will be long lasting and far ranging.
The Zero Carbon Building the first ofits kind in Hong Kong achieved BEAM Plus Platinum environmental standard, the highest rating possible.
It will produce more energy than it consumes about 225MW hours ofelectricity in total per year.
30% of the generated energy will be derived from solar panels and 70% from biodiesel made from used cooking oil.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51
