Our Business Our Business | Operating Review | Support Services Support Services How are we performing?
We grew our services business acrosssignicantareas of activity Order book asthetrendfor outsourcing gained further momentum in central and local 12% government, regulated utilities and 2012 5.7bn othercommercial enterprises.
t Upgrade and maintain water, gas and electricity networks t Total facilities management, business services outsourcing and energy services Revenue including JVs and associates t Highways network management, operation and maintenance t Rail renewals 3% Whats happened?
2012 1,633m t Continued growth, particularly in the power and building segments t Won new gas distribution contracts worth 1.1 billion in the UK and started 2011 1,584m work on first gas contract in Ireland 2010 1,443m t Further increase in share of UK highways maintenance market t Major wins for local authority unit t Facilities management unit appointed to run services and facilities profit before non-underlying items for the future Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in East London Whats next?
22% t Continue to benefit from outsourcing activity by central and local government t Seek further opportunities for growth in power transmission internationally 2012 52m t Manage margin pressure in the division in the face of expected contraction 2011 67m inrail renewal activity 2010 62m Divisional KPI 1 Customer retention Retained customer revenue is a key measure for Support Services, as it showshow well we have leveraged our existing customer relationships.
We have maintained a retention rate above 100% in2012, albeit lower than that in 2011.
4% 2012 103.8% 2011 108.2% 2010 95.2% 1 Dened as the revenue from existing customers retained from one year to the next.
Based on BalfourBeatty WorkPlace, Utility Solutions and LivingPlaces revenue.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37 Our Business | Operating Review | Support Services Our strategy anintegrator, bringing together service Support Services is differentiated by its components to deliver the outcomes that expertise in the maintenance, renewal our customers require.
27% andoperation of hard assets and its focus Our clients trust us to deal directly with onthe transportation highways and rail, Our market share of their end users and stakeholders.
The utilities power, gas and water and to maintenance work with the quality and responsiveness of these client alesser extent, building sectors.
UKHighways Agency relationships underpins our organic growth As a services integrator, we bring together by enabling us to extend the length and a diverse set of capabilities to meet breadth of successful contracts.
Integrating our teams with Our marketplace 1.1bn suppliers and clients is an everyday part of The services market continues to grow the business and a skill we also employ Value of gas distribution with the trend towards outsourcing in to draw capabilities from other parts of contracts won in the year theregulated utilities sector, government the Group.
Our increasing alignment and local authorities, and also as withthe Groups target market sectors privateentities look to outsource their iscrucial, and benets both Support facilities management.
The trend for local authorities to outsource Most of our business comes from the their services through larger, more public and regulated sectors in the UK.
complex integrated contracts, often over Pressure on spending in these areas is longer terms, continued in 2012.
As a driving innovation and creating new strongly differentiated full service provider opportunities with central and local with a wide range of capabilities, we have government, and other public entities.
been able to benefit despite intensifying Asa full service provider we aim to competition as an increasing number of benefit from the continuing trend suppliers are attracted into the market.
A similar pattern is evident in outsourced Our strategy is to move progressively facilities management FM.
While the from contracting relationships based on a reduction in discretionary spend since the project or input specication to delivering 2008 financial crisis has made this market transformational outputs for our clients.
extremely competitive at the single We intend to capture value by acting as Green route for green energy E. ONs 736 million Humber Gateway offshore wind farm inthe north of England will generate enough green energy for up to170,000 homes.
We are ensuring that the link to those homes is itself ecofriendly.
We have a 19 million contract to design and install twin 132kV land cable circuits on a 30km route across environmentally sensitive terrain from the shore to an inland substation.
As well as responding to local community concerns, we are planning and timing our work to take care of greater crested newt ponds, badger setts, nesting birds, marsh harrier nesting sites, Little Tern breeding colonies, otter runs, water voles and grass snakes.
38 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Business Our Business | Operating Review | Support Services service end, there is significant potential forgreater procurement of for profitable work in the bundled FM and multidisciplinary contracts should favour total FM segments that we target.
We integrated players such as Balfour Beatty.
have grown in these segments as we Financial performance have progressively proven the value of Support Services order book improved ourasset knowledge across the lifecycle by12% from last year end to 5.7 billion of our clients assets.
Order intake was Internationally, there is significant particularly strong in power, which ended investment in electricity networks virtually the year with its order book up 65% from everywhere to support a shift towards the start of the year.
Revenue was up 3% renewable generation and to meet rising at 1,633 million with a particularly strong energy demand from consumers and the performance in the power sector up resources sector.
Excluding acquisitions, revenue Our customers trust in emerging and resource driven markets, wasup 2%.
where robust energy networks are seen us to deal directly profitability, however, was lower at 52 as a cornerstone of economic growth in million 2011: 67 million, due to start-up with their end users which energy intensive resource mining costs on new contracts and some 10m and stakeholders.
In some of these of one-off cost increases on a small markets, such as India, private investment The quality and number of power sector contracts in is being sought to fund the expansion of responsiveness Australia and New Zealand in the first the electricity network.
Second half profitability of our customer We have power transmission contracts was inline with that in the same period relationships inthe US, Australia, New Zealand, Hong in2011.
underpins our organic Kong and Indonesia, where we operate For 2013, we expect to see continued domestic businesses in joint ventures.
growth by enabling growth in the power and buildings Weare now seeking further opportunities us to extend the segments, a reasonably stable water in these and other international markets business, but with increasing volume length and breadth of such as Canada where we have past andmargin pressure in rail renewals.
In all of these markets there successful contracts.
isa demand for our skilled resources, Operational performance Kevin Craven technical expertise and capabilities in 2012 was a year of further revenue Chief Executive officer, managing supply chain relationships.
growth for the division, particularly in Support Services thepower and buildings segments.
In the UK, the power transmission market is entering a new eight-year investment In the power sector, a key focus market period.
Given our extensive capabilities for the Group, we are continuing to help and experience in this territory, we are deliver major infrastructure projects for confident of securing new work.
National Grid and Scottish and Southern Energy in the UK, drawing on our The UK water market is about to begin engineering and asset expertise and reviewing contract renewals for the AMP6 global resources.
This has included investment period.
We have several securing a five-year framework agreement current contracts with options to extend with National Grid and delivering into this period, and we will also be additionalvolumes of work above original seeking to expand our operations with agreements as part of their investment both existing and new clients.
We were also awarded Most of our transportation work is in road twonew contracts with Scottish Power maintenance and rail renewals.
The UK Energy Networks, together worthalmost Governments planned 2.3 billion 40 million, for electricity transmission investment in major road improvements to work in Scotland.
the end of 20142015 includes 1.4 billion In April, E. ON appointed us to install the to start 14 new schemes in the four years cable for its Humber Gateway offshore to 20142015.
We expect these schemes wind farm.
The contract, worth some to create work in addition to the current 19million, involves the design and contracts under which we maintain three installation of a 30km section of of the 14 existing Highways Agency areas, underground 132kV cable to connect representing a 27% market share an theHumber Gateway offshore wind farm increase on our 23% share in 2011. to anew onshore substation at Hedon Growth in the rail renewals market is inEast Yorkshire.
Our close collaboration driven by broader central government with the client to understand the projects strategies to maintain and improve service environmental and ecological impact was levels on the rail network.
While Network a key factor in securing this contract Rail and London Underground have been seecase study on page 38. increasing competitive pressure in the We incurred one-off cost increases in routine renewals market, potential some overseas utilities contracts in the investment in high speed rail links first half of the year.
These were not between major cities and the tendency Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39 Our Business | Operating Review | Support Services repeated in the secondhalf, and the In two separate contracts in March 2012, projects have nowbeen completed.
we were appointed to provide FM services for a range of EDF Energys Embracing lean approaches to meet client sitesinthe UK and to deliver total FM efficiency challenges has helped us to services across UK Power Networks secure work in the gas sector, and leaves property portfolio.
us uniquely positioned to help clients infuture.
In December we won two We were selected in August as North eight-year contracts with National Grid Tyneside Councils preferred partner to toupgrade the UKs gas distribution provide business services.
The contracts, valued at isexpected to be worth 200 million 1.1billion, are for design and installation over15 years.
of modern polyethylene gas distribution Queen Elizabeth Living Places also won street lighting mains to replace ageing metal pipes.
The contracts from Leicester City Council, Olympic Park new Gas Distribution Strategic Partnership Peterborough Council and Wokingham In the first quarter of 2012 contracts cover the Northwest and Borough Council, amongst others.
A key wewon a 10-year deal to run WestMidlands and replace our current component of all these contracts will be services and facilities for the Northwest gas contract, almost doubling toconvert the existing installations to Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park our gas work for National Grid.
With over We also began our first gas contract in the 200new job opportunities Looking forward Republic of Ireland.
Operating as BBCLG created through the deal and The growth in our order book in the in joint venture with local operator CLG, most of these lled by people yearistestament to the strength of our we have an eight-year contract to replace from the local community, offering and an indication of the divisions and extend the gas network on behalf of Balfour Beattys training excellent prospects.
andsupport schemes will The trend to outsource by central and local secure new long term career In the water market, we have continued government, and commercial enterprises opportunities in East London.
toperform well on our AMP5 water is an enduring one.
Our expertise and contracts with network operators such track record in highways and buildings asUnited Utilities and South West Water.
puts us in an advantageous position to We are delivering our first projects in develop our involvement both in local  market for United authority work and in the facilities Utilities, having established a specialist management of complex privately team during 2012 to focus on ownedassets.
Power transmission and distribution In transportation, we were awarded a isagrowth area both in the UK and 300 million contract to operate, maintain ininternational markets.
Our strength in and improve part of the Highways thisarea is evidenced by the exceptional Agencys strategic route network in the growth in order book and revenue in Northwest.
Through a joint venture, we theyear.
We continue to seek further will maintain and improve over 500km of opportunities in the power markets.
motorway and trunk roads in Manchester, In contrast, rail renewal activity is expected Cheshire, Merseyside and parts of to be under pressure as the market Lancashire.
The Area 10 Asset Support becomes increasingly commoditised.
Contract runs over the next five years, augmenting a portfolio that already includes the Area 4 contract in the Southeast and the M25 design, finance, build and operate contract, the largest ofits kind in the UK.
In facilities management, WorkPlace won several contracts that will ensure revenue growth for this unit in the coming years.
At the start of 2012, we won a 10-year contract to run services and facilities for the future Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in East London.
We will have overall responsibility for a range of services including estates and FM as well as operating the ArcelorMittal Orbit, the stunning new visitor attraction forming acentrepiece of what will be a great newpark for London.
40 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
