Our Business | Market Overview Focusing on Growth Markets Balfour Beatty is an infrastructure player with capabilities in many geographies.
Our distinctive combination of deep asset knowledge and broad local presence gives us particular competitive strength ininfrastructure markets notably transport, mining, water, power and energy.
Infrastructure is a good place to be build our infrastructure business in Infrastructure markets, particularly growtheconomies.
Currently, a significant economic infrastructure, are relatively proportion of our profits come from our resistant to economic shocks and cycles.
construction businesses in the UK and US Governments recognise infrastructure markets: however both are feeling the investment as a prerequisite for effects of the current economic downturn.
sustainable economic growth and by In the US, the building market has recently generating employment and economic stabilised with more encouraging signs in activity helps create a virtuous circle in economic infrastructure, where we have which increased government revenues won significant new business recently.
In UK construction, market volumes In developed economies, investment is continue to be constrained by reductions Where the money being driven by the need to replace ageing in both public and private sector investment is being spent infrastructure amplied by concerns and delays in projects awaiting certainty Over the next five years over sustainability and carbon reduction.
on government policy in areas such as 20132017 the global energy.
These factors have particularly infrastructure market In most emerging economies, such as affected the ow of large, technically isestimated to be worth India, Brazil and South Africa, infrastructure complex and higher margin projects 1 approximately 11 trillion.
investment is accelerating and accounting where we excel.
2 85% of this spend will come for a growing proportion of construction from the transport, power and expenditure.
The key drivers include the In the long term, to be a leading player we energy, and water sectors.
needto support urbanisation and remove have to expand our presence in emerging Growth in these sectors constraints on economic growth.
Their infrastructure spending continues to be stronger medium term we also expect growing is growing faster than in developed inemerging markets and commodity demand from emerging economies, and by 2025 they are expected resource rich economies, markets to stimulate investment in to account for the majority of global withspend from non-OECD resource rich economies.
markets rising from around Going where the growth is 1 35% today to 60% in 2025.
We are maintaining our strong foundation in the UK and US and using it as a basis to 1 Global Insight.
2 Balfour Beatty Investor Day, December 2012.
10 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Business Our Business | Market Overview 2 Key growth economies Today, we have a good presence in a Australias economic infrastructure spectrum especially in power generation number of growth markets.
In addition, market is worth around 38 billion per and transmission and the mining sector.
we have identied target geographies annum and has been growing strongly Indias economic growth and relentless offering particular opportunities for future forover a decade.
It is underpinned by urbanisation provide strong long term development: Australia and Canada, alarge volume of work in the resources growth drivers, with significant where we already have a significant sector, where recent heady growth rates opportunities coming through the 12th presence through our Professional are now reaching more sustainable levels.
We see Services business, and South Africa, Canadas economic infrastructure spend particular potential in power transmission India and Brazil.
Its economy infrastructure, including PPPs, and the In all five, economic infrastructure was relatively unscathed by the banking accelerating investment in oil and gas.
isakeysector where investment is crisis and it has a good spread of growth Intransportation, specifically rail, we gainingtraction.
All have the potential drivers, including population, economic seeopportunities in urban transit due tobe substantial infrastructure markets, growth, environmental pressures and a toIndias ambitious programme to build mostof them larger than the UK, large, diverse resources sector.
Canada dedicated freight corridors to relieve inthenext decade.
has a functioning PPP market, on a very pressure on its national rail network.
similar model to the UKs, and we are In these geographies we see Brazil has all the infrastructure growth seeing an increase in design-build projects.
opportunities across multiple drivers associated with a rapidly infrastructure segments: this is key to South Africa has a significant need for developing and urbanising economy.
creating scale, achieving efficiencies and infrastructure, and the public sectors ItsGrowth Acceleration Programme building a strong, resilient business.
In need for assistance in managing large envisages US$526 billion of infrastructure most of them, infrastructure investment scale infrastructure programmes investment between 2011 and 2014. is further underpinned by resource presents clear opportunities for Other significant drivers include the next related spending and we anticipate a companies such as Balfour Beatty.
World Cup and Olympics, and a buoyant growing role for the PPP model, an area We see potential across the infrastructure resources sector.
where we have extensive experience.
2 Our sectors for growth upturn in residential building.
Emerging We are focusing our attention on four maintenance, and increasingly markets are growing equally strongly sectors: transport, power and energy, sophisticated client-supplier relationships.
asmany developed and emerging water and mining.
Power is another large, sustainable economies face water shortages, which These are characterised by strong market.
It is worth around 440 billion are driving demand for desalination.
growthdrivers and large, complex per annum, split roughly equally between The mining market is easing after a projects that demand our broad range of generation and transmission.
Growth decade of very strong growth, but still knowledge and capabilities.
Increasing drivers are the carbon agenda and has positive long term growth drivers.
project scale and complexity are driving theneed to replace ageing assets in Large clients are typically multinationals new approaches to procurement, as developed markets, and economic that favour suppliers they can work with clients seek greater efficiency through andpopulation growth in developing in multiple territories and most procure partnering with suppliers who can deliver countries.
Whatever the generation major projects under umbrella a solution rather than just an asset.
technology, demand for new and engineering, procurement and strengthened transmission networks The transport market including construction management EPCM willremain strong worldwide.
highways, rail, ports and aviation is contracts.
This represents a significant worth around 710 billion per annum, Water abstraction, treatment and opportunity for us as we develop our globally.
Strong growth drivers in distribution projects are worth some EPCM capability particularly since bothdeveloped and emerging 360 billion per annum.
Growth is driven mining developments, notably for economies include capacity constraints, by urbanisation, demographics and rising coaland iron, typically require major environmental targets and the poor environmental standards and public investment in power, rail, ports and state of existing networks.
Procurement providers are increasingly seeking private waterassets where we provide trends are positive, with growth sector involvement.
The UK benets expertiseand delivery capability.
indesign-build andPPP contracts, from a mature regulatory regime and high more outsourcing ofoperations and visibility from five-year planning cycles, and US activity is benefiting from an Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11
