DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Annual Report and The rules governing the appointment and DIVIDENDS the audited consolidated financial statements replacement of Directors are contained in The Directors have proposed the following for the year ended 31 December 2012. the Companys Articles of Association and dividends: UK legislation.
In compliance with the PRINCIPAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES Interim dividend UK Corporate Governance Code, at the The Group manages and develops a portfolio paid on 1 0.5 p per ordinary 2013 Annual General Meeting all the of property investments concentrated in west 8 September 2012 share Directors will retire from offi ce and will London and the West End.
Proposed final off er themselves for election or re-election.
dividend to be 1.0 p per ordinary BUSINESS REVIEW COMPENSATION FOR LOSS OF OFFICE paid on 20 June 2013 share Together with the Corporate Governance The Company does not have any agreements Total proposed 1.5 p per ordinary section, the information referred to below with any Executive Director or employee that dividend for 2012 share ful ls the requirements of the business review would provide compensation for loss of offi ce provisions in Section 417 of the Companies or employment resulting from a takeover Pursuant to the Capco Scrip Dividend Scheme Act 2006, and is contained within the following except that provisions of the Company share approved at the 2012 AGM, a scrip dividend sections of the Annual Report: scheme may cause share options and awards to alternative was off ered to shareholders in Pages vest on a takeover.
The terms of appointment respect of the 2011 final dividend and the 2012 ofthe Non-executive Directors provide for a Chairmans statement 6 and 7 interim dividend.
Subject to SARB approval a payment equal to their basic annual fee in the scrip dividend alternative will also be off ered Chief Executives review 8 and 9 event of change of control in recognition of the to shareholders in respect of the proposed Our business model 10 additional time involved in such an event.
final dividend for 2012. and strategy DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The proposed final dividend will be paid on Key performance indicators 11 The Company has procedures in place for 20 June 2013 to shareholders whose names Principal risks and 12 to 15 managing con icts of interests.
Should areon the register at 24 May 2013. uncertainties aDirector become aware that they, or a CAPITAL STRUCTURE Operating review 18 to 35 connected party, have an interest in an existing Details of the Companys issued ordinary Financial review 36 to 41 or proposed transaction with the Group, they share capital, including details of movements should notify the Company Secretary before Corporate Responsibility Report 42 to 47 in the issued share capital during the year, the next meeting or at the meeting.
Directors DIRECTORS authorities to issue or repurchase shares and have a continuing obligation to update any The Directors of the Company who held offi ce details of shares repurchased by the Company changes to these con icts.
during the year were as follows: during the year, are shown in notes 31 and 32 DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES to the financial statements on page 113.
Each Chairman: ANDINSURANCE share carries the right to one vote at general I. C. Durant In accordance with the Companys Articles meetings of the Company, with the exception of Association, the Company has indemni ed Executive Directors: of shares held in treasury which carry no the Directors to the full extent allowed by I. D. Hawksworth voting rights.
The Company maintains Directors S. Das There are no speci c restrictions on the and Offi cers liability insurance which is G. J. Yardley transfer of shares beyond those standard reviewed annually.
Non-executive Directors: provisions set out in the Articles of ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION I. J Henderson Association.
No shareholder holds shares Changes to the Articles of Association must G. J Gordon carrying special rights with regard to control beapproved by shareholders in accordance A. J. M. Huntley of the Company.
Details of signi cant with the Companies Act 2006.
D. Pinsent appointed 1 May 2012 shareholdings are set out on the next page.
H. E. Staunton CHANGE OF CONTROL PROVISIONS A. D. Strang There are a number of agreements which Biographies of each Director can be found on takeeff ect, alter or terminate upon a change pages 48 and 49 and details of each Directors of control of the Company.
The agreements interests in the Companys shares are set out that would be considered signi cant are on page 122. the 300m Covent Garden debt facility, the 70mrevolving credit facility and the The powers of the Directors are determined Seagrave Road joint venture.
by UK legislation and the Companys Articles of Association together with any speci c authorities that shareholders may approve from time to time.
76 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE GOVERN OUR BUSINESS OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS The signi cant holdings of voting rights in the share capital of the Company noti ed and disclosed in accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5, as at 28 February 2013, are shown in the table below: Shares held at time Per cent held at time Date of last Holder of last noti cation of last noti cation Nature of holding noti cation BlackRock, Inc. 127,278,181 16.91% Indirect interest 25 January 2013 Gordon Family Interests 92,143,204 12.23% Direct interest 2 October 2012 Coronation Asset Management pty Limited 91,098,284 12.10% Direct interest 22 October 2012 Norges Bank 58,005,475 7.70% Direct interest 28 September 2012 Public Investment Corporation 37,326,761 4.96% Direct interest 13 February 2013 EMPLOYEES An overview of the Groups Corporate Having made due enquiries, the Directors The Group employees are employed by C & C Responsibility activity is set out on have a reasonable expectation that the pages 42 to 47.
Management Services Limited, Earls Court Company and the Group have adequate &Olympia Limited and Olympia Limited.
resources to continue in operational existence The Group recognises the importance The Groups employees are kept informed for the foreseeable future.
ofminimising the adverse impact of its ofits activities and financial performance operations on the environment and the Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going through head offi ce brie ngs at key points management of energy consumption and concern basis in preparing the Annual Report during the year and the circulation of waste recycling.
corporate announcements and other relevantinformation to staff which are The Group strives continuously to DISCLOSURE TO AUDITORS supplemented by updates on the intranet.
So far as the Directors are aware, there is no Theenvironmental management system relevant audit information of which the Certain of the Groups employees are eligible isregularly reviewed to ensure that the auditors are unaware and each Director has to participate in annual bonus arrangements.
Groupmaintains its commitment to taken all reasonable steps to make himself or These arrangements, which may include environmental matters.
herself aware of any relevant audit information awards under the Groups Performance Share and to establish that the auditors are aware Plan, help to develop employees interest in During the year the Group made charitable ofthat information.
Full details of donations amounting to 104,150 2011: the Performance Share Plan are contained 118,217.
Further information on charitable AUDITORS innote 39 to the accounts on pages 116 to 119. donations can be found in the Corporate The auditors,  LLP, Responsibility report on page 44.
There were have indicated their willingness to continue The Company operates a non-discriminatory no political donations made during the year.
in offi ce and a resolution seeking to reappoint employment policy and full and fair them will be proposed at the forthcoming consideration is given to applications for CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY Annual General Meeting.
employment from disabled applicants where Capco is a signatory to the Prompt Payment they have the appropriate skills and abilities, Code.
The Groups policy and practice is to ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING and to the continued employment of staff pay creditors in accordance with agreed terms The 2013 Annual General Meeting of the who become disabled.
Company will be held on 3 May 2013.
The The Company encourages the continuous The ratio, expressed in days, between the Notice of the Meeting, together with an development and training of its employees amounts invoiced to the Company by its explanation of the business to be dealt with and the provision of equal opportunities suppliers in the year ended 31 December 2012 atthe Meeting, is included as a separate forthe training and career development and the amounts owed to its creditors as at document sent to shareholders who have ofallemployees.
elected to receive hard copies of shareholder information and is also available on the Information relating to employees is given OVERSEAS BRANCH REGISTER Companys website.
The Group provides For the purposes of its listing on the JSE, retirement bene ts for the majority of its theCompany maintains an overseas branch By Order of the Board employees.
Details of the Group pension register in South Africa.
arrangements are set out in note 40 on pages GOING CONCERN 120 to 122.
Economic conditions remain challenging, CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY however the Group has a prudent balance Details of the Groups corporate responsibility sheet and suffi cient cash reserves to meet both R. E. Pavey policy and its aims and activities are its ongoing and future commitments.
The Company Secretary described on the Companys website Group has signi cant headroom against its www.
financial covenants, as disclosed on page 126.
