OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Activities of the Group be vacated if: i he she resigns or offers to resign and the Board The Company is the holding company of the Group.
The Groups resolves to accept such offer: ii his her resignation is requested by principal activities comprise acquiring and developing land, planning, allofthe other Directors and all of the other Directors are not less than designing and constructing residential property developments and three innumber: iii he she is or has been suffering from mental or selling the homes it builds.
These core activities are supported by the physical illhealth: iv he she is absent without permission of the Board Groups commercial development, urban regeneration, procurement, from meetings of the Board for six consecutive months and the Board design and strategic land capabilities.
resolves that his her office is vacated: v he she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his her creditors generally: vi he she is prohibited by Results and dividends law from being a Director: vii he she ceases to be a Director by virtue The profit from continuing activities for the year ended 30 June 2012 ofthe Act: or viii he she is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
Details relating to the retirement and re-election of Directors at each No interim dividend was paid during the financial year 2011: nil.
TheDirectors do not recommend a final dividend for the year ended 30June 2012 2011: nil.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Articles, the Act and any directions given by special Enhanced Business Review resolution, the business of the Company is ultimately managed by The Chairmans Statement, Group Chief Executives Review, Business theBoard who may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether Review and Group Finance Directors Review on pages 6 to 39 together relating to the management of the business of the Company or comprise the Groups Enhanced Business Review.
In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of theCompany to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of Annual General Meeting itsundertakings, property, assets and uncalled capital and to issue The 2012 AGM will be held at the Royal College of Physicians, debentures and other securities and to give security for any debt, 11 St Andrews Place, Regents Park, London NW1 4LE on Wednesday liabilityor obligation of the Company to any third party.
14November 2012 at 2.30 p. m. The Notice convening the 2012 AGM isset out in a separate letter to shareholders.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions As at the date of this report, there are qualifying third party indemnity Directors and their interests provisions governed by the Act in place under which the Company has Each of the Directors listed on pages 40 and 41 held office throughout agreed to indemnify the Directors, former Directors and the Company thefinancial year and as at 30 June 2012, apart from Richard Akers Secretary of the Company, together with those who have held or hold whojoined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 2 April 2012. these positions as officers of other Group companies or of associate CliveFenton resigned as a Director with immediate effect on 5 July oraffiliated companies and members of the Executive Committee, 2012.
Asannounced on 25 July 2012, Bob Davies will step down from tothe extent permitted by law and the Articles, against all liability arising his position as a Non-Executive Director of the Company at the 2012 AGM.
in respect of any act or omission in their duties.
In addition the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance for each Director The beneficial interests of the Directors and connected persons in the ofthe Group and its associated companies.
ordinary share capital of the Company together with the interests of the Executive Directors in share options and awards of shares as at 30 June No Director of the Company or of any associated company shall be 2012 and as at the date of this report are disclosed in the Remuneration accountable to the Company or the members for any benefit provided Report on pages 53 to 66. pursuant to the Articles and receipt of any such benefit shall not disqualify any person from being or becoming a Director of the Company.
At no time during or at the end of the year did any Director have amaterial interest in a contract of significance in relation to the Related party transactions businessofthe Group.
The Board and certain members of senior management are related parties within the definition of IAS 24 Revised Related Party Appointment and replacement of Directors Disclosures and Chapter 11 of the UK Listing Rules.
There is no In accordance with the Articles there shall be no less than two and difference between transactions with key personnel of the Company nomore than 15 Directors appointed to the Board at any one time.
and transactions with key personnel of the Group.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution orby the Board.
The Board may from time to time appoint one or During the year the Group entered into the following smaller related more Directors to hold employment or executive office for such period party transactions as defined in Listing Rule 11.1.
10R: subject to the Companies Act 2006 the Act and on such terms as In November 2011, the partner of Gary Ennis, a Director of the they may determine and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
Companys main trading company, BDW Trading Limited BDW Directors are not subject to a maximum age limit.
purchased an apartment from BDW at a purchase price of 242,250.
In December 2011, the spouse of Richard Brooke, also a Director In addition to the power under the Act for shareholders to remove any ofBDW, purchased three properties from BDW for an aggregate Director by ordinary resolution upon the giving of special notice, under purchase price of231,950.
the Articles the Company may by special resolution remove any Director In February 2012, the son of Douglas McLeod, a Director of the before the expiration of his her term of office.
The office of Director shall Companys Scottish trading entity, BDW East Scotland Limited BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 67 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION EastScotland, purchased an apartment from East Scotland Risk management objectives atapurchase price of 176,025.
The principal operational risks of the business are detailed on pages 36to 39.
The Groups financial assets, financial liabilities and derivative Each of the aforementioned purchases was conducted at a fair and financial instruments are detailed in notes 22, 23 and 24 to the financial reasonable market price based on comparable transactions at that statements.
Details of the Groups liquidity, market price, credit and cash timeand were undertaken between a subsidiary director and a flow risks are set out in note 25 to the financial statements.
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
No shareholder approval istherefore required for these purchases under the Act or the Listing Likely future developments Rules.
There were no amounts outstanding at30June 2012 in relation An indication of likely future developments in the Group including in the to these transactions.
field of research and development is given in the Business Review on pages 18 to 35.
Property, plant and equipment The Directors are of the opinion that the value of land and buildings Creditor payments included within the Groups property, plant and equipment is in excess The Group is responsible for agreeing the detail of terms and conditions of book value but that the difference is not material in relation to the relating to transactions with its suppliers.
It is Group policy to ensure that affairs of the Group.
suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the agreed terms of payment with suppliers where the goods and services Disclosure of information to auditor have been supplied in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit of contract.
Implementation of this policy resulted in a supplier payment information that is, information needed by the Companys auditor in period by the Group of 29 days 2011: 26 days for its trade creditors as connection with preparing its report of which the Companys auditor at 30 June 2012. isnot aware.
Capital structure Each of the Directors has taken all the relevant steps that he she ought The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into to have taken in accordance with his her duty as a Director to make ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
All issued shares are in registered him herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that form and are fully paid.
Details of the Companys issued share capital the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation and of the movements in the share capital during the year can be found isgiven and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions in note 27 to the financial statements on page 118. ofsection 418 2 of the Act.
Subject to the Articles, the Act and other shareholders rights, shares Charitable and political contributions are at the disposal of the Board.
At each AGM the Board seeks During the year the Group made charitable donations of 30,205 2011: authorisation from its shareholders to allot shares.
The total amounts given for each charitable purpose were: 16 November 2011, the Directors were given authority to allot shares up to a nominal value of 32,181,332 representing 33.33% of the nominal Purpose value of the Companys issued share capital, such authority to remain The advancement of education 3,450 valid until the end of the 2012 AGM or close of business on 15 February The advancement of religion 1,100 2013, whichever is earlier.
A resolution to renew this authority will be The advancement of health and saving lives 4,340 proposed at the 2012 AGM.
The advancement of community development 2,879 The advancement of amateur sport 1,975 Rights and obligations attaching to shares The relief of those in need because of youth, age, Subject to any rights attached to existing shares, shares may be issued ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary disadvantage 8,507 resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does The promotion of efficiency of the armed forces 1,000 not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
Any other purposes 6,954 Subject to the Act, the Articles specify that rights attached to any No political contributions were made during the year 2011: nil.
existing class of shares may be varied either with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued Offices shares of that class excluding any shares of that class held as treasury The Group had 25 offices excluding those offices undertaking shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate anadministrative function only located throughout Great Britain at general meeting of the holders of those shares.
The rights conferred theendofthe financial year.
A full list of the Groups offices and their upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly locations can be obtained from the Group General Counsel and provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied Company Secretary at the registeredoffice ofthe Company or from by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
68 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Voting Shareholder authority for purchase of own shares Subject to any special terms as to voting upon which any shares may At the Companys AGM held on 16 November 2011, shareholders gave be issued or may at the relevant time be held, every member present in authority to the Company to buy back up to an aggregate of 96,543,990 person or by proxy at a general meeting or class meeting has one vote ordinary shares representing 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
upon a show of hands or, upon a poll vote, one vote for every share of This authority is valid until the end of the 2012 AGM or close of business which such member is a holder.
In the case of joint holders of a share, on 15 February 2013, whichever is the earlier.
Under the authority there the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, isa minimum and maximum price to be paid for such shares.
Any shares shall be accepted to the exclusion of votes of the other joint holders and which are bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in will be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby the register in respect of the joint holding.
reducing the Companys issued share capital.
In accordance with the Act, each member is entitled to appoint one or No purchases had been made under this authority as at the date of this more proxies, and in the case of corporations, more than one corporate report.
A resolution renewing the authority will be proposed at the 2012AGM.
representative to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
The timescales Dividends and distributions for appointing proxies are set out in the Notice of the 2012 AGM.
Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends for payment to the No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class holders of the ordinary shares of 10 pence each, of an amount which meeting in respect of any shares held by them if any call or other sum does not exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board then payable by them in respect of that share remains unpaid or if they may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever have been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, after failure to provide the Company with information concerning justifies their payment.
If the Board acts in good faith, it is not liable interests in those shares required to be provided under the Act.
toholders of shares with preferred or pari passu rights for losses arising from the payment of interim or fixed dividends on other shares.
Transfer of shares Shares in the Company may be in uncertificated or certificated form.
The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or Title to uncertificated shares may be transferred by means of a relevant other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person system and certificated shares may be transferred by an instrument of with a 0.25% interest if such person has been served with a restriction transfer as approved by the Board.
The transferor of a share is deemed notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning to remain the holder until the transferees name is entered into the interests in those shares required to be provided under the Act.
Shareholder arrangements to waive dividends There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares except as follows.
The Barratt Developments Employee Benefit Trust the EBT holds TheBoard may, in its absolute discretion and without giving any reason, ordinary shares in the Company for the purpose of satisfying options decline to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid and awards that have been granted under the various employee share share.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be schemes operated by the Company.
Details of the shares so held are refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules set out in note 27 to the financial statements.
as defined in the Articles and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share The EBT has agreed to waive all or any future right to dividend payments isto be transferred exceeds four.
The Board may decline to register a on shares held within the EBT and these shares do not count in the transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer: i is duly calculation of the weighted average number of shares used to calculate stamped or certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board EPS until such time as they are vested to the relevant employee.
to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the Board The Trustees of the EBT may vote or abstain from voting on shares held may reasonably require: ii is in respect of only one class of share: and in the EBT in any way they think fit and in doing so may take into account iii if joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four such transferees: both financial and non-financial interests of the beneficiaries of the EBT or where the transfer is requested by a person with a 0.25% interest or their dependants.
asdefined in the Articles if such a person has been served with a restriction notice after failure to provide the Company with information Major shareholders concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the In accordance with the UKLAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules the Act, unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms DTRs all notifications received by the Company are published on the length sale as defined in the Articles.
co. uk and via a Regulated Information Service.
As at 30 June 2012 the persons set out in Table 10 have notified the Company, pursuant to DTR 5.1, of their interests in the voting rights in the Companys issued share capital.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 69 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Table 10 Notifiable Interests % of total % of total issued Number issued share share ofvoting capital when capital as at Nature Name rights notified 30.06.2012 ofholding FMR LLC 34,579,199 8.24 3.54 Indirect Ruffer LLP 48,779,046 5.00 5.00 Direct Phoenix Asset Management PartnersLimited 48,256,698 4.99 4.95 Direct JP Morgan Chase & Co 17,286,656 4.98 1.77 Indirect Direct & Standard Life Investments Ltd 47,711,714 4.94 4.89 Indirect Polaris Capital Management LLC 34,606,679 3.59 3.55 Indirect Norges Bank 29,071,919 3.01 2.98 Direct Represents the number of voting rights last notified to the Company by the respective shareholder in accordance with DTR 5.1.
Certain of such notifications pre-date the Companys Placing and Rights Issue in 2009 and may not reflect the relevant shareholders holding following the equity issue, where the revised holding has not triggered a further notification requirement.
Based on the Total Voting Rights as at the relevant notification dates.
Based on the Total Voting Rights as at 30 June 2012 as announced on 2 July 2012 and, accordingly, may not accurately reflect the position in respect of those shareholders whose notifications preceded the Placing and Rights Issue as referred to above.
Between 1 July 2012 and 11 September 2012 the following changes asdefined in the Takeover Code gains control as defined in the inrespect of interests in the voting rights in the Companys issued share Corporation Tax Act 2010 of the Company: capital were notified to the Company: each of the note purchase agreements entered into in respect of the Groups privately placed notes being the 105m and $380m of notes Total % issued pursuant to the following note purchase agreements: i a note Number of issued purchase agreement dated 23 August 2007 as amended and restated ofvoting share Nature Name rights capital ofholding on 10 May 2011 : ii a note purchase agreement dated 23 April 2008 Ruffer LLP 46,887,233 4.80 Direct as amended and restated on 10 May 2011 : iii a note purchase Norges Bank 29,004,346 2.97 Direct agreement in respect of the issue of $15.0m notes dated 10 May 2011: and iv a note purchase agreement in respect of the issue of $65.0m Based on the Total Voting Rights as at the dateof the relevant notification.
notes also dated 10 May 2011 contain a change of control prepayment The Total Voting Rights of the Company as at the date of this report, provision.
Each such control provision provides that within five business asannounced on 3 September 2012, are 976,312,867. days of the Company becoming aware that a change of control has occurred the Company shall notify all the holders of the notes of the Employee share schemes same and give the holders the option to require the Company to prepay Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 28 to the all outstanding amounts principal and interest under the Notes.
make whole premium is payable by the Company in respect of such prepayment if noteholders elect or are deemed to have so elected Articles of Association toaccept the Companys offer, such prepayment shall take place The Articles contain regulations which deal with matters such as onadate that is not more than 90 business days after the Company theappointment and removal of Directors, Directors interests and notified the holders of the change ofcontrol.
For these purposes a proceedings at general and board meetings.
Any amendments to the change of control means the acquisition by a person or a group of Articles may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Act by persons acting in concert as defined in the Takeover Code such that way of special resolution at a general meeting.
they gain beneficial ownership of more than 50 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company: and Significant agreements the 100m term facility agreement between, amongst others, the The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the Company and Prudential M&G UK Companies Financing Fund LP counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of dated 10 May 2011 also contains a mandatory prepayment provision: achange of control of the Company: such mandatory prepayment provision is the same as that described Both of the forward start credit facility agreements dated 10 May 2011 for the Credit Facility Agreements.
and in each case made between, amongst others, the Company, Lloyds TSB Bank Plc as the facility agent and the banks and financial The note purchase agreements also impose upon the holders institutions named therein as lenders together, the Credit Facility customary restrictions on resale or transfer of the notes other than Agreements contain a mandatory prepayment provision on change incompliance with applicable securities laws.
The Company must notify the facility agent promptly upon becoming aware of the change of control.
After the change of control On behalf of the Board the facility agent must by notice to the Company, cancel the total commitment under the Credit Facility Agreements and must also declare all amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility Agreements Tom Keevil immediately due and payable.
For these purposes, a change of GROUP GENERAL COUNSEL AND COMPANY SECRETARY control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert 11 September 2012 70 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012
