Board of Directors Chris Russell Peter Niven Chairman FCIB, CDir, was appointed a FCA, FSIP was appointed Director in 2005 and is a a Director in 2009 and resident of Guernsey.
He is a over 35 years experience in resident of Guernsey.
He the financial services industry was, until 2001, an executive both in the UK and offshore.
director of Gartmore He was a senior executive in Investment Management plc.
He is a director of the Lloyds TSB Group until his retirement in 2004.
He JPMorgan Japan Smaller Companies Trust plc, was, until 28 March 2013, a director of Resolution HICL Infrastructure Company Limited and Macau Limited.
Having severed all business links with Property Opportunities Fund Limited.
He is Resolution, which is no longer resident in Guernsey, he also Deputy Chairman of The Association of now represents that company at charitable and similar Investment Companies, and a director of Schroders events in Guernsey that may be supportive of that C. I.
Limited, Enhanced Index Funds PCC and community.
He is a director of a number of Guernsey Hanseatic Asset Management LBG.
based London listed investment funds and a captive insurance PCC.
Brian Sweetland Jonathan Hooley was appointed a Director in Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee 2005 and is a UK resident.
He was, until May 2005, an FCA, CTA, CDir, was executive director of Friends appointed a Director in 2009 Provident plc FP and a and is a resident of member of its investment Guernsey.
As a solicitor, Mr September 2007, the senior Sweetland was the company secretary of FP for partner of KPMG in the Channel Islands.
non-executive director of BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited.
He is a Jurat of the Royal Court of Guernsey.
Martin Moore Nicholas Tostevin MRICS, was appointed a Chairman of the Audit Director in 2011 and is a UK Committee resident.
He is Chairman, of was appointed a Director in Prudential Property Investment 2005 and is a resident of Managers Limited, the Guernsey.
He holds the property asset management degree of LLB Hons arm of Prudential plc.
He Bachelor of Law, qualified was, until 2011, a board adviser to The Crown as a barrister in 1975 and as an Advocate of the Estate and a board member of the British Property Royal Court of Guernsey in 1976 and practised as Federation.
such for 33 years when he retired as the senior partner of a Guernsey law firm.
He is a non-executive director of a number of Guernsey based investment funds and insurance companies.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Management Engagement Committee Member of the Nomination Committee 16 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
