Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and accounts of Business Review the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall stewardship of the Company, including investment and dividend policies, corporate strategy, gearing, Results and Dividends corporate governance procedures and risk management.
As set out in the Directors The results for the year are set out in the attached Responsibility Statement on page 28, the Board is accounts.
also responsible for the preparation of the Annual The Group paid interim dividends during the year Report and financial statements for each financial ended 31 December 2012 as follows: period.
Biographical details of the Directors, all of Payment Rate per whom are non-executive, can be found on page 16. date share The Company has no executive Directors or Ninth interim for prior year 27 January 2012 0.5p employees.
Tenth interim for prior year 24 February 2012 0.5p Eleventh interim for prior year 30 March 2012 0.5p Objective Twelfth interim for prior year 27 April 2012 0.5p The Companys investment objective is to provide First interim 31 May 2012 0.5p ordinary shareholders with an attractive level of Second interim 29 June 2012 0.5p income together with the potential for capital and income growth from investing in a diversified UK Third interim 31 July 2012 0.5p commercial property portfolio.
Fourth interim 31 August 2012 0.5p Fifth interim 28 September 2012 0.5p Investment Policy Sixth interim 31 October 2012 0.5p The Companys policy is to hold a diversified Seventh interim 30 November 2012 0.5p portfolio of freehold and predominantly long Eighth interim 28 December 2012 0.5p leasehold over 60 years remaining at the time of acquisition UK commercial properties.
It invests It is the policy of the Directors to declare and pay principally in three commercial property sectors: dividends as interim dividends.
The Directors do not office, retail and industrial.
Two further interim dividends, each of 0.5p per share, were paid The Company invests in properties which the Board, on 31 January and 28 February 2013 and a third on the advice of the Managers, believes will was paid on 28 March 2013.
The twelfth, and last, generate a combination of long-term growth in interim dividend in respect of the year, of 0.5p per capital and income for shareholders.
Investment share, will be paid on 26 April 2013 to shareholders decisions are based on an analysis of, amongst on the register on 12 April 2013.
It is the intention of other things, prospects for future capital and income the Directors that the Company will continue to pay growth, sector and geographic prospects, tenant dividends monthly.
covenant strength, lease length, and initial and equivalent yields.
Investment risks are spread by investing across Principal Activity and Status different geographical areas and sectors and by The Company is a  company letting properties to low risk tenants.
The Company registered number 50402 and, during the year, has not set any maximum geographic exposures, carried on business as a property investment but the maximum weightings in the principal company.
The Companys shares are traded on the property sectors at any time stated as a percentage London Stock Exchange.
of total assets are: office: 50 per cent: retail: 65 per The Company is a member of the Association of cent: and industrial: 40 per cent.
No single property Investment Companies AIC.
may exceed 15 per cent of total assets and the five The principal activities of the Companys subsidiaries largest properties excluding indirect property funds are included in note 1b to the accounts.
may not exceed 40 per cent of total assets in each Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 Report of the Directors continued case at the time of acquisition.
Short leasehold active asset management initiatives and carrying out properties with less than 60 years remaining may due diligence work on potential tenants before not exceed 10 per cent of total assets at the time of entering into any new lease agreements.
properties in the portfolio are insured.
Detailed explanations of the risks associated with the The Company is permitted to invest up to 15 per Groups financial instruments are contained in note cent, at the time of acquisition, of its total assets in 18 to the accounts.
indirect property funds including listed property companies which invest principally in UK property, Other risks faced by the Company include the but these investments may not exceed 20 per cent following: of total assets at any subsequent date.
The Economic external shocks, inflation or deflation, Company is permitted to invest cash, held by it for economic recessions and movements in interest working capital purposes and awaiting investment, rates could affect property valuations.
in cash deposits, gilts and money market funds.
Investment and strategic incorrect strategy, The Company uses gearing throughout the Group including sector and geographic allocations and to enhance returns over the long term.
Gearing, use of gearing could lead to poor returns for represented by borrowings as a percentage of total shareholders.
assets, may not exceed 50 per cent.
However, the Boards present intention is that borrowings of the Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could lead Group will be limited to a maximum of 35 per cent to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange of total assets at the time of borrowing.
listing, financial penalties or a qualified audit report.
Investment of Assets Management and control changes that cause the management and control of the Company to At each quarterly Board meeting, the Board receives be exercised in the United Kingdom could lead to a detailed presentation from the Managers which the Company becoming liable to United Kingdom includes a review of investment performance, recent taxation on income and capital gains.
portfolio activity and a market outlook.
It also considers compliance with the investment policy and Operational failure of the Managers accounting other investment restrictions during the reporting systems or disruption to the Managers business, period.
An analysis of how the portfolio was invested or that of third party service providers, could lead as at 31 December 2012 is contained within the to an inability to provide accurate reporting and Managers Review on pages 8 to 14 and a portfolio monitoring, leading to a loss of shareholders listing is provided on page 15. confidence.
The Groups borrowings are described in notes 13 Financial inadequate controls by the Managers and 14 to the accounts.
or third party service providers could lead to The Companys performance in meeting its misappropriation of assets.
Inappropriate objectives is measured against key performance accounting policies or failure to comply with indicators as set out below.
A review of the accounting standards could lead to a qualified Companys returns during the financial year, the audit report, misreporting or breaches of position of the Company at the year-end, and the regulations.
Breaching Guernsey solvency test outlook for the coming year are contained in the requirements or loan covenants could lead to a Chairmans Statement and the Managers Review.
loss of shareholders confidence and financial loss for shareholders see notes 13 and 14 for details of the principal loan covenants.
Principal Risks and Risk Management The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these The Companys assets comprise principally direct risks through continual review, policy-setting and investments in UK commercial property.
Its main risks are therefore related to the commercial property enforcement of contractual obligations.
It also market in general and its investment properties.
The regularly monitors the investment environment and Managers seek to mitigate these risks through the management of the Companys property 18 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited portfolio, and applies the principles detailed in the 2012 2011 internal control guidance issued by the Financial Ordinary Ordinary Reporting Council.
Details of the Companys internal Shares Shares controls are described in more detail on pages 22 C Russell 200,000 100,000 and 23.
J G Hooley 140,000 60,000 M R Moore Shareholder Value P Niven 43,142 43,142 The Board and Managers recognise the importance of both marketing and share buy-backs in B W Sweetland 100,000 100,000 enhancing shareholder value.
In terms of marketing, N J M Tostevin 21,832 21,832 the Managers offer a range of private investor savings schemes, details of which can be found on Since the year end Mr C Russell has purchased a page 55.
In addition, meetings are held regularly further 50,000 Ordinary Shares and Mr J G Hooley with current and prospective shareholders and has purchased a further 20,000 Ordinary Shares.
stockbroking analysts covering the investment There have been no other changes in the above company sector.
Share buy-backs can help reduce interests since 31 December 2012. the volatility of any discount of the share price to the As explained in more detail under Corporate net asset value per share and enhance the net Governance on pages 20 to 22, the Board has asset value per share for continuing shareholders.
agreed that all Directors will retire annually.
Communication of quarterly portfolio information is Accordingly, every Director will retire at the Annual made through the Companys website.
General Meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Key Performance Indicators The Directors believe that the Board has an The Board uses a number of performance measures appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to to assess the Companys success in meeting its enable it to provide effective strategic leadership objectives.
The key performance indicators are as follows: and proper guidance of the Company.
The Board confirms that, following an external review of its Net asset value total return and total return of effectiveness see page 21, the performance of the property portfolio compared with relevant each of the Directors seeking re-election continues Investment Property Databank indices: to be effective and demonstrates commitment to Premium discount of share price to net asset the role.
The Board therefore believes that it is in the value: interests of shareholders that these Directors are reelected.
Dividends per share, dividend cover, and There are no service contracts in existence between dividend yield: and the Company and any Directors but each of the Ongoing charges as a ratio of net assets.
Directors has been issued with a letter of A historic record of these indicators is contained appointment that sets out the main terms of his in the Highlights and the Performance Summary on appointment.
These letters are available for pages 2 and 3, the Chairmans Statement on inspection upon request at the Companys pages 4 to 6, and in the Historic Record on registered office.
Directors Remuneration Directors The Articles of Incorporation state that Directors The Directors who held office during the year ended remuneration shall not exceed 300,000 per annum.
31 December 2012 and their interests in the shares Resolution 14 in the Notice of Annual General of the Company all of which were beneficially held Meeting is proposed as a special resolution to on that date were: increase the maximum aggregate remuneration Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19 Report of the Directors continued payable to Directors to 400,000 per annum.
This Since 31 December 2012, the Company has amendment is proposed to allow for flexibility with received the following notification of voting rights: regards to Board composition and anticipated Investec Wealth & Investment Limited, 37,864,051 increases in Directors remuneration over a number Ordinary Shares 5.0 per cent : and Ignis Investment of years.
As explained within Corporate Governance Services Limited, 37,405,197 Ordinary Shares 4.9 on page 21, the Board does not anticipate making per cent.
any significant changes to its composition in Corporate Governance Statement advance of the continuation vote scheduled to take The Board has considered the principles and place at the Annual General Meeting in 2015 and recommendations of the AICs Code of Corporate the expected maturity of the 230 million bonds in Governance issued in October 2010 the AIC June 2015.
Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Management Governance Guide for Investment Companies issued at the same time the AIC Guide, both of which The Managers provide investment management and can be found at www.
The AIC Code, other services to the Company.
Details of the as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the arrangements between the Company and the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Managers in respect of management services are Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in provided in note 2 to the accounts.
June 2010, which can be found at www.
uk, The Board keeps under review the appropriateness as well as setting out additional principles and of the Managers appointment.
In doing so the recommendations on issues specific to investment Board considers the past investment performance companies.
of the Company and the capability and resources of The Board considers that it is appropriate to report the Managers to deliver satisfactory investment against the principles and recommendations of the performance.
It also reviews the length of the notice AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which period of the investment management agreement incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code.
and the fees payable to the Managers, together with the standard of the other services provided.
In September 2011, the Guernsey Financial Services The Directors are satisfied with the Managers ability Commission issued a Finance Sector Code of to deliver satisfactory investment performance, and Corporate Governance the GFSC Code which the quality of other services provided.
It is therefore came into effect on 1 January 2012.
As the their opinion that the continuing appointment of the Company already reports against the AIC Code and Managers on the terms agreed is in the interests of the UK Corporate Governance Code it is deemed to shareholders as a whole.
meet the requirements of the GFSC Code and has therefore not reported further on its compliance with Substantial Interests in Share Capital that code.
As at 31 December 2012 the Company had The Board consists solely of non-executive Directors.
received notification of the following holdings of Other than Mr P Niven, all Directors are considered voting rights under the FSAs the Financial Conduct by the Board to be independent.
Mr Niven was, until Authority with effect from 1 April 2013 Disclosure 28 March 2013, a non-executive director of the and Transparency Rules : Companys largest shareholder, Resolution Limited.
Number of Having severed all business links with Resolution, Ordinary Shares Percentage which is no longer resident in Guernsey, he now Held Held represents that company at charitable and similar events in Guernsey that may be supportive of that Resolution Limited 232,415,797 31.2 community.
The Directors do not consider it Ignis Investment Services appropriate to appoint a Senior Independent Director Limited 70,155,197 9.4 as recommended by principle 1 of the AIC Code and Investee Wealth & provision A.
4.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Investment Limited 29,628,299 4.0 Code, as this role is fulfilled by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Except for that matter, the Based on 744,715,702 Ordinary Shares in issue as at Company complied throughout the year with the 31 December 2012. recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant 20 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report of the Directors continued provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
between the independent consultant and each Director.
The Investment Managers and the Since all the Directors are non-executive, in Company Secretary also participated to provide all accordance with the AIC Code and the preamble to the UK Corporate Governance Code, the provisions round feedback to the Board and a number of shareholders were approached.
The appraisal of the of the UK Corporate Governance Code on the role Chairman was covered as part of the process and of the chief executive and, except in so far as they was led separately by the Chairman of the Audit apply to non-executive Directors, on Directors Committee.
A list of proposed objectives resulting remuneration, are not relevant to the Company, and from the findings was submitted to the Board in are not reported on further.
March 2013 and a list of priorities for the year ahead The Board has considered the amendments to the was approved.
UK Corporate Governance Code which apply to The table below sets out the number of scheduled accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October Board and committee meetings held during the year 2012.
It is the intention of the Board that, except for and the number of meetings attended by each the matter disclosed above, the Company will comply Director.
In addition to these scheduled meetings, fully with the amended code throughout the year there were a further 26 Board and Board committee ending 31 December 2013. meetings held in Guernsey during the year.
The Companys Articles of Incorporation require all Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Directors to retire by rotation at least every three Company, seek independent professional advice on years.
However, in accordance with the any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of recommendations of the AIC Code and the UK their duties.
The Company maintains appropriate Corporate Governance Code the Board has agreed Directors and Officers liability insurance.
that all Directors will retire annually and, if The basis on which the Company aims to generate appropriate, seek re-election.
value over the longer term is set out in its objective The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and and investment policy as contained within the experience are considered to add significantly to the Business Review on pages 17 to 19.
A management strength of the Board and, as such, no limit on the agreement between the Company and FCIB sets out overall length of service of any of the Companys the matters over which the Managers have authority Directors, including the Chairman, has been and the limits beyond which Board approval must be imposed.
Furthermore, in light of the continuation sought.
All other matters, including investment and vote scheduled to take place at the Annual General dividend policies, corporate strategy, gearing, Meeting in 2015 see page 25 and the expected corporate governance procedures and risk maturity of the 230 million bonds in June 2015 the management, are reserved for the approval of the Board does not anticipate making any significant Board of Directors.
The Board meets at least changes to its composition in advance of these quarterly and receives full information on the dates.
Companys investment performance, assets, liabilities and other relevant information in advance of Board During the year, the Board appointed a firm of meetings.
independent consultants, The Board Advisory Partnership, to facilitate the annual evaluation of the Throughout the year a number of committees have effectiveness of the Board, its committees and been in place.
Those committees are the Audit individual Directors.
The process included Committee, the Management Engagement confidential, unattributable, one to one interviews Committee and the Nomination Committee.
The Management Board of Directors Audit Committee Engagement Committee Nomination Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended C Russell 5 5 n a n a 1 1 J G Hooley 5 5 2 2 1 1 M R Moore 5 5 2 1 1 1 P Niven 5 5 n a n a n a n a B W Sweetland 5 5 2 2 1 1 N J M Tostevin 5 5 2 2 1 1 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 Report of the Directors continued committees operate within clearly defined terms of Directors fees and accordingly there is no separate reference which are available for inspection upon Remuneration Committee.
request at the Companys registered office.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises all of the Audit Committee Directors and is chaired by Mr C Russell.
The Board The Audit Committee comprises all of the Directors considers that, given its size, it would be except Mr P Niven and the Chairman of the Board, unnecessarily burdensome to establish a separate Mr C Russell.
It is chaired by Mr N J M Tostevin.
The nomination committee which did not include the committee meets at least twice yearly and is the entire Board and believes that this enables all forum through which the auditor reports to the Board Directors to be kept fully informed of any issues that of Directors.
Its duties include reviewing the Annual arise.
The committee is convened for the purpose of and Interim Accounts, the system of internal controls considering the appointment of additional Directors and the terms of appointment and remuneration of as and when considered appropriate.
The independence of the auditor is appointments to the Board are based on merit, but reviewed by the Audit Committee which also reviews in considering appointments the Nomination the terms under which the external auditor is Committee also takes into account the ongoing appointed to perform non-audit services.
The requirements of the Company and the need to have committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, a balance of skills, experience, independence, its cost effectiveness and the independence and diversity, including gender, and knowledge of the objectivity of the auditor, with particular regard to the Company within the Board.
No new Directors were terms of non-audit services.
In addition to statutory appointed during the year, but whenever there are audit fees of 63,000 2011: 60,000, the auditor new appointments these Directors receive an received audit-related fees of 19,000 for the year induction from the Managers and Company Secretary ended 31 December 2012 year ended 31 December on joining the Board.
All Directors receive other 2011: 14,000 which related principally to a review relevant training, collectively or individually, as of the interim financial information and certification of necessary.
The Nomination Committee did not meet bond compliance certificates.
It has been agreed that during the year.
all non-audit work to be carried out by the auditor must be approved in advance by the Audit Going Concern Committee and any special projects must also be In assessing the going concern basis of accounting approved in advance.
Notwithstanding such nonthe Directors have had regard to the guidance audit and audit-related services the Audit Committee issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
They considers KPMG Channel Islands Limited to be have considered the current cash position of the independent of the Company and that the provision Group, forecast rental income and other forecast of such non-audit and audit-related services is not a cash flows.
The Group has agreements relating to threat to the objectivity and independence of the its borrowing facilities with which it has complied conduct of the audit.
Based on this information the Directors believe that the Group has the ability to Management Engagement Committee meet its financial obligations as they fall due for a The Management Engagement Committee period of at least twelve months from the date of comprises all of the Directors except Mr P Niven.
It approval of the accounts.
For this reason, they is chaired by Mr J G Hooley.
The committee reviews continue to adopt the going concern basis in the appropriateness of the Managers continuing preparing the accounts.
appointment together with the terms and conditions thereof on a regular basis.
It also reviews Internal Controls the quality of service received from other service The Board is responsible for the Companys system providers.
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
As stated in the Directors Remuneration Report on It has therefore established a process designed to page 26, the full Board determines the level of meet the particular needs of the Company in 22 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report of the Directors continued managing the risks to which it is exposed, and, by their nature, can only provide reasonable, consistent with the internal control guidance issued but not absolute, assurance against material by the Financial Reporting Council.
As part of this process, a matrix has been created The Board has reviewed the need for an internal that identifies the Companys key functions, including audit function.
It has decided that the systems and those carried out by the Managers and other service procedures employed by the Managers and the Company Secretary, including their internal audit providers, and the individual activities undertaken functions and the work carried out by the within those functions.
From this, the Board has Companys external auditor, provide sufficient identified the Companys principal risks and the assurance that a sound system of internal control, controls employed to minimise those risks.
These are which safeguards the Companys assets, is reviewed at each quarterly Board Meeting.
An internal audit function specific to the Board also monitors the investment performance of Company is therefore considered unnecessary.
the Company against its stated objective and comparable companies and reviews the Companys Environmental Policy activities since the last Board meeting to ensure that The Property Managers acquire, develop and the Managers adhere to the agreed investment manage properties on behalf of the Company.
It is policy and approved investment guidelines and, if recognised that these activities have both direct and necessary, approves changes to the guidelines.
The Board has addition, the Board receives quarterly reports from endorsed the Property Managers own the Company Secretary in respect of compliance environmental policy which is to work in partnership matters and duties performed on behalf of the with contractors, tenants and consultants to Company.
minimise those impacts, seeking continuous A formal annual review of these procedures is carried improvements in environmental performance and out by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee conducting regular reviews.
has also reviewed the Managers Report on Policies and Procedures in Operation and Tests in Relations with Shareholders accordance with AAF 01 06 for the period from 1 The Company proactively seeks the views of its January to 31 December 2012 that has been shareholders and places great importance on prepared by the Managers for their investment communication with them.
The Board receives company clients.
Containing a report from regular reports from the Managers and brokers on independent external accountants, the report sets out the views of shareholders, and the Chairman and the Managers control policies and procedures with other Directors meet with major shareholders at least respect to the management of their clients annually and make themselves available to meet investments.
The effectiveness of these controls is shareholders when required to discuss any significant monitored by the Managers group audit committee issues that have arisen and address shareholder which receives regular reports from the Managers concerns and queries.
The Notice of Annual General audit, risk and compliance department.
Procedures Meeting to be held on 23 May 2013 is set out on are in place to capture and evaluate failings and pages 52 and 53.
It is hoped that this will provide a weaknesses and ensure that action would be taken forum, both formal and informal, for shareholders to to remedy any significant issues identified from this meet and discuss issues with the Directors and monitoring, which would be reported to the Board.
Where practicable, the No significant failings or weaknesses in respect of the Annual Report and Notice of Annual General Meeting Company were identified in the year under review nor are posted to shareholders at least 20 working days to the date of this report.
before the Annual General Meeting.
The review procedures detailed above have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of Directors Authority to Allot Shares approval of the Annual Report, and the Board is The Company issued 64,178,699 Ordinary Shares satisfied with their effectiveness.
These procedures during the year.
The aggregate net proceeds were 65.3 million.
are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23 Report of the Directors continued In the light of potential amendments to Guernsey making and timing of any buy backs will be at the law, Resolution 11 seeks an authority from absolute discretion of the Board.
It should be noted shareholders to allow the Directors to allot shares that due to Mr Nivens ongoing relationship with up to an aggregate nominal amount of 758,715, Resolution Limited any buy back of Ordinary Shares being equivalent to approximately 10 per cent of the may also be subject to a waiver of Rule 9 of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at Takeover Code being granted by the Takeover 23 April 2013.
Purchases of Ordinary Shares will only be made through the market for cash at prices below Resolution 12 seeks an authority from shareholders the prevailing net asset value of the Ordinary Shares to disapply pre-emption rights in relation to the issue as last calculated where the Directors believe such of shares as set out in the Listing Rules made by purchases will enhance shareholder value.
The price the Financial Conduct Authority under Part VI of the paid will not be less than the nominal value of 1p Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as per share.
Such purchases will also only be made amended.
Resolution 12 gives the Directors, for the in accordance with the rules of the UK Listing period until the conclusion of the Annual General Authority which provide that the price to be paid Meeting in 2014 or, if earlier, on the expiry of must not be more than the higher of i 5 per cent 15 months from the passing of the resolution, the above the average of the middle market quotations necessary authority either to allot securities or sell as derived from the Daily Official List of the London shares held in treasury, otherwise than to existing Stock Exchange for the Ordinary Shares for the five shareholders on a pro-rata basis, up to an business days before the shares are purchased: and aggregate nominal amount of 758,715.
This is ii the higher of the last independent trade and the equivalent to approximately 10 per cent of the highest current independent bid on the trading issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at venue which the purchase is carried out.
Any shares 23 April 2013. purchased under this authority will be cancelled or The Directors will only allot new shares pursuant to held in treasury within the following limits: the authority granted by Resolutions 11 and 12, No more than 10 per cent of the Companys Guernsey law and the authority to allot shares issued shares will be held in treasury at any contained in the Articles of Incorporation of the time: and Company if they believe it is advantageous to the Shares will only be re-issued out of treasury at Companys shareholders to do so and in no a premium to the net asset value.
circumstances that would result in a dilution to the net asset value per share.
Discount Policy and Continuation Votes Since the year end, the Company has issued The Boards stated intention is to use the share buy 14,000,000 shares aggregate net proceeds of back authority to purchase Ordinary Shares subject 14.1 million and there were 758,715,702 Ordinary to the income and cash flow requirements and Shares in issue as at 23 April 2013. solvency of the Company and where the Directors believe the price available to be in the best interests Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares of shareholders as a whole if the share price of an The Company did not buy back any shares during Ordinary Share is more than 5 per cent below the the year.
published net asset value per share for a continuous The current authority of the Company to make period of 20 dealing days or more.
To ensure a fair market purchases of Ordinary Shares expires at the comparison, the Directors believe that such discount end of the Annual General Meeting and Resolution should be calculated by adjusting the published net 13, as set out in the notice of the Annual General asset value per share for any dividends for which the Meeting, seeks renewal of such authority until the share price has gone ex-dividend.
earlier of the Annual General Meeting in 2014 and In the event that the Ordinary Shares trade at 18 months from the passing of the resolution.
Any a discount of more than 5 per cent for buy back of Ordinary Shares will be made subject 90 consecutive dealing days or more, the Directors to Guernsey law and within any guidelines will convene a general meeting to be held within established from time to time by the Board and the 24 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report of the Directors continued three months to consider an ordinary resolution for Auditor the continuation of the Company.
If this continuation KPMG Channel Islands Limited has expressed its resolution is not passed, the Directors will convene willingness to continue in office as the Companys a further general meeting to be held within six auditor and a resolution proposing its remonths of the first general meeting to consider the appointment will be submitted at the Annual General winding up of the Company or a reconstruction of Meeting.
the Company which offers all shareholders the opportunity to realise their investment.
If any such Resolutions continuation resolution is passed, this discount The Board considers that the resolutions to be policy, save in respect of share buy backs, would proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the not apply for a period of two years thereafter.
best interests of the shareholders as a whole and recommends that they vote in favour of such In addition, at the Annual General Meeting of the resolutions as the Directors intend to do in respect Company to be held in 2015, the Directors will of their own beneficial holdings.
propose an ordinary resolution for the continuation of the Company.
If the continuation resolution is not On behalf of the Board passed, the Directors will be obliged to convene an Extraordinary General Meeting within six months to C Russell consider the winding up of the Company or a Director reconstruction of the Company which offers all 23 April 2013 Shareholders the opportunity to realise their investment.
If the continuation resolution is passed, the Directors will propose a similar resolution at the Annual General Meeting of the Company five yearly thereafter.
Disclosure of Information to the Auditor The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Report of the Directors confirm that: so far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
