Managers Review Market Review Maintaining income streams has been challenging The market total return for the year, as measured by given economic and financial market uncertainty, the Investment Property Databank IPD Quarterly fiscal austerity policies and subdued economic Universe was 2.8 per cent.
The year saw IPD void rates move above 10 positive throughout the year but concerns about the per cent while higher business rates have put further sovereign debt crisis, possible Eurozone fracture and pressure on tenants.
Occupiers are cost sensitive the loss of recovery momentum, both internationally and occupational demand is generally being driven and in the UK, all weighed on sentiment for much of by lease events rather than growth.
The 2012 outturn was the weakest since voids has been felt more keenly for more secondary 2008. property with prime proving more resilient.
The uncertain market outlook and difficulty in securing development finance has also led to a prolonged period of low levels of new supply.
It is patchy, but in some areas the combination of competing demand, tight supply and investor interest has led to significant out-performance.
This can be seen most clearly in London.
Central London shops delivered double digit IPD universe total returns and West End Midtown offices recorded a total return of 9.8 per cent on standing investments in 2012.
In other parts of the UK, the market was much weaker with negative total returns seen for provincial shops and offices.
Occupier and investor caution is also leading to a focus on prime property.
IPD market data showed prime property delivering a positive total return and out-performing more secondary stock in most segments of the market in 2012.
The robustness and longevity of the income stream and the ability to secure re-lettings or an alternative use for a property remain key drivers of value and performance.
St. Christophers Place Estate, London W1 This subdued performance was reflected in a flat Portfolio rental growth performance and a 2.8 per cent fall in The property portfolio recorded a total return of 5.7 market capital values as both initial and equivalent per cent over the year, compared with the IPD all property yields edged higher during the year.
Quarterly Universe comprising directly held Performance in 2012 was driven by an income properties only total return of 2.8 per cent referred return of 5.8 per cent.
Once again the portfolio has delivered a Investment activity was slightly higher in 2012 than in the previous year and close to the long-term Geographical Analysis average at 35.6 billion, according to Property Data as at 31 December 2012 figures.
The year saw a shift in the composition of % of total property portfolio investment with Central London offices recording a Rest of London 5 billion increase in transactions to more than 15 1.1% billion, while investment in UK retail declined by more than 3 billion.
Investment from overseas purchasers North West 11.2% South East 27.7% increased in 2012, approaching half of all transactions, but institutions were net sellers of Scotland 7.6% property during the year.
Investors have been attracted to UK property as a Midlands large, mature, transparent market outside the 11.5% Eurozone.
The very low level of UK gilt yields Eastern 2.0% experienced during 2012 has helped to keep property pricing attractive relative to the risk free rate and has also led some investors to consider switching into property as an alternative to gilts where a long and secure income stream can be London West End 38.9% obtained.
8 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited strong outperformance of the benchmark.
Over the The sales, combined with the contracted acquisition period the portfolio was ranked on the 11th of four pre-let office blocks in Aberdeen, which is percentile and 27th out of 237 funds included within described later in this report, will benefit the the benchmark.
This acquisition also provides a secure and attractive income stream and The three year annualised return ranks the portfolio is expected to prove to be reversionary and benefit on the 6th percentile against 215 funds and the five from some yield compression as the location year annualised return ranks the portfolio on the 7th becomes established.
Therefore, the portfolio continues to maintain its top quartile Stock selection will remain critical, combined with performance over 1, 3 and 5 years.
the evaluation of credit, future earnings and sustainability of income.
Property fundamentals As at 31 December 2012 the Companys property cannot be ignored, especially if shorter leases with portfolio was externally valued at 879.7 million.
This possible asset management opportunities are being represents an absolute reduction in value of 52.9 appraised.
million mainly attributable to the property sales reviewed later in this report.
However, the portfolio Retail recorded positive capital growth of 0.1 per cent when the market as a whole recorded negative The retail sector IPD benchmark portfolio total return growth.
was 1.6 per cent in 2012, the weakest of the three main property sectors.
The year witnessed several major retailer administrations, a step-change in the Sector Analysis growth of multi-channel retailing, some faltering in as at 31 December 2012 % of total property portfolio the supermarkets advance and consumers still experiencing austerity with their personal financial Other budgets.
The market remains highly polarised with 1.9% some segments, such as Central London shops, regional out of town shopping centres, major district Industrial 14.4% and local retail centres, out-performing but the regional towns seeing greater pressure.
Retail warehousing delivered a rare year of underOffices 36.3% Retail performance in 2012, with traditional retail parks the Warehouses worst hit.
Prime retail property out-performed 20.5% secondary over the year, with the disparity especially marked for standard high street retail units and shopping centres.
Retail 26.9% Strategy and Positioning of the Portfolio The portfolio continues to be managed to reflect our asset allocation preference to Central London in general and the West End in particular.
St. Christophers Place Estate, London W1, the Companys largest asset, continues to be a main driver of performance.
The exposure to Central London has reduced due to the sales highlighted later in this report, however, this is not a strategic move Mavor Avenue, East Kilbride away from Central London.
We are not calling the top of the market for Central London properties and are The Companys retail properties recorded a total adjusting the asset allocation as appropriate.
The return of 6.8 per cent for the year, significantly sales were based upon value judgements to sell exoutperforming the IPD benchmark total return of 1.6 growth or non-core Central London properties to take per cent.
The Companys strongest performance advantage of the strength and depth of overseas was derived once again from its South East retail purchasers and resultant pricing.
holdings which recorded a total return of 13.3 per Our strategy is to recycle capital into other areas of cent.
This continues a trend seen in 2010 and 2011 Central London likely to benefit from future growth and is attributable to the strong performance of the or re-rating of location.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9 Managers Review continued Companys Central London retail properties where specific: Sears Retail Park at Solihull was marked St. Christophers Place Estate, categorised by IPD down in capital value by approximately 14 per cent.
as South East Retail, produced the strongest This property, totalling 126,000 sq.
ft. experienced weighted contribution to the portfolios performance.
tenant defaults in the last quarter of 2012 with both JJB Sports and Comet entering administration.
JJB Asset management initiatives, including lease regears Sports occupied a 10,000 sq.
ft. retail unit and and renewals, new lettings and refurbishments of Comet 30,000 sq.
ft. and it is expected both leases parts of St. Christophers Place Estate have built will be disclaimed by the respective administrators.
In partnership Both units combined annual rental value is 1.3 with Westminster City Council, significant public million.
We are very focused on re-letting these units realm works completed in 2012, including the and marketing is underway.
A variation of existing repaving of the Barrett Street piazza and James planning consents will be needed to permit wider Street pavement.
The final phase of tree planting retail use of the units and, if successful, this has the and repairs to the existing paving was completed in potential to transform the property.
New marketing initiatives for 2013 which make use of the website and social media Offices platform are underway.
This all helps provide a more attractive retailing environment, improving footfall and The office sector as a whole delivered an IPD quality of occupational demand.
portfolio total return of 4.2 per cent in 2012, driven by strong growth in Central London which recorded The retail unit at 13 Gees Court and 10 12 James total returns of 5.9 per cent and 10.4 per cent in the Street, formerly occupied by Kew, was let to Phase City and West End respectively.
In contrast, total Eight in December 2012.
Phase Eight opened this return performance in the Rest of South East was as their London flagship store in March 2013: the markedly weaker at minus 0.7 per cent and unit has frontage to both James Street and Gees provincial offices still worse at minus 4.0 per cent.
The tenant carried out considerable The performance of City offices was not immune improvements to the Gees Court frontage which from financial market concerns but was helped positively improves the streetscape of the Estate.
by strength in the Technology Media & Telecommunications TMT market while the West In addition, Patty & Bun successfully opened a high End was more resilient, reflecting its wider quality burger restaurant at 54 James Street in occupational base and scope for alternative use, December 2012 and received very positive reviews especially residential.
The Rest of South East market from the press.
This restaurant is very busy and has drawn new customers to the north end of James Street.
Excluding the units in the course of refurbishment, all the offices in the Estate are let, although the tenant of the upper floors of 21 Barrett Street has served a break notice effective April 2013 and we are currently marketing the unit.
Refurbishment of the first floor offices at St. Christophers House is underway with completion due in summer 2013.
In addition, the conversion of offices at the first floor of Greengarden House is also due to complete in summer 2013.
Work to convert the upper floors of 67 Wigmore Street into residential accommodation including the addition of an extra floor to the building is underway with completion due in autumn 2013.
The development will provide high quality residential accommodation within a sought after residential location, adding to St. Christophers Place Estates desirability as a mixed use central London asset.
The portfolio has no exposure to shopping centres and only one shop unit outside the South East, 124 125 Princes Street, Edinburgh.
The Companys retail warehouse properties recorded a total return of minus 0.6 per cent compared with a benchmark return of 0.7 per cent, a relative underperformance of 1.3 per cent.
This underperformance was asset Alhambra House, Wellington Street, Glasgow 10 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited saw some encouraging lettings and greater investor the 5,890 sq.
ft. second floor where it is anticipated interest in 2012, but sentiment towards the provincial a letting will contract shortly.
This property produced office markets remained weak, with double digit falls a total return of 11.4 per cent over the year.
in capital values being recorded over the year.
Covenant Strength as at 31 December 2012 % of total property portfolio Maximum Risk 10.8% High Risk 2.0% Unscored 4.0% Medium-High Risk 1.6% Low-Medium Risk 6.8% Negligible and Government Risk 48.3% Low Risk 26.5% The Companys offices recorded a total return of 3.5 per cent compared with the benchmark total return of 4.2 per cent.
The Companys strongest performing segment was, unsurprisingly, its West End offices which recorded a total return of 9.8 per cent but marginally underperformed the benchmark 25 Great Pulteney Street, London W1 return of 10.4 per cent.
Offices Rest of UK recorded minus 4.1 per cent which was in line with the benchmark return of minus 4.0 per cent.
It is the Industrial portfolios South East Offices which notably The industrial market delivered an IPD benchmark underperformed, recording a total return of minus total return of 2.8 per cent in 2012, in line with the 5.5 per cent compared with the minus 0.7 per cent all property average, with once again the south east benchmark return.
The disappointing performance of out-performing the rest of the UK and prime outthis segment was due to the exposure to voids and performing secondary.
The sector has the benefit of some shorter unexpired lease terms where the a relatively high income return which totalled 6.7 per external valuers moved out capitalisation rates.
The distribution and logistics sector Company has 50,799 sq.
ft. of vacant offices at has also benefited from a relatively low level of voids Watchmoor Park, Camberley and 37,000 sq.
ft. at and an active occupational market in core areas Thames Valley Park Two, Reading.
The together with slightly longer leases on average, some comprehensive refurbishment of this last property of which are indexed.
ft. was contracted during the year to Baxter Storey, an existing sub-tenant within the building, and there remains a good level of interest in the remaining space.
Indeed, it is notable that enquiries and viewings of good quality properties in the South East has recently increased and it would appear some occupational confidence may be returning to this sector.
In the West End, leasing activity at 25 Great Pulteney Street, London W1 continued to be a success.
The first, ground and lower ground floors have now been let to WPP UK Group at a rent of 708,000 per annum.
This equates to the property now being 82 per cent let.
The only available floor is Unit 6a, Hams Hall Distribution Park, Birmingham Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11 Managers Review continued during the year.
It comprises the development of five blocks of student accommodation which, on completion, will total 499 bedrooms and will be let to the University of Winchester on a new 25 year lease with cap and collar RPI linkage.
The first block was handed over to the University prior to the current academic year and the University is paying a pro-rata rent.
The remaining four properties are due to complete during the summer and will be handed over to the University in readiness for the 2013-2014 academic year.
All blocks are on budget and are expected to be handed over on time.
To date the Company has incurred costs of 17.4 million, inclusive of land acquisition, on the project.
The Unit 1, G. Park, Portal Way, Liverpool increase in value during the period was attributable to the external valuers re-rating the capitalisation rates in the face of comparable transactions The Companys industrial and logistics properties providing evidence of yield compression.
produced a total return of 6.4 per cent compared with the IPD benchmark return of 2.8 per cent, thereby correcting the underperformance recorded for 2011.
The Companys industrial south east properties provided a total return in line with the benchmark, 3.5 per cent compared with 3.6 per cent, whilst industrial logistics Rest of UK registered a total return of 7.3 per cent compared with a 1.6 per cent total return from the benchmark.
The outperformance of this segment is attributable to the higher income return on these properties which to some extent is due to the shorter lease terms.
The asset management strategy remains to regear leases to secure longer lease terms and over the period there was success at Hedge End, Southampton where Ericsson Television Limited contracted to a new lease for a term of 10 years, subject to 12 months rent free.
In addition, the unit was extended by 8,816 sq.
ft. at a capital cost of 1.5 million and an increase in rent of 59,000 per annum.
The Other Sector This sector comprises alternates such as healthcare, student accommodation, hotels, data centres and automotive uses.
This sector is growing in importance and now comprises approximately 7.3 per cent of the IPD benchmark.
The sector offers an opportunity to acquire properties secured on long leases, usually at least 15 years, with fixed uplifts or RPI linkage.
These can be attractive in an Burma Road, Winchester environment where total returns are income driven and where the traditional sectors are not in the main Purchases and Disposals offering long leases.
The Other sector recorded a In July, the Group agreed a forward commitment to total return of 5.9 per cent in 2012, the highest purchase four pre-let office properties in Aberdeen return from the four main sectors.
for approximately 94 million, plus costs.
This is the The Companys exposure to the Other sector is largest single acquisition made by the Company achieved through its holding of student since its launch in 2005.
The properties are currently accommodation at Burma Road, Winchester.
This being developed, are expected to be completed property recorded a total return of 14.1 per cent between October and November 2013 and will 12 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited insuring terms for a term of 20 years.
Block 3 is a Tenure Analysis headquarters office building which will comprise as at 31 December 2012 % of total property portfolio approximately 75,000 sq.
ft. and Block 4 will be Transoceans bespoke global training centre.
These Leasehold 4.9% two blocks have been pre-let at rents of 21.75 per sq.
ft. respectively, both with no rent free periods.
All leases provide for five yearly rent reviews to the higher of open market rental value or three per cent per annum compounded.
Freehold 76.3% Mixed Freehold Leasehold 18.8% The total anticipated income upon completion is 6.7 million per annum and the overall net initial yield on completion is 6.84 per cent which is in excess of the initial yield on the Companys total portfolio.
The purchase will provide the Company with exposure to one of the most buoyant office markets in the UK and to new headquarter office buildings let to excellent covenants on secure lease terms.
The pre-letting of Phase II of the development is comprise approximately 300,000 sq.
ft. net initial underway and a 40,000 sq.
ft. letting to Premier Oil area.
and the development of a DeVere Hotel have The four blocks are situated on the Prime Four recently been announced.
This activity underwrites Business Park, Kingswells, Aberdeen which is a new the location, provides critical mass and supports the out of town business park located to the west of the reversionary rents on the Companys investment.
During the year, the Company took advantage of the Office Block 1, comprising 100,000 sq.
ft. has been strength of the Central London investment market by pre-let to Nexen Petroleum UK on a full repairing selling three properties.
The first sale to complete and insuring lease for a term of 15 years at a rent of was 84 Eccleston Square, London SW1 for 49.0 23.25 per sq.
ft. with no rent free period.
The sale price reflected a 4.0 million will be another 100,000 sq.
ft. building and has been increase above the last external valuation and a net pre-let to Apache Northern Sea Limited on a full initial yield of 6.08 per cent.
The reason for selling repairing and insuring lease for a term of 15 years at this property was to take advantage of the strong a rent of 23.00 per sq.
ft. with a three month rent demand from overseas investors for Central London free period.
Blocks 3 and 4 have been pre-let to properties, especially those with potential to convert Transocean Drilling UK Limited on full repairing and to residential uses.
The sale also benefited the management of the portfolios lease expiry profile by avoiding the risk of lease expiries and future requirements for capital expenditure in March 2014 when 3.1 million of rental income from this property was due to expire.
The expiries at Eccleston Square would have been the Companys largest lease exposure in 2014.
385 389 Oxford Street, London W1 sold for 28.1 million.
This long leasehold property is entirely let to Boots UK Limited on a lease expiring in June 2019 at an annual passing rent of 1,075,000.
At the transaction date this rent represented one of the highest rent per sq.
ft. on Oxford Street, equating to 700 per sq.
The property was acquired by an overseas investor at a net initial yield of 3.62 per cent and the sale price compared with the previous external valuation of 23.9 million.
During the year, the Company exchanged contracts to sell Charles House, 5-11 Regent Street, London SW1 for 36.0 million.
The sale completed on 5 April Prime Four Business Park, Kingswells, Aberdeen Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Managers Review continued Camberley and 25 Great Pulteney Street, London, Lease Expiry Profile At 31 December 2012 the weighted average lease length for the portfolio.
During the year we also assuming all break options are exercised, was 6.9 years 2011: 6.7 years.
contracted 11 rent reviews with a total uplift of 0.3 million per annum 6.4 per cent over the previous 50% passing rent.
44.9% We continue to actively manage the Companys 40% rental arrears and bad debts.
The provision for 35.7% overdue debt 90 days is 0.9 per cent of annualised rents, which remains extremely low, comparatively.
30% In last years review we commented on the Companys exposure to retailer defaults and failures.
20% At that time the exposure was to Peacocks 15.8% Newbury Retail Park and Blacks Wimbledon Broadway, London SW19 with an aggregate liability 10% of 345,000 per annum.
The Peacocks position has 3.1% concluded with the lease assigned to Poundland at 0.5% the previous rent and we are close to a resolution at 0% 0-5 years 510 years 10-15 years 15-25 years 25 years Wimbledon.
As reported earlier in this report the Company does have an exposure to Comet and JJB Lease length Sports, with a combined liability of 1.3 million per annum.
We continue to negotiate with the administrators in order to secure new lettings of the 2013.
This leasehold property has newly refurbished units.
lower ground, first and sixth floors and, along with the second floor, are let until 2018 9.
The third floor is let until 2017.
The three unrefurbished floors Outlook fourth, fifth and seventh are let until 2014.
The The gradual working through of the Eurozone remaining ground and lower ground offices are let problems, some easing in domestic monetary until 2018 but with breaks in 2013.
The retail is let conditions and a projected return to positive, if until 2021 no.
The lease of modest, economic growth in the UK, have led to Flight Centre no.
7 expired in August 2012 and the some stabilising of sentiment.
While the short-term tenant has served a s. 26 notice requesting a new 10 outlook is by no means settled, there are tentative year lease with a five year break at the passing rent.
signs that the ground is being prepared for a The property was acquired by The Crown Estate, sustainable recovery in the UK property market.
This the Freeholder, at a net initial yield of 5.96 per cent is likely to be income driven, and steady rather than representing a capital value of 820 per sq.
We believe that London and the South showing a profit of 1.6 million 4.65 per cent East will continue to out-perform but with more compared with the previous external valuation of opportunities emerging selectively in the regions.
Structural factors such as the reduced role of the public sector, growth of non-store retailing and the release of leveraged stock onto the market will Property Management remain significant in the longer-term and influence The management of income remains key and this market-wide performance.
As economic growth remains a challenging environment.
The strategy of becomes apparent and spare capacity is absorbed, sustaining and protecting rental income within the we fully expect to see a broadening of rental growth portfolio is still the principal asset management and greater support to capital values emerge in the focus.
Void levels over the period increased from 6.0 per cent to 7.0 per cent of estimated rental value excluding properties held for development compared with the benchmark void rate of 10.2 per Richard Kirby cent.
This equates to approximately 3.5 million of Investment Manager rental value of which approximately 30 per cent is F&C REIT Property Asset Management plc currently under offer.
We remain totally focused on 23 April 2013 leasing the vacant accommodation in the portfolio.
During 2012 we contracted 29 lettings, producing a total rental income of 4.7 million per annum inclusive of the lettings at Watchmoor Park, 14 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
