55 normal channels has failed to resolve or where such contact is Chairman and chief executive inappropriate.
No such requests were received from shareholders The posts of chairman and chief executive are separate and their during the year.
The senior independent director leads the annual roles and responsibilities are clearly established, set out in writing and performance review of the chairman.
A copy of the written statement of roles is available on the groups website www.
co. uk or from the Effectiveness company secretary on request.
The chairman is responsible for Meetings running the board and ensuring its effectiveness.
The chief executive There were six meetings of the board in the year.
The board has reports to the chairman, as does the company secretary on matters a list of matters reserved to it and a rolling annual plan of items for of corporate governance.
The chairman is the guardian of the discussion, agreed between the chairman and the chief executive.
boards decision making and is responsible for ensuring a constructive The list of reserved matters and annual plan are reviewed regularly relationship between executive and non-executive directors and for to ensure all matters reserved to the board, as well as other key fostering a culture of challenge and debate in the boardroom.
issues, are discussed at the appropriate time.
At each board meeting The chief executive is responsible for running the business and the chief executive provided a review of the business, how it was implementing the boards decisions.
He chairs a weekly meeting performing and strategic issues arising.
In the year the range of with the other executive directors, all of whom report directly to him, subjects discussed included: and, together with the executive directors, holds monthly meetings with each of the divisional boards to review all operational issues.
The strategy of the group in response to changing economic conditions: Non-executive directors Key business areas, including Germany, retirement solutions, The non-executive directors are responsible for bringing independent residential and funds: and objective judgement and scrutiny to all matters before the board The groups debt and capital structure: and its committees, using their substantial and wide ranging The groups financial results: experience.
The key responsibilities of non-executive directors are set Dividend policy: out in their letters of appointment and include requirements to: Regulatory and governance issues: and The development of the groups people.
Challenge and contribute to the development of the companys strategy: Three of the meetings were preceded, the evening before, by Scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed aninformal meeting allowing more time to debate issues in depth.
goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance: Twoof the board meetings were held at the companys head ofce and to in Newcastle upon Tyne and three of the board meetings were held Satisfy themselves that financial information is accurate and in the companys London ofce.
The meeting in June 2012 was held that financial controls and systems of risk management are in a central London hotel to coincide with a full days strategy robust and defensible.
conference with senior management giving the board the opportunity to engage with key staff on a range of issues.
During the course of A copy of the standard letter of appointment for a non-executive these meetings the directors have heard presentations from divisional director is available on the groups website www.
co. uk directors on the following matters: or from the company secretary on request.
The non-executive directors meet periodically without the executive directors present.
There were two such meetings in the year and an additional Development of the groups core IT systems.
meeting of the non-executive directors without the chairman Health & Safety Management within the group.
or the executive directors present.
Senior independent director Graingers Asset Management platform.
The senior independent director is available to shareholders if they The business improvement programme.
request a meeting or have concerns, which contact through the Grainger plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance continued Attendance table Time commitment The board is satisfied that the chairman and each of the nonExecutive directors Meetings attended Meetings eligible to attend executive directors committed sufficient time during the year to Andrew Cunningham 66 enable them to full their duties as directors of the company.
None Peter Couch 66 of the non-executive directors has any conict of interest which has Nick Jopling 66 not been disclosed to the board in accordance with the companys Mark Greenwood 66 articles of association.
Non-executive directors Meetings attended Meetings eligible to attend Induction and professional development Robin Broadhurst 66 John Barnsley 66 The chairman is responsible for ensuring that induction and training are provided to each director and the company secretary organises Henry Pitman 66 the induction process and regular updating and training of board Baroness Margaret Ford 66 members.
Belinda Richards 56 Tony Wray was appointed in the year and received a Tony Wray 66 comprehensive, tailored induction to the company.
This consisted Robert Hiscox 22 ofthe provision of a corporate handbook covering such items as matters reserved for the board, division of responsibility between Board committees thechairman and chief executive and the terms of reference of The board has established four principal board committees to which thevarious board committees as well as individual sessions with it has delegated certain of its responsibilities.
They are the audit members of the senior management team in both the Newcastle committee, remuneration committee, nominations committee and and London ofces.
He was also taken on a property tour to enable the board risk and compliance committee.
The roles, membership him to see some of the companys properties ranging from the and activities of these committees are described in more detail later core regulated portfolio through to some of the development in the Corporate Governance statement.
Information ow Training and updating as to the business of the group and the The chairman, together with the company secretary, ensures that legal and regulatory responsibilities of directors was provided the directors receive clear information on all relevant matters in a throughout the year by a variety of means to board members timely manner.
Board papers are circulated sufciently in advance of including presentations by executives, visits to business operations meetings for them to be thoroughly digested in advance of the and circulation of brieng materials.
Individual directors are also meeting to ensure clarity of informed debate.
The board papers expected to take responsibility for identifying their training needs contain the chief executives written report, high level papers on and to ensure they are adequately informed about the group and each business area, key metrics and specic papers relating to their responsibilities as a director.
The board papers are accompanied by a The board is confident that all its members have the knowledge, management information pack containing detailed financial and ability and experience to perform the functions required of a director other supporting information.
The board receives a bi-weekly update of a listed company.
throughout the year and occasional ad hoc papers on matters of particular relevance or importance.
As highlighted above the board also received presentations from various business units.
