G Gr ra ai in ng ge er r p pl lc c 10 10 An Ann nu ua all Repor Report t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 12 2 grainger residential expertise Over 100 years Grainger has built portfolios of wholly and co-owned properties across the UK and Germany.
These portfolios reect the diversity of the existing housing stock and demonstrate the expertise and detailed knowledge of location and potential required to identify, manage and deliver value from residential property.
Sales 11 11 Sales Rents Fees Every year we sell c. 600 properties Our gross rent for 2011 12 was We earned 10m in fees in 2011 12, when they become vacant normal 89.8m and we collected 31.7m rent an increase of 45% and evidence of sales and we sell further properties on behalf of third parties, whose the delivery of our strategic intent.
when we decide that a particular properties we manage.
We earn fees through the demonstration property although still occupied The rent from the wholly owned of our track record and expertise no longer offers the potential to and German portfolios is highly in development, fund management, deliver the value that we are seeking predictable and our opportunities asset and property management investment sales.
We can refurbish to increase the rent come largely from and sales.
vacant properties before sale to rent reviews.
Our owner manager mentality increase their value or saleability, In our market let properties and enables us to base our performance but in many cases we sell unimproved those we manage on behalf of others, related fees on the value that we add tobuyers who wish to carry out rents follow market trends and reect to the assets under our management.
As the average The size of our operations and the We also realise value through length of tenure is around 20 months proven processes that we employ sales ofproperties or land that we we have regular opportunities to provide us with a scalable and exible have developed.
ensure that we maximise rents and platform that can be deployed to Importantly the scale of our our related fees through our market meet a range of diverse requirements operations is such that we can focus awareness, our proactive lettings and opportunities.
on continuous improvement to our team and our asset management efficiency and speed of sale.
See pages 22 and 23 for further details.
See pages 24 and 25 for further details.
See pages 26 and 27 for further details.
