57 Access to independent advice Re-election of directors All directors have access to the advice and services of the company Notwithstanding that the companys articles of association require secretary who ensures that board processes are followed and good the directors to offer themselves for re-election at least once every corporate governance standards are maintained.
Any director who three years, in accordance with the recommendations of the Code considers it necessary or appropriate may take independent, all of the directors except for Henry Pitman who will be retiring from professional advice at the companys expense.
None of the directors the board, will be offering themselves for re-election at the AGM in sought such advice in the year.
In light of the performance evaluations summarised above and the provisions of the companys articles of association, the Performance evaluation board recommends that all of the directors be re-elected.
As reported last year, the board evaluation in 2011 was undertaken by Independent Audit Limited, an independent rm of consultants, Accountability who concluded that there was considerable evidence to show that Internal control the board and its committees were effective.
Areas which have been The board is responsible for reviewing and approving the groups developed further subsequent to that report have been: system of internal control and its adequacy and effectiveness.
The group has a cyclical process for identifying, assessing and managing the strategic messaging: its significant risks, which has been in place for the full year under risk related work: review.
The process is designed to enable the board to be confident succession planning: and that such risks are mitigated, or controlled as far as possible.
It board information should be noted however, that no system can eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives entirely and can only provide The 2012 evaluation was led by the chairman who had private one reasonable and not absolute assurance against material to one meetings with each of the directors.
The company secretary misstatement or loss.
The risk and compliance committee is collated the evaluation results and these were considered by the delegated the task of reviewing all identied risks, with the ultimate chairman and the company secretary and reported back to the key risks retained for full board review.
The audit committee reports board.
These were positive and indicated that the board, its to the board at every board meeting.
Risks and controls are reviewed committees and individual directors were all operating effectively.
to ensure effective management of appropriate strategic, financial, The review of the chairmans performance, which review was led by operational and compliance issues.
The audit committee also reviews the senior independent director, concluded that the chairmans the half year and full year financial statements, which includes the leadership and performance were considered to have been of a high results of our associate and joint ventures, which are subject to the standard.
same internal controls as within the group.
In addition, the group No major areas were highlighted within this review process but the has an internal audit function which performs relevant reviews as board intend to continue to develop themes arising from the review, part of a programme approved by the audit committee.
The specifically on: committee considers any issues or risks arising from internal audit in order that appropriate actions can be undertaken for their strategic messaging: satisfactory resolution.
The internal audit manager has a direct board information: and reporting line to the chairman ofthe audit committee.
A detailed succession annual budget is produced each year, together with longer-term projections in accordance with the agreed strategy, which are The board and its committees will monitor progress and continue presented to the board for consideration and approval.
A their critical review of its effectiveness during the year ahead.
In fundamental part of the control process is the diligent monitoring of accordance with the prevailing provisions of the Code, it is the current intention of the board that external facilitation of the board evaluation will be carried out every three years.
Grainger plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance continued actual performance against this budget by the board.
Where Relations with shareholders applicable, revisions are made to expected out-turn against which The company has held over 100 meetings with shareholders, further progress can be monitored.
A detailed monthly management analysts and potential investors in the year in addition to the usual information pack is prepared which covers each major area of the half-yearly results announcements and briengs.
Andrew business and which includes detailed consolidated results and Cunningham and Mark Greenwood, chief executive and finance financial information for the business as a whole.
The performance director respectively, have had the vast majority of these meetings of each business area is reviewed monthly by both divisional and manage the groups investor relations programme with the management and the executive directors and is subsequently head of corporate affairs.
Some of the key issues raised were the reported to the board.
levels of debt within the business and the strategy for the companys The board also discusses in detail the projected financial impact investment in Germany.
Feedback is always sought following such of major proposed acquisitions and disposals, including their meetings and this feedback is presented to the board.
All such proposed substantial investments are considered The chairman and Baroness Ford, the chairman of the by all directors.
Where meetings are required between board remuneration committee, also met with the Corporate Governance meetings and a full complement of directors cannot be achieved, ofcers of the companys major shareholders in advance of the AGM acommittee of directors considers the necessary formalities.
The where the keys issues discussed were the companys policy for board is also responsible for reviewing and approving the groups directors remuneration and succession.
The groups website includes treasury strategy, including mitigation against changes in interest a specic and comprehensive Investor Relations section, containing rates.
The groups processes for internal control have been in place all RNS announcements, share price information, annual documents throughout the year and accord with the Turnbull guidelines 2005. available for download and similar materials.
All the directors intend The board regularly reviews the groups processes for internal control to be in attendance at the AGM in February 2013 and to be and conducts a formal annual review of these processes and the available to answer questions.
All shareholders have the opportunity risks relating to the business.
Nosignicant failings or weaknesses to attend the AGM, which continues as a route for communication were identied from this reviewin the year.
with smaller and private shareholders.
The notice of meeting and annual report and accounts are sent Going concern out at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate votes are The Group closely monitors its future anticipated cash ows and held for each proposed resolution, including the approval of the compliance with its banking covenants.
Based on these forecasts remuneration committee report, and a proxy count is given in each and the sensitivities which have been run on different scenarios the case after the voting on a show of hands.
Grainger includes, as directors have a reasonable expectation that the group and standard, a vote withheld category, in line with best practice.
company have adequate resources to continue in existence for the Shareholders are also able to lodge their votes through the CREST foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going system.
concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Substantial shareholdings As at 30 November 2012, the company is aware of the following interests amounting to 3% or more in the companys shares: Holding Holding million % Schroder Investment Management Ltd 79.4 19.06 Standard Life Investments Ltd 24.1 5.79 BlackRock Inc 19.3 4.63 Henderson Global Investors 15.6 3.75 Franklin Templeton Fund Management Ltd 13.4 3.22
