Grainger plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Other disclosures Principal activities Share Capital Grainger plc is a holding company and during the year the group In October 2011 9,103 shares were issued pursuant to the exercise through subsidiaries of Grainger plc has continued its activities of of share options under the groups SAYE scheme.
The company has property trading, investment, development and management.
one class of ordinary shares and all shares rank equally and are fully paid.
No person holds shares carrying special rights with regard to Review of business development and prospects control of the company.
There are neither restrictions on the transfer The information that fulls the requirements of the Business review of shares nor the size of a holding which are both governed by the can be found on pages 2 to 49, which are incorporated into this Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The directors are not report by reference.
A review of the performance and development aware of any agreements between holders of shares in the of the business during the year, the position of the group at the year companythat may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or end and its future prospects, is set out in the sections of the Annual on voting rights.
At 30 September 2012, the directors had unexpired power to Details of the groups KPIs are provided on page 21. repurchase up to 41,600,000 shares.
Adescription of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group and how these are mitigated can be found on pages 48 and 49.
Directors interests in significant contracts Additional information on environmental matters, on employees, No directors were materially interested in any contract of tenants and partners and on social and community matters is set out signicance.
Statement of directors responsibilities Results for the year The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the The results of the group are set out in the consolidated income directors remuneration report and the financial statements in statement on page 76 which shows a profit for the financial year accordance with applicable law and regulations.
attributable to the owners of the company of 0.4m 2011: Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 39.1m.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the group financial statements in accordance with Dividends International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the An interim dividend of 0.55p per share was paid on 6 July 2012.
European Union, and the parent company financial statements in Although no interim dividend was declared for 2011, in June 2011 accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting the directors distributed 2.2m by means of a tender buy-back of Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
This represented an effective dividend of 0.53p per share.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 1.37p statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair per share 2011: 1.30p, to be paid on 8 February 2013 making a view of the state of affairs of the group and the company and of the total dividend for the year of 1.92p 2011: 1.83p per share.
Any profit or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing these shareholder wishing to participate in the Dividend Reinvestment Plan financial statements, the directors are required to: for the 2012 final dividend will need to ensure that their application form is returned to our registrars by 14 January 2013. elect suitable accounting policies and then apply them s consistently: m ake judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: s tate whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the group and parent company financial statements respectively: and p repare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
73 The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting in respect of their duties as director, which is a qualifying third party records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys indemnity provision for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006. transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time This cover was in place during the financial year and at the date of thenancial position of the company and the group and enable approval of these financial statements.
them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors Creditor payment policy remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, It is the groups policy to pay suppliers in accordance with their asregards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS normal terms and conditions of trading.
Payment in respect of the Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of purchase of property is subject to and will comply with contractual the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps terms.
Trade creditors existing at 30 September 2012 relating to for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
purchases of property generally complete 28 days after exchange Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on ofcontracts.
The company has no trade creditors.
Tradecreditor pages 50 and 51 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: days of the group were calculated as 22 days 2011:22 days.
t he group financial statements, which have been prepared in Financial Risk Management accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and Details are included in note 28 to the financial statements.
fairview of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit ofthegroup: Sustainability he business review on pages 2 to 49 includes a fair review of the t Our approach to sustainability is based on our assessment of the development and performance of the business and the position potential risk and opportunity to our business.
In the year ended of the group, together with a description of the principal risks 30September 2012 93% of the applicable sustainability targets that anduncertainties that it faces: we committed to meeting by that date were either fully achieved or s o far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit in progress.
Further information is provided in the corporate information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and responsibility report on pages 40 to 47. t he directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have Charitable donations taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any During the year the group made charitable donations amounting to relevant audit information and to establish that the companys 30,000 2011: 17,500.
Grainger makes charitable donations in auditors are aware of that information.
Firstly, we are a Foundation Partner member of LandAid, The maintenance and integrity of the Grainger plc website is the the property industry charity, and have committed to donating responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors 10,000 per annum to LandAid for a period of three years of which does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, this is the third year of contribution.
Secondly, we match fund our theauditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may staffs individual fundraising efforts up to a maximum of 100 per haveoccurred to the financial statements since they were initially person per annum and we make occasional donations to specic presented on the website.
We have not made any contributions for political purposes.
Insurance of directors The company has put in place insurance to cover its directors and International operations ofcers against the costs of defending themselves in civil legal Our German portfolio continues to be centrally managed and proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in respect controlled from our overseas ofces.
ofdamages awarded in such proceedings.
Following shareholder approval, the group maintains insurance for Grainger plcs directors Grainger plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Other disclosures continued Health and safety Takeover directive Grainger has a well-developed Health and Safety Management On a change of control, the core banking facilities described in note System for the internal and external control of health and safety risks 29 to the accounts will become repayable should alternative terms which is managed by the Director of Health and Safety.
This includes for continuing the facilities not be agreed with the lenders within the use of online risk management systems for the identication, 45days.
There are no other material matters relating to a change mitigation and reporting of real time health and safety management ofcontrol of the company following a takeover bid.
The group health and safety committee consists of Post balance sheet events members from across the organisation and is chaired by the chief On 9 November 2012, the group announced that it had signed operating officer.
The committee continues to monitor the delivery anagreement with Heitman, to create a new company which will of legal compliance in health and safety through audit and acquire, through a share purchase, a portfolio of German residential implementation of improvements to enable us to become best assets currently wholly owned by the group.
As a result of the inclass.
transaction, the new company will acquire 232m of investment Employment of disabled persons property from the group and 152m of debt will be transferred The company gives full and fair consideration to applications toitfrom the group.
Grainger will hold a 25% equity stake in the foremployment made by disabled persons, having regard new company which the group will account for as an associate.
In the event of an Thegroup will provide management services for which it will receive employeebecoming disabled every effort is made to ensure standard management and incentive fees.
It is anticipated that thattheir employment within the company continues and completion will take place before the end of the 2012 calendar year.
thatappropriate training is arranged where necessary.
It is the policy On 5 October 2012, the group signed a facility agreement with of the company that the training, career development and Coreal Credit Bank for a loan of 164.9m to renance the existing promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical facility from Eurohypo which expires in October 2013.
The facility to that of other employees.
was drawn on 25 October 2012 and was used to settle the Eurohypo loan in full.
152m of the Coreal loan will be transferred Employee involvement to the new company referred to above.
The group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued its practice of keeping them informed on matters affecting them as employees, for example, eligibility to By order of the board join company share schemes, and on the various factors affecting the performance of the group.
Communication is made using the intranet, The Source, and through regular meetings with, and presentations by, senior management.
Michael Windle Independent auditors and disclosure of information Company Secretary toauditors 6 December 2012 As far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
 LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in ofce as auditors to the company and group.
A resolution to reappoint them as auditors to the company and group will be proposed at the next AGM.
