Directors Report 53 Additional Disclosures indemnity provisions as defined by s309B of the Companies Act Additional Disclosures 1985 or s234 of the Companies Act 2006, as applicable.
At the date of this report, these indemnities are therefore in force for the benefit of all the current directors of the Company and other Group Results and Dividends The results for the year ended 31 December 2012 are shown in the members of senior management.
On 1 November 2007 a subsidiary of the Company, BBA Consolidated Income Statement on page 78.
The directors recommend the payment of a final ordinary Aviation Finance, entered into qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by s234 of the Companies Act 2006 in favour share dividend for 2012 of 10.45 net per share on 24 May 2013to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 12April of its directors under which each director is indemnified against liabilities incurred by that director in respect of acts or omissions 2013, which together with the interim dividend paid on 2November 2012 makes a total of 14.65 net per ordinary share for arising in the course of their office or otherwise by virtue of their office and such provisions remain in force as at the date of this the year 2011: 13.94.
Shareholders will receive their dividends in sterling unless they have previously elected to receive their report.
Shareholders who wish to receive dividends in US dollars must make the appropriate election to Employee Information The Company provides employees with various opportunities to Capita Registrars no later than 5.30pm Monday 29 April 2013.
A new election is not required if shareholders have previously obtain information on matters of concern to them and to improve made a valid election to receive dividends in US dollars.
Further their awareness of the financial and economic factors that affect information concerning the dividend currency election can be the performance of the Company.
These include all hands found on the Companys website at www bbaaviation.
briefings, staff forums and meetings with trade unions that take place throughout the year.
In 2012 a number of communication Acquisitions and Disposals initiatives have been launched to foster effective two-way Acquisitions and disposals in the year are described on page 51. communication around theorganisation.
All companies within the Group strive to operate fairly at all Events After the Balance Sheet Date times and this includes not permitting discrimination against any There are no disclosable events after the balance sheet date.
employee or applicant for employment on the basis of race, religion or belief, colour, gender, disability, national origin, age, Research and Development military service, veteran status, sexual orientation or marital status.
The Group continues to devote effort and resources to research This includes giving full and fair consideration to suitable and development of new processes and products.
Costs of applications from disabled persons for employment and making $3.9million have been charged to the income statement during appropriate accommodations so that if existing employees the year.
become disabled they can continue to be employed, wherever practicable, in the same job or, if this is not practicable, making Market Value of Land and Buildings every effort to find suitable alternative employment and to The directors are of the opinion that the market values of the provide relevant training.
Groups properties are not substantially different from the values included in the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements.
Agreements Under s992 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company discloses Board of Directors that in the event of a change of control in the Company: i the The current directors of the Company at the date of this report Companys $750 million revolving credit facility dated 21 April appear on pages 8 and 9.
Susan Kilsby joined the Board on 10 April 2011 and its $300 million private note placement dated May 2011 2012.
All the other directors held office throughout the financial could become repayable: and the Engine Lease Agreement dated year under review.
29 June 2009 as amended under which $67 million of aircraft engines have been leased to the ERO business could be Directors Interests in Shares terminated: ii certain authorisations issued to the ERO business Directors interests in shares and share options are contained in to carry out certain works on the authorising OEMs engines the Directors Remuneration Report.
couldbecome terminable by the relevant OEM OEMs include Rolls-Royce, Pratt & Whitney Canada and Honeywell : and iii the Directors Indemnities operating licence with London Luton Airport Operations may be The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of terminable.
Under s992 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company each of its directors under which the Company agrees to also discloses an employment agreement between a subsidiary indemnify each director against liabilities incurred by that director company and Keith Ryan entered into in July 2002 which has in respect of acts or omissions arising in the course of their office provisions such that in certain circumstances relating toa change or otherwise by virtue of their office.
In addition, the Company has of control of the Company he could receive compensation upon entered into indemnity deed polls in substantially similar terms in termination of employment of up to a years remuneration, based favour of members of the Executive Management Committee on base salary, bonus, benefits in kind and pension rights during and other members of senior management.
Where such deeds the notice period.
are for the benefit of directors they are qualifying third party Directors Report 54 Additional Disclosures Under s417 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company discloses Resolutions at the Annual General Meeting that certain IT systems that support the ERO, Legacy Support and The Companys AGM will be held on 10 May 2013.
Accompanying APPH businesses and the banking and private note placement this Report is the Notice of AGM which sets out the resolutions to facilities referred to in the paragraph above are essential to the be considered and approved at the meeting together with some business of the Company.
The resolutions cover such routine matters as the renewal of authority to allot shares referred to earlier, to Management Report disapply pre-emption rights and to purchase own shares.
The management report required by the provisions of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules is included within this Directors Substantial Shareholdings Report and has been prepared in consultation with management.
The Company has been notified, as at 28 February 2013, of the following material interests in the voting rights of the Company Suppliers Payment Policy under the provisions of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: The Company and Groups policy is to settle terms of payment % with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, to Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 8.63 ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment William H. Gates III 6.09 and to abide by the terms of the payment.
Harris Associates L. P. 4.96 Share Capital Standard Life Investments Ltd 4.84 Details of the Companys share capital and changes to the share Newton Investment Management Limited 4.98 capital are shown in note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Black Rock, Inc. 4.97 Statements.
That note also contains a summary of the rights Jupiter Asset Management Limited 4.39 attaching to each class of shares and details of the number of Barclays Global Investors 3.86 ordinary shares held in employee benefit trusts.
Awards granted under the Companys share plans are satisfied either by shares Charitable and political donations held in the employee benefit trusts or by the issue of new shares Group donations to charities worldwide were $575,000 2011: when awards vest.
The Remuneration Committee monitors the $565,000 with UK charities receiving $67,000 2011: $113,000.
number of awards made under the various share plans and their Nodonations were made to any political party in either year.
potential impact on the relevant dilution limits recommended by the Association of British Insurers.
Based on the Companys issued Auditor share capital as at 31 December 2012 these were in respect of the As required by s418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the limit of 10% in any rolling 10-year period for all share plans 4.2% directors, at the date of the approval of this report, confirms that: and in respect of the limit of 5% in any rolling 10-year period for a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant discretionary share plans 2.8%.
audit information of which the Companys auditor is The Company was given authority to purchase up to 14.99% unaware: and of its existing ordinary share capital at the 2012 Annual General b the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have Meeting AGM.
That authority will expire at the conclusion of the taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant AGM in 2013 unless renewed.
Accordingly, a special resolution to audit information and to establish that the Companys renew the authority will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
auditors are aware of that information.
The existing authority for directors to allot ordinary shares Words and phrases used in this confirmation should be will expire at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
Accordingly, an interpreted in accordance with s418 of the Companies Act 2006. ordinary resolution to renew this authority will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
In addition, it will be proposed to give the A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company directors further authority to allot ordinary shares in connection will be proposed at the AGM.
with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders.
This is in line with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers.
If the Directors Report approved by the Board on 28 February 2013 and directors were to use such further authority in the year following signed on its behalf by: the 2013 AGM, all directors wishing to remain in office would stand for re-election at the 2014 AGM.
Iain Simm Details of these resolutions are included with the Notice of Group General Counsel and Company Secretary AGM enclosed with this Report.
