Directors Report 26 Flight Support Signature Flight Support The worlds largest and market-leading FBO network 2012 2011 Inc dec Key Facts Revenue $m $m % USA 788.9 773.0 2% 115 Europe & ROW 164.0 173.4 5 % Total 952.9 946.4 1% A truly international FBO network 115 locations worldwide Performance Signatures headline revenue increased by 1% to $952.9 million 2011: $946.4 million.
US B&GA activitydecreased by 1% in the year and European B&GA movements declined by 50 4%.
Revenue reduced by 3% organically, which was mainly driven by the exits from Miami and Tampa in 2011.
Continued share gains broadly offset market softness and weakness in Unique network 50 FBOs in fractional flying, which is a greater proportion of top US metro locations Signaturesbusiness than it is of the broader market, due to the location of Signatures FBOs.
150m Signature continued to expand its network both by way of acquisition and through the increasingly successful Signature Select initiative, adding four locations during the year in Over 150 million gallons of Daytona, Florida, Green Bay, Wisconsin, Edmonton, Canada aviation fuel sold per annum and Fort Worth, Texas.
All of these locations have been integrated into the existing network successfully and are performing as expected.
Additionally the network was extended in Germany with agreenfield operation at BerlinSchnefeld and we successfully completed and integrated the previously announced FBO acquisition in Omaha, On previous spread Nebraska.
We recently acquired Sun Aircraft Services, a line Signature safely tows a maintenance business insupport of our FBO at Washington customer aircraft from its Dulles airport.
hangar at Signature Las Vegas.
At busy times, the Signature Las Vegas team supports Significant progress was made in securing lease extensions around 100 flights per day.
at 10 important locations including three sole source FBOs.
We commenced two major construction projects with the dedicated NetJets private terminal at Palm BeachInternational Airport and a new FBO construction at Newark Liberty International Airport associated with a lease extension.
A new FBO terminal facility at Chicago OHare International Airport opened in August 2012 and since the year-end we have agreed a new 45-year lease at Luton, Directors Report 27 Flight Support A Gulfstream 550 in one of Signatures dedicated customer hangars.
England and have broken ground on a $32 million terminal There was good operational progress in the year, improving redevelopment.
We have also recently been identified as the the safety and quality of the services provided whilst reducing preferred bidder in the RFP at Mineta San Jose International the costs of delivering them.
The ongoing focus on customer Airport.
San Jose airport staff will recommend to the airport service resulted in another increase in our customer loyalty authority the award of the RFP which will see Signature score from 80% to 84%.
Signature also introduced its TailWins spend circa $28 million over three years with the FBO customer loyalty programme aimed at rewarding pilots, operational in 2015.
There are now a total of 115 FBOs in the schedulers, dispatchers and flight departments for fuel and network globally, with 70 of these in North America.
handling purchases and in the first eight months of operation the programme has gained 11,900 members.
