Directors Report 75 Going Concern Going Concern The principal risks and uncertainties affecting the forecasts and projections, to which the Group is exposed, relate to the number The Groups business activities together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set of hours of flying activity, principally in B&GA, but also to a lesser extent in commercial and military aviation.
Flying hours largely out in the Directors Report on pages 2 to 75.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are described on dictate the drivers of revenue, namely fuel volumes in Signature, aircraft movements in ASIG, engine overhaul cycles in ERO and pages 51 and 52.
In addition, note 17 of the Consolidated Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes demand for components in Legacy Support and APPH.
Further details of these risks and uncertainties are provided on page 17. for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its The directors have carried out a critical review of the Groups 2013 budget and medium-term plans, with due regard for the exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
In the prior year the Group replaced its previous bank risks and uncertainties to which the Group is exposed and the impact that these could have on trading performance.
The key facilities with a new $750 million multicurrency revolving credit facility, dated 21 April 2011, with a split maturity of $250 million assumptions used in constructing the budget were that: Signature, ASIG and Engine Repair & Overhaul will see gradual which is due to expire in April 2014, and $500 million which is due to expire in April 2016.
In addition, the Group raised $300 million recovery throughout the plan period with ongoing in senior loan notes in the US private placement market, in operational improvements: May 2011, with maturities of seven, ten and twelve years.
Under Legacy Support will experience modest revenue growth: and the $750 million multicurrency revolving credit facility, as at APPH will experience gradual recovery complimented by 31 December 2012, the Group had available $500 million of continued operational improvement.
These debt obligations and facilities are subject to cross default.
Further details relating to The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company these debt arrangements are provided in note 16 to the and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational Consolidated Financial Statements.
The bank facility and the US existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt private placement notes are subject to two main financial the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual covenants: maximum net debt to underlying EBITDA of 3.5 times financial statements.
and minimum net interest cover of 3.0 times EBITDA.
The directors expect the Group to comply with these covenants for the foreseeable future.
The Groups forecasts and projections taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facilities in the foreseeable future.
