Directors Report 30 Flight Support ASIG The worlds leading independent refueller 2012 2011 Inc dec Key Facts Revenue $m $m % USA 276.2 289.4 5 % 83 Europe & ROW 92.7 94.3 2 % Total 368.9 383.7 4 % 83 locations worldwide Performance ASIGs revenue declined by 4% to $368.9 million 2011: 40 $383.7million.
Commercial movements in the year reduced by 2% in North America and by 3% in Europe.
On an organic basis revenue declined by 6%, reflecting reduced 40 locations at hub and commercial aviation movements and the limited fide-icing large international airports activity particularly in the first half of the year when compared to both a normal fide-icing season and to 2011.
Despite industry-wide TSA employee badging issues in the 10bn US, management flexed labour well to deal with decline inmovements and saw good contract gains.
Over 10 billion gallons Refuelling contracts were renewed by Federal Express at 27 of aviation fuel pumped US airports including two of their busiest hubs, Indianapolis per annum and Alliance Fort Worth.
We successfully renewed aircraft fideicing agreements with US Airways at eight US airports for a fourth consecutive year.
Additionally, after a competitive bid process, Los Angeles World Airports re-awarded the facilities technical maintenance contract for their loading bridges, baggage handling system and a variety of other airport terminal equipment at Terminal 3.
On previous spread A380 awaiting tow clearance We also secured several new refuelling contracts in 2012 as at JFK.
ASIGs technical well as new agreements with low cost carrier Spirit Airlines to knowledge of the A380 has enabled it to enhance provide a variety of ground handling and aircraft refuelling its service offering to carriers services at four US airports, including their home base at Fort flying the worlds largest Lauderdale, Florida.
We now provide a variety of support passenger aircraft.
services to this growing carrier at 11 airports within the USA.
There was the disappointing loss of a significant cabin cleaning contract at London Heathrow early in the year, butUnited Airlines awarded new cleaning contracts atthree UK airports including London Heathrow.
Directors Report 31 Flight Support ASIG fuels a 777 at Atlanta International Airport.
Across its global network, ASIG fuels approximately 11,000 flights per day and pumps over 10 billion gallons of jet fuel per annum.
During the period, we signed an exclusive agreement with As previously announced, we acquired for C$27 million GE Aviation to become its third-party service provider for US$27 million the trade and assets of PLH Aviation Services ClearCore engine wash systems for commercial and military and Dryden Air Services, market-leading airport services engines in the USA.
The agreement represents an innovative providers delivering fuel farm management, into-plane and exciting extension of our technical services capability, refuelling, ground handling and fide-icing services.
This marks supporting customers seeking savings on fuel consumption ASIGs entry into the attractive Canadian market resulting in and engine maintenance costs.
16 new airport locations in Canada, as well as an enhanced operational capability at Los Angeles International Airport.
The acquisition is expected to achieve the Groups ROIC target in the first full year ofownership.
