Directors Report 16 Our Strengths Our Strengths Market leadership As a tightly focused business, BBA Aviation We are market leaders in the markets in which we operate is ideally placed to exploit opportunities with strong, recognised brands.
in the cyclical but attractive markets in Signature Flight Support is the worlds leading fixed base operation FBO network with 88 wholly owned worldwide which we operate.
Five critical factors locations and 22 additional locations in which we have will contribute to the continued success minority interests.
Five further locations operate under licence.
of BBA Aviation in the future.
ASIG is the largest independent refueller in the world.
Our Engine Repair & Overhaul businesses have marketleading positions in the majority of programmes in which they participate.
Barriers to entry The requirement for a lease from an airport authority to operate an FBO.
The average unexpired lease term of our FBO network in the USA is 17 years.
The need for an authorisation to provide commercial aviation services at individual airports and the required technical capability around into-plane refuelling.
The need for a licence from an OEM to service its engines.
We are authorised by the OEMs for engine overhauls on 80% of the B&GA engines now in service.
Intellectual property on aviation component sub-systems and systems which we develop ourselves or which we license from OEMs.
Service orientation flexible cost base Our businesses have a service focus and operate with low asset intensity and a naturally flexible cost base, making them highly cash generative and therefore inherently well suited to deal with market cyclicality as demonstrated through this cycle.
Growth There are significant growth opportunities across all of ourbusinesses resulting from cyclical recovery when it comes, structural growth and the scope for continued consolidation in what are generally fragmented markets.
Common focus The business is actively managed by an empowered, experienced and motivated management team with a defined Group-wide focus as expressed in BBA Aviations vision, mission and values.
