Directors Report 08 Board of Directors and Executive Management Board of Directors Michael Harper 68 Simon Pryce 51 Mark Hoad 42 Nick Land 65 Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board as a Appointed to the Board as Group Appointed to the Board as Group Appointed to the Board in August non-executive director in Chief Executive in June 2007.
2006 and Senior Independent February 2005 and became Simon also chairs the BBA Aviation Mark is a Chartered Accountant.
Director and Chairman of Audit Non-Executive Chairman in June Executive Management He joined BBA Aviation as Group and Risk Committee, Nick was 2007.
Michael is an engineer by Committee.
In addition to his BBA Financial Controller in May 2005 formerly Chairman of Ernst & training and has a wealth of Aviation plc position, Simon is on from RMC Group plc where he Young LLP and a member of the experience gained as a director the Board of the General Aviation had worked since 1996 in a Global Executive Board of Ernst & of Williams plc where, on the Manufacturers Association number of finance roles, including Young, positions which he held demerger in 2000, he became GAMA, the US general aviation expanding his international from 1995 to 2006.
In addition to Chief Executive of Kidde plc.
He is trade body and is Chairman business experience with periods his experience as a Chartered currently Chairman of Ricardo plc, of their International Affairs based in Germany, Croatia and Accountant, Nick brings to the a non-executive director of Committee.
Simon is a Fellow Australia, where he was Chief Board his extensive skills as QinetiQ Group plc and a Fellow of of the Royal Aeronautical Society, Financial Officer of ASX-listed an advisor to international the Royal Aeronautical Society.
a Chartered Accountant and company Adelaide Brighton.
His current a member of the Chartered appointments include being Institute for Securities and a non-executive director of Investment.
He was previously Vodafone Group Plc, Ashmore with JP Morgan and Lazards in Group plc and Alliance Boots London and New York, and GKN GmbH.
He sits on the Finance and plc in a range of international Audit Committees of the National finance and management roles.
He is also an adviser to Alsbridge plc and sits on the Financial Reporting Council.
Executive Management Simon Pryce Mark Hoad Peg Billson Sheena Mackay Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director President and CEO, Group HR Director Aftermarket Services Directors Report 09 Board of Directors and Executive Management Mark Harper 56 Susan Kilsby 54 Peter Ratcliffe 64 Hansel Tookes 65 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in April Appointed to the Board in January Appointed to the Board in December 2006.
Susan brings to the Board 2009.
Peter brings to the Board his February 2007.
Hansel brings of Remuneration Committee and her global investment banking experience of working in an to the Board his operational BBA Aviations CSR Responsible experience, having begun her industry focused on customer perspective and experience of Director.
Following a career career at The First Boston service as he was the Chief the aviation industry drawn from involving various sales and Corporation and later worked at Executive Officer of Carnival plc nearly 20 years working in various marketing positions with Ford Bankers Trust and BZW, before the until April 2003 and Chief positions at United Technologies Motor Company, Lucas Industries latter was acquired by Credit Executive Officer of the P&O Group including as President at and Unipart, Mark joined Bunzl in Suisse.
She was Chairman of the Princess Cruises division of Pratt & Whitneys Large Military 1986 where he held a number of EMEA Mergers and Acquisitions Carnival Corporation and Carnival Engines Group, prior to which he general management positions, team at Credit Suisse until 2009 plc from 2003 to 2007.
He also was a Lieutenant Commander including a period as President and continues a part-time role brings his significant experience and military pilot in the US Navy of a US-based plastics business.
Her current both as an executive and a and a commercial pilot with He became Chief Executive of appointments include being non-executive director of UK and United Airlines.
He retired in 2002 Filtrona plc when it demerged a non-executive director of US public listed companies.
from Raytheon Inc. where he had from Bunzl in June 2005 and Shire plc.
Her experience advising He was previously an executive formerly been Chairman and CEO retired from Filtrona in April 2011. clients across a range of industries director of The Peninsular and of Raytheon Aircraft.
His current He is currently Chairman of includes significant deals in the Oriental Steam Navigation appointments include being a Renold plc.
He is a Chartered non-executive director of Accountant and a dual US UK Corning, Inc. Nextera Energy, Inc. citizen.
He is a non-executive Harris Corporation and Ryder director of Mead Johnson System, Inc.
Key to committee members Audit Board and Risk Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Hugh McElroy Michael Scheeringa Iain Simm President, Group President and CEO, Group General Counsel Business Development Flight Support and Company Secretary
