Directors Richard Jewson aged 68 Non-Executive Chairman Richard Jewson joined Jewson, the timber and building merchant, in 1965 becoming the Managing Director, then Chairman of its holding group, Meyer International plc from which he retired in 1993.
Since then he has served as non-executive director and chairman of a number of public companies.
He retired in 2004 from 10 years as Chairman of Savills plc and in 2005 from 14 years as a non-executive Director and deputy Chairman of Anglian Water plc.
He is currently Chairman of Archant Ltd, and a non-executive director of Temple Bar Investment Trust plc, Grafton Group plc and other unquoted companies.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Anton Bilton aged 48 Executive Deputy Chairman Anton Bilton is an economics graduate from The City University in London.
Anton was the founder of The Raven Group.
He has also been a founder and director of three other companies that have floated on AIM.
He is a member of the Nominations Committee.
Glyn Hirsch aged 51 Chief Executive Officer Glyn Hirsch, a Guernsey resident, qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Peat, Marwick Mitchell & Co in 1985.
Until 1995, he worked in the corporate finance department of UBS formerly Phillips & Drew latterly as an Executive Director specialising in UK smaller companies.
From 1995 until 2001, he was Chief Executive of CLS Holdings plc, the listed property investment company, a former Director of Citadel Holdings plc, the specialist French property investor and former Chairman of Property Fund Management plc, the listed property fund management business.
Glyn is also a non-executive director of Lion Trust Asset Management plc.
Mark Sinclair aged 47 Chief Financial Officer Mark Sinclair, a Guernsey resident, is a chartered accountant, and spent 18 years at BDO Stoy Hayward, a leading professional services firm in the UK.
He was a partner in the London real estate group responsible for a portfolio of large property companies, both listed and private.
He joined Raven Mount in June 2006 as Finance Director of Raven Russia Property Management Ltd, the former Property Adviser to the Company and joined the Board of Raven Russia in March 2009.
Colin Smith aged 43 Chief Operating Officer Colin Smith, a Guernsey resident, qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Stoy Hayward.
Prior to joining the Company, he was a director in the audit and assurance division of the chartered accountant practice of BDO in Guernsey, having joined BDO in 1994.
Colin has also been a non-executive director of a number of offshore investment funds and companies.
12 Directors continued Christopher Sherwell aged 65 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Christopher Sherwell is a Guernsey resident and a former managing director of Schroders in the Channel Islands.
Before joining Schroders, he was Far East Regional Strategist in London and Hong Kong for Smith New Court Securities and prior to that spent 15 years as a journalist much of them as a foreign correspondent for the Financial Times.
He has considerable public company experience and acts as a non executive director on a number of publicly listed investment companies including Baker Steel Resources Trust Ltd and the Prospect Japan Fund Ltd.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
Stephen Coe aged 47 Independent Non-Executive Director Stephen Coe BSc, FCA, a resident of Guernsey, is self employed providing executive and non-executive services to public and private clients.
His current public directorships include European Real Estate Investment Trust Ltd, Kolar Gold Ltd and Trinity Capital Ltd where he acts as a non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee and Black Sea Property Fund Ltd where he acts as a non-executive director.
Private clients include investment funds and a captive insurer.
From 2003 to 2006, he was Managing Director of Investec Trust Guernsey Ltd and Investec Administration Services Ltd, responsible for private client and institutional structures.
Between 1997 and 2003 he was a director of Bachmann Trust Company Ltd and previously he worked with Price Waterhouse specialising in financial services.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
David Moore aged 52 Independent Non-Executive Director David Moore is a resident of Guernsey.
He is an advocate of the Royal Court of Guernsey and a consultant at Bedell Group in Guernsey.
He is a former partner of Guernsey law firm Mourant Ozannes where he had practiced since 1993 and before that spent 10 years practising in the City of London, predominantly with Ashurst Morris Crisp.
He specialises in corporate and financial matters and is a non-executive director of a number of investment and insurance management companies, investment and insurance companies including Standard Life Investments Property Income Trust Ltd of which he is non-executive chairman.
He is a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
