Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Principal activities The Company is a Guernsey registered company and during the year carried on business as a property investment company.
Business review A review of the business during the year is contained in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Report, Property Review and Financial Review.
Results and dividends The results for the year are set out in the attached financial statements.
The Company undertook a tender offer as an interim distribution for 1 in every 49 shares at 75p, equivalent to a dividend of 1.5p per share 2011: Tender offer 1 share in every 46 at 58p.
A final distribution of 2.25p by way of a tender offer of 1 share in every 33 at 75p is being proposed at the Annual General Meeting 2011: Tender offer 1 share in every 40 at 70p.
Directors The Directors, who served throughout the year, were as follows: Richard Jewson Non-executive Chairman Anton Bilton Executive Deputy Chairman Glyn Hirsch Chief Executive Officer Mark Sinclair Chief Financial Officer Colin Smith Chief Operating Officer Christopher Sherwell Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Stephen Coe Independent Non-Executive Director David Moore Independent Non-Executive Director Following the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code applicable to larger companies, all the Directors shall be subject to annual re-appointment by Shareholders at the Annual General Meetings of the Company.
Details of the Directors remuneration and shareholdings are included within the Remuneration Report.
Substantial shareholdings The Company has been notified of shareholders, other than directors, holding 3% or more of the ordinary shares as follows: Number held Percentage Number held Percentage Ordinary Shares of 0.01 31 December of share 28 February of share Name of holder 2012 capital 2013 capital Invesco Perpetual 170,896,092 29.00 170,896,092 29.00 Schroder Investment Management 81,023,340 13.75 82,088,474 13.93 Mackenzie Cundill Investment Management 53,452,292 9.07 53,452,292 9.07 JO Hambro Capital Management 37,769,883 6.41 41,894,883 7.11 Legal & General Investment Management 18,146,728 3.08 18,048,063 3.06 F&C Asset Management Limited 22,415,869 3.80 16,464,320 2.79 Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
14 Directors Report continued Going Concern The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowings are described in the Financial Review and the notes to the accompanying financial statements.
In addition, in note 35 there is a description of the Groups objectives and policies for managing its capital, its financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
During the year the Group had and continues to hold substantial cash and short term deposits.
These were supplemented by the increasing and profitable rental income streams of the operating activities of the Group, along with the acquisitions of two fully let income producing assets within the year.
The Group extended the average time to maturity of its banking facilities to beyond four years.
It also issued new preference shares to the value of 64.9 million in the year.
After making appropriate enquiries and examining sensitivities that could give rise to significant financial exposure, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparation of these financial statements.
Directors responsibilities Guernsey company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group at the end of the year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to assume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 and IFRS as adopted by the EU.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and each has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Directors Responsibility Statement The Board confirms to the best of its knowledge: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and The management report, which is incorporated into the Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 10 March 2013 and is signed on its behalf by: Mark Sinclair Colin Smith Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer 15
