Our business Our governance Our results Corporate responsibilities People Key highlights in 2012 Values Our vision to be the real estate advisor of choice in our People selected markets and deliver superior financial performance Further developed our employer of choice standing to can only be achieved through the dedication, commitment ensure that we attract, motivate and retain the talented and excellence of our people.
people who are fundamental to our future success Savills is committed to providing employment on an equal basis irrespective of gender, sexual orientation, marital Focused our skills and career development or civil partner status, gender reassignment, race, colour, programmes to allow our people to fulfil their potential nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion or belief, disability and to deliver our client service commitment or age.
We support the Core Principles of the International Labour Organization.
Clients Our people strategy remains focused on supporting delivery Maintained our focus in continually improving of the highest standards of client service through motivated and our client offering and service, in particular by building engaged people.
We believe that a positive culture is essential to our cross-border inter-regional service capacity high quality client service.
This positive culture is encapsulated in our Values, which are reflected in all our practices and procedures.
Our reputation has been built on our people and we believe that Developed our client service offering with significant staff whose behaviours reflect our Values deliver the excellent investment in systems client service that we strive to provide.
Our Values also capture our commitment to ethical, professional and responsible conduct and our entrepreneurial value-enhancing approach.
Environment Achieved a sector leading Top 10 ranking in the Our shared Values are: FTSE350 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index 2012 Pride in everything we do We: Community take great pride in delivering services of the highest quality: Further recognition of good corporate citizenship always go the extra mile to meet our clients objectives: and seek to employ only the best people.
Sa vills Guardian, our Facilities Management Always act with integrity business in Hong Kong awarded 5-Year Plus Caring We: Company status behave responsibly: act with honesty and respect for other people: and adhere to the highest standards of professional ethics.
Retained membership of FTSE4Good, evidencing our commitment to meeting globally recognised Take an entrepreneurial approach to business corporate responsibility standards We: seek out new markets and opportunities for clients, and take Corporate responsibility at Savills a creative and entrepreneurial approach to delivering value: Corporate responsibility CR is our commitment to the positive are forward thinking, and always aim to build long term client impact that our business can make, through our people, on the relationships: stakeholders and communities with whom we interface.
aim to be a leader in every market we enter, and commit ourselves with passion, energy and expertise: and Overall responsibility for our corporate responsibility programme approach problems with a proactive, practical attitude, sits with the Group Chief Executive and the Board.
CR strategy delivering robust solutions.
is overseen by our CR Steering Group, comprising senior representatives from a range of business and central teams, Help our people fulfil their true potential and delivered at country level across the four critical areas of We: CR, namely People, Clients, Environment and Community, encourage an open and supportive culture in which every which allows our businesses the freedom to adapt quickly to individual is respected: new opportunities.
The Board receives annual and ad hoc help our people to excel through appropriate training updates on CR activities and progress.
and development: share success and reward achievement: and We continue to include the consideration of CR related issues recognise that our peoples diverse strengths combined in our Key Risk Registers ensuring that we can readily identify with good teamwork produce the best results.
emerging issues and respond to these on a timely basis.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 27 Corporate responsibilities continued We strive to provide an environment in which our people can During 2012, we commenced a programme, starting with a flourish and succeed.
This allows us to recruit, motivate and retain pilot in our UK business, to further enhance our client service talented people and build on our status as an employer of choice.
As part of the UK pilot, we have We engage with our people to communicate our vision and allocated client advocates to support selected clients.
The strategy through well established internal channels.
core responsibilities of our client advocates are to act as a focal point for client servicing enquiries, and in particular to allow any Training and development service issues on current instructions to be quickly identified We continued our significant investment in people development.
These client advocates also play a key role in Our graduate programme is recognised in the Times Top 100 reviewing our performance with clients, through an annual review UK graduate programmes and continues to go from strength to meeting, to ensure that we understand where we have met or strength.
We came first, for the sixth year running, in the property exceeded expectations and those areas in which we can do category of Graduate Employers of Choice at The Times Graduate better.
It also ensures that we have awareness of the clients real Recruitment Awards 2012.
Our award winning summer scheme, estate plans over the coming 12 months so that we can make a paid internship allowing prospective graduate entrants to test the appropriate support services available.
Our client advocates their interest in real estate, and our new Insight Programme, are supported by a new platform built on Microsoft Dynamics.
a one week work shadowing programme for those in their first This system allows us to make online portals available which year at university, feed into the graduate programme to deliver provide real time information to the client, covering current and the best possible talent in the market.
We are encouraged that historic instructions across our UK business.
These portals also our graduate recruitment enjoys a 50 50 male to female ratio ensure that the client has full visibility of our service offering.
in a sector which has historically struggled to recruit a high percentage of female graduates.
Complementing this initiative we have continued to build our global client care programme, in particular to ensure that we are best We are further developing our People Development programme, positioned to provide a seamless cross-border service for clients which we are piloting in the UK, to build on three key themes: seeking advice on prime commercial and residential real estate in markets outside of their home market.
Our virtual global Career development from coaching and mentoring to leadership capital markets team, linking our key investment agents across the globe, has been established to meet these needs.
We will Client skills from networking to structured business development continue to develop and extend this capability across other service lines.
Navigation and knowledge of the Savills business from induction to secondments Health & safety and the environment Environmental Through these initiatives and better communication we aim to Savills and its associates operate more than 500 offices around ensure that career development remains aspirational and is clearly the world.
We also manage buildings for clients through our defined for individuals.
We are committed to reducing our impact on the environment and to helping our associates and Ethical commitment clients to achieve their environmental goals, by providing quality Savills is committed to doing business legally and ethically advice, incorporating the principles of sustainability.
Savills Ethical Trading policy is detailed in our Group Code of Conduct which is readily accessible in local By actively seeking to reduce our environmental impact we are languages to all staff, to support their day to day decision making.
able to achieve increased operational efficiencies and savings, We continue to maintain our focus on ensuring that our people both internally and for our clients.
worldwide work within our specified financial, operational and compliance framework, and that these standards are consistently Our policy and these principles are implemented through applied.
We demand the highest professional standards from all of our operating businesses and day to day actions.
our people all of the time and have a zero tolerance to breaches.
However, given the breadth of activities and the number of people As part of our drive to control our environmental impact and to we employ there may be occasions when we do not meet the act as a hallmark of quality for our clients, our offices continue high standards we aspire to.
Where we fail to reach these high to work to secure ISO14001 2004 Environmental Management standards, we treat any breach with the utmost seriousness.
This is designed to achieve sound environmental performance by using a proactive range of practical office management measures consistent with our aim of carbon Clients reduction.
Our Property Management team in Hong Kong has Client care already adopted this international standard and others are set We are committed to delivering a high quality service and to follow.
creating long term partnerships with all our clients.
To do this we need to deliver exceptional client service over the long During 2012, we completed the move of our primary data term through forging sustained relationships.
We seek regular centres in both Hong Kong and UK to greener data centres by feedback from our clients which is augmented by independent using hosted providers.
In 2013 our London teams will be moving market research and focuses on brand recognition and client to a new head office which has achieved a BREEAM excellent service levels to test client satisfaction.
This provides an important rating.
Globally, we continue to adopt innovative technology to independent rating of the standard of our client service.
deliver research information, marketing materials, web-based collaborative forums and marketing brochures, therefore reducing paper, transport costs and waste.
28 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results In Asia Pacific, Savills Guardian was again awarded the One of our primary Health and Safety priorities is to assist our Class of Excellence Wastewi$e label in Hong Kongs 2012 clients to manage their Health and Safety obligations on managed Awards for Environmental Excellence.
It has actively participated properties and we have further improved our operating systems to in energy conservation programmes since 2010 and by the end accommodate and improve our service.
of 2012 had assisted over 40 properties to complete their energy carbon audit projects.
Our efforts were recognised with three We have seen a further reduction of our accident frequency rate Eco-Business awards, two with certificates of merit and a Green within the Group and we will continue to seek to drive further Property Management Award Public Housing gold award.
Its Health and Safety improvements across the business during 2013. sister company in Hong Kong, Savills Property Management, maintained its focus on fostering environmental awareness with A number of locations and departments achieved accreditation clients by producing an annual environment report and inviting of ISO 18001 with all other locations following Health and them to participate in the annual Savills Green Gathering event to Safety systems based on the requirements of UK HSG65 share ideas and understand the latest developments for energy management standard.
We were very disappointed given our excellent Health and Safety In 2012, the Australia and New Zealand businesses established record, that our UK business was found to have breached its a Savills Earth team to support sustainability initiatives, with Savills Health and Safety obligations in relation to an accident which obtaining strong results in the International Carbon Disclosure occurred at The Brewery Shopping Centre in Essex, UK in Project CDP, leading the Real Estates Services sub-category.
This accident resulted in a youth suffering injuries The CDP now involves over 650 leading companies around after losing his grip on the outside of a rail of an escalator, which the world, analysing corporate behaviour and performance he was hanging from as part of a game of dare, and falling.
All in response to climate change.
This includes reporting on parties accepted that the escalator was perfectly safe when used Greenhouse Gas emissions GHG, reduction strategies, and the sensibly and properly by members of the public: however, the Companys perception of the risks and opportunities associated court held that we should have attempted to anticipate potential with climate change.
misuse of the escalator in developing operating protocols at the centre.
We have a great deal of sympathy for the youths injuries, Within the UK, Savills has measured its overall GHG emissions for and distress to his family, but the judgment comes as a huge 2012 in anticipation of the regulatory reporting requirements which disappointment.
An appeal has been lodged against the decision.
are expected to be introduced for 2013 2014 reporting.
These are for direct emissions into the atmosphere arising from our activities Community Scope 1 and indirectly via consumption of purchased electricity Charitable giving and gas Scope 2.
Our offices and our people are actively involved in their communities.
At a local level, we have developed a series of community engagement programmes to ensure that Savills UK Environmental Reporting: GHG Emissions Scopes 1 2 2012 1 is firmly engaged with the communities we serve.
TCO e yr 2 In the UK, we support two major charities LandAid and Scope 1 Direct 299 Scope 2 Energy Indirect 1,611 Honeypot.
LandAid is the charity of the UKs property sector Total Gross Emissions 1,910 which helps homeless people.
Honeypot provides respite holidays and support to young carers and at-risk children.
Both charities Total Staff FTE av.
3,172 2 are involved in areas that our UK staff care about.
GHG Intensity Ratio 0.6 In line with our ethos of recruiting and retaining the best people, we have made community engagement an integral part of our graduate training programme.
As well as delivering social benefits, we believe greater community engagement increases staff commitment and provides real-life development opportunities.
Note: For example, Savills UK graduates support ICAN, a charity 1 Emissions Factors based on Defra DECC Guidelines 2011 assisting children with speech, language and communication 2 Total Gross Emissions, divided by Total Full Time Equivalent Staff needs, organising various fundraisers including raising FTE Year Average sponsorship for their participation in the Three Peaks Challenge.
Health and safety Savills is committed to the health, safety and welfare of our staff and others affected by our business operations.
Safe working practices form an integral part of our day to day business and we aim to find practical solutions to health and safety risks.
To this end our safety strategy is focused on priorities such as reducing significant occupational exposure to workplace hazards and maintaining regulatory compliance.
Our positive safety programme has continued to be developed to actively promote a safety culture within the business.
During 2012, we reviewed and refined key Health and Safety processes, and refreshed our Health and Safety programmes in relation to personal safety.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 29 Corporate responsibilities continued In Asia, in recognition of our involvement in the community and our commitment to being a good corporate citizen, Savills Guardian, which was first awarded the Caring Company logo in 2002 03, now holds the Caring Company 5 consecutive years logo.
Since 2010 Savills Hong Kong has also held the Caring Company logo.
During 2012 a team from Savills Hong Kong took part in the Walk for Millions to benefit the family and child welfare services in Hong Kong and participated in the Hong Kong marathon which supports the Hong Kong Amateur Athletic Association.
They also took part in a charity race organised by MINDSET, a charitable organisation that supports mental health-related organisations.
In 2012, Savills Guardian achieved a gold award for Volunteer Service by the Social Welfare Department of Hong Kong.
The Group operates a Give As You Earn scheme which allows staff to donate a portion of their monthly salary to a registered charity.
We also operate a profit share waiver scheme whereby staff can elect to waive an element of any annual profit share in favour of registered charities of their choice upon which the Group augments the donation to the chosen charity by 10%.
Future plans We remain committed to continuous improvement in the area of CR and building on the work we have done in previous years.
During 2013 and subsequent years we will seek to further develop our CR approach, focusing on those activities where we are best placed to make a significant contribution.
30 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012
