Tim Freshwater Chairman of Savills plc and Chairman of the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Nominations Committee andChairman of the Audit Committee Appointment to the Board: Tim was appointed Appointment to the Board: Peter was appointed Appointment to the Board: Martin was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on to the Board on 2 January 2007 and replaced Timothy 1 January 2012.
24 May 2004 and was elected Chairman with Ingram as the Senior Independent Non-Executive effect from 1 November 2004.
Background and relevant experience: He was Managing Director and Chairman of Corporate Finance Background and relevant experience: Formerly, he Background and relevant experience: Formerly, Goldman Sachs Asia from 2001 until 2005 and was Senior Partner of  PwC he was Group Finance Director of TI Group plc and Vice-Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia from 2005 and served for two years as Chairman of Coopers & held various executive roles with Terra Firma Capital until 2012.
He was formerly with Jardine Fleming, Lybrand International and as a member of the global Partners and its portfolio companies, including The becoming Group Chairman in 1999, and was a leadership team of PwC.
He served as Chairman of Waste Recycling Group Executive Chairman and Le Partner at Slaughter and May from 1975 to 1996.
RAC plc and was a Non-Executive Director of Safeway Meridien Hotel Group Deputy Chairman.
Prior to that plc and the Equitable Life Assurance Society.
he held a number of senior positions in investment Other appointments: He is also currently banking with S G Warburg & Co. Morgan Stanley Non-Executive Chairman of Grosvenor Asia Pacific Other appointments: He is a Non-Executive Director and Dresdner Kleinwort.
Limited and a Non-Executive Director of Aquarius of Associated British Foods plc and Paris Orleans Platinum Limited, Chong Hing Bank Limited, COSCO SCA.
He is also Chairman of Templeton Emerging Other appointments: He is a Non-Executive Pacific Limited, Swire Pacific Limited and Hong Kong Markets Investment Trust plc.
Director of Pennon Group plc, OAO Severstal, Exchanges and Clearing Limited.
Shuaa Capital psc Dubai and Chairman of The Committee membership: Remuneration Committee National Exhibition Group.
He is also Vice Chairman, Committee membership: Audit Committee, and Nominations Committee.
Treasurer and Chairman of the Investment Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee of the FIA Foundation.
Jeremy Helsby Committee membership: Audit Committee, Group Chief Executive 7.
Clare Hollingsworth Remuneration Committee and Nominations Independent Non-Executive Director and Committee.
Appointment to the Board: Jeremy joined Savills Chair of the Remuneration Committee in 1980 and was appointed to the Board in 1999.
Charles McVeigh Appointment to the Board: Clare was appointed to Independent Non-Executive Director the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 2 April 2012.
Background and relevant experience: He was Aged 52.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Savills Appointment to the Board: Charles was appointed Commercial and Savills Europe for seven years until to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on Background and relevant experience: Formerly, he was appointed as Group Chief Executive on 1 August 2000.
Aged 70. she was Chief Executive Officer of Spire Healthcare 7 May 2008. and its predecessor business, BUPA Hospitals, from Background and relevant experience: Formerly, he 1999 to 2008.
Prior to 1999, Clare was Managing Committee membership: Nominations Committee.
was Co-Chairman of Citigroups European Investment Director at Caledonian Airways from 1990 to 1997, Bank and served on the Boards of Witan Investment having been appointed as part of the leadership team Company plc, Clearstream, the London Stock when the airline was established by British Airways in 3.
Simon Shaw Exchange, LIFFE, British American Business Inc and 1988.
She was subsequently a Non-Executive Director Group Chief Financial Officer was a member of both the Development Board and of Caledonian Airways from 1997 to 1999.
She was Advisory Council of the Princes Trust.
He was also also a Non-Executive Director of Ambea AB from 2009 Appointment to the Board: Simon joined Savills as appointed by the Bank of England to serve on the City to 2010 and a Non-Executive Director of Assura Group Group Chief Financial Officer in March 2009.
Capital Markets Committee and the Legal Risk Review Ltd from 2008 to 2012.
Committee and was a member of the Fulbright Background and relevant experience: He is a Commission.
Other appointments: She is a Non-Executive Chartered Accountant.
He was Chief Financial Director of Spire Healthcare Limited, Eurostar Officer of Gyrus Group PLC from 2003 until its sale Other appointments: He is currently a Senior International Limited, Virgin Healthcare Holdings to Olympus Corporation in 2008, having previously Advisor at Citigroup.
He serves on the Board of Limited and Mlnlycke AB.
been Chief Operating Officer of Profile Therapeutics EFG-Hermes, Petropavlosk plc formerly Peter Hambro plc between 1998 and 2003.
Between 1991 and Mining plc and was appointed as a trustee of the Committee membership: Audit Committee, 1997 he was a corporate financier, latterly at Landmark Trust in 2010.
He was also appointed as Remuneration Committee and Nominations Hambros Bank Limited.
a Governor and the Head of Finance of St. Marys Committee.
School Shaftesbury in 2012 and was recently Other appointments: He is Non-Executive Chairman appointed as a Trustee of the Natural History Museum of Synairgen plc.
34 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012
