Our business Our governance Our results Other statutory information Principal activity In accordance with DTR4, the Directors responsibilities statement Savills plc the Company is a holding company.
The activities is set out on page 58 of this Annual Report.
of its principal subsidiaries are to provide transactional advice, Enhanced Business Review consultancy and management services in connection with In accordance with Section 417, Companies Act 2006, the commercial, residential and agricultural property, property related Company is required to set out in this Report a fair review of the financial services and investment management.
business of the Group during the year ended 31 December 2012 Operations and of the position of the Group at the end of that financial year, The Company and its subsidiaries together the Group operate together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties through a network of offices and associates throughout the facing the Group.
The information can be found in the following Americas, the UK, Continental Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa and sections of this Report and Accounts are incorporated into this the Middle East.
report by reference: Dividend Review of operations page 14 The profit attributable to shareholders is 38.5m 2011: 26.5m.
Key performance indicators page 16 An interim dividend of 3.3p per ordinary share amounting to 4.1m 2011: 3.9m was paid on 17 October 2012.
It is Financial review page 24 recommended that a final dividend of 6.7p per ordinary share Corporate responsibilities page 27 amounting to 8.5m is paid, alongside a supplemental interim Risks and uncertainties page 31 dividend of 6.0p per ordinary share amounting to 7.5m declared by the Board on 13 March 2013, on 13 May 2013 to shareholders Statement of Disclosure to Auditors on the register at 12 April 2013.
In accordance with Section 418, Companies Act 2006 each Principal developments Director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: The development of the business is detailed in the sections so far as the Director is aware, there is no information, which entitled Review of operations and Financial review on pages 14 would be needed by the Companys auditors in connection to 26. with preparing their audit report, of which the auditors are not The principal risks and uncertainties are detailed on pages 31 aware: and to 33. each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any such Directors information and to establish that the auditors are aware of it.
Short biographical details of the current Directors are shown on page 34.
All the Board members including Tim Freshwater Additional Information Disclosure who was appointed on 1 January 2012 served throughout the Pursuant to regulations made under the Companies Act 2006 year with the exception of Clare Hollingsworth who joined the the Company is required to disclose certain additional information.
Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 2 April 2012 Those disclosures not covered elsewhere within this Report and and Timothy Ingram who retired from the Board at the conclusion Accounts are as follows: of the AGM on 9 May 2012 following which Martin Angle became Share capital and major shareholdings the Senior Independent Director.
The Board comprises the The share capital of the Company is detailed on page 104.
Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and four Independent Non-Executive Directors full details are provided The Company has only one class of share capital formed on page 34. of ordinary shares.
All shares forming part of the ordinary share capital have the same rights and each carries one vote.
There are In accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate no unusual restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares.
The Governance Code, the Board has resolved that all Directors Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share should stand for annual re-election.
The Board is satisfied that unless the instrument of transfer is: i lodged at the registered each Director who is standing for re-election continues to show office of the Company or any other place as the Board may decide the necessary commitment and to be an effective member of accompanied by the certificate for the shares to be transferred the Board due to their skills, expertise and business acumen.
and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require Notwithstanding his appointment in 2000, the Board considers to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: or ii in that Charles McVeigh continues to be entirely independent in respect of only one class of shares.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share Interests in the issued share capital of the Company held whether certificated or uncertificated, whether fully paid or not, at the beginning and end of the year under review by those who in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Board may also were Directors at 31 December 2012 or their families are set out close the register of shareholders for up to 30 days effectively on page 56 of the Remuneration report.
Details of share options suspending the registration of all transfers: however, in respect of held by the Directors pursuant to the Companys share option uncertificated shares, consent from CREST would be required for schemes are provided in the Remuneration report on page 56. such a closure.
It is the Boards policy that the GEB Members should retain at least 105,000 shares value at 31 December 2012: 491,400 As at 13 March 2013 the Company had been notified of the in the Company and that the Group Chief Executive retain at following interests in the Companys ordinary share capital least 150,000 shares value at 31 December 2012: 702,000 in accordance with Chapter 5 of the UK Listing Authoritys at all times.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 43 Other statutory information continued Shareholders Number of shares % Employees The Directors recognise that the quality, commitment and Artisan Partners Limited Partnership 14,699,703 11.01 motivation of Savills staff is a key element in the success of Franklin Templeton Institutional, LLC 13,550,309 10.15 the Group: see pages 27 and 28 for more information.
Oaktree Capital Management LP 7,143,054 5.35 The Group provides regular updates covering performance, Ignis Investment Services Limited 5,262,038 3.94 developments and progress to employees through regular Heronbridge Investment Management LLP 4,838,300 3.62 newsletters, video addresses, the Groups intranet, social media BlackRock, Inc 4,227,835 3.17 and through formal and informal briefings.
These arrangements Since the date the Report and Accounts was approved by the Board and signed also aim at ensuring that all of our staff understand our strategy on its behalf by the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary the Company and to build knowledge on the part of employees of matters received notice on 26 March 2013 that Oaktree Capital Management LPs interest affecting the performance of the Group.
The Group also consults had fallen below 3% and that it no longer had a shareholding in the Company with employees so as to ascertain their views in relation to decisions which are likely to affect their interests.
As at 31 December 2012, the Savills plc 1992 Employee Benefit Trust the EBT held 7,183,049 shares.
Any voting or other similar Employees are able to share in this success through performance decisions relating to these shares are taken by the trustees of related profit share schemes see page 49 for more details and for the EBT, who may take account of any recommendation of the UK employees including Executive Directors, share plans which Company.
The EBT waives all but 0.01p per share of its dividend include a Sharesave Scheme and a Share Incentive Plan SIP.
For further details of the EBT please refer to Note 2 to Sharesave Scheme is an HMRC approved save-as-you-earn share the financial statements.
option scheme which allows participants to purchase shares out of the proceeds of a linked savings contract at a price set at the time Purchase of own shares of option grant.
Participants may elect to save up to 250 per month In accordance with the Listing Rules at the AGM on 9 May 2012, and options may normally be exercised in the six months following shareholders gave authority for a limited purchase of Savills shares the maturity of the linked three year savings contract.
The potential of up to 10% of the issued share capital.
During the year, no for extending the Sharesave Scheme internationally remains under shares were purchased under the authority.
The SIP is also HMRC approved and through which The Board proposes to seek shareholder approval at the AGM participants may make regular purchases of shares up to 125 per on 8 May 2013 to renew the Companys authority to make market month which is the current statutory limit from pre-tax income.
purchases of its own ordinary shares of 2.5p each for cancellation Shares under the SIP normally vest after five years free from income or to be held in treasury.
Details of the proposed resolution are tax and national insurance contributions.
A resolution to propose included in the Notice of AGM circulated to shareholders with this the continuance of the SIP is included in the AGM Notice.
Report and Accounts the AGM Notice.
It is the policy of the Group to provide employment on an equal Change of control basis irrespective of gender, sexual orientation, marital or civil There are no significant agreements which take effect, alter or partner status, gender reassignment, race, colour, nationality, terminate in the event of change of control of the Company except ethnic or national origin, religion or belief, disability or age.
In that under its banking arrangements, a change of control may particular, the Group gives full consideration to applications for trigger an early repayment obligation.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy wherever practicable to Articles of Association provide continuing employment and to provide training and career The Companys Articles are governed by relevant statutes and development and promotion to disabled employees.
may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders in a general meeting.
Insurance cover The Company purchases insurance to cover its Directors and The Companys rules about the appointment and replacement of Officers against their costs in defending themselves in civil legal Directors are contained in the Articles.
The powers of the Directors proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in respect are determined by UK legislation, and the Articles of the Company of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any in force from time to time.
The insurance does not provide cover where the Annual General Meeting Director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The AGM is to be held at 20 Grosvenor Hill, Berkeley Square, In accordance with the Articles, the Directors and the Group London W1K 3HQ at 12 noon on 8 May 2013: details are Legal Director & Company Secretary have been granted an contained in the AGM Notice circulated to shareholders with indemnity issued by the Company to the extent permitted this Report and Accounts.
by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
Half Year Report The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent Like many other listed public companies, we no longer circulate that a Director or the Group Legal Director & Company printed Half Year reports to shareholders.
Rather, Half Year results Secretary is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
statements are published on the Companys website.
This is Independent Auditors consistent with our target of saving printing and distribution costs.
In accordance with Section 489, Companies Act 2006, a Creditor payment policy resolution for the re-appointment of  The Group does not follow any specified code or standard LLP as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the on payment practice.
However, the Group aims to settle forthcoming AGM.
supplier accounts in accordance with the individual terms of By order of the Board business agreed with each supplier.
There were 41.2 days purchases outstanding at the end of the year for the Company Chris Lee 2011: 39.3 days.
Group Legal Director & Company Secretary Charitable donations and political contributions 13 March 2013 The amount paid to charitable organisations during the year was Registered Office: 244,783 2011: 233,372.
There were no political contributions 20 Grosvenor Hill 2011: nil.
Berkeley Square London W1K 3HQ 44 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012
