28 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 COMMerCiaL Land vaLue COMMerCiaL Land aCreage 139m 3,000 CommerCial l and and development we continue to identify and secure opportunities for our development pipeline, ensuring they have good potential to deliver value over the long term.
image: The 50m transformation of Hednesford Town Centre, Cannock where we completed the sale of the 85,000 sq ft Tesco foodstore which opened for business, along with associated retail, in December 2012.
29 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview 30 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Commercial Land and Development continued STraTEGy markET COmmENTary Developable land bank acres We continue to identify and secure In general, the UK commercial property opportunities for our development pipeline, market remains difficult.
Well financed ensuring our schemes are well positioned investors are scarce with many others to deliver value over the long term.
struggling to fund their purchases.
5,801 By taking a long-term view, we can acquire The occupier market remains challenging land at a minimal capital outlay and then with many businesses not prepared to 5,762 maximise its potential by steadily adding invest in new or larger premises and banks value over time via remediation and appearing unwilling to provide funding to 5,736 planning gain.
In line with our long proven them.
The retail market is also difficult with business model, we will then, at many retailers putting a stop to new store anappropriate time, decide whether to openings and many downsizing their dispose of certain schemes to crystallise requirements.
In addition, the market any value uplift or take on the development hassaid goodbye to some well-known ourselves.
In each instance, we will benefit high street names during and after the from the low entry costs we have secured.
2010 2011 2012 Future uses for our land are increasingly Despite the broader economic challenges, residentially driven.
Our growing residential we are finding that our proven approach to business, combined with our strong track development, combined with our extensive record in commercial development, equip and active land bank is standing us in good us with the right mix ofskills to identify stead to face up to the current climate.
which route to take and then exploit these Ourfunding structure is not dependent on opportunities to their fullest potential.
development finance and our network of regional offices means that we remain sensitive to local requirements and any newopportunities coming through.
We continue to find good commercial development opportunities that are not reliant on speculative development.
Where industrial and commercial occupiers have immediate requirements for new premises, we are able to react quickly and meet their demands with our development sites that already benefit from planning.
right: Construction works are well advancedat the first phase of the 70m Longbridge Town Centre.
31 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 wembley Central, London interest Furthermore, our regeneration projects henley Business Park, guildford for the retail space in this major town continue to serve as a catalyst for change, the demolition of the 225,000 sq ft centre scheme is gaining momentum, impacting positively on the local economy former Vokes factory made way for the with further lettings, totalling 53,000 and attracting a variety of occupiers, 12 acre third phase of this 25 acre sqft, to Tesco Metro, Sports Direct, although we have to work slightly harder Business Park where construction has TheGym and an undisclosed national today to capture limited new demand.
completed on a 21,642 sq ft bespoke retailer.
The national retailer will take building for Kirk Petrophysics, a The retail market is challenging but, in 16,000 sq ft to anchor the final business doubling its space on the Park ourexperience, there is demand for development phase for which where it already occupies 23,629 sq ft. well-placed and well-priced product.
construction has now started and which This latest phase of construction follows Thisisillustrated keenly by our retail also comprises 26,000 sq ft of retail, an the sale of six units, totalling 78,128 sq developments at Longbridge, Hednesford 86 bedroom hotel pre-let to Travelodge ft on phases one and two, to in Cannock and Wembley Central in and38 private apartments.
London, where we are experiencing good retailer demand for our space.
The teal Park, Lincoln we have now Chaddesden triangle, derby we overwhelming appetite forunits in our handed over this 135,000 sq ft office have been selected by Network Rail to secondary shopping centres such as and production facility to Siemens.
The form a joint venture for the Elephant & Castle, Edmonton Green and subsequent investment sale to a Middle redevelopment of this 70 acre Wythenshawe also demonstrates the Eastern purchaser, represented by 90 brownfield site located next to Pride appeal of our shorter lease terms which North Real Estate Partners LLP, and the Park football stadium.
With the freehold enable us to progress our plans towards payment received from Siemens in owned by Network Rail, the site has their redevelopment in due course.
respect of their fit out has generated been identified by the City Council as a cash receipts of 18.5m for our KPI joint strategic mixed-use development site.
In recognition of its sustainable DEvElOpmENT prOGrESS Solar Park, Baglan Bay, South design, the servicing facility has recently wales detailed planning consent now developments completed during been awarded a BREEAM secured for this 15m solar park on 30 theyear: Outstanding rating.
acres of our Baglan Bay site.
It will edmonton green works were future developments house over 21,000 photovoltaic panels, completed on the 1.5m refurbishment great homer Street the Compulsory which will generate five megawatts of of the North Square.
These included the Purchase Order CPO forland in the power to provide enough electricity for constitution of a new 22,000 sq ft store area has now been confirmed by the over 1,200 homes per year.
This will be pre-let to Wilkinsons, as well as Government following a public inquiry in sold into the Grid providing an additional significant improvements to elevations July.
The scheme has planning consent income stream for the Group from and public realm.
for a 114,000 sq ft Sainsburys previously non-income producing hednesford, Cannock the 50m supermarket, set to be Liverpools surplus land at Baglan Bay.
transformation of Hednesford Town largest foodstore, 80,000 sq ft of Centre comprises two development additional retail, 80,000 sq ft of OUTlOOk phases known as Victoria Shopping industrial, 480 new homes and 40,000 Park and Chase Gateway.
At the Whilst this market is proving difficult, we sq ft of community facilities including Shopping Park, we have now have enough active developments to anew library, market and community completed the sale of the 85,000 sq ft provide us with a stream of development health centre.
Following the CPO award, Tesco foodstore which opened for profits to 2015 and beyond.
a reserved matters planning application business, along with associated retail, will be made to approve the final detail London and the South East is the most intime for Christmas trading.
AtChase of the new Sainsburys store and other dominant market at the moment but there Gateway, Aldi has agreed to purchase retail units.
still exists opportunities for well-placed, a15,650 sq ft store which will open predominantly residential-led schemes inlate spring 2013.
Across the two inthe regions.
Opportunities are also phases we continue to attract aseries emerging in the power and energy sector, of well-known retailers.
particularly for cleaner fuels such as gas-fired power stations and renewable energy, including solar, and this is a market we intend to pursue further.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview
