44 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Partnerships LONG-TERM REGENERATION THROUGH LONGTERM PARTNERSHIPS Over time, we have formed strong relationships with many public sector and commercial partners, with whom we work closely to unlock the development potential Public sector from their sites.
Be it the creation of a new town centre, abusiness district, or transforming a As we are a long-term business, redundant area into a key residential site, we work hand in hand with many public these long-term partnerships sector organisations across the country arekey to the success of our totransform a variety of different locations regeneration projects and are via regeneration.
often connected by skills The most recent example of a public sector partnership is with Swansea University for andculture.
the provision of the 150m first phase of the New Science and Innovation Campus.
Established through joint ventures, This is an example of a true development sale and leasebacks, strategic land partnership where we have supplied the land and our development expertise to an acquisitions and straightforward institution in need of a regenerative solution development agreements, these to meet its expanding educational needs.
partnerships consistently lead to We also work directly with Local Authorities, some with which we have been successful regeneration projects in partnership for over 10 years either via that bring about major economic joint venture initiatives or development agreements, all with the aim of delivering change to the areas across the UK multi-million pound projects that will that need it the most stimulating encourage inward investment and provide a boost to the regional and local economy investment, growth and creating a via regeneration.
better environment for businesses and communities.
The facing page provides examples of some of our most successful and long lasting partnerships.
Right: Turf cutting ceremony with Persimmon as partof our joint venture housing development at Coed Darcy, South Wales.
From left to right: Rupert Joseland, St. Modwens South West & South Wales regional director: Andrew Crompton ofPersimmon: John Flower, Environment Director for Neath Port Talbot Council: andCouncillor Ali Thomas, Leader, NeathPortTalbot Council.
45 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 VINCI St. Modwen Persimmon PLC Key Property Investments KPI Our partnership with VINCI PLC was Of St. Modwens major joint venture In 1997, St. Modwen entered into established in 2006 when we were agreements one of the most prominent ajointventure with Salhia Real Estate selected by the Ministry of Defence MoD involves housebuilder Persimmon PLC.
Company K. S. C. to establish an to deliver Project MoDEL This partnership investment partnership.
Aware of the enormous lack of residential was designed specifically to enable the development being built across the UK, Known as Key Property Investments KPI, MoD to consolidate over 1,000 military St. Modwen recognised that a joint venture the joint venture now holds a number personnel and operations from six surplus agreement with a sector-leading ofschemes with long-term development sites across North West London, through housebuilder would capitalise on our potential, the most high profile being the construction of 180m of new facilities financial strength and well-located land theElephant & Castle Shopping Centre, at RAF Northolt, creating the MoDs first bank to bridge this housing gap.
theregeneration of Farnborough Town integrated core site in London.
Centre and the recently completed In 2010 St. Modwen realised its vision and Of the six sites, we sold four to third party andsold 135,000 sq ft facility for entered into a joint venture agreement with developers and are progressing land sales Siemensin Lincoln.
Initially this agreement and development at RAF Mill Hill and covers 2,000 plots on seven St. Modwen RAFUxbridge.
sites, across 120 acres of land.
It is already Project MoDEL is an excellent example progressing well: the original target of ofthe private sector working closely with building out seven sites has now grown the public sector: Prime Plus Contracting toeight, of which seven have received isan innovative means of funding a high detailed planning approval and are profile property project, designed to nowunder construction.
maximise results and minimise costs.
Beyond this project, we are now workingtogether with VINCI on the 2bnredevelopment of New Covent GardenMarket.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview
