64 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The Board Bill Shannon Bill olivEr MiChaEl Dunn Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Appointed to the Board as non-executive Appointed to the Board in January 2000.
Appointed to the Board in December 2010. director and Chairman Designate in November Committee Membership Committee Membership 2010 and became Chairman inMarch 2011.
Committee Membership Experience Experience Chairs the Nomination Committee and is a Has over 30 years experience in the property Joined Coopers & Lybrand on graduating before member of the Remuneration Committee.
industry with residential and commercial moving to The National Grid Company in 1994.
Experience development companies such as Alfred Joined Carillion plc in 1997 and was Finance A 30 year career at Whitbread plc which McAlpine, Barratt and The Rutland Group.
Director of Carillion Private Finance and Carillion culminated in his appointment as a main Board Finance Director of Dwyer Estates plc from 1994 Building.
Joined St. Modwen in 2010 from May director for 10 years until his retirement in 2004. to 2000.
Joined St. Modwen in 2000 as Finance Gurney Integrated Services plc where he spent Former Chairman ofAEGON UK plc previously Director, and was subsequently appointed five years as Group Finance Director.
A qualified Scottish Equitable, Gaucho Grill Holdings Ltd Managing Director in 2003 and Chief Executive Chartered Accountant.
andPizza Hut UK Ltd, and former nonin 2004.
executive director of The Rank Group plc, Barratt Developments plc and Matalan plc.
Currently a non-executive director ofJohnson Service Group plc.
StEvE BurkE DaviD GarMan Construction Director Senior Independent Director Appointed to the Board in November 2006.
Appointed to the Board in April 2010 andbecame Senior Independent Director Committee Membership inApril2011.
Committee Membership Experience Member of the Audit, Remuneration Joined St. Modwen in 1995 as a Contracts andNomination Committees.
Surveyor after a number of years construction experience in senior roles with national Experience contracting companies including Balfour Beatty Chief Executive of the Allied Bakeries subsidiary and Clarke Construction.
Appointed of Associated British Foods plc from 1993 to Construction Director in 1998 and joined 1999 and TDG plc from 1999 to 2008.
Former theBoard as a director in 2006. non-executive director of Kewill plc and former Senior Independent Director of Victoria plc and Carillion plc.
Currently Senior Independent Director of Phoenix IT Group plc.
A founder member of The Oakwood Partnership and a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Logistics andTransport.
65 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 kay ChalDECott SiMon ClarkE kathErinE innES kEr Independent non-executive director Non-executive director Independent non-executive director Appointed to the Board in October 2012.
Appointed to the Board in October 2004.
Appointed to the Board in October 2009.
Committee Membership Committee Membership Committee Membership Member of the Audit and None.
Member of the Audit and .
Experience Experience Former Deputy Chairman of Northern Racing plc Experience Joined Capital Shopping Centres Group plc and director and Vice-Chairman of The Has held director roles as a media analyst with ongraduating and held a number of senior Racecourse Association Ltd.
Currently Chairman both SBC Warburg and Dresdner Kleinwort management positions, including Managing of Dunstall Holdings Ltd.
The son of Sir Stanley Benson.
Former non-executive director of Director, during a career spanning 27 years.
Clarke, founder and former Chairman of St. ITVDigital plc, The Television Corporation plc, Alsoserved as a main Board director from 2005 Modwen, and represents the interests of the Fibernet Group plc, Gyrus Group plc, Taylor until leaving the group in 2011.
Currently a Clarke and Leavesley families, the Companys Wimpey plc and Ordnance Survey.
Former non-executive director of New River Retail largest shareholders, on the Board.
Chairman of Shed Media plc and Victoria plc.
A member of the Royal Institution Currently Senior Independent Director of Tribal ofChartered Surveyors.
Group plc and a non-executive director of TheGo-Ahead Group plc.
lESlEy JaMES, CBE John SalMon tanya StotE Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Company Secretary Appointed to the Board in October 2009.
Appointed to the Board in October 2005.
Joined St. Modwen as Company Secretary inMarch 2012.
Has held senior Company Committee Membership Committee Membership Secretary roles in a number of FTSE listed Chairs the Remuneration Committee Chairs the Audit Committee and is a member companies including Taylor Woodrow plc, andisamember of the Audit and ofthe Remuneration Committee.
TravisPerkins plc and, most recently, GKN plc NominationCommittees.
Experience where she was Deputy Company Secretary Experience Admitted to partnership of Price Waterhouse andHead of Secretarial Department.
A Fellow HR Director for Tesco plc from 1985 to 1999 in1976 and was a senior client partner at ofthe Institute of Chartered Secretaries and a main Board director from 1994.
Former  LLP with lead andAdministrators.
non-executive director for a number of responsibility for a range of major listed companies including Care UK plc, Alpha Airports companies until his retirement in 2005.
Group plc, Inspicio plc, Liberty International plc Aformermember and Deputy Chairman of and the West Bromwich Building Society.
Currently a Trustee Former Trustee of the charity I CAN.
Currently a and Council Member of the British Heart non-executive director of Anchor Trust.
Companion of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview 66 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Regional Directors John DoDDS FriCS Guy GuStErSon MBa MikE hErBErt Regional Director Residential Director Regional Director Midlands The Trentham Estate rupErt JoSElanD MriCS StEphEn proSSEr MriCS tiM SEDDon MriCS Regional Director Regional Director Regional Director South West and South Wales North London and South East rupErt wooD MriCS Regional Director Northern Home Counties
