Investment Manager Review Market Review investors were the only group to inject substantial new capital into the sector, predominantly in London.
Although for many 2012 will be remembered for the Jubilee, Olympic and Paralympic celebrations, the dominant feature for the Performance Overview economy was a year characterised by weak economic growth with GDP flat over the year.
Whilst some economic indicators, such as Direct UK commercial property delivered a total return of 2.4% in employment and real income growth, have shown modest 2012 IPD Balanced Monthly & Quarterly Funds benchmark improvement, there has been little prospect of a return to exceeding the level suggested by the Investment Property Forums sustained economic growth.
The ongoing travails in the Eurozone, IPF Consensus Forecasts issued throughout the year, the UKs largest export market, coupled with a Government demonstrating once again the resilience of the asset class in less austerity programme which has yet to be fully implemented, favourable economic headwinds.
continues to undermine business and investor confidence.
With This resilience can be attributed to the strong and consistent caution the watchword, deleveraging remains the principal focus income return the asset class continues to deliver which totalled for businesses, households and banks.
Despite interest rates 6.0% in 2012 in line with the previous year and comparable with remaining at record lows and inflation closing the year lower than its long-term average.
This more than outweighed the 3.4% it began, recent indicators imply that inflation is not totally under decline in capital values reported over the year, principally driven control and will continue to exceed the Governments target.
This led to a modest increase in valuation In the context of fragile consumer confidence, many retailers yields, although as the year progressed, the rate of decline witnessed year on year growth with total retail sales increasing moderated in most sectors except retail.
0.3% over the year, despite some well known companies being The polarisation of London property from the rest of the country placed into administration.
continued unabated, with Central London values increasing 5%, Against this backdrop, commercial property remained able to buoyed by rental growth, and the Rest of UK falling by 5.8%, deliver a positive total return, with modest capital value falls driven highlighting the mismatch in occupational and investment by weakening rents and outward yield shift in most sectors again markets between the two sectors.
This also led to a widening of more than countered by strong income returns.
Rental values the gap in yields between Central London and the rest of the softened slightly over 2012 as growth in Central London and prime country, with the value growth in prime retail and office assets assets in other core locations were offset by falls elsewhere.
The driving down income yields to only 4.3% due to feverish retail sector saw the greatest decline in rental values as it competition, particularly from investors seeking a safe haven for continued to face the combined effects of a relatively weak their capital.
This competition makes investment expensive and consumer market and increasing structural challenges from online difficult for UK institutional investors to compete in.
consequence, towards the end of the year there was a renewed focus and debate on the risk and opportunities that exist within Average pricing levels drifted out over the course of the year with the secondary market and those sectors with greater income only Central London yields showing improvement.
This has yet to translate into improved capital values for and prospective investors remained reluctant to take on risk, those sectors, with the disparity between prime and secondary instead preferring to concentrate on secure, core markets such as yields, in excess of 400bps, at its widest level since the downturn Londons West End and supermarkets where property prices have in 2007 2008. continued to rise.
Headline market numbers continue to mask the extent of any price discrimination between prime and secondary The total return from property was almost identical to the CPI assets as well as the gap between stronger locations, often figure for 2012 and the scale of income return that property concentrated in the South East and the more peripheral locations.
continues to offer investors gives a degree of protection against The decline in values, however, has been less extensive than many future rises in inflation.
It also compares well with the yields commentators expected, with the concentration of prime assets available on other asset classes including highly rated corporate within the IPD sample a core reason for this.
bonds, government bonds especially index-linked issues, which continue to offer negative real yields, cash and the broader equity Property at the prime end continues to attract significant interest market.
Property has also reasserted its credentials as a genuine from a wide range of investors and competition for quality assets diversifier of investment risk between asset classes.
brought to market remains intense.
Activity over the market as a whole in 2012 was at a similar level to each of 2010 and 2011, with Income over 32.5 billion of transactions recorded.
Notably, London The primary focus for the Company given its investment objective represented an even greater share of total volumes and overseas remains income and the management of risk, particularly against 8 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED the difficult economic background.
As highlighted above, income Overall, the portfolio underperformed the IPD Quarterly and represented the principal component of returns for 2012, and this Monthly benchmark due to the greater than benchmark fall in is expected to be the case for the foreseeable future.
With this in capital values not being fully offset by the superior income return mind, it is encouraging to note that portfolio income, as reported enjoyed from the portfolio.
The principal reason for the fall in in this annual report, grew by 2.6% over the year from acquisitions value was the performance of the retail holdings, particularly and through successful asset management initiatives offsetting shopping centres, but to a lesser extent the high street, allied to the adverse impact from company administrations and leases that the underweight exposure in Central London notably Central expired and were not renewed.
Income return remained consistent throughout the period, underlying the robust nature of the portfolio against a Annualised rental income also increased from 70.2 million to challenging environment where occupier demand was muted and 72.0 million after rent free periods during 2012.
This increase average rents were flat or falling for most of the country.
was principally driven by the portfolio acquisition of three primarily multi let industrial properties providing annualised income of Offices 4.7 million, financed from the Companys existing bank facilities.
Offices were the asset of choice during 2012 accounting for 40% The Companys continued focus on asset management has also of the transactional market, with 15 billion invested in 2012 and played its part in maintaining and enhancing income in the London yields being at their lowest levels since Q4 2008. portfolio.
Some of these successful initiatives are highlighted later.
Central London offices were the most popular asset class, driven Company administrations and ongoing rationalisation of corporate mainly by overseas investors unrelenting appetite for this sector, portfolios continued to be a significant feature of the market, constituting 75% of total investment in the UK.
Although the key particularly in the retail sector.
This theme is reflected in the drivers for many of these investors were liquidity and a safe haven portfolio with a number of tenants deciding not to renew leases investment with strong rental growth prospects, the potential for and an increased number of retail administrations.
However, it residential conversion was also a theme for many Central London should be emphasised that the underlying quality of the acquisitions.
Companys portfolio, coupled with a sustained focus on asset management, resulted in much of the income affected by As was the case in 2011, the office sector was the best performing administrations being maintained, with many leases continuing to sector of the principal asset classes in 2012 delivering a 3.4% total be honoured by the new corporate entities or lettings being return, which was exceeded only by the wide ranging other achieved within a relatively short period of time.
The sector provided the widest divergence in performance across all sub sectors, reflecting Portfolio Performance the diverging appeal of Central London, where the West End was The independent portfolio valuation as at 31 December 2012 was the strongest performer with a 10.3% total return compared to 1,021.2 million, a 4.5% fall in valuation over the year on a like for regional offices which provided a negative total return of minus like basis.
During the year, the Company acquired three multi-let 3.2%.
The year saw a modest shift in sentiment towards certain industrial estates at a total investment of 63.5 million.
South East office markets as the underlying fundamentals in some of these locations improved along with an increase in appetite for The table below sets out the components of total return of the risk from some investors.
Investment in and performance of the Company and of the benchmark in each sector for the year to rest of the UK office sector has been dull, as many investors 31 December 2012: continue to be deterred by the ongoing challenges in the occupational markets.
Even in Central London, letting activity was Total Return Income Return Capital Growth subdued as many occupiers remained cautious in making any Fund Benchmark Fund Benchmark Fund Benchmark major corporate decisions.
The only exception in London was the %%%%%% Technology, Media and Telecommunications and Insurance Offices 3.4 3.4 7.8 5.7 -4.1 -2.2 sectors, both of which represented a significant proportion of the take up during the year.
Industrials 3.9 3.1 7.3 6.8 -3.2 -3.5 Retail -1.3 1.0 6.3 6.0 -7.2 -4.7 The Companys office portfolio returned 3.4% in the year, performing in line with the benchmark.
The composition of the Other overall return differed from the market, with income forming a Commercial 7.7 6.5 6.7 5.6 1.0 0.9 greater element of that return, particularly from the regional Total 1.2 2.4 6.8 6.0 -5.3 -3.4 office portfolio which has minimal voids and is well let to strong covenants.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 9 Investment Manager Review continued Industrials Companys South East retail and retail warehouse portfolios proved to be more robust and were positively impacted by successful The strong income return from the industrial sector and more income and value enhancing asset management initiatives.
These modest capital value falls enabled this sector to provide a 3.1% are highlighted in the asset management activity section below.
Overall, pricing for industrial property moved out over the year, undermined by the availability of secondary property and Other Commercial Leisure concerns over rental value falls and take up.
The availability of Grade A space in some locations remains at historically low levels.
The Companys single leisure investment, The Rotunda Leisure In some cases this has led to occupiers considering freehold and Scheme in Kingston upon Thames, acquired in 2011, retained its leasehold bespoke options although there is not sufficient position as the strongest performer within the portfolio.
This confidence, development or finance in that market to see any property, with an overall return of 7.7%, provided a significant meaningful return to speculative development, other than in a few margin over the 6.5% total return in the broad ranging isolated cases within the M25.
alternatives IPD sector which includes Leisure, Student Accommodation, Hotels, Pubs, Car Parks etc.
The strong attributes of the Companys industrial portfolio, strengthened by the portfolio acquisition earlier in the year and Investment Activity combined with effective asset management by the team, meant In February 2012 the Company acquired an off-market portfolio of that the portfolio comfortably outperformed the market with an three principally multi-let industrial properties for 63.5 million overall total return of 3.9%.
Much of this outperformance was including costs of acquisition representing a net initial yield of driven by stable yields from the Companys regional industrial 7.3%.
The purchase was in-line with the Companys strategy to properties, which are let to strong covenants in core locations.
acquire sound income producing assets in sectors which improve the portfolios income return and where our strengths in asset Retail management can be leveraged.
The portfolio comprises: The year to 31 December 2012 was another challenging year for the retail sector with weakening occupier markets undermining Emerald Park East, Emersons Green, Bristol A modern both rental and capital values.
As a result, the sector was the industrial estate developed between 2000 and 2004, weakest performer for the second consecutive year with a 1.0% located close to Junction 19 of the M4, to the north of total return.
The capital values in all retail subsectors were Bristol.
The estate currently generates income of 1.7 million downgraded with shopping centres and high street retail the per annum from 235,635 sq ft across 17 units, let to tenants hardest hit, retaining only a moderate income benefit.
High street including Knorr Bremse Systems, Sungard Availability Services retail in the South East proved to be the most resilient with only and Smiths News Trading.
The average unexpired lease modest capital falls aided by healthier occupational demand.
The length was four years three months to breaks and eight retail occupational and investment markets continue to be years six months to expiry.
affected by administrations including Outdoor Group, JJB Sports, Gatwick Gate Industrial Estate, Crawley An industrial estate Clinton Cards and Comet.
As a result, investors continue to located on Charlwood Road, to the immediate south of exercise caution generally in the retail sector and there has been a Gatwick Airport.
The estate generates income of 1.1 million drop in the overall level of investment volumes in the sector.
This, per annum from 144,944 sq ft of space across nine units, let allied to falling rental levels, has contributed to a fall in retail to tenants including Signet Group and Cooper Callas.
As we have become accustomed to over average unexpired lease length was five years to expiry and the last few years, this masks a disparity between Central London break.
and Rest of UK where, in the case of the former, High Street retail values fell by a modest 0.4% while the rest of the country fell by Motor Park, Eastern Road, Portsmouth This group of car 5.6%.
There was evidence, however, of fierce demand for good showrooms represents the principal automotive dealership quality retail investments that offered the right environment for location in the Portsmouth area, offering brands including retail occupiers whether that was in Central London or elsewhere Mercedes-Benz, Audi, BMW, Volkswagen, Mini, Chrysler and in stronger regional retail locations.
The park generates income of 1.8 million per annum from 162,661 sq ft of space across ten units, let to tenants Reflecting the wider market trend, the Companys retail portfolio including Volkswagen Group UK Ltd, Pentagon Ltd and had the weakest overall performance, producing a total return of Affinion International.
Average unexpired lease length was minus 1.3%.
Similar to the market, both the Companys shopping 12 years two months to break and twelve years nine months centres and high street retail properties were the principal focus to expiry.
for administrations and loss of rental income resulting in some cases in falling capital values and rents.
The performance of the 10 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Emersons Green, Bristol This acquisition, aided by the realisation of some identified asset to replace failed occupiers with short term flexible leases or, where management initiatives, made a positive contribution to the possible, longer term leases were agreed at rental levels either in portfolio with a current income return of 7.7% against the line with or above ERV.
Examples include lettings to Caff Nero to portfolio income return of 6.8%.
replace Priceless Shoes at the Sovereign Centre, Weston-superMare and Hotter Shoes to replace Jane Norman at the Pride Hill The Company sold one asset during the year.
Sovereign House, Shopping Centre in Shrewsbury.
Slough, an office building, was sold in September for 8.6 million, which was in line with the valuation at the time.
Significantly At The Parade, Swindon, a letting to Deichmann Shoes involved over-rented with only two years unexpired on the lease and the the creation of a new 6,000 sq.
ft. flagship store and the relocation tenant not in occupation, the sale was in accordance with the of two other retailers to generate an increase in overall income of Companys strategy to reduce exposure to those assets that 150,000 per annum after rent free periods.
This initiative also demand a significant level of capital expenditure with limited total improved value and the average lease length, as well as reducing return prospects.
Within the High Street sector we completed a new ten year lease Asset Management Activity with Sportsdirect.
ft. unit in Kensington Despite the continuing challenges in some markets in 2012, we High Street, London, W8.
The annual rent is 440,000 per annum continued our drive to strengthen income streams, extend lease which was above ERV and an increase of 21,000 on the rent lengths and add value to the Companys ownerships.
During the payable by the previous tenant.
In addition, the renovation of a year we completed 135 new leases, lease renewals and rent supermarket at Marlow resulted in a rent increase of 69,500 per reviews securing 3.6 million of annual rental income for the annum after rent free periods for the remaining 22 years of the Company.
lease and an uplift in valuation of 675,000.
Of the above total, 65 new lettings were entered into in 2012 Across the office portfolio we completed a series of asset generating 3.5 million of annual income after rent free periods.
management initiatives including at 9 Colmore Row, Birmingham, Their average lease length is 9 years and 4 months to expiry.
with new lettings to Costa Coffee 89,500 p. a. on a ten year 75 per cent of this letting activity took place in the shopping lease and Whitewall Gallery 75,000 p. a. on a ten year lease.
centre portfolio where in some cases, defensive action was taken When combined with lease re-gears with Ecclesiastical and UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 11 Investment Manager Review continued 25 Moorgate, these initiatives resulted in income improving from 1.6 million to 1.8 million per annum after rent free periods, longer leases and a fully let building.
At Charter Place, Uxbridge, we secured outline planning consent for the refurbishment of the property.
Both tenants have also agreed to lease extensions, with Coca Cola agreeing a short term lease extension and Nexen agreeing to remain in occupation on a longer term basis while we work towards viability and a pre-let of the refurbished space.
Our exposure to other sectors, most notably leisure, helped to generate value in 2012 with an improved ERV at The Rotunda, Kingston upon Thames, following a new letting to Cattle Grid.
The contract with Pizza Express at Junction 27, Leeds, became unconditional in 2012 and added 165,000 p. a. of new income to the rent roll of the park while improving both tenant mix and customer experience.
Another new letting was with Costa Coffee at Great Marlborough Street, London W1, which generated 130,000 per annum on a ten year lease.
In the Industrial sector, lease re-gears involving Webcon and Volt Delta at Dolphin Trading Estate, Sunbury, and with Parkare at Emersons Green, Bristol, improved lease length and secured income of 342,000 p. a.
Despite the general economy and downward pressure on rent levels, rent review activity generated over 291,000 per annum of George Street, Edinburgh additional income from the 42 rent reviews that were settled in 2012.
Highlights included rent review awards for Mothercare and The covenant strength of the Companys occupiers remains a TK Maxx at Kew Retail Park, Richmond, a Marks & Spencer source of encouragement with average rent collection figures of distribution hub in Neasden and also on George Street, Edinburgh, 99.2% per annum after 28 days in 2012.
A total of 492,000 of where a 65,000 per annum increase in rent was negotiated with bad debts were written off, representing only 0.7% of rental Waterstones.
This strength is also demonstrated by the graph below which shows the percentage of high risk rents within A number of high profile occupiers within the Companys portfolio the portfolio compared to the benchmark.
entered administrations last year, including Clinton Cards, JJB, Comet, Peacocks, Bon Marche, Julian Graves and Game Station.
As 30 a result of lease expiries at Bushey Road, Raynes Park, and break options that were exercised across the portfolio notably at 25 Dolphin Trading Estate, Sunbury the Companys void position 20 moved from 3.4% to 4.8% of ERV at the end of the year.
If tenant failures through administrations etc.
are included the void rate 15 increases to 6.9%.
However, both void rates are well below the Benchmark Portfolio benchmark figure of 10.0%.
10 5 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 Percentile rank 12 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED High risk rent % Sustainability would represent solid performance in an environment likely to remain challenging, even if there are some signs that investor The Company recognises that every property for which we are sentiment is now stabilising.
Our forecast for 2013 reflects the responsible impacts in the way we all work, live and play.
We are likelihood that, outside London, economic growth will be committed to conducting our business in a way which is insufficient to generate any broad-based occupier demand, sustainable, protecting the environment, enhancing our restricting any real rental growth to Central London and some properties efficiency and reducing any negative impacts on the micro-markets.
Rents in more secondary retail markets will remain environment.
under pressure, as these properties face serious obsolescence risk We seek to create long-term value for our investors through from the continued move from traditional retailers to online addressing sustainable and corporate matters responsibly.
adhere to statutory and legal requirements and we ensure in the Although the divergence between prime and secondary and management, refurbishment or development of our properties London and the rest of the country is expected to continue that measures are taken to promote the sustainable use of throughout 2013, many commentators feel that it will begin to resources, protect the environment, reduce greenhouse emissions narrow.
With prime yields stabilising, and in some sectors at levels and minimise waste.
approaching or higher than their long term average, there is a Through practical implementation we will establish targets for suggestion that prime is becoming an expensive and slightly riskier improving our performance in sustainability issues where these are option relative to the risk free alternative.
With the gap between under the control or direct influence of the landlord, with prime and secondary yields in excess of 400bps, there are nascent particular reference to energy consumption, water consumption signs that greater opportunities might exist in the next tier of and waste production.
Using 2012 as a benchmark we will aim to investment i. e. within good quality and well located secondary reduce consumption by between 5-10% year on year by using low property.
Although risks still exist in that broad ranging market, or no cost options.
particularly with those sectors experiencing structural change such as retail, favourable returns driven by income can be achieved with The annual report is published on Creator paper which is made a full appreciation of the correct property fundamentals and the from raw materials sourced from managed and sustainable forests associated risks.
that are subject to strict environmental control.
Pulp is ECF elemental chlorine free and comes from Spain, Portugal and Portfolio Strategy Finland.
The manufacturing processes for the Creator range are The continued focus on income and management of risk across a certified under the prestigious ISO9001 and ISO14001 standards.
prime diversified portfolio offers the best defence in uncertain times and will continue to provide a firm platform for driving Market Outlook attractive income returns.
The overall quality of the portfolio and In its latest Inflation Report, the Bank of England acknowledged the Companys ability to identify income-enhancing initiatives, the likelihood of weak underlying growth continuing with forecast even in a market with selective occupier demand, offers solid GDP growth of around 1.0% in 2013.
Forecasts predicting a return prospects for future income and capital growth.
to growth rely on a strong expansion in private sector investment and a relatively benign outlook on inflation feeding through to The retention and enhancement of income will always remain a disposable income growth.
As well as boosting real incomes, low key tenet of the Companys strategy and the portfolio expiry inflation is crucial if the Bank is to hold interest rates at current low profile does present some opportunities for asset management levels for the foreseeable future.
The medium term outlook for initiatives to mitigate the forecast increase in voids in the short inflation is mixed, with little protection afforded against imported term.
Some of these expiries will involve significant capital inflation should there be further surges in global commodity expenditure and, although in some cases the prospect of prices.
As the Government has acknowledged, the deficit improved returns can be achieved with additional expenditure, reduction target will not be met until well into the next parliament where this is not the case then these assets should be sold.
In a and, as a result, the return of the UK to satisfactory levels of market where competition for prime property is fierce and at sustainable economic growth will prove a long, difficult path.
times assets can be mispriced, the potential for further sales of prime lower yielding assets for reinvestment in higher yielding We continue to believe that property will remain an attractive multi-let assets or into portfolio initiatives should always remain a asset class for investors through offering a relatively high income possibility.
The priority, however, must be sales of those assets that yield and clear diversification benefits.
Igniss most recent forecast involve significant holding costs capital expenditure with poor for all property total returns in 2013 is 6.5% with annualised total return prospects.
There are also a number of asset management returns for the next three years 2013-2015 of 7.7% p. a.
This initiatives within the portfolio which have the potential to improve UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 13 Investment Manager Review continued both income and capital.
These will be assessed further and prioritised in terms of viability and deliverability and met in part from existing cash resources.
Given the immediate outlook for the sector, the key objective for the Company is to reduce its exposure to the retail sector.
Although mention has been made of some selective sales of high street retail assets which would help achieve this objective, the main priority will be the future strategy for the holding in Shrewsbury where good progress is being made.
In terms of acquisitions, whilst the assets to be acquired will be determined by the characteristics of the assets themselves, priority will be given to sectors offering a relatively high income return in which the Company has underweight positions i. e. the multi-let industrial, leisure and alternative e. g. Student Accommodation sectors.
In addition we continue to look for opportunities in New Deichmann store at The Parade, Swindon Central London that meet our income requirements.
The Companys strong balance sheet gives the opportunity to identify suitable propositions in a market which continues to be characterised by deleveraging and to commit capital to sound, income producing assets which offer the potential for implementing asset management initiatives to maintain and, where possible, enhance dividend cover.
Overall, in the current economic environment, the Company is well placed for the future.
Robert Boag Senior Investment Director Ignis Investment Services 20 March 2013 Costa Coffee at Great Marlborough Street, London, W1 14 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED
