Investment Management Team Ignis Investment Services Limited Ignis is the Investment Manager of the Group.
Ignis is a leading asset manager and has approximately 70 billion of assets under management.
Ignis has a long history of managing commercial property and over the years has built up a high level of knowledge and experience in this asset class.
Ignis has the advantage of a strong and well-resourced team that is dedicated to searching out value actively in the property sector and in the portfolios that it manages and a strong culture to deal with internal conflict.
The team manages a number of property portfolios, totalling around 3.0 billion.
The Company is managed by a dedicated property investment, finance and administration team within Ignis which is set out below.
ROBERT BOAG, BSc Dip IPF MRICS Senior Investment Director Robert graduated from the University of Paisley in 1986 with a degree in Land Economics.
In 1987 he became a Member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
He had several years experience operating as property asset investment manager throughout the UK with Scottish Metropolitan and Haslemere Estates.
He joined Ignis Asset Management in January 2006.
DAVID RODGER, BSc IPF MRICS BCSC Portfolio Manager David graduated from the University of Paisley in 1996 with a BSc Hons degree in Land Economics.
He began his career with DTZ Debenham Tie Leung in 1996 and thereafter joined Jones Lang LaSalle where he became Department Head of the Investor Property Management team.
David joined Ignis Asset Management in 2010.
He is a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and the British Council of Shopping Centres.
RHONA McCRANOR, BSc Hons, MRICS Asset Manager Rhona graduated from the University of Glasgow in 1994 with a BSc Hons in Geography, followed by a Post Graduate Diploma at Strathclyde Business School in Urban Development in 1995.
Rhona obtained a Diploma in Urban Property Appraisal from Paisley University in 1998 and began work within Richard Elliss Financial Services and Professional departments and became a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors in 2000.
Rhona worked with Donaldsons and Lambert Smith Hampton between 20022004 where she was an Associate Director covering Landlord and Tenant and Valuation services.
Rhona Joined Ignis Asset Management in 2008.
SHEILA CAMPBELL, MA Hons MSc Dip IPF MRICS Asset Manager Sheila graduated from the University of Glasgow in 1996 with a Master of Arts honours degree in English Literature and Media Studies.
She then went on to study at University of Paisley where she obtained an MSc in Urban Property Appraisal in 1997.
Sheila began her career in 1997 in retail & development agency at Jones Lang Lasalle.
In 2000 she joined DTZ Debenham Tie Leung as a Surveyor in the professional department and then moved into retail agency.
Sheila joined Ignis Asset Management in 2007.
She is a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, elected MRICS in 1999.
DANIEL BAYNES, BSc Hons MRICS Asset Manager Daniel graduated in 1991 from Nottingham Trent University with a 2:1 honours degree in Urban Estate Surveying.
In 1992 he qualified as a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors whilst working as an Estates Surveyor for the Lloyds Chemist Group.
In 1994 Daniel joined Lambert Smith Hampton specialising in retail agency and development before accepting employment with the Co-Op to manage their London & South East portfolio.
Daniel then took up an overseas position with Jones Lang LaSalle in Sydney, Australia within their Asset Management Division, managing investment properties for clients such as AMP Henderson and MID before returning to the UK in 2004 and joining Kilmartin Property Group in Edinburgh.
In October 2010, Daniel joined Ignis Real Estate as an Asset Manager.
GRAEME MCDONALD, BA CA Fund Accounting Manager Graeme graduated from the University of Strathclyde in 1995 with a BA degree in Accountancy and joined Hardie Caldwell Chartered Accountants in 1996 where he qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1999.
In 2001 Graeme joined Glasgow Investment Managers GIM as chief accountant focusing on the accounting, administration and company secretarial work for three investment trusts.
Following GIMs takeover by Aberdeen Asset Managers in 2007, Graeme transferred to the investment trust secretarial team within Aberdeen working on both investment trusts and Venture Capital trusts.
In 2009 Graeme joined Scottish Widows Investment Partnership where he was a finance project manager before joining Ignis in January 2011 as a Fund Accounting Manager to provide a dedicated fund accounting and company secretarial service to the closed end clients within Ignis Real Estate.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 7
