Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and, other than Mr Robertson, are independent of the Investment Manager, are responsible for the determination of the investment policy of the group and its overall supervision.
The Directors are as follows: Christopher Hill Chairman.
John Robertson Christopher Hill is a resident of Guernsey.
He is John Robertson is a resident of the UK.
Mr an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Robertson has over 35 years experience in Bankers and was managing director of Guernsey investment management in a variety of roles, International Fund Managers Limited, part of the and was most recently Director Funds and Baring Financial Services Group, for 8 years prior Corporate Governance at Ignis Investment to its sale in 2005 to Northern Trust.
He has over 35 years Services Limited.
Prior to his retirement from Ignis in 2012, he was experience in the field of offshore banking and fund a director of Ignis International Funds plc, Ignis Alternative Funds administration and is a past Chairman of the Guernsey Investment plc, Ignis Liquidity Fund plc, Ignis Strategic Solutions Funds plc and Funds Association.
He is Chairman of International Oil and Gas Ignis Global Funds SICAV.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Technology Limited and a director of Thames River Multi Hedge Association of Certified Accountants.
Andrew Wilson Keith Dorrian Andrew Wilson is a resident of the UK.
He was Keith Dorrian is a resident of Guernsey.
He has formerly of Richard Ellis, Royal Insurance as over 30 years financial experience in the Chief surveyor and he joined Rugby Securities as offshore finance industry.
He was a founder director of Manufacturers Hanover in 1973 before moving Rugby Estates plc in 1990 and has been chief to First National Bank of Chicago in 1984 and executive officer since its flotation in 1994.
Rugby Estates plc was ANZ Bank Guernsey in 1989.
He joined Bank of Bermuda, listed in the Official List and subsequently moved to the Alternative Guernsey in 1999 and was appointed Guernsey head of global Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange.
He is also a fund services and managing director of the banks Guernsey fund non-executive director of Ipswich Building Society and non administration company in 2001, retiring in December 2003.
He is executive Chairman of Folgate Holdings Limited.
He is a Chartered currently chairman of International Public Partnerships Limited, Surveyor.
listed on the London Stock Exchange, and is a director of a number Ken McCullagh of funds and fund management companies including a property Ken McCullagh is a resident of Ireland.
For the company listed on Euronext, Amsterdam.
see below past 12 years he has been Chief Executive Christopher Fish Officer of LNC Property Group, a private real Christopher Fish is a resident of Guernsey.
He estate investment company which held and retired in 2005 as Managing Director of Close managed500 million of assets.
Previously he International Private Banking.
Mr Fish has over worked as a Director and Partner of Corporate Finance for Farrell 35 years experience in offshore banking, asset Grant Sparks, Chartered Accountants and was also a Financial management, treasury, trust services and fund Controller of Gunne Estate Agents now CBRE in Dublin.
He is also a director of four other UK listed funds Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ireland.
and is a former director of a European commercial property fund.
Mr Dorrian shall retire from the Board at the forthcoming AGM of the Company.
18 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED
