Report of the Directors The Directors present the report and accounts of the UK potential for capital and income growth from investing in a Commercial Property Trust Limited, the Company for the year diversified UK commercial property portfolio.
Investment risks are spread through the Company and its subsidiaries Results and Dividends the Group by investing in a diversified portfolio of freehold and long leasehold UK commercial properties.
The Group invests in The results for the year are set out in the attached accounts.
The Group currently invests in four Company paid interim dividends in the year ended 31 December commercial property sectors: office, retail, industrial and leisure.
The 2012 as follows: Group has not set any maximum geographic exposures within the Payment Date Rate per share p UK nor any maximum weighting limits in the principal property Fourth Interim for sectors.
No single property shall, however, exceed at the time of prior period Feb 2012 1.3125 acquisition 15 per cent of the gross assets of the Group.
First interim May 2012 1.3125 The Group is currently permitted to invest up to 15 per cent of its Second interim Aug 2012 1.3125 total assets in indirect property funds including in other listed Third interim Nov 2012 1.3125 investment companies.
The Group is permitted to invest cash, held by it for working capital purposes and awaiting investment, in Total 5.2500 cash deposits, gilts and money market funds.
On 1 February 2013 the Company declared a fourth Interim At an EGM of the Company on 28 April 2011 the shareholders of dividend of 1.3125p per Ordinary Share with an ex-dividend date the Company approved a revised gearing policy of the Group of 13 February 2013, which was paid on 28 February 2013. amended to read as follows: Gearing, calculated as borrowings as a percentage of the Groups gross assets, may not exceed 65 per Post Balance Sheet Event cent.
The Board intends that borrowings of the Group at the time On 31 January 2013 the Company sold Buchanan Street, Glasgow of draw down will not exceed 25 per cent.
of the Total Assets of for 10.45 million.
For so long as the Lloyds Facility remains outstanding, it is the Boards current intention that borrowings of the Company Principal Activity and Status will be limited to a maximum of 10 per cent.
of the Groups net The Company is a Guernsey company and during the year carried assets at the time of draw down.
The Board receives on business as a property investment company.
recommendations on gearing levels from the Investment Manager and is responsible for setting the gearing range within which the Listing Requirements Investment Manager may operate.
Throughout the period the Company complied and intends to As at 31 December 2012 the Group had total borrowings of 230 continue to comply with the conditions applicable to property million, representing a gearing level of 21.3 per cent of the year investment companies set out in the Listing Rules.
Share Capital An analysis of how the portfolio was invested as at 31 December The issued Ordinary share capital at 31 December 2012 consisted 2012 is contained within the Investment Manager Review on pages of 1,197,348,858 Ordinary shares of 25p each and 41,445,142 8 to 14 and a full portfolio listing is provided on page 17.
Ordinary shares held in treasury.
At 20 March 2013, these numbers were unchanged.
Each Ordinary share of the Company carries one The Groups performance in meeting its objectives is measured vote at general meetings of the Company.
against key performance indicators as set out on page 20.
A review of the Groups returns during the year, the position of the There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares in the Group at the end of the year, and the outlook for the coming year Company other than certain restrictions which may from time to is contained in the Chairmans Statement and the Investment time be imposed by law for example, insider trading law.
Business Review Principal Risks and Risk Uncertainties The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall stewardship of the Company, including investment and dividend policies, The Companys assets consist of direct investments in UK corporate strategy, corporate governance, and risk management.
Its principal risks are therefore related to the Biographical details of the Directors, all of whom are noncommercial property market in general, but also the particular executive, can be found on page 18. circumstances of the properties in which it is invested and their tenants.
The Manager seeks to mitigate these risks though Investment Policy continual review of the portfolio utilising research produced by the The Companys investment objective is to provide ordinary Managers in-house research team and also through asset shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the management initiatives.
More detailed explanations of these risks UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 19 Report of the Directors continued and the way in which they are managed are contained under the and the management of the Companys property portfolio and headings of credit risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk in note 16 levels of gearing, and applies the principles detailed in the Turnbull to the accounts.
The Board has also identified a number of specific Guidance Notes.
Details of the Companys internal controls are risks that are reviewed at each Board meeting.
These are as follows: described in more detail on page 23.
The Company and its objectives become unattractive to Management of Assets and Shareholder Value investors.
This is mitigated through regular contact with The Board has contractually delegated the management of the shareholders, a regular review of share price performance and investment portfolio and other services to Ignis Investment the level of discount at which the shares trade to NAV and Services Limited.
regular meetings with the Companys broker to discuss these points and address any issues that arise.
The Company invests in properties which the Investment Manager believes will generate a combination of long-term growth in Tenant failure or inability to let property.
Due diligence work on income and capital for shareholders.
Investment decisions are potential tenants is undertaken before entering into new lease based on analysis of, amongst other things, prospects for future agreements.
In addition, tenants are kept under constant capital growth, sector and geographic prospects, tenant covenant review through regular contact and various reports both from strength, lease length and initial yield.
managing agents and from the Managers own reporting processes.
Finally, contingency plans are put in place at units Investment risks are spread through investing in a range of that have tenants that are believed to be in financial trouble.
geographical areas and sectors, and through letting properties to low risk tenants.
A list of all the properties held as at 31 December Loss on Financial instruments.
The Company has entered into a 2012 is contained on page 17 and further analysis can be found in number of interest rate swap arrangements.
These swap the Investment Manager Review.
At each Board meeting, the instruments are valued and monitored on a monthly basis by Board receives a detailed presentation from the Investment the counterparty banks.
The Manager checks the valuations of Manager together with a comprehensive analysis of the these swap instruments internally to ensure they are accurate.
performance of the portfolio during the reporting period.
In addition, the credit ratings of the Banks that the swaps are taken out with are assessed at every Board meeting.
The Board and the Investment Manager recognise the importance of managing the premium discount of share price to net asset Other risks faced by the Company include the following: value in enhancing shareholder value.
One aspect of this involves Economic inflation or deflation, economic recessions and appropriate communication to gauge investor sentiment and, to movements in interest rates could affect property valuations, this end, the Investment Manager meets with current and and also its bank borrowings.
potential new shareholders, and with stockbroking analysts who Strategic incorrect strategy, including sector and property cover the investment company sector, on a regular basis.
In allocation and use of gearing, could all lead to poor returns for addition, communication of quarterly portfolio information is shareholders.
provided through the Companys website, www.
co. uk, and the Company also utilises a public relations agency to enhance its Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could lead to profile among investors.
suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange Listing, financial penalties or a qualified audit report.
Key Performance Indicators Management and control changes that cause the The Board uses a number of performance measures to assess the management and control of the Company to be exercised in Companys success in meeting its objectives.
The key performance the United Kingdom could lead to the Company becoming indicators are as follows: liable to United Kingdom taxation on income and capital gains.
Net asset value and share price total return against the Financial inadequate controls by the Investment Manager or Investment Property Databank Balanced Monthly and Quarterly third party service providers could lead to misappropriation of Funds Index.
Inappropriate accounting policies or failure to comply with accounting standards could lead to misreporting or Premium Discount of share price to net asset value.
Dividend per share and dividend yield.
Operational failure of the Investment Managers accounting Ongoing Charges systems or disruption to the Investment Managers business, or that of third party service providers, could lead to an inability to These indicators for the year ended 31 December 2012 are set out provide accurate reporting and monitoring, leading to a loss of on page 4. shareholders confidence.
In addition the Board considers specific property KPIs such as The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these risks through sector performance and weighted average lease length on a continual review, policy setting and enforcement of contractual regular basis.
These are reported on pages 15 to 16. obligations.
It also regularly monitors the investment environment 20 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Directors Following this review, it is the Directors opinion that the continuing appointment of the Investment Manager on the terms The Directors who held office during the period and their interests agreed is in the interests of shareholders as a whole due to the in the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2012 or date of strength and quality of the management team and the appointment if later all of which are beneficial were: Investment Managers commitment to the sector.
As at As at 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Substantial Interests in Share Capital 25p Ordinary 25p Ordinary Shares held Shares held At 31 December 2012 the following holdings, representing more than 3 per cent of the Companys issued share capital, had been Christopher Hill 20,000 20,000 notified to the Company.
Keith Dorrian 10,000 10,000 Number of Christopher Fish 10,000 10,000 Ordinary Shares Percentage Held Held John Robertson 10,000 10,000 Andrew Wilson 45,000 45,000 Phoenix Life Limited 742,960,172 62.05% Ken McCullagh - n a State Street Nominees 58,613,401 4.90% Nortrust Nominees 57,348,529 4.80% There have been no changes in the above interests between 31 December 2012 and 20 March 2013.
No notifiable changes to these holdings had been notified to the The Directors are also Directors of UK Commercial Property Company as at 28 February 2013.
Holdings Limited, UK Commercial Property GP Limited, UK The Companys ultimate controlling party is Phoenix Group Commercial Property Nominee limited, UK Commercial Property Holdings and immediate parent company is Phoenix Life Limited.
Estates Holdings Limited and UK Commercial Property Estates Limited which are all wholly owned subsidiary undertakings.
Corporate Governance In accordance with the articles of association Mr A Wilson and The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of Mr J Robertson retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to for re-election.
Mr McCullagh, having been appointed since the last the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for investment Companies AGM and in accordance with the articles of association, offers himself AIC Guide both of which can be found at www.
In addition, the AIC Code of Corporate Governance and AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the the UK Corporate Governance Code both recommend that all principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code which can Directors of FTSE 350 companies be subject to annual re-election, be found at www.
uk, as well as setting out additional therefore both Mr C Hill and Mr C Fish also retire and offer themselves principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific for re-election.
As explained in the Chairmans Statement, Mr K relevance to the Company.
Dorrian will not seek re-election at the AGM.
Following formal performance evaluations which covered each individual Director The Board considers that reporting against the principles and excluding Mr McCullagh and the Board as a whole, the performance recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC of all of the Directors continues to be effective with each making a Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, positive contribution to the performance of the Company.
Therefore, will provide better information to shareholders.
the re-election of Mr C Hill, Mr C Fish, Mr J Robertson and Mr A Wilson and the election of Mr K McCullagh is recommended to shareholders The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, except as set out below.
Management Ignis Investment Services Limited provides management services The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to: to the Company.
A summary of the contract between the the role of the chief executive Company and Ignis Investment Services Limited in respect of management services provided is given in note 2 to the accounts.
executive directors remuneration the need for an internal audit function The Directors during the year, other than Mr John Robertson, have considered the investment performance of the Company and the For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the capability and resources of the Investment Manager to deliver UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these satisfactory investment performance.
They also considered the provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being length of the notice period of the investment management an externally managed investment company.
The Company has contract and the fees payable to the Investment Manager, therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
together with the standard of the other services provided.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 21 Report of the Directors continued Principle A.
1.2 of the AIC Code recommends that Boards appoint a the matters over which the Investment Manager has authority and Senior Independent Director SID.
In view of the Boards nonthe limits beyond which Board approval must be sought.
All other executive nature and having separate Chairs of the Board and matters, including strategy, investment and dividend policies, Audit Committee, the Board considers it is not appropriate for a gearing, and corporate governance procedures, are reserved for SID to be appointed.
6.2 of the AIC Code recommends the approval of the Board of Directors.
The Board currently meets that FTSE 350 Companies be externally facilitated at least every at least quarterly and receives full information on the Companys three years.
The Board believes that given the size of the Board, investment performance, assets, liabilities and other relevant the recent Board changes and its non executive nature an external information in advance of Board meetings.
facilitation was not required in 2012: however, this matter will be The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr Christopher Fish, operates considered in 2013. within clearly defined written terms of reference which are The Board consists solely of non-executive Directors of which available on request and comprises all of the Directors other than Mr Christopher Hill is Chairman.
All Directors, other than Mr John Mr John Robertson.
The duties of the Audit Committee in Robertson, are considered by the Board to be independent, with discharging its responsibilities include reviewing the Annual and any potential conflicts considered at each Board meeting with Interim Accounts, the system of internal controls and the terms of reference to the AIC Code.
The Boards policy on tenure is that appointment of the auditor together with its remuneration.
continuity and experience are considered to add significantly to The Audit Committee is also the forum through which the auditor the strength of the Board and, as all Directors will be subject to rereports to the Board of Directors and meets at least twice a year.
election on an annual basis, it is not appropriate for the Board to The objectivity of the auditor is reviewed by the Audit Committee have a limit on the overall length of service of any of the which also reviews the terms under which the external auditor is Companys Directors, including the Chairman.
appointed to perform non-audit services.
The objectivity and The Company does not have a Nominations or Remuneration independence of the auditor is safeguarded by obtaining Committee with the Board as a whole being responsible for the assurances from the auditor that adequate policies and appointment of any new Director and Board remuneration levels.
procedures exist within its firm to ensure the firm and its staff are In the year, the Board undertook a thorough and open process to independent of the Company by reason of family, finance, select a new Director involving professional recruitment employment, investment and business relationships other than in consultants and Board interviews.
The criteria for selection took the normal course of the business and enforcing a policy into account the need for the Board to have a balance of skills, concerning the provision of non-audit services by the auditor experience, diversity, independence and knowledge of the which governs the types of work which are excluded.
The search process concluded with the appointment of Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its cost Mr McCullagh on 1 February 2013. effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors, with particular regard to non-audit fees.
Such fees New Directors receive an induction from the Investment Manager amounted to 60,400 2011: 181,500 for the year ended and Secretary on joining the Board and all Directors receive other 31 December 2012 and related principally to costs in connection relevant training as necessary.
with taxation advisory services for the Company and Group.
The Company has no executive Directors or employees.
A Notwithstanding such services the Audit Committee considers management agreement between the Company and its Ernst & Young LLP to be independent given the safeguards put in Investment Manager, Ignis Investment Services Limited, sets out place by Ernst & Young LLP to ensure independence.
Director Meetings Attendance Summary Board of Directors Audit Committee Management Engagement Committee Valuation Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended C Hill 44 33 11 11 K Dorrian 4 4 3 3 1 1 1 1 C Fish 44 33 11 11 J Robertson 4 4 n a n a n a n a 1 1 A Wilson 4 4 3 3 1 1 1 1 The table above sets out the number of Board and Committee meetings all held in Guernsey during the year and the number attended by each Director.
In addition to the above, there were 19 ad hoc meetings held during the year.
The Management Engagement Committee comprises the full Board other than Mr John Robertson and reviews the appropriateness of the continued appointment of the Investment Manager, together with the terms and conditions thereof, on a regular basis.
The Board as a whole monitors the performance of other service providers.
22 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED During the year the performance of the Board, committees and performance and conducting regular interviews.
In addition the individual Directors were evaluated through an assessment Board has adopted an ethical policy which highlights the need for process, led by the Chairman.
The performance of the Chairman ethical considerations to be considered in the acquisition and was evaluated by the other Directors.
management of both new and existing properties.
Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Company, seek Internal Controls independent professional advice on any matter that concerns The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal them in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company maintains control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has therefore appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance.
established an ongoing process designed to meet the particular needs of the Company in managing the risks to which it is Valuation Committee exposed, consistent with the guidance issued by the Financial The Valuation Committee comprises all of the Directors and is Reporting Council in October 2005.
The process is based chaired by Mr Andrew Wilson.
Representatives from the principally on the Investment Managers existing risk-based Committee will meet the independent external valuers of the approach to internal control whereby a risk matrix is created that Company at least once a year and report back to the Board on the identifies the key functions carried out by the Investment Manager process for arriving at independent valuations and on any issues and other service providers, the individual activities undertaken that arise in relation to this process.
within those functions, the risks associated with each activity and the controls employed to minimise those risks.
A residual risk Going Concern rating is then applied.
The risk matrix is regularly updated and the The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to Board is provided with regular reports highlighting all material affect its future development, performance and position are set out changes to the risk ratings and confirmation of the action which in the Investment Policy and the Risk Uncertainties review on page has been, or is being, taken.
A formal annual review of these 19.
In addition, Note 16 to the financial statements includes the procedures is carried out by the Board and includes consideration Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its of ISAE 3402 formerly SAS70 and similar reports issued by the capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its Investment Manager and other service providers.
financial instruments: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Internal control procedures have been in place throughout the At both the Company and Group levels comprehensive going period and up to the date of approval of this Report, and the Board concern assessments have been performed.
The Board has is satisfied with their effectiveness.
These procedures are designed followed the Financial Reporting Councils Going Concern and to manage rather than eliminate risk and, by their nature, can only Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material when performing their going concern assessments.
At each Board meeting the Board monitors the investment performance of the Company in comparison to its The assessments performed include review of the valuation and stated objective and against comparable companies.
The Board liquidity of investments as at the balance sheet date and of also reviews the Companys activities since the previous Board solvency and cash flow projections under both normal and meeting to ensure that the Investment Manager adheres to the stressed conditions.
In addition the Company and Group has no agreed investment policy and approved investment guidelines and, contingent liabilities.
if necessary, approves changes to such policy and guidelines.
In addition, at each Board meeting, the Board receives reports from Having thoroughly considered the going concern assessment the the Secretary in respect of compliance matters and duties Board has concluded that there are no material uncertainties that performed on behalf of the Company.
may cast significant doubt about the Company and Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors have a reasonable The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function.
The expectation that the Company and Group has adequate resources Board has decided that the systems and procedures employed by to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, the Investment Manager and the Secretary, including their internal thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of audit functions and the work carried out by the Companys external accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
auditors, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards shareholders investments and Environmental & Ethical Policy the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function The Investment Manager acquires, develops and manages specific to the Company is therefore considered unnecessary.
properties on behalf of the Company.
It is recognised that these activities have both direct and indirect environmental impacts.
Relations with Shareholders The Board has endorsed the Investment Managers own The Company places great importance on communication with its environmental policy, which is to work in partnership with shareholders and welcomes the views of shareholders.
The contractors, suppliers, tenants and consultants to minimise those Manager and Broker of the Company meet existing and potential impacts, seeking continuous improvements in environmental shareholders on a regular basis and the Board receives regular UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 23 Report of the Directors continued reports on the views of shareholders from these meetings.
In The Company may retain any shares bought back as Treasury addition the Chairman and other Directors are available to meet Shares for future re-issue and re-sale, or transfer, or may cancel shareholders and analysts if required.
The Annual General Meeting any such shares.
During the period when the Company holds of the Company provides a forum, both formal and informal, for shares as Treasury Shares, the rights and obligations in respect of shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and those shares may not be exercised or enforced by or against the Investment Manager of the Company.
The maximum number of shares that can be held as Treasury Shares by the Company is 10 per cent of the aggregate Annual General Meeting nominal value of all issued Ordinary Shares.
Ordinary Shares held as Treasury Shares will only be re-issued, re-sold, or transferred at Among the resolutions being put at the Annual General Meeting prices which are not less than the published net asset value of an of the Company to be held on 19 June 2013, the following Ordinary Share.
It is the intention of Directors that the share buy back authority will Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights be used to purchase Ordinary Shares, subject to the income and Resolution 10 gives the Directors, for the period until the cash flow requirements of the Company, if the share price of an conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2014 or, if earlier, on Ordinary Share is more than 5 per cent below the published net the expiry of 15 months from the passing of resolution 10, the asset value for a continuous period of 90 dealing days or more.
In necessary authority either to allot securities or sell shares held in the event that such discount is more than 5 per cent for 90 Treasury, otherwise than to existing shareholders on a pro-rata dealing days or more, following the second anniversary of the basis, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 30,969,850.
This is Companys most recent continuation vote, 10 July 2009, the equivalent to approximately 10 per cent of the issued ordinary Directors will convene an Extraordinary General Meeting to be share capital of the Company as at 20 March 2013 including held within three months to consider an ordinary resolution for the Treasury Shares.
If this continuation resolution is not passed, the Directors will convene a further extraordinary general The Directors will allot new shares pursuant to this authority only if meeting to be held within six months of the first extraordinary they believe it is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to meeting to consider the winding up of the Company or a do so and in no circumstances would this be done if it resulted in a reconstruction of the Company which offers all Shareholders the dilution to the net asset value per share.
opportunity to realise their investment.
If any such continuation resolution is passed, this discount policy, save in respect of share Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares buy backs, would not apply for a period of two years thereafter.
The current authority of the Board granted to it by shareholders at the 2012 AGM to buy back shares in the Company expires at the Auditors end of AGM to be held in 2013.
The Board intends to renew such Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in authority to buy back shares up to 14.99 per cent of the number office as auditors and a resolution proposing their re-appointment of Ordinary Shares in issue.
This special resolution, if approved, will will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
enable the Company to buy back up to 179,482,593 shares based on the current number of shares in issue excluding Treasury So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit Shares.
Any buy back of Ordinary Shares will be made subject to information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware, and each Guernsey law and within guidelines established from time to time has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director to by the Board, which will take into account the income and cash make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to flow requirements of the Company, and the making and timing of establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
any buy backs will be at the absolute discretion of the Board.
Recommendation Purchases of Ordinary Shares will only be made through the The Directors believe that the resolutions to be proposed at the market for cash at prices below the prevailing published net asset Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company value of an Ordinary Share as last calculated, where the Directors and its shareholders as a whole, and recommend that believe such purchases will enhance shareholder value.
Such shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors purchases will also only be made in accordance with the rules of intend to do in respect of all their own beneficial shareholdings.
the UK Listing Authority which provide that the price to be paid must not be more than the higher of i five per cent above the Approved by the Board on 20 March 2013. average of the middle market quotations for the Ordinary Shares for the five business days before the purchase is made and ii the Christopher M. W. Hill higher of the last independent trade and the highest current Director independent bid on the London Stock Exchange.
The minimum price exclusive of expenses that may be paid is 25 pence a share.
Christopher Fish Director 24 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED
