Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 11 Our strategy Moving forward together.
Our business model is underpinned by our long-term strategic objectives, which are in turn supported by a series of medium-term focus areas and key actions at both group and business line level.
Our consistent strategicobjectives In order to deliver long-term success, we continueto focus on seven strategic objectives.
Improving financial returns by leveraging operational efficiency We have very strong offerings in Workwear, Facility includingmats, washroom and cleanroom and in UK Flat The highest returns are available where we have density and Linen.
We believe the opportunities for volume growth and scale.
Our experienced business teams drive for efficiency winning new contracts remain in the medium and longer andto be the lowest cost provider in their markets.
By further term, and there are significant virgin market opportunities leveraging operational efficiency and widening the application within our European markets.
of best practice, we will be able to achieve high single-digit earning per share EPS growth and a progressive dividend policy.
Maintaining health and safety as a priority We are a cash generative business with a solid capital structure.
We believe there is scope for improved margins The board and senior management prioritise the importance andreturns.
Our historic five-year cash conversion range of maintaining a safe and healthy working environment was80% to 120%, and we are targeting at least 100% over for allof our employees and those others who work with us.
We are targeting double-digit return on Thenumber of incidents reported remains relatively low invested capital ROIC overthe medium term.
butwe continue to strive for the highest standards.
Maintaining a motivated workforce driven by an experienced management team We believe in maintaining a sound financial position and working with our key banking relationships and other sources The responsibility for staff training and recruitment lies with of finance, in particular our private placement investors.
our business line unit management but we are also developing Themajority of our financing requirements are available group-wide programmes to support this.
We focus on beyond 2016 at fixed rates of 5.1%.
We operate well within induction training at all levels, individual development plans ourfinancial covenants net debt to EBITDA 3x: EBITDA and, where appropriate, cross-border transfers.
Reducing our impact on the environment We understand the risks and opportunities associated with the environmental impact of our operations.
Areas of particular importance to us include water use, energy consumption including our CO2 emissions, transport, and the use and disposal of detergents.
See how our key performance indicators are measuring progress againstour strategic objectives Pages 1617 See how we are managing the risks to achieve our strategic objectives Pages 3238 Berendsen plc Report and 12 Accounts 2012 Our strategy Our targets and Our key actions areasof focus Following a strategic review in 2010, To achieve our objectives and meet our weidentified a series of targets and have targets, we have identified six key actions focused the business into two categories: at group level and five at business line level.
Core Growth and Manage for Value.
Weareconcentrating on these to achievegrowth in the medium term.
Across the group: k k Realise full potential in areas of existing core Focus on sales effectiveness competence within existing markets k Move to business line structure k Seek expansion into new higher-growth k Actively manage our portfolio markets medium term k Develop our expansion consolidation k Sustain organic revenue growth rates of GDP strategies 1%-2% pa k Improve capital efficiency k Cash conversion of at least 100% and post-tax k Promote a one-company vision ROIC in double-digits Read more about our progress: k Achieve underlying EPS growth in high Pages 1315 single-digit k Pursue progressive dividend policy Within business lines: k Accelerate top-line growth in core businesslines k Improve cash deliveries k Leverage operational efficiency and widen application of best practice k Improve support from shared services k Develop our expansion consolidation strategies Read more about our progress: Pages 1315 and 2231 Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 13 Over the next few Implementation pages Chief Executive ofourkey actions Below we set out a summary of the progress Officer Peter Ventress made on the implementation of activities looks back on a year related to the six key actions that will support the achievement of our objectives.
ofsignificant progress interms of delivering Short term on our strategy, and Group outlines our priorities Name change Group-wide capital efficiency review for the year ahead Realignment of organisation and management in place Business lines Building of sales and business development capabilities Remuneration systems tied to strategic targets and appropriately rewarding different levels of achievement Clear examples of faster execution and delivery of results Changed priorities in manage for value businesses Improved capital efficiency showing through in cash flow Medium term Group More integrated group with strong interaction between constituents First businesses established in new developing countries Business lines Market leadership in core business areas in key European markets Organic growth of GDP 1%-2% pa Underlying EPS growth: targeting high single-digit % growth ROIC achieving double-digits post-tax Long term Group Pool of strong management across the group with identified senior succession Business lines Clear leader in European Textile Services with a targeted footprint outside Europe Sales growth momentum at sustainable returns High performance sales organisation supported by strong operational base Completed In progress
