Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 09 Our marketplace Well positioned.
Understanding the business environment and the market trends iskey to our success.
Below we set out a summary of the business environment in which we operate: our position in the market: market trends: and opportunities for growth.
Market characteristics Our position Opportunities for growth in the marketplace Our business provides service solutions Looking ahead, although growth is likely to source, clean and maintain the textiles to remain moderate and subject to the Our business is a focused European that our customers need to keep their fallout of the Eurozone crisis, we see textileservice business with leading businesses running.
In many cases, these significant opportunities in our strong positions in most of the countries solutions are non-core to their activities, offerings in Workwear, Facility and UK inwhich we operate.
and they turn to us for textile rental Flat Linen.
Our success will be enabled We are the market leaderin Denmark, services.
Across Europe, the market for and supported by our business model Sweden and Norway.
We also have a such services is estimated at10.7 billion based on a business line structure and leading position in the workwear and per year as shown in the graph below.
our continued emphasis on four further industrial wipers market inthe keygroup actions: focus on sales Netherlands.
InGermany, we have a effectiveness: improvement in capital The competitive landscape strong position in the hospital and efficiency: active management of our nursing home sectorand are targeting portfolio: and the development of our Our markets across Europe are increased market share in workwear.
characterised by both a small number ofmajor players including Berendsen In addition, we have established While the highest returns are available operations in the emerging markets which operate across national where we have density and scale, there ofPoland, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia boundaries and niche operators who are good market opportunities both compete inspecic marketplaces.
within and beyond European markets.
We expect our core geographies will In the UK we are leading the supply of drive the group forward, but anticipate textile rental and laundering services.
It is that the emerging markets will play also a major provider of clinical products European textile rental market anincreasingly important role.
and services to the healthcare sector, both in the UK and elsewhere in Europe.
Workwear There is an increasing need for Market trends organisations to ensure the hygiene andprotection of their personnel: to the The market experiences a continued importance given to the employees increase in the outsourcing of textile 3,360m 2,400m image: and to the increase in outsourcing Workwear Hotels and services by organisations seeking restaurants non-core operations which leads to toachieve efficiency gains in their anincrease of the Workwear market.
This trend is furtheraccelerated by companies Facility merging to become global players The general outsourcing trend in the withcentralised sourcing processes market as well as the stricter hygiene andby some companies expanding legislation is leading to a consistent intonew geographic territories.
2,620m 1,260m increase of the Facility market.
Healthcare Washroom services In addition, the introduction of greater hygiene-related regulation coupled with UK Flat Linen greater awareness of the importance of New hotel build continued in 2012 and more hygiene, resource efficiency and will be opened in 2013 in the UK.
Hotel environmental responsibility among construction remains healthy with further many organisations has expanded the new hotels opening throughout 2013 and market for our services.
Additionally, the closure ofNHS laundries in 2012 and further closures in 2013 1,040m Dust control mats, could leadto a potential increase in revenue mops and wipers available to the private sector operators.
Read more detail: Source: Workwear: Facility: UK Flat Linen: ETSA 2011 Survey Page 2223 Page 2427 Page 2829 Berendsen plc Report and 10 Accounts 2012 Strategy and performance In this section: 11 Our strategy 14 Chief Executive Officers review 16 Key performance indicators 18 Financial review
