Berendsen plc Report and 08 Accounts 2012 Our business enablers A broad mix of attributes.
We have a strong business model, which we set out on pages 6to7.
Below we demonstrate the attributes we have as a company to maximise on the opportunities this provides.
Our business teams continually drive for Experience and expertise Scale and location efficiency using our scale, investment Our experienced management teams Investment in sales and distribution and and experience.
We believe in investing understand their customers, markets the capital needed to make investments in experienced management that is and their service operations.
They are in production plant and textiles provide capable of managing the detail of our commercially focused in order to capture barriers to entry against those looking to industry.
We also continue to innovate the longer term opportunities for organic enter established markets and develop and improve our customer service, growth.
Our sales teams understand the scale needed to deliver the higher moving the focus from product supply how to translate the value of our service margins and returns.
Our well invested to delivering service solutions.
Service into a sales proposition based on peace capital base and breadth of contract quality is an essential component of both of mind.
Over our many years of portfolio underpins the returns we seek winning and retaining contracts with experience of these markets we have from the business.
significant benefits arising from a stable captured, documented and trained our contract base.
As a market leader we are Our footprint places us close to the sales people in the disciplines needed focused on constantly building our major centres of commercial activity tobe effective.
reputation of trust to our existing and inour markets.
This is important in our prospective customers.
A key objective of our move to a business where management of the business line structure is to drive further distribution and service responsiveness focus on the support, training, coaching tend to be optimised within a radius of Innovation and management of our sales forces to 100km around a plant.
This is a business where the most deliver outstanding results.
By organising We believe that it is important to build effective changes come in incremental along business lines we can differentiate market leading positions as this provides how we manage our sales effort, aligning steps.
These are founded in the scale for our operations and creates experience and expertise discussed the products we supply, our service theopportunity to win new business concepts and our sales models for above.
Innovation is at every level of our atattractive margins and to deliver operations.
We are an organisation that maximum delivery.
thebenefits of bolt-on acquisitions thrives on finding solutions to our own For Workwear and Facility customers, ofwhat are typically owner-managed and our customers business needs.
our service propositions are strong, businesses.
We believe that attractive We are able to use our financial butthey do need to be communicated returns can be delivered from the right strengthto invest resources to inthe right way by a well trained and opportunities toinvest in bolt-on deliverthe potential for innovation motivated sales force as these services acquisitions where wecan leverage thatdifferentiates the service to our are important but not strategic to our ourmarket leading position and scale customers.
This may be in building customer operations.
For the larger todeliver higher levelsof operational strong relationships with suppliers contracts, peace of mind develops from efficiency to the acquisitions that we todirect the product development relationship and trust in the security of have made.
As a leader in our markets, weneed or leveraging our customer supply: if you are a hotel or hospital, you we have the appropriate management knowledge in IT solutions which plays cannot operate without having clean contacts andcan demonstrate the anincreasingly important part in our linen available.
processes, expertise and financial communication with customers.
resources to deliver these transactions.
We provide them with ease of access toour service but also management information to better understand their own activities.
We have invested in our core operating systems in recent years.
