Berendsen plc Report and 04 Accounts 2012 Business overview A focused organisation.
We deliver textile services through the following businesslines Our structure focuses on our core growth areas: Workwear: Facility, which includes our mats, washroom and cleanroom services: and UK Flat Linen, which includes our hotels and healthcare services.
At the same time, we have a different waytomanage our Flat Linen business outside the UK, and ourClinical Solutions and Decontamination businesses in order tomaximise value across the group.
Workwear Facility UK Flat Linen 29% 22% 20% of group revenue of group revenue of group revenue 288.0m 212.8m 196.7m Revenue Revenue Revenue 51.2m 54.1m 26.2m Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating profit Workwear Mats Hotels We rent, launder, maintain and deliver workwear We provide oor protection mats for commercial We are a leading supplier of rental linen and toa wide range of private and public organisations users, reducing the dirt and moisture brought into laundering services to the hospitality sector, where across Europe.
Our service meets the needs of their premises and delivering a saving on overall our customers depend on us to deliver great customers in many sectors, allowing them to cleaning costs.
In addition to hotel groups and focuson their core business while we handle independent hotels, we also supply restaurants, Operating business units: theirworkwear requirements.
holiday parks, educational and training Czech Republic: Denmark: Estonia: Latvia: establishments, contract accommodation Operating business units: Lithuania: Netherlands: Norway: Poland: Sweden.
Denmark: Finland: Germany: Netherlands: Sweden:UK.
We enable commercial washrooms to achieve the highest standards of hygiene via a comprehensive range of market-leading products and services.
Healthcare We are the partner of choice for public and private Operating business units: sector healthcare organisations looking for high Denmark: Latvia: Netherlands: Norway: Sweden.
quality rental linen and textile services.
Our solutions encompass a dedicated service for hospitals, including a complete range of reusable Cleanroom scrub suits, as well as a linen service that delivers We deliver and service our cleanroom customers both patient comfort and protection.
with the highest expertise on a wide range of cleanroom products.
They rely on our expert Operating countries: knowledge to maintain the highest of hygiene UK.
standards where they are most needed.
Our cleanroom business operates across many industries, including high-tech companies, universities and research facilities, pharmaceutical and medical device companies, as well as foodbusinesses.
Operating business units: Denmark: Netherlands: Sweden: Germany.
Read more on Workwear: Read more on Facility: Read more on UK Flat Linen: Pages 2223 Pages 2427 Pages 2829 Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 05 and two operating brands.
Our group delivers products and services through two of oursectors best-known and respected operating brands: Berendsen and Sunlight.
Both brands have a proud history builton a track record of innovation, performance, value andcustomer satisfaction.
Manage Berendsen Sunlight for value Flat Linen outside UK We have a strong and in some cases marketleading presence in several non-UK Hotel and Healthcare markets, where we provide high qualityrental linen and laundering services.
Operating countries: Austria: Denmark: Germany: Ireland: Sweden.
22% of group revenue 218.0m Revenue Berendsen is a market leader in Sunlight is the UKs leading supplier Denmark, Sweden and Norway.
oftextile rental and laundering 21.0m Adjusted operating profit Ithasaleading position in the workwear servicesand a major provider of andindustrial-wipers market in the clinicalproducts and services to the Clinical Solutions and Decontamination Netherlands, a strong position in the healthcare industry in the UK and We deliver a complete solution to theatres across German hospital and nursing home overseas.
The company operates the UK Healthcare market.
Our strengths include market and is targeting an increase of through three main divisions with reusable and single use surgical drapes and gowns, market share in workwear in Germany.
almost8,600 employees at over procedure packs and trays, as well as decontamination services.
Ithas established operations in the 50service centres.
emerging markets of Poland, Latvia, Operating countries: Lithuania, Estonia and Czech Republic.
Berendsen has over 6,300 employees at 77 service centres in 13 countries.
7% of group revenue 69.6m Group revenue 2.9m Adjusted operating profit Read more on Manage for value: Pages 3031
