Berendsen plc Report and 80 Accounts 2012 Directors report The Directors report of the group for The information that fulfils these Changes in composition theyear ended 31 December 2012 requirements can be found on the ofthegroup issetout on pages 80 to 84 inclusive following pages of this Annual Report The group acquired a number of textile andincludes the sections of the asreferenced below: maintenance businesses during the year, AnnualReport referred to in these k the development and performance the two largest being Decontam in pages.
The Directors report has been ofthe groups business during the Germany and the ISS Washroom drawn up and presented in accordance year, see pages 2 and 3, 10 to 17 and business in the Netherlands.
The total with, and in reliance upon, applicable 22 to31: consideration including net financial English company law and the liabilities liabilities assumed and deferred ofthe directors in connection with that k the position of the groups business consideration payable for the report shall be subject to the limitations atthe end of the year, see pages acquisitions was 38.8 million and restrictions provided by such law.
The directors present their Annual k main trends and factors likely to affect Details of the fair value of net assets Report and audited financial statements the future development, performance acquired and consideration paid for the year ended 31 December 2012. and position of the group, see pages aresetout in note 25 to the 22 to 31: This Annual Report contains financialstatements.
These k key performance indicators, see pages forward-looking statements are not 16 and 17: Directors guarantees of future performance.
k a description of the principal risks Rather they are based on current views The current directors of the company, anduncertainties facing the group, and assumptions and involve known including their biographical details, are see pages 32 to 38: andunknown risks, uncertainties and set out on pages 52 and 53.
Each served other factors that may cause actual k environmental matters and policy, throughout the year ended 31December results todiffer from any future results or including the impact of the groups 2012 with the exception ofChristopher developments expressed or implied from business on the environment, see Kemball who resigned from the board on the forward-looking statements.
Each pages 47 and 48: 30 April 2012 and Lucy Dimes who was forward-looking statement speaksonly appointed to the board on 1 June 2012. k employee matters and policy, as of the date of the particular statement.
seepages 39 to 42: Following Christopher Kemballs resignation Iain Ferguson was appointed k social and community issues and Principal activity Chairman with effect from 26 April 2012. policy, see page 48: and The principal activity of Berendsen plc In accordance with The UK Corporate k information about persons with whom and its subsidiary undertakings is the Governance Code all directors will retire the company has contractual or other laundering and maintenance of textiles.
at the 2013 Annual General Meeting and, arrangements which are essential Further information on the services being eligible, offer themselves for tothe business of the company, provided is outlined on page 4 of re-election.
Lucy Dimes has been seepages 23, 26 and 29. theAnnual Report.
Berendsen plc is appointed to the board as a director apublic limited company incorporated since the last Annual General Meeting inEngland and Wales and domiciled and will offer herself for election by Branches outside the inthe UK.
Its registered office is theshareholders.
Details of the number of board and The group has branches in Sweden committee meetings held during the andChina.
Business review year and attendance by individual directors are included in the Corporate The UK Companies Act 2006 requires Results and dividends governance statement on page 57. the company to set out in this report The financial statements set out the afair review of the business of the Details of the directors remuneration groupduring the financial year results of the group for the year ended and service contracts and their 31December 2012 which are shown ended31December 2012 including interestsin the shares of the company adescription of the principal risks and onpage 88.
The directors recommend a are included in the Report on directors final dividend of 17.5 pence per ordinary uncertainties facing the group and an remuneration which is set out on analysis of the position of the groups share which, together with the interim pages69 to 79. dividend of 8 pence per ordinary share business at the end of the financial year, known as an Enhanced paid in October 2012, makes a total dividend for the year of 25.5 pence 2011: BusinessReview.
Subject to approval by shareholders ofthe recommended final dividend, the dividend award to shareholders for 2012 will total 43.1 million.
If approved, the company will pay the final dividend on 3May 2013 to shareholders on the register at 12 April 2013.
Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 81 As at 31 December 2012, the authority Directors indemnity Authority to allot shares granted to the company for the purchase Article 133 of the companys Articles A resolution will be proposed to of up to 17,181,770 ordinary shares in the ofAssociation the Articles provides, authorise the directors to allot shares company remained in force and unused.
among other things that, insofar as upto approximately two-thirds of the Details of the movements in the permitted by law, every director of the companys issued ordinary share capital yearareset out in note 20 to the company or any associated company in accordance with guidelines issued financialstatements.
may be indemnified by the company bythe ABI on 31 December 2012.
additional one-third authority, above the one-third authority which can be used Rights and obligations On 30 June 2006 and 30 April 2007, the for general purposes, may only be used company executed deed polls foreach attaching to shares for rights issues.
The relevant resolution of the then and all future Chairmen, Subject to applicable statutes in this number 12 is set out in full in the notice executive and non-executive directors Section the Companies Acts, any of Annual General Meeting.
Noissue will ofthe company and its wholly-owned resolution passed by the company be made which would effectively alter subsidiaries respectively.
The indemnities underthe Companies Acts and other the control of the company without the granted under these deed polls constitute shareholders rights, shares may be prior approval ofshareholders in general qualifying third party indemnity issued with such rights and restrictions meeting.
Thedirectors have no present provisions as defined by Section 234 as the company may by ordinary intention of exercising this authority.
ofthe Companies Act 2006 and were resolution decide, or if there is no inforce during the financial year and suchresolution or so far as it does not remained so at the date of the approval Purchase of own shares make specific provision as the board of the financial statements.
Subject to the Articles, the In certain circumstances, it may be The board believes that it is in the Companies Acts and other shareholders advantageous for the company to bestinterests of the group to provide rights, unissued shares are at the purchase its own shares.
A special these indemnities to its directors to disposal of the board.
resolution number 13 will be proposed ensure that it attracts and retains high at the Annual General Meeting on calibre directors through competitive 25April 2013 to seek authority from Variation of rights terms of employment in line with shareholders to do so, such authority themarket.
Subject to the Companies Acts, rights toexpire on the dateof the next attached to any class of shares may be following Annual General Meeting or In addition, the company has arranged varied with the written consent of the adate 15 months from the date of the appropriate insurance cover in respect holders of not less than three-fourths resolution, whichever is the earlier.
oflegal action against its directors innominal value of the issued shares andofficers.
The resolution specifies the maximum ofthat class calculated excluding any number of shares which may be shares held as treasury shares, or with acquired being 10% of the companys Share capital and control the sanction of a special resolution issued share capital, and the maximum passed at a separate general meeting Pursuant to Section 992 of the and minimum prices at which they may ofthe holders of those shares.
At every Companies Act 2006, which implements be purchased.
such separate general meeting except the EU Takeovers Directive, the company an adjourned meeting the quorum shall If the company were to purchase any is required to disclose certain additional be two persons holding or representing ofits own shares, it may consider holding information.
Such disclosures, to the by proxy not less than one-third in them as treasury shares as analternative extent not covered elsewhere in the to cancelling them, subject to the nominal value of the issued shares of the Directors report in particular, the class calculated as excluding any shares authority allowed by resolution number Sections stated to form the business 13, provided that the total number of held as treasury shares.
At an adjourned review above, include the information meeting, the quorum shall be one person treasury shares does not at any one time set out in the paragraphs below.
entitled to vote and who holds shares of exceed 10% ofthe companys issued the class, or his or her proxy.
Companies are permitted to hold sharespurchased on the market Share capital The rights conferred upon the holders in treasury with a view to possible ofany shares shall not, unless otherwise As at 28 February 2013, the companys disposalor transfer at a future date, expressly provided in the rights attaching issued share capital consisted of asanalternative to cancelling them.
to those shares, be deemed to be varied 51,696,055 divided into 172,320,184 by the creation or issue of further shares This would allow the company to ordinary shares of 30pence each no ranking pari passu with them.
dispose of or transfer the shares held shares are held in treasury.
intreasury quickly and cost-effectively During the 12 months to 31 December and would provide the company with 2012, 484,764 ordinary shares of Securities carrying additional flexibility in the management 30pence each in the company were specialrights of its capital base.
The share price on issued in satisfaction of the exercise 31December 2012 was 592.5 pence: No person holds securities in the ofemployee share options under thecompany currently holds no shares company carrying special rights with theterms of the Davis Service Group intreasury.
regard to control of the company.
1998 Share Option Plan, the Davis Service Group Savings Related Share Option Scheme and the Berendsen Sharesave Plan 2006 for a total consideration of 1,788,752.
Berendsen plc Report and 82 Accounts 2012 Directors report The board is committed to managing the beenserved with a restriction notice Rights under the employee companys capital effectively and the asdefined in the Articles after share scheme directors keep under review the option failuretoprovide the company with As at 31 December 2012, Appleby of buying back the companys shares.
information concerning interests in Trust Jersey Limited, as trustee of Other investment opportunities, thoseshares required to be provided theBerendsen Employee Benefit Trust, appropriate gearing levels and the overall under the Companies Acts.
held 2,921,735 shares in trust for the position of the company will betaken The company is not aware of any benefit of the executive directors and into account before deciding upon this agreements between holders employees of the group.
The directors will only ofsecurities that may result in waiver is in place in respect of Applebys purchase the companys shares on the restrictionson voting rights.
shareholding and Appleby currently market if they believe it is in the best abstains from voting the shares but interests of shareholders generally.
itmay, upon the recommendation of Dividends and thecompany, accept or reject any offer otherdistributions Restrictions on transfer of relating to the shares in any way it sees securities in the company The company may by ordinary resolution fit, without incurring any liability and from time to time declare dividends not without being required to give reasons There are no restrictions on the transfer exceeding the amount recommended for its decision.
In exercising its trustee of securities in the company, except: bythe board.
Subject tothe Companies powers, Appleby may take all or any k that certain restrictions may from time Acts, the board may pay interim ofthe following matters into account: to time be imposed by laws dividends, and also any fixed rate k the long-term interests andregulations for example, dividend, whenever the financial position ofbeneficiaries: insidertrading laws : and of the company, in the opinion of the board, justifies its payment.
Ifthedirectors k the interests of beneficiaries k pursuant to the Listing Rules of act in good faith, they willnot be liable otherthan financial interests: theFinancial Services Authority for any loss that any shareholders may orthe Financial Conduct Authority, as k the interests of beneficiaries in their suffer because a lawful dividend has applicable whereby certain capacity as employees or former been paid on other shares which rank employees of the company require employees or their dependants: equally with or behind their shares.
the approval of the company to deal k the interests of persons whether in the companys ordinary shares.
The board may withhold payment ornot identified who may become ofallor any part of any dividends The company is not aware of any beneficiaries in the future: and orother moneys payable in respect agreements between holders of ofthe companys shares from a k considerations of a local, moral, securities that may result in restrictions personwith at least a 0.25% interest ethical, environmental or social nature.
on the transfer of securities.
asdefined in the Articles if such a person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after Voting failure to provide the company with Every member and every duly appointed information concerning interests in proxy present at a general meeting or thoseshares required to be provided class meeting has, upon ashow of hands, under the Companies Acts.
one vote and every member present in person or by proxy has, upon a poll, one vote for every share held by him or her.
Substantial shareholdings Inthe case of joint holders of a share, The table below shows the holdings thevote of the senior who tenders a inthe companys issued share capital vote, whether in person or by proxy, which had been notified to the company shallbe accepted tothe exclusion of pursuant to the Financial Services thevotes of the other joint holder s Authoritys or, as applicable, the and, forthis purpose, seniority shall be Financial Conduct Authoritys determined by the order in which the Disclosureand Transparency Rules: names stand in the register in respect 31 December 2012 28 February 2013 ofthe joint holding.
of Direct shares Direct shares indirect m % Indirect m % Restrictions on voting Silchester International No member shall be entitled to vote Investors Limited Direct 29.20 16.98 Direct 29.20 16.98 atany general meeting or class meeting Prudential plc Direct 18.89 10.99 Direct 18.89 10.99 in respect of any share held by him or Sanderson herif any call or other sum then payable Asset by him or her in respect of that share Management Limited Direct 10.37 6.03 Direct 10.37 6.03 remains unpaid or if a member has Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 83 The company may by special resolution Amendment of Articles Significant agreements remove any director before the ofAssociation There are a number of agreements expiration of that directors period of thattake effect, alter or terminate upon Unless expressly specified to the office.
The office of a director shall be achange of control of the company, contrary in the Articles, the Articles vacated if: i that director resigns or such as commercial contracts, bank maybe amended by a special resolution offers to resign and the board resolve loanagreements, property lease of the companys shareholders.
toaccept such offer: ii that directors arrangements, and employees share resignation is requested by all of the plans.
None of these are deemed to other directors and all of the other Appointment and replacement besignificant in terms of their potential directors are not less than three in ofdirectors impact on the business of the group as number: iii that director is or has been awhole except for the US$250 million The directors shall be not less than suffering from mental ill-health and the US Private Placement Note Purchase twoand there shall be a maximum board resolves that such directors office Agreement dated 25 May 2006, the of12directors.
be vacated: iv that director is absent US$259 million and 25 million US without the permission of the board The company may by ordinary resolution Private Placement Note Purchase from meetings of the board whether vary the minimum and ormaximum Agreement dated 24 November 2009 ornot an alternate director appointed number of directors.
Under the Articles, and the 535 million Multicurrency byhim attends for six consecutive a director shall notbe required to hold Revolving Credit Facility agreed on months and the board resolves that any shares inthecompany.
These agreements contain suchdirectors office is vacated: v may be appointed by the company by change of control provisions which, thatdirector becomes bankrupt or ordinary resolution or by the board.
iftriggered, could limit future utilisations, compounds with his or her creditors Adirector appointed by the board holds require the repayment of existing generally: vi that director is prohibited office only until the next following utilisations or lead to a renegotiation by a law from being a director: vii that Annual General Meeting of the company ofterms.
director ceases to be a director by virtue and isthen eligible for reappointment.
of the Companies Acts: or viii that Copies of executive directors service Theboard or any committee authorised director is removed from office pursuant contracts are available to shareholders by the board may from time to time to the companys Articles.
for inspection at the companys appoint one or more directors to hold registered office and at theAnnual any employment or executive office for General Meeting.
Further details on such period and on such terms as they Powers of the directors directors service contracts are included may determine and may also revoke Subject to the Articles, the Companies in the Report on directors remuneration orterminate any such appointment.
Acts and any directions given by the which is set out on pages 69 to 79.
At every Annual General Meeting of the company by special resolution, the company any of the directors who have business of the company will be Political and been appointed by the board since the managed by the board who may charitabledonations last Annual General Meeting shall retire exercise all the powers of the company, from office and may offer themselves for whether relating to the management Financial contributions to a range reappointment by the members.
In ofthe business of the company or not.
ofcharities and good causes during addition, under the Articles, any of the Inparticular, the board may exercise all theyear amounted to 22,000 directors who held office at the time the powers of the company to borrow 2011:17,152.
These contributions were ofthe two preceding Annual General money, to mortgage or charge any made principally to local charities serving Meetings and who did not retire at either ofitsundertakings, property, assets thecommunities in which the group of them, or who have held officewith the present and future and uncalled operates but also to various childrens company, other than employment or capitaland to issue debentures and and cancer research charities.
Our executive office, for acontinuous period other securities and to give security Christmas donation this year was of nine years or more at the date of the forany debt, liability or obligation madeto Children in Need.
There were meeting, shall retire from office and may ofthecompany or of any third party.
nopolitical donations during the year offer themselves for reappointment by 2011: nil.
However, the board has Directors conflicts of interest agreed, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, that all There are procedures in place to deal ofthe directors wishing to continue with directors conflicts of interest willretire and offer themselves for arisingunder Section 175 Companies re-election by the shareholders at the Act2006 and such procedures have 2013 Annual General Meeting.
operated effectively during the year.
Further details on these procedures are included in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 57 which is deemed, in its entirety, to be included in this Directors report.
Berendsen plc Report and 84 Accounts 2012 Directors report After reviewing the above and Creditor payment policy Going concern makingenquiries, the directors have The groups policy is to agree the terms The groups business activities, together areasonable expectation that the of payment with each of its suppliers with the factors likely to affect its future company and the group have adequate atthe commencement of the trading development, performance and position resources to continue in operational relationship, to ensure suppliers are are set out in the Business review on existence for the foreseeable future.
made aware of the terms of payment pages 2 to 48.
The financial position Accordingly, they continue to adopt and to abide by those terms provided ofthe group, its cash flows, liquidity thegoing concern basis in preparing that the supplier has performed in position and borrowing facilities are theAnnual Report.
accordance with the relevant terms described in the Financial review on andconditions.
We have recently signed pages 18 to 20.
In addition, note 17 to the Directors responsibilities up to the governments new Prompt financial statements includes the groups Payment Code, designed to encourage objectives, policies and processes for The directors responsibilities for the and promote best practice between managing its capital: its financial risk financial statements contained within organisations and their suppliers.
management objectives and policies: this Annual Report and the directors details of its financial instruments and confirmations required under the FSA Trade creditor days of the company, hedging activities: and its exposures to Disclosure and Transparency Rules calculated on an average creditor price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk.
12 are set out on page 85 balance during the year, were 11 days but are deemed to be included in this 2011: 16 days and for thegroups major The group has considerable financial Directors report.
trading companies were 37 days resources together with long-term 2011:33 days.
contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across different Annual General Meeting geographic areas and industries.
Auditors and disclosure Asaconsequence, the directors The notice of the Annual General ofinformation to auditors believethat the group is well placed to Meeting to be held at 11.00 am on manage its business risks successfully.
Thursday 25 April 2013 is being sent The companys auditors, separately to shareholders with this  LLP, have report.
The venue for the meeting indicated their willingness to continue istheRoyal Aeronautical Society, inoffice and a resolution that they may 4Hamilton Place, London W1J 7BQ.
be reappointed will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the board As far as each director is aware, there David Lawler isno relevant audit information of which Company Secretary the companys auditors are unaware.
28 February 2013 Each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director inorder to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors areaware of that information.
