Berendsen plc Report and 28 Accounts 2012 Business line review UK Flat Linen.
Our UK Flat Linen business so called because a large part oftheoffering are the sheets, pillowcases, tableclothes etc.
thatareironed flat cover hotel and healthcare customers wherewehold the market-leading position.
Hotels Market overview Drivers and trends Large hotel groups are attractive customers, as lower unit prices are offset The London Hotel Development Monitor identified that 6,988 new hotel by the larger unit size, economies of volume and reduced seasonality.
bedrooms had opened in London by the end of October 2012, with Onaverage, a large group site equates to seven small independents, another1,329 expected by the year end.
In 2013, a further 3,474 bedrooms whichare characterised by higher transport and service costs, greater are expected to open in London.
Across the United Kingdom, a further seasonality and some in-house capabilities.
Large independents also approximately 5,000 bedrooms are under construction and scheduled offerscale advantages.
Current indications are that the hotel construction pipeline remains healthy with continued new hotel openings expected Sunlight is the UK leader in hotel linen provision and the only truly national throughout 2014. provider, although regional firms unite in associations to compete for national business.
Healthcare Market overview Drivers and trends For the NHS, purchasing of linen and laundry services has been simplified Following the closure of three NHS laundries in 2012, we expect at least byNational Frameworks that set core prices and run mini-competitions afurther three to close in 2013, leading to a potential increase in revenue forthose suppliers eligible for the individual Strategic Health Authority available to private sector operators of approximately 2 million per annum.
This structure has significantly reduced the timelines from the We do not expect significant volume growth through investment in hospital issueof documentation to the implementation of new contracts.
A continuation of the trend for the NHS to outsource to FMproviders is anticipated and we continue to strengthen our relationships Although the business is not seasonal, activity can fall during peak holiday with these organisations.
periods due to a reduction in elective surgery and outpatient appointments.
Shaped for strategic partnerships UK Flat Linen entered a strategic partnership with Compass Group, UK and Ireland, in 2011 thatincludes co-ordinating and sharing the KPIsofboth parties.
Since then, we have consistently delivered a service that exceeds contractual requirements and demonstrate ongoing and sustained improvements.
We are proud that Compass honoured us with their Non-food Supplier 2012 award in recognition ofour commitment.
Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 29 Steve Finch Managing Director, UK Flat Linen In 2012 we have focused on commercial and operating efficiency and this has contributed to the further improvement of our business, positioning us well for thefuture.
Shaped for delivering on promises The Aloft London Excel hotel in the London Performance 2012 2011 Docklands has limited space for linen storage.
Tomeet this challenge, our UK Flat Linen Revenue 196.7m 195.2m team designed a low-tech system using trolley Adjusted bags tocollect and classify soiled linen on each operating profit 26.2m 26.1m floor.
Full bags are continuously replaced by Adjusted empty bags and stored at the despatch bay ready operating margin 13.3% 13.4% for collection and furthermore we provide this Before exceptional items and amortisation service seven days a week.
ofcustomercontracts Healthcare Like-for-like volumes in our group hotel Strategic priorities business were broadly in line with last NHS contracts are typically set for We plan to develop our strategic year with, as expected, the additional aperiod of three to five years, with customer relationships through demand from the Olympics offset by occasionally the possibility of gaining innovation, quality and service to theevents taking place in a normally extension periods of up to two years.
As busy period for this Business Line.
New This is longer than the contract period market leader we also seek to be the contract wins were higher than last year, inthe private sector, which tends to supplier of choice for tenders or new however, and we have yet to see the full benearer three years.
benefit of these in the results.
We are building our capabilities in customer k Growing strategic relationships relationship management and we are Operational highlights k Supplier of choice for encouraged at the level of add-on Revenue and adjusted operating profit newoutsourcing services which are delivering value to our were similar to last year with existing customers.
We are also seeing k Service innovation 196.7million 195.2 million and abroader spread than in recent years 26.2million 26.1 million respectively.
k Managing operational excellence ofnew sales in different parts of the Revenue growth is impacted by the country and to hotels of different sizes.
extra week in 2011, which we referred to Contracts in our first half statement and adjusting for this, underlying revenue was up 2%.
Plans for 2013 Hotels We saw higher levels of growth in the The outlook for our UK Flat Linen A typical contractual agreement lasts for Healthcare business as like-for-like business is for further progress in two or three years and imposes an exit volumes increased 2% in the year and Healthcare, where we expect to benefit penalty on the customer together with wehave won a number of our target from the full year effect of wins in 2012 arequirement to use a set percentage contracts for new outsourcing.
Our and new outsourcing opportunities to ofallocated stock on a weekly basis.
success against competition has been come through.
Our hotel business is Itpermits price increases at unspecified encouraging.
We remain well placed dependent upon a stable economy intervals, typically exercised annually.
tocapture any further outsourcing in through the year but we remain Some larger clients have bespoke terms theHealthcare market, where about strategically well-placed in this market.
aquarter of hospitals in England still operate their own on-premise laundries: in Wales and Scotland most hospitals still operate this way.
Our operational management is performing particularly well, improving efficiency in our plants but importantly developing our service with innovation for our customers.
