Berendsen plc Report and 24 Accounts 2012 Business line review Facility.
Our Facility business line provides the opportunity for higher growth with superior margins and returns.
It covers our mat andwashroom operations addressing the needs of a very broadcustomer base and our cleanroom operations focused onensuring that our customers within the pharmaceutical andhi-tech sectors meet the highest quality standards.
Mats Market overview Drivers and trends The mats business addresses a very broad customer base which A mat service is sold rather than bought.
Few customers know of the service includesretailers, wholesalers, restaurants, garages and all kinds and most have managed to operate without it.
An active and efficient field ofoffices, industrial premises and government facilities.
The average sales force is the determining factor in growing the market.
customer size is relatively small.
The key factors in marketing the concept are: The largest customers are typically cleaning companies and other facility Corporate image presenting a consistent and identifiable image companies where we are engaged in different forms of partnerships.
Ingeneral the cost of mat services is relatively low and therefore price Health & Safety compliance preventing accidents and maintaining a good sensitivity is more limited than in some other sectors.
environment for users including clean floors.
Market development up-selling of higher specification products over time.
Economics the benefits of outsourcing non-core activities.
Washroom Market overview Drivers and trends As every kind of business requires washroom facilities, the market has very Serviced washroom solutions are sold rather than bought.
Customers include retailers, restaurants, garages and the full customers will invariably have an existing solution or be managing their range of offices, public sector organisations and industry, with the average ownsourcing and supplies.
customer size being relatively small.
In general, the average cost of The key factors in marketing the concept are: outsourced washroom facilities is higher.
Hygiene standards research indicates that hygiene standards in shared The chosen segments are all away from home washrooms where normal washrooms are anincreasing concern for users.
Our products and services hand washing hygiene standards are required.
The largest customers are are designed tosecure personal hygiene in a shared washroom.
typically cleaning companies or other facility service companies where Health & Safety compliance almost 80% of all bacteria spreads from the Berendsen is engaged in various commercial agreements.
washroom due to poor sanitation or lack of washroom products, and low levels of hand washing.
Product innovation washroom solutions are not only the logical hygienic choice: many of our products are also designed to combine industrial practice with exclusive design.
We want to give our customers the opportunity to personalise their washrooms.
Cleanroom Market overview Drivers and trends Whereas ordinary workwear relates to protecting people against the The core drivers are similar to those of our workwear business.
working environment, cleanroom is also about protecting the environment Factorsinclude: against people.
The particles associated with humans can harm products The international expansion of pharmaceutical and high-tech companies and production processes, and the businesses of many Berendsen intoBRIC countries.
customers depend on meeting the highest quality standards.
Many customers need a combination of cleanroom services and regular Product specification technical support and tailored innovations.
workwear services to meet hygiene requirements, such as those stipulated by ISO certification.
A cleanroom supplier is typically a vital part of a quality Economics larger and specialist operations purchase and maintenance management system that meets the needs of external regulation, and drive lower unit costs.
This has resulted in high profitability in this Corporate image presenting a consistent and identifiable image segment to provide the necessary returns for our investments in technology.
Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 25 Christian Ellegaard Managing Director, Facility Strategic priorities Facility delivered well Facility offers our largest opportunity forthe higher margin and return from with strong revenue growth each incremental sale.
It is a sales and increased margins.
intensive business and we seek to lead We are focused on delivering the market in terms of the effectiveness on the opportunities and efficiency of our sales force.
In cleanroom, we are a leader in customer available in our markets driven solutions, with the opportunity and all areas are contributing toextend existing propositions to with good performances.
Underpinning our market development is our expertise inoperations and distributions.
k Extend our market leading positionsin Mats and Washroom withproduct innovation k Drive performance improvement Performance 2012 2011 insales in Mats and Washroom Revenue 212.8m 207.3m k Extend propositions to new Adjusted operatingprofit 54.1m 48.3m customers in Cleanroom Adjusted k Best practice development in operatingmargin 25.4% 23.3% operations and distribution Before exceptional items and amortisation ofcustomercontracts Facility operating profit has been increased by 0.5million from the amount previously disclosed to present a more consistent allocation of management charges in line with2012 Shaped for new and emerging opportunities For two years, our commercial relationship with ISS has contributed to the good performance ofour Scandinavian markets.
The acquisition ofGroene Team in the Netherlands has strengthened our position in this market also, andfurther developed our ISS partnership.
We have made excellent progress in implementing our strategic growth plan through strengthening our commercial relationships.
Berendsen plc Report and 26 Accounts 2012 Business line review Washroom Cleanroom Contracts We typically supply washroom services We typically supply rental workwear Mats to a customers specific requirements garments to a customers own based upon three to five-year specification based upon three-year We typically supply mat services to a contractual agreements with contractual agreements with provision customers specific requirements based provisionfor annual cost increases for annual cost increases and residual upon one to three-year contractual andself-renewing contracts.
value payments in the event of early agreements with provision for annual contract termination.
The billing cost increases and self-renewing Billing typically reflects: ofworkwear services is usually contracts.
Billing typically reflects k Frequency of service provided determinedby the following factors: alowinvoice value and is usually determined by the following factors: k Supply of consumables and other k Specification of garment maintenance services k Frequency of service provided k Size of workforce number of users k Some contracts are all inclusive with k Number of products served k Frequency of cleaning replacement full service while others charge k Range of products served services separately k Delivery locations k Length of contract k There are a broad range of k Length of contract productsthat can be used to servicethe washroom Shaped for leveraging Our cleanroom business shares its best practice tools and processes across the group via our internal knowledge-sharing platform, Berendsen Universe.
The Cleanroom Toolbox can be accessed in all local languages, further leveraging our knowledge-sharing and helping all our operations adopt best practice.
Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 27 Shaped for sales excellence We want to guide our customers, helping them choose the Berendsen Washroom solutions that best meet their needs.
To this end, we have now introduced a new Washroom concept featuring customised product packages based on our popular Berendsen line.
Our sales representatives have been trained to accurately identify customer needs and recommend a single tailored solution, instead of the large palette of products that customers are traditionally asked to choose from.
We are also focusing on our service and Our Cleanroom business is clearly Operational highlights distribution model as we believe we have benefiting from the added focus and further opportunity to improve and exposure that the new business line Facility increase our retention rates through structure brings.
Denmark, Holland and Revenue of Facility was 212.8 million, service improvements.
Sweden performed very well in the year up3% on last year 207.3 million.
and we are pleased with the acquisition In Scandinavia, we did see some Excluding the impact of the acquisitions we made in Germany to extend our reductions in mat usage per customer and currency, organic revenue growth footprint.
This has delivered to inthe second half, primarily in Denmark was 4%.
Adjusted operating profit grew expectation in its first year.
We have where the economy is still weak, but 12% from 48.3 million to 54.1 million, delivered underlying double digit made good progress overall.
We also which on an underlying basis was a revenue and profit growth through a improved our market position in Holland growth of 17%.
Our adjusted operating combination of service extensions and with the acquisition of Groene Team margin improved from 23.3% to 25.4%.
new customers in cleanroom this year, inDecember 2012, which has annual which is an excellent performance.
Our mat and washroom businesses revenues of 14 million.
This further delivered higher new contract sales strengthens our capability in washroom withfewer salespeople following the services, an area which we believe Plans for 2013 reorganisation last year.
This delivered the provides significant opportunity for us, Looking ahead Facility has good growth sales efficiency we targeted with higher particularly in Scandinavia.
The business is now our quality salespeople supported by a better In Poland, we have returned to double most profitable, growing well and ratio of sales coaches and managers.
digit revenue growth, primarily from new remains a very attractive segment for us.
contract wins of virgin customers and asa result our margin increased to close to 20%.
In our smaller countries in the Baltics and Czech Republic we have also made good progress, also with double digit revenue growth.
