Berendsen plc Report and 22 Accounts 2012 Business line review Workwear.
The Workwear business line delivers and maintains workwear to many private and public organisations across Europe.
Our service meets the needs of customers in many sectors allowing them to focus on their core business.
Market overview Drivers and trends The European Textile maintenance market is very fragmented with only The core determinant of demand for workwear from our actual and potential asmall number of large players.
The essence of our business is serving customer base is economic activity.
However, the trend towards outsourcing customers with a trouble-free supply of garments for their employees.
drives the maintenance segment of the market at a faster pace and the Ourplants operate in focused geographical areas in order to guarantee factors behind this conversion to rental are: alocal approach towards our customers.
For our customers, outsourcing Corporate image Presenting a consistent and identifiable image ofthis service means that we take complete responsibility for all activities tocustomers.
regarding workwear from the start to the end of the cycle.
The advantage Health & Safety compliance Specialist garments to meet the regulatory forour customers is that they can save costs, free up time, space, personnel requirements of different industries EN ISO standards.
All these resources can be used by the customer tofocus on their core business activities.
To deliver the service we promise, Operational efficiency Outsourcing non-core activities including laundering we use both internal and external logistics solutions.
Free-up capital Allowing customers to invest in their own business.
Economics The scale of larger and specialist operations purchase and maintenance drives lower unit costs.
Product specification Technical support and tailor made innovations.
Shaped for sharing knowledge Our CL2000 production concept of lean production and self-managed teams is delivering real benefits in our Workwear plants in continental Europe.
Now we are looking to give our UK based Workwear plants a similar upgrade.
A team from our Rainhill plant visited our facility in Gteborg to learn more about CL2000.
Rainhill has subsequently been chosen and re-built to incorporate the concept, and is already experiencing great results.
Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 23 Peter Havus Managing Director, Workwear The new Workwear businessline has contributed strongly with increased customer focus, delivering aclearer organisation and improved organic growth across Europe.
Shaped for embracing innovation Our Berendsen sourcing team has developed twonew collections to fill a gap in the UK market: the UK Motion and the UK Next generation.
UKMotion is truly innovative in the UK market, Performance 2012 2011 and the feedback from customers is very Revenue 288.0m 286.5m positive a great boost for our Workwear business as around 25% of new contracts are Adjusted found in fieldsales.
operating profit 51.2m 49.7m Adjusted operating margin 17.8% 17.3% Before exceptional items and amortisation ofcustomercontracts Workwear 2011 operating profit has increased by 0.5million from the amounts previously disclosed to present a more consistent allocation of management charges in line with 2012 proprietary production model we use Strategic priorities Operational highlights in ContinentalEurope.
We plan to build on our heritage of Revenue grew 1% in the year to We are already seeing benefits in market innovation, customer service and 288.0million 286.5 million, which productivity, with greater employee operational excellence.
We will focus the excluding exchange represented a 4% engagement, opportunities to improve resources we have in our country teams underlying growth.
The underlying service further and building customer and enhance best practice across the growth rate was slightly stronger in the interest in the initiatives we have business line.
We have confirmed that the second half of the year than in the first introduced.
The UK market is not easy addressable market for us is substantial.
Margins increased 50 bps to 17.8%, inthis economic climate but we did see and adjusted operating profits were up k Substantial addressable revenue growth in 2012, which we aim 3% to 51.2million 49.7 million.
The marketconfirmed tobuild on in 2013. adjusted operating profit growth was 8%on an underlying basis.
k Attractiveness of sectors determined We have made strong progress in Germany.
Our revenue was up 6% We are pleased with the development k Focus on customers solutions year-on-year and 10% in the second half ofour sales operations with important k Extending best practice in operations as westarted up the new contract wins changes being made market by market.
we referred to in August 2012 in our first In Sweden, customer demand was strong, half Statement.
In addition, we have seen Contracts particularly in the first half, and in Holland an improvement in field sales to smaller we are improving market share.
Denmark We typically supply rental workwear and medium sized companies.
Our had a more difficult year because of the garments to a customers own retention rate, which has been below the slower economy but we ended the year specification based upon three-year average for the Business Line in recent with more momentum.
These are the contractual agreements with provision years, improved significantly, with countries with good market positions for annual cost increases and residual Germany ending the year among our top where our business model is well value payments in the event of early performers in this area.
The average operating margin contract termination.
The billing of revenue has yet to convert fully into an for these is almost 10% higher than in the workwear services is usually determined increase in operating profit, primarily UK and Germany, where we are focusing by the following factors: because of the textile investment we our transfer of best practice.
have made for new contracts, but we k Specification of garment expect margin improvement in 2013.
In the UK, we have started the process k Size of workforce number of users ofimproving our market offerings and the new garment ranges we introduced k Frequency of cleaning replacement Plans for 2013 in the first half continue to sell well, k Delivery locations In 2013 we will build on the achievements representing almost a quarter of new of the second half of 2012 and capture sales and reflecting the improved quality k Length of contract the benefits of the improvements and of our offering.
We also completed innovations the Business Line in August the conversion of our plant management team has introduced.
in Rainhill, near Liverpool, to the
