Berendsen plc Report and 30 Accounts 2012 Business line review Manage for value.
We operate Flat Linen businesses in Austria, Denmark, Germany, Ireland and Sweden.
Our Clinical Solutions and Decontamination business is based in the UK.
Our focus is on the tight management of capital investment, the maximisation of cashdeliveries and the adjustment of our cost base to reflect thechange towards managing for value.
Flat Linen outside UK Market overview Actions Although our hotels and healthcare businesses outside the UKare relatively k We manage our non-UK Flat Linen businesses underaseparate strong in their ownmarkets, with many operating as market leaders, we do management structure, combining hotelsinSweden andDenmark not expect significant growth orto achieve higher levels of return.
End k We will drive for operational efficiencies and  markets are more challenging but our management teams remain focused to ensure competitiveness on improving their businesses.
Value drivers k These businesses are well invested with astrong contractbase k Operational efficiencies and contract management toincrease margins k Cash conversion in excess of 100% Clinical Solutions andDecontamination Market overview Actions The outsourcing of integrated linen, consumables and instrument k We engage with our customers to deliverthe returns anticipated decontamination services for the operating theatreprovides opportunity by the twodecontamination contracts for the UK health service tomeetits current challenges and objectives.
k We are tendering for new contracts and volumes insterileconsumables k We drive for service improvements and efficiencies inourreusable Value drivers linen contracts k Greater volume to leverage our well  k Further contract wins Shaped for capital efficiency We have a long track record of balancing our investment to improve performance.
and build capacity for the future.
Forexample, when we commissioned ourdecontamination services plants, we madesure that they would be able to handle contract growth and new customers and arenow able to accommodate that growth withalower level of incremental investment.
Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 31 Peter Havus Clinical Solutions and Decontamination turnaround plan and our focus is now Austria and Germany Flat Linen onexpanding this business using its Revenue was similar to last year at Christian Ellegaard existing footprint.
69.6million 69.0 million with Denmark and Sweden Flat Linen adjusted operating profit of 2.9 million Steve Finch compared to 3.3 million last year.
Clinical Solutions and Decontamination, Plans for 2013 Ireland Flat Linen and UK Direct Sales The operational issues we experienced We have seen some price pressure Performance inthe first half in our sterile consumables coming through in the second half in Flat Linen business have been positively addressed Sweden with a number of unusually large outside UK 2012 2011 by new management, improving the level contract renewals in our Healthcare Revenue 218.0m 234.0m of sales to existing contract relationships business and we have a number of Adjusted and improving pricing and commercial tenders outstanding in Germany.
These operating profit 21.0m 20.7m terms in contracts with low profitability will challenge our top line in at linen Adjusted as well as delivering operational outside UK in 2013 but our management operating margin 9.6% 8.8% efficiencies.
Our re-usable sterile textile teams are focused on capturing the Clinical Solutions business continues to perform well.
opportunities to build stronger businesses, and Decontamination Asaresult, we increased our profits by as demonstrated in 2012, and they have Revenue 69.6m 69.0m 0.9million in the second half of 2012 much to contribute to the success of Adjusted compared to the first six months of thegroup.
Within Clinical Solutions we operating profit 2.9m 3.3m theyear.
expect to build upon the progress made Adjusted operating margin 4.2% 4.8% in the second half of 2012 whilst in Losses on our decontamination contracts, Before exceptional items and amortisation Decontamination we are planning for for which we made provision at the end ofcustomercontracts.
transition to our service of both new Flat Linen outside UK operating profit has been reduced of 2010, were reduced from 4.4 million by 1.0million from the amounts previously disclosed to volume from our existing contracts and present a more consistent allocation of management last year to 2.2 million.
Our customers charges in line with2012.
volume from a significant new contract.
recognise the quality of our service and Anumber of opportunities are being have worked with us to make the number discussed with potential customers.
of changes identied in our turnaround Operational highlights plan.
We remain on track with our Flat Linen outside the UK Our at linen business outside the UK saw revenues down at 218.0 million 234.0 million and adjusted operating profit was 21.0 million compared with 20.7 million last year.
Adjusting for exchange, revenue was down 2% but adjusted operating profit was up 6%.
Our operating margins benefited from the restructuring we undertook last year, with all of our businesses contributing.
Shaped for operational effectiveness The healthcare sector in Sweden is challenging, with a tough market characterised by competitive tenders.
Throughout 2012 we worked intensively to improve our production efficiency.
For example, we drew on the experience and new expertise that exists elsewhere in the group to significantly reduce costs by optimising the various steps in the production flow and by further eliminating consumption of water and electricity.
Berendsen plc Report and 32 Accounts 2012 Risk In this section: 33 Principal risks and uncertainties 33 Risk management framework 34 Our focus in 2012 34 Risk identification, evaluation and management 35 Risks to achieving our strategic objectives
