Berendsen plc Report and 06 Accounts 2012 Our business model How we addvalue.
Our business is structured along Our vision.
focused business lines We take pride in doing what were best at, delivering Core growth Manage for value unsurpassed levels of service, so our customers can do what Workwear Flat Linen outside UK theyre best at.
Facility Clinical Solutions and Decontamination UK Flat Linen Our business model.
Our business model is focused on delivering solutions for We retain contracts by focusing on our ourcustomers textile needs.
customers putting them at the heart We purchase and deliver of everything we do textiles and hygiene articles, and handle laundry, maintenance and delivery, offering full solutions tailoredto the specific We maximise contract value by: needsof the customer.
Leveraging our buying power The move towards Operating efficiently and sustainably outsourcing is a key driver for Drawing on our know-how Focusing on commercial terms and pricing the business, and is motivated by the associated benefits forthe customer.
Outsourcing textile management to Berendsen offers significant benefits to the customer, We aim to grow our We aim to maintain saving costs, freeing up time, contract base through the high volume space, staff and capital, and Effective sales and marketing and broad spread of allowing them to concentrate Focusing on opportunities ourcontract base in undeveloped markets on their core business.
Acquisitions Our emphasis is to improve our operations and generate value across our business lines: Core growth Manage for value High-value, organic growth Stable margins and strong andhigh-margin returns cashgeneration Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 07 A long-term business model Our business model aims to deliver sustainable growth by providing our customers a consistent service, building on an environment where the outsourcing of all non-core operations is continuously increasing.
Berendsen is in business for the long term.
We value the enduring relationships we have built with customers and work hard to ensure that our mutual benefit and respect continues into the future.
Focusing on opportunities in undeveloped markets Our core growth areas present opportunities for growth by improving our market share of the currently outsourced market.
However, there Focused business lines Maximise contract value aresignicant opportunities to penetrate the non-outsourced sector in most of our Workwear and Facility core growth Our structure based on business lines We actively seek to maximise contract businesses.
While the non-outsourced allows us to focus on our core growth value across our business lines by: segment of UK hotels and healthcare areas of Workwear, Facility and UK Flat isalesser proportion, good growth Linen.
OurFlat Linen outside the UK, and Leveraging our buying power opportunities remain.
We also see our Clinical Solutions and Decontamination Our scale is a competitive advantage significant potential in less developed businesses are managed in a different when procuring products, allowing us markets in Eastern Europe.
way to maximise value across the group.
todeliver value to the customer while maximising cash generation.
We are Acquisitions currently reviewing our procurement We believe there are opportunities strategies and processes, and this will for continued growth through bolt-on lead to further opportunities for savings.
acquisitions, and we seek to play an active role in the consolidation Operating efficiently and sustainably of our industry.
Although we manage our operations Retain contracts efficiently, we are working to leverage the further benets of sharing of best Across all of our business lines we retain practice, expertise andresources, and contracts by focusing on our customers through the standardisation of processes.
putting them at the heart of everything we do.
Our experienced management Drawing on our know-how teams understand our customers, We apply our significant experience and Maintain the high volume markets and service operations, and expertise to deliver services for our customers andbroad spread of our have a strong knowledge of managing that are more cost-effective than their in-house contract base customers throughout the life cycle.
This considerable know-how is Our manage for value business lines Although we have a business line in evidence across our business lines.
We seek structure, our plants remain local which tomaintain our contract base across underpins the local approach thatour Focusing on commercial terms these areas with a focus on strong cash customers value.
The high volume and broad All of our teams are focused on delivering Service quality is key to contract spread of this contract base ensures that optimal prices that are appropriate to the retention.
We focus on delivering service we are not reliant on any one contract benets we deliver, enabling the growth solutions, and we continue to innovate and therefore delivers reduced risk.
We that customers and shareholders expect.
and improve our customer service.
will maintain capital that they need but Acontract and commercial terms we will not allocate significant growth Our success is demonstrated by excellent management programme is being capital here.
rolled-out across the group, and this will On average, we achieve acustomer identify opportunities to manage our retention rate of 94%.
This not only contract base with appropriate returns.
provides a stable base for the business but also reduces our risk prole.
Value across our businesslines Grow our contract base The investment in capital efficiency, pricing and commercial terms and procurement initiatives is adding value Effective sales and marketing across our business by improving cash Our sales force plays an essential role management, achieving a commercial inwinning new contracts.
Following mindset, sharing best practices and by ourStrategic Review we are focusing improving sourcing and supply chain.
onimproving our sales efficiency and enhancing our sales processes and support.
