Our top ten managed properties by value NEW Moonraker Point, London Beds: 674 Wholly owned Moonraker Point offers 147 studios and 527 rooms in cluster ats.
Situated in Zone 1 and close to shops and local amenities, Moonraker Point is well located for Kings College Londons main teaching campuses.
01 Woodland Court, London Beds: 577 OCB Woburn Place, London Shared en-suite ats set around Beds: 462 UCC a communal courtyard, one stop Woburn Place is ideally located from Kings Cross underground.
adjacent to three University campuses at the heart of student life in central London.
A smart collection of twin and studio rooms sit alongside one and two bedroom ats.
Customers enjoy an assortment of high end communal and in-room facilities.
03 Emily Bowes, London Beds: 694 USAF A contemporary room design, Zone 3 location and quick links into central London make this a popular choice for students seeking a lower rent offering.
02 04 04 14 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 O Ov ver ervie view w Strategy Business Governance Financial Other review statements information Parkway Gate, Manchester Beds: 729 Wholly owned Our architectural agship building in the centre of Manchester ideally located for the two main Universities in the city.
Grand Central, Liverpool The Plaza, Leeds Beds: 1,210 USAF Beds: 964 Wholly owned The largest, most centrally located Modern premises completed in 2006 student residence in Liverpool, convenient for both Universities in Leeds.
ideally located for Lime Street station, The property offers a range of en-suite the city centre and the city's Universities.
North Lodge, London NEW Beds: 528 LSAV Located next to Emily Bowes Court and just over the road from Tottenham Hale Retail Park, North Lodge has excellent transport links.
All rooms include en-suite bathrooms and a study area with a shared kitchen lounge.
The Forge, Shefeld Beds: 1,157 Wholly owned Campus-style living within a city centre environment that includes retail facilities Wedgewood Court, London let to Sainsburys and Wilkinsons.
Beds: 323 OCB Immediately opposite London Metropolitan University, offering shared ats for 2, 4, 5, and 6 people and a range of studios with retail units let to Sainsburys and Costa Coffee.
Our rising stars Central Point, Plymouth Wellington Lodge, London Central Point was given a 2 million facelift in 2012, refurbishing One of our four new properties for 2012, five minutes walk from the property internally and externally while keeping its 1950s Waterloo station.
Our team's hard work during the construction resulted features.
The eight week refurbishment project updated all 234 in a new nominations agreement with the London School of Economics.
bedrooms, installed in-room Wi-Fi for all students, created a new The 146 bed property provides a range of ats of different sizes, all with reception and common room, and added ten extra rooms utilising en-suite bathrooms, as well as nine studio ats.
existing unused space in the building.
Apollo Court, Liverpool Piccadilly Point, Manchester Apollo Court was our top performing property for student satisfaction We obtained a change of planning permission to convert our vacant in 2012.
The property has a choice of over 200 rooms in 5-7 bed cluster commercial space at this popular Manchester property, thereby adding ats, all with en-suite bathrooms.
Apollo 58 new rooms 14 double studios and 44 beds in cluster ats to the Court is a lively first year property for Liverpool John Moores University.
These new rooms, along with the Central Point refurbishment, were the first properties to feature our improved room specication.
T Th he e U UN NI IT TE G E Gr ro ou up p p pllc c A An nnual nual Repor Report t and and Ac Acc co ounts unts 2 20 01 12 2 15 15
