Key performance indicators Financial Denition Performance Target KPI 2012 2011 Net Portfolio Our key indicator of operational Annualised impact of 2012 19.1 11.0m Contribution performance measuring the openings and continued focus income from rental properties on operational efficiencies and High occupancy and important margin after nancing costs and our cost management will continue improvements have delivered a 74% total non-development to grow recurring profits.
Adjusted NAV Our adjusted NAV per share Well placed to continue 350pps 318pps per share measures the market value of delivering strong balanced properties and developments less returns through capital growth, Rental growth, development profits, and any debt used to fund them plus development profits and retained earnings, drove a 10% increase.
any working capital in the business.
Total returns Measures the total return Continue to deliver low double 11.3% 8.1% to shareholders calculated by digit total returns.
the growth in adjusted NAV Total return has been driven by growth plus interim and declared in recurring earnings, NAV and dividend.
Adjusted net Measures the net indebtedness Continue to manage total net 648m 646m debt see of the business and our ability debt by matching expenditure through to generate cash and control with targeted disposals.
Capital expenditure on developments expenditure calculated as debt and USV acquisition offset by disposals net of cash and excluding the and earnings.
mark to market interest rate swaps.
LTV see Measures our ratio of debt 50% by the end of 2013.
Maintained our focus on controlling adjusted net debt and adding value to the portfolio.
Operating Measures conversion of recurring Operations cashow growth 17.2m 13.8m cashow profit from the Operations aligned to net portfolio business into cash.
Growth in net portfolio contribution and working capital management drove the increase in operating cashow.
Adjusted EPS yield is calculated by the We are aiming to grow our 3.1% 0.9% EPS yield earnings per share dividend by adjusted EPS yield to 4.5% opening adjusted net asset value.
by the end of 2015 as a result Achieved through meaningful growth of further rental growth and in recurring earnings.
20 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 O Ov ver ervie view w Strategy Business Governance Financial Other review statements information Non-Financial Denition Performance Target KPI 2012 2011 Reservations Measurement of how many We aim to sell 55-60% 62% 59% for next of our rooms have been leased of our rooms by this point academic year to students directly or through in our sales cycle.
Improved reservations level is reective agreements with Universities of improved market conditions, enhanced by the end of February.
operational capability and brand awareness.
Customer We undertake an independent We aim to be in the top decile 67 52 satisfaction survey twice a year where we use of service companies for key indices to understand our customer satisfaction.
A shift of emphasis on operational relationship with our customers performance has been rewarded by and their likelihood to rebook and a substantial improvement in recommend.
Customer TRI M is customer satisfaction.
benchmarked against other high performing companies.
Health and Measures the number of reportable We strive to have no 6 1 safety accidents in Operations each year reportable accidents.
as a means of assessing our This year we have changed the way we success in approaching health classify our reportable incidents which has and safety.
This is reective of Safety being a high priority.
Employee Employee TRI M is an independent Continue to be in the top decile 67 67 satisfaction benchmarked measure of the of European service companies extent to which UNITE employees for employee satisfaction.
Continued focus on improving our are committed to achieving our development programme and greater corporate goals, our mission, empowerment for our city teams has resulted vision and values.
in sustained high employee satisfaction.
HE trust score Each year we undertake qualitative We aim to become a more 67 62 research with over 50 of our trusted partner.
HE partners scoring on Trust, Focus on HE Engagement, as well as Advocacy and Awareness.
improving our customer service, has improved relationships with our partners.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21
