Caring for the environment We work hard to manage and reduce the environmental We have updated our reporting of our carbon footprint to be impact of our operations, particularly focusing on: in line with the CDP measurement system a widely recognised international, not-for-profit organisation providing the only global t Reducing energy consumption and carbon emissions system for companies to measure, disclose, manage and share t Reducing water consumption environmental performance information.
This is a more accurate measurement and allows us to track our performance against t Increased levels of recycling both from our students and our other companies.
corporate ofces, and preventing pollution or damage to the local environment In 2012 our overall gas and electricity usage increased, we believe t Openly and transparently reporting our performance via this can partly be attributed to lower temperatures during the year.
mandatory and voluntary metrics including Carbon Disclosure We also had a particular peak in our consumption in the summer Project CDP and Global Real Estate Sustainability months as a result of development activity.
With the investment we are making in LED lighting, energy In 2012 we were awarded two prestigious environmental awards, management systems and our sustainability strategy a Business in the Community Award for reducing our carbon we would expect to see a decrease in our carbon footprint footprint and European Sector Leader in GRESB.
We also employed an Energy and Environment Manager to investigate and implement new technical solutions and promote 2012 2011 energy efficiency and awareness across our estate.
As a result we have piloted LED lighting in several of our buildings and are Beds 41,443 40,869 planning roll out across all of our properties in 2013 14.
Company car km 633,223 884,031 Absolute consumption 2012 2011 Residential gas kWh 34,141,371 31,760,874 Residential electricity kWh 116,609,386 114,482,019 Company cars km 633,223 884,031 Absolute CO e emissions 2 2012 2011 Change 2011-2012 Residential gas tonnes 6,323 5,831 8.4% Residential electricity tonnes 56,245 55,689 1.0% Total residential tonnes 62,569 61,520 1.7% Company cars tonnes 123 181 -31.8% CO e emissions per bed or km 2 2012 2011 Change 2011-2012 Residential gas tonnes 0.153 0.143 6.99% Residential electricity tonnes 1.357 1.363 -0.43% Total residential tonnes 1.509 1.505 0.27% Company cars kg 0.195 0.205 -4.84% CR 1 Olympic donation to London ReUse As part of our contract with LOCOG to provide 3,600 rooms for the Olympic games we had to equip the ats for guests to use.
At the end of the project we donated more than 7,000 items of re-usable bedding, crockery and kitchen utensils to families in need and the homeless.
The 80 tonnes of nearly-new goods were collected by the London Re-Use Network LRN and distributed to a variety of local charities, for example City YMCA London LED lighting who used the donated items at its Islington hostel which houses We have piloted LED lighting in five of our properties, 116 young people at risk of homelessness.
and are now planning to roll out across our estate.
In our other properties across the UK we donated more LED lighting is one of the best and most straightforward than 65,000 worth of unwanted student items to British ways of driving sustainability and reducing carbon emissions: Heart Foundation and Cancer Research generating much t LED lighting can be up to 80% more efficient than other needed funds for the charity as well as preventing these items forms of lighting being sent to landll.
t LED lighting will also increase our productivity as lighting issues account for 30% of all our maintenance requests t Unlike uorescent lighting LEDs dont contain hazardous materials.
Engaging our students: Student Switch off We also believe that it is important to educate and engage our students in our energy saving activities.
This year we have taken part in the NUS-run scheme Student Switch Off.
Delivered via social media channels, this scheme encourages students to be aware of their energy usage through fun campaigns and incentives.
Many Universities also take part in this scheme.
"""Our people are the Committed heart of our to our people business, delivering the great service that our business depends on. """
Nicola Yates, Group Director of HR Students Working in partnership with Higher Education This year we have increased our focus on student welfare.
Our aim is to be a genuine partner to Higher Education We are developing a standard level of welfare that will be part institutions, adding value to their distinctive student experience of our operating manual of core processes, providing a consistent through high quality and innovatively managed accommodation.
We have also recruited a new Head In 2012 we recruited a Head of Higher Education Engagement of Health & Safety to help embed our procedures across to help us better understand the sectors needs and build lasting the business.
She has also worked with our teams to create local In many of our cities we have strengthened relationships with engagement plans.
We have also just formed a University the local student unions and University welfare teams, as well Partnerships Team who are responsible for developing our long as working with organisations such as Talk to Frank and the term strategic partnerships with Universities.
Samaritans to signpost our students to the appropriate support We draw on the best available research on accommodation and the and guidance.
student experience, as well as commissioning our own, in order to understand the impact that accommodation can have on the student Emergency services experience and how to optimise this.
Using this research, we have Safety is a top priority at UNITE: we work closely with the piloted and evaluated a number of accommodation management local emergency services to promote strong relationships initiatives, including improving our product specication and and help raise awareness among students, for example: promoting employability skills among our students.
t In Bath we have a good relationship with the local constable who has provided advice on drugs and vandalism and helps with trafc on check-in days.
The team is also in the process of arranging for Avon & Somerset re service to run re drills.
t Shefeld, Liverpool, Exeter and Bournemouth all are using their local re service to provide briengs or talks for their students on re safety.
t The security team in Leeds works very closely with the local police to target crime against students and even provides training for Community Support Ofcers.
Employees Our people are the heart of our business, delivering the great service that our business depends on.
A top priority is therefore the engagement and development of our employees.
This year in response to employee feedback we introduced a new framework to align our city structures and provide clearer Student Experience Research routes for development and career progression.
To help us understand and meet the expectations of students in light of increased tuition fees we surveyed over 1,200 Our commitment to our employees is reected in our Silver prospective students on their expectations of their ideal Investors in People and Britains Top Employer accreditations, student experience.
We were able to share this research as well as our employee satisfaction score which puts us in with our partners.
We will repeat this research in 2013. the top ten percent of companies in the European service sector.
CR 3 Supporting our communities Our ambition is to have a positive impact on the communities in which we operate.
We have strong relationships with a number of community partners including: t Residents committees Our Bournemouth and Edinburgh teams have both set up regular forums attended by emergency services, local businesses, residents and staff, to discuss how to integrate our students with the local community.
t Local charities We offer our employees a charity match Local choir perform to guests at North Lodge.
scheme in which up to 250 is paid to the individuals charity of choice to match the amount they raise.
In 2012 we North Lodge Bringing people together contributed 8,578 2011: 5,848 in matched donations Our Emily Bowes Court and North Lodge properties have to charities across the UK.
played a significant role in the regeneration of Tottenham t Schools In Reading our team invited a neighbouring primary Hale.
This is not only through bringing 1,220 students to the school to tour one of our properties to understand more about area with their associated spending power but they are also going to University and what it means to be a student.
increasing their positive impact on the local community by partnering with charities to provide volunteering opportunities.
t Local businesses In all our cities we encourage our students to use local businesses.
In Glasgow we are holding an event In July 2012 we celebrated the opening of North Lodge, one at our Kelvin Court property for businesses in the West End, year after the London riots which began in Tottenham.
The an area where we have recently established a presence, event was themed around the regeneration of Tottenham Hale to promote their services directly to students.
and the benets students bring to communities.
This event t Local authorities In Exeter the team improved the relationship brought together members of the local community including with the local council by asking their residents to opt-in to the metropolitan police, the nearby IntoUniversity centre, a recycling scheme, encouraging 100% compliance from the leaders of a volunteering network that represents over our residents.
200 local community groups, the local Councillor for social inclusion and economic development, and a community choir.
Trenchard Street development As a result of the event we forged strong relationships contribution to local community with the local community partners.
Subsequently the As part of all our development schemes we try to contribute Councillor and the property team held another event for our to improving and regenerating the local area.
In 2012 we students raising awareness of local businesses and charities.
secured planning consent for a 442 bedroom student home The community groups in attendance had not met previously on Trenchard Street in Bristol.
and found the event to be a great opportunity for forming new connections and for accessing a group of potential volunteers The new scheme will contribute to the regeneration of the our students.
area, by providing over 300,000 of enhancements including improvements to the O2 entrance, a caf in the front of the facade and bicycle parking facilities.
As part of the scheme UNITE will also contribute 570,000 to the council to be spent in the local area.
In addition to our donation we are looking to provide some public artwork to be located in the area between the site and Trenchard Street car park further enhancing the area not just for our students but for local residents too.
MP Siobhain McDonagh and Matthew Baird, a former Scheme intern, ofcially open Moonraker Point.
Speakers Parliamentary Placement Scheme As part of our ambition to promote employability we signed up to the Social Mobility Business Compact.
This year in partnership with Kings College London we supported ten political interns with reduced cost accommodation at our Moonraker property to support with bringing individuals from diverse backgrounds into politics.
CR 4 The UNITE Foundation In 2012 we launched our own charitable trust the UNITE Foundation to support widening access to University for students from disadvantaged backgrounds, integrating students and communities and promoting employability.
In 2012 we donated 200,000 to The UNITE Foundation.
The majority of this cost is our bursary scheme, with the rest accounted by the donations below.
Through the Foundation we support three organisations with sizeable donations and partnership work: t IntoUniversity: This charity provides local learning centres where young people from Britains poorest backgrounds are inspired to gain the skills which will help them to attain either a University place or another chosen aspiration.
We donated 50,000 to this charity t Enactus: A global non-profit organisation that works with business and Higher Education leaders to mobilise students around the world to make a sustainable difference to their communities while developing the skills they need to become socially responsible business leaders.
We donated 18,000 to this organisation 2011: 15,000 t Land Aid: This property charity uses the collective The UNITE resources, expertise and influence of the property industry to help the young and disadvantaged in the UK access the buildings, skills and opportunities they need to achieve their potential.
"Foundation As well as our financial donations we also make donations in-kind of time and resource, for example many of our Area Managers act as business mentors for local Enactus teams, our HR Director is on the Board of Trustees for Enactus, and our students and staff have volunteered at IntoUniversity ""We believe that learning centres."
University should be The major activity of the Foundation is our bursary scheme.
The bursaries consist of up to 4,000 towards living an attainable goal for expenses and free accommodation for every year of study.
In 2012 working in partnership with four Universities we every young person awarded 21 bursary places: this year we have formed two new partnerships and extended the number of bursaries regardless of their to 50.
Many of these students are care leavers the most under-represented group in UK Higher Education.
background, social class The Foundation is run by elected Trustees including four or wealth, and that the members of UNITE staff and an external trustee Professor Stuart Billingham, a former Pro-Vice Chancellor at York St private sector has an John University.
Stuart has worked in the Higher Education sector for more than 30 years, focusing particularly on important role to play widening access.
"He is currently Co-Director of the European Access Network EAN World Congress on Access to in enabling this. """
Post-Secondary Education: Connecting the Unconnected.
In 2013 we will increase our donation to 500,000, and we Paul Harris, Chair of The UNITE Foundation plan to grow this to 1 million a year within five years, as well as seeking to further the reach of our activities through CR 5 donations from third parties.
Students support primary school children at IntoUniversity learning centres.
Partnership with IntoUniversity Dr Hugh Rayment-Pickard, Director of Development Without UNITE and External Affairs at IntoUniversity said: We live by our funding and those who fund our work over the I would not have longer term are particularly valuable to us.
There is a natural t between IntoUniversity and UNITE we are both working for the benefit of students and through their investment been able to they are expressing in a tangible way a commitment to supporting more young people from poor backgrounds in their aspiration to reach University.
Our research shows that DRUG 8QLYHUVLW young people who do go to University are more likely to have a professional career, less likely to be unemployed, and are Lucy, University of Edinburgh more likely to have children that go to University.
We are really appreciative of the funding.
Our Bursary recipients Lucy Lucy comes from a traditional coal and steel community in Yorkshire, where she was educated at the local Community School, a school not renowned for academic achievement.
The opportunity of a University education inspired her to work hard and achieve her goal of getting the required grades A AAB and gaining a place through the College of Science & Engineering at the University of Edinburgh.
Coming from a family without a tradition in academic study I understand the importance and potential life changing opportunities on offer at Edinburgh.
I have younger siblings and hope my academic effort inspires them to achieve their full potential.
The UNITE Accommodation & Access Bursary offers me the opportunity of achieving my full potential and I appreciate the extra support it offers to students in financial need.
Many of our students have come from diverse and troubled backgrounds.
One of our students, a former asylum seeker said: In the future I also hope to legally become my sisters guardian and believe this bursary would help me in achieving this sooner by nancially sustaining me throughout my studies.
