Governance DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors submit their report together with the audited consolidated and company financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2012.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS The Company is a UK listed holding company of a Group engaged in residential-led property development focusing on urban regeneration and mixed-use developments.
The Company is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales and is quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The information that fulls the requirements of the business review can be found in the Chairmans statement on page 6, the Managing Directors statement on page 7, the Trading and Financial review on pages 64 to 79, which provides more detailed commentaries on the business during the year together with the outlook for the future, and the section on Running a Sustainable Business on pages 48 to 61.
In addition, information in respect of the principal financial and operating risks of the business is set out in the Trading and Financial review on page 79.
TRADING RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The Groups consolidated profit after taxation for the financial year was 158,147,000 2011: 94,456,000.
The Groups joint ventures contributed a loss after taxation of 2,192,000 2011: profit of 2,059,000.
No dividends were declared or paid in the financial year.
SHARE CAPITAL The Company had 134,857,183 ordinary shares in issue at 30 April 2012 2011: 134,857,183.
The Company holds 3,577,506 of its own shares in treasury 2011: 3,577,506.
Authority will be sought from shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to renew the authority given at the 2011 Annual General Meeting for a further year, permitting the Company to purchase its own shares in the market up to a limit of 10% of its issued share capital.
Movements in the Companys share capital are shown in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
Information on the Groups share option schemes is set out in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
Details of the Long-Term Incentive Schemes and Long-Term Incentive Plans for key executives are set out in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 89 to 105.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The Articles of Association set out the basic management and administrative structure of the Company.
They regulate the internal affairs of the Company and cover such matters as the issue and transfer of shares, Board and shareholder meetings, powers and duties of Directors and borrowing powers.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Directors can be appointed or removed by shareholders in a general meeting.
The Articles may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Copies are available by writing to the Company Secretary and are also open to inspection at Companies House.
DIRECTORS The Directors of the Company and their proles are detailed on pages 84 and 85.
All of the Directors served throughout the year under review with the exception of Greg Fry and Alison Nimmo, who were both appointed to the Board on 5 September 2011, and Glyn Barker and Veronica Wadley, who were both appointed to the Board on 3 January 2012.
The Articles of Association of the Company require Directors to submit themselves for re-election every three years.
In addition all Directors are subject to re-election at the first opportunity after their appointment to the Board.
However, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code all the Directors will offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, other than Victoria Mitchell who is standing down from the Board.
The Directors interests in the share capital of the Company and its subsidiaries are shown in the Remuneration Committee report on page 105.
At 30 April 2012 each of the Executive Directors were deemed to have a non-beneficial interest in 237,363 2011: 237,363 ordinary shares held by the Trustees of The Berkeley Group Employee benefit Trust.
There were no contracts of signicance during, or at the end of, the financial year in which a Director of the Company is, or was, materially interested, other than those set out in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements, the contracts of employment of the Executive Directors, which are terminable within one year, and the appointment terms of the Non-executive Directors, which are renewable annually and terminable on one months notice.
86 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Governance Governance DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The Companys practice has always been to indemnify its Directors in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the maximum extent permitted by law.
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the maximum extent permitted by law, in respect of all costs, charges, expenses, losses and liabilities, which they may incur in or about the execution of their duties to the Company, or any entity which is an associated company as dened in Section 256 of the Companies Act 2006, or as a result of duties performed by the Directors on behalf of the Company or any such associated company.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS The Company has been notied of the following interests, pursuant to Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules amounting to 3% or more of the issued capital of the Company, as at 19 July 2012: Number of ordinary 1 shares held % of issued capital Nature of holding Lloyds Banking Group plc 17,043,398 12.98% Indirect First Eagle Investment Management, LLC 14,451,198 11.01% Indirect Mirabaud Investment Management Ltd 6,543,445 4.98% Indirect Anthony William Pidgley 6,456,838 4.92% Direct Blackrock Inc 6,159,637 4.69% Indirect Standard Life Investments Ltd 5,005,879 3.81% Direct Indirect 1 Net of shares held in treasury.
DONATIONS During the year, donations by the Group for charitable purposes in the United Kingdom, including through the Berkeley Foundation, amounted to 789,000 2011: 574,000.
The Group made no political contributions 2011: nil during the year.
EMPLOYMENT POLICY The Groups policy of operating through autonomous subsidiaries has ensured close consultation with employees on matters likely to affect their interests.
The Group is rmly committed to the continuation and strengthening of communication lines with all its employees.
An Equal Opportunities Policy was introduced in 2001.
Following periodic reviews the most recent in September 2010 the policy is now an Equality and Diversity Policy with the aim of ensuring that all employees, potential employees and other individuals receive equal treatment including access to employment, training and opportunity for promotion regardless of their age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion or belief including lack of belief, sex and sexual orientation.
It is the policy of the Group to support the employment of people with disabilities wherever practicable and to ensure, as far as possible, the training, career development and promotion opportunities are available to all employees.
This policy includes employees who become disabled whilst employed by the Group.
SUSTAINABILITY Each year Berkeley produces a Sustainability Report to provide its stakeholders with a full and transparent account of how its sustainability strategy and policies are put into practice throughout the Group.
This year Berkeley has produced a Sustainability Report Executive Summary which provides an overview of the progress made against its sustainability strategy for the period from May 2011 to April 2012.
It contains a short explanation of Vision2020, key achievements in the year and summary performance data against Key Performance Indicators.
A number of short case studies are also provided to demonstrate how Berkeley incorporates sustainability into its business operations.
More extensive information on sustainability performance is available on Berkeleys website, including a full explanation of Vision2020, detailed performance data and more case studies.
Once again, Berkeley has applied the Global Reporting Initiative GRI Sustainability Reporting Principles to its executive summary report and website in order to give a balanced and relevant account of its sustainability performance.
For further information and to download a copy of the Sustainability Report Executive Summary, please refer to the sustainability section of Berkeleys website.
Berkeley Annual Report 2012 87 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT HEALTH AND SAFETY The Group considers the effective management of health and safety to be an integral part of managing its business.
Accordingly, the Group Main Board continues to monitor the strategic development and audit the implementation by all divisions of their Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems to ensure that, both at Group and divisional level, they remain compliant with recognised established standards.
We remain committed to enhancing the Groups high standards through continuous improvement.
Our Health & Safety Governance Committee is responsible for setting the strategic objectives of the Group, and the Health & Safety Working Group, comprising divisional executives and managers, is responsible for delivering these objectives and reviewing progress against targets set for our established key performance indicators, reporting this quarterly to the Group Main Board.
For further information, please refer to the section on Running a Sustainable Business on pages 48 to 61.
ESSENTIAL CONTRACTS Berkeley has contractual and other arrangements with numerous third parties in support of its business activities.
None of the arrangements are individually considered to be essential to the business of Berkeley.
PAYMENT OF CREDITORS Each of the Groups operating companies is responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions, including terms of payment, relating to transactions with its suppliers.
This is on an individual contract basis, rather than following a standard code.
It is Group policy to abide by the agreed terms of payment where the supplier has provided the goods and services in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions of contract.
At 30 April 2012, the Company did not have any trade creditors 2011: nil.
TAKEOVER DIRECTIVE AGREEMENTS Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the Company is required to disclose whether there are any significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control.
Change of control provisions are included as standard in many types of commercial agreement, notably bank facility agreements and joint venture shareholder agreements, for the protection of both parties.
Such standard terms are included in Berkeleys bank facility agreement which contains provisions that give the banks certain rights upon a change of control of the Company.
Similarly, in certain circumstances, a change of control may give Berkeleys joint venture partner, Prudential Assurance Company Limited, the ability to exercise certain rights under the shareholder agreement in relation to its St Edward Homes joint venture.
In addition, the Companys share schemes contain provisions which take effect upon change of control.
These do not entitle the participants to a greater interest in the shares of the Company than that created by the initial grant of the award.
The Company does not have any arrangements with any Director that provide compensation for loss of ofce or employment resulting from a takeover.
The remaining information required to be disclosed under the Takeover Directive can be found within notes 5 and 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS AND DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: U-v i iV i]iiii `v vVi ` i i ` U i iV i ii ii} i i iV`i iiviiv iv ii audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company is to be held at the Woodlands Park Hotel, Woodlands Lane, Stoke DAbernon, Cobham, Surrey KT11 3QB at 11.00am on 5 September 2012.
The Notice of Meeting, which is contained in a separate letter from the Group Chairman accompanying this report, includes a commentary on the business to be transacted at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board A M Bradshaw Company Secretary 19 July 2012 88 Berkeley Annual Report 2012
