Our Business OUR BUSINESS BERKELEY IS A RESIDENTIALLED PROPERTY DEVELOPER WITH A PASSION FOR CREATING SUCCESSFUL, SUSTAINABLE PLACES.
8 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Our Business Our Business Berkeley Annual Report 2012 9 Our Business 1 The Tower, 2 Ebury Square, Belgravia, SW1 Prestigious schemes in the heart One St. George Wharf, SW8 Ebury Square lies in the Overlooking the River heart of Belgravia, one of of the Capital offering the very Thames and the Houses Londons most distinguished of Parliament, The Tower, neighbourhoods.
One St. George Wharf 3 190 Strand, WC2 will, at 50 storeys, be A luxurious new development one of Europes tallest situated in an historic residential towers.
location, overlooking Sir Christopher Wrens Grade I listed St Clement Danes church, and close to the Courtauld Gallery and Somerset House.
1 All the above are computer generated images which are indicative only.
10 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Our Business Our Business 2 3 All the above are computer generated images which are indicative only.
Berkeley Annual Report 2012 11 Our Business Our Business OUR BUSINESS The Group makes money for its shareholders by BERKELEY HAS A SIMPLE developing and selling homes, whether city apartments or detached family houses, student residences, Extra BUSINESS MODEL WHICH Care accommodation or shops and restaurants, across London and the South East of England.
PLAYS TO ITS STRENGTHS Berkeleys principal operating activities are to identify and buy AND EXPERTISE.
development sites, secure suitable viable planning consents, and then construct and deliver homes for its customers.
Berkeleys long-term corporate objectives are to maximise shareholder value in a sustainable and safe way, returning 13 per share to shareholders by 2021, and to retain a successful and sustainable business thereafter.
12 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Our Business Our Business No.
1 Street, Royal Arsenal Riverside, SE18 One of Londons largest regeneration schemes Berkeley believes that its focus on creating not just homes, but thriving, successful places is what sets it apart from its peers.
PRODUCT LAND The Group employs experienced, committed staff whose Berkeleys product is spread across a wide target market, role is to identify potential new site acquisitions which at a range of affordability levels.
This includes its core meet Berkeleys challenging acquisition criteria.
Berkeley product of residential apartments and houses, as well as continues to operate in its core markets of London and the diversied product such as student accommodation and South East of England, where it has a competitive advantage, Extra Care accommodation.
There is a commitment to and acquires new sites opportunistically only in those quality across its entire portfolio which Berkeley believes locations where market demand supports such investment.
will continue to underpin its brand and reputation, now and Each new site acquisition is rigorously assessed to ensure in the future.
Customer satisfaction is a key performance that the Group can give a wholehearted commitment to measure: third party surveys are instructed by Berkeley invest in the planning and delivery of a scheme based on on all sales of new homes and results fed back to inform its underlying financial viability and an understanding of Berkeleys future product and approach.
the significant operational risks of development.
PLACEMAKING PLANNING Across all phases of the development cycle, Berkeley The priority on new land is to eliminate planning risk believes that its focus on creating not just homes, but quickly and effectively, to secure a viable, implementable thriving, successful places is what sets it apart from its peers planning consent appropriate to the location, demand and is at the heart of its success over recent years.
From and context of each site.
This is carried out in a spirit of Putney Wharf in London, to Gunwharf Quays in Portsmouth, engagement and dialogue with local communities and or the regeneration of the Royal Arsenal buildings and docks stakeholders impacted by these schemes.
The Group at Woolwich, this has remained central to Berkeleys priorities.
also maintains a disciplined approach to optimisation, and fosters a culture of improvement in which consented INNOVATION AND AGILITY schemes are continually reassessed to ensure that they Outside of its core activities, Berkeley has found innovative remain appropriate to the location and to the local market ways to enhance value in the business, whether delivering and demand, which itself can evolve in terms of the mix schemes in partnership with the Prudential, the sale of of homes or planning uses.
More relevant on the Groups postgraduate accommodation constructed for Imperial longer-term schemes, Berkeley considers it right to look College London, or delivering and investing in rental regularly at what is planned to be delivered, and to properties with the Housing and Communities Agency.
continually challenge itself to improve this.
Berkeley remains alert to such opportunities as they arise: an attribute which is integral to maintaining a exible, DELIVERY agile business, and has a business model which allows this, With a focus on sales early in the delivery process, Berkeley with balance sheet strength, financial capacity and the aims to reduce financial risk before investing in the capital discipline of a programme of shareholder returns.
This is Berkeleys way of Berkeleys experience and understanding is that the ensuring that supply meets demand, tailoring its product property market is inherently cyclical, an understanding and delivery to the demands of the market at prices which which has been at the heart of its success in the past, it knows are supported in each location.
The Group is and is central to its strategy to meet its stated long-term committed to a considerate and sustainable approach corporate objectives.
to the design and construction of its schemes, with clear direction from the Board, which champions, through BRANDS AND PEOPLE Vision2020, a framework of clear, modern and focused sustainability practices.
Berkeley has autonomous management teams operating under five core brands: Berkeley: St George: St James: St Edward: and Berkeley First.
These teams operate across all the disciplines of the business, and comprise those people charged with implementing the Groups strategy to deliver its long-term corporate objectives.
