Our Business OUR STRATEGY The Tower, One St. George Wharf, SW8 View from the Sky Garden on 8th oor Berkeleys strategy is dedicated to delivering its long-term BERKELEY IS A BUSINESS corporate objectives to maximise shareholder value over the long-term in a sustainable and safe way, delivering FOCUSED ON SECURING 1.7 billion in cash to shareholders over the next 10 years and by 2020, to remain one of the most successful and AND DELIVERING sustainable businesses in Britain.
Berkeleys aim is to deliver the targeted shareholder returns from earnings, and to invest opportunistically in new sites and optimise existing sites to underpin the business in the long-term.
To meet these objectives, the Group will continue to focus on organic growth in its core markets of London and the South East of England.
This is where its knowledge, experience and proven track record, with over thirty years of experience in this market, give it a competitive advantage in the planning and delivery of its schemes.
The business benets from a strong balance sheet and good visibility over performance in the near-term from cash due on forward sales of over 1 billion.
Berkeley will continue to forward sell its developments wherever possible, keeping financial risk low to mitigate the operating risks of delivery, and carefully allocating capital to the right projects at the right time, matching supply to demand wherever it can.
Berkeley believes that the requirement to make returns to shareholders, in cash, by agreed milestone dates is aligned to ensuring Berkeley operates at an optimal size in which returns must be matched with a disciplined approach to risk management over the long-term.
Dial Arch pub at Royal Arsenal Riverside, SE18 People enjoying a restaurant at Imperial Wharf, SW6 14 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Our Business Our Business Our Business Our Business Flexibility in its business plan affords Berkeley the ability to working environment and competitive remuneration is act quickly and decisively when faced with opportunities to key to achieving this.
Berkeleys people have embraced add value outside of the normal development cycle.
This has Vision2020, and have been integral to the successful first been evidenced over the last two years through the creation year of the Berkeley Foundation, which spearheads of Berkeleys rental fund, in partnership with the Homes and Berkeleys Corporate Social Responsibility programme.
Communities Agency, which promoted the delivery of a Wholehearted engagement of Berkeley with its people, number of schemes across Berkeleys portfolio where rental and their engagement with Berkeley and its wider demand has been strong and which now benefit both Berkeley stakeholders, is fundamental to its strategy to be one and the Homes and Communities Agency through a portfolio of the best and most sustainable businesses in Britain.
of properties generating solid market rental returns.
The ultimate success of this strategy will be measured Operationally, to succeed in meeting its objectives, the through performance against the long-term corporate Group needs all of its employees to understand the long-term objectives.
Berkeley is a business focused on securing and Berkeley vision, and to give them the framework to embed the delivering long-term value.
To deliver consistent earnings concept of a sustainable business in all of their dealings and from an efficient balance sheet, whilst continuing to build decisions.
This is the role of Vision2020, which provides clear the value of the business in the land bank, Berkeleys core guidelines and commitments within which all of our people performance targets of Return on Equity and Land Bank can operate at all levels of the business.
This in turn sets Growth will remain a focus over the next twelve months.
clear benchmarks, which Berkeley can report to its wider This year, a return on equity of 21.2% 2011: 15.3%, stakeholders to demonstrate that Berkeley is the right continuing growth in land bank margin of 12.0% to developer and partner for the long-term.
Berkeleys approach 2,580 million 2011: 2,304 million and a strong balance to running a sustainable business is explained further in sheet in which total equity now stands at 1,099.8 million a separate chapter of this report under that heading.
2011: 929.4 million are the solid foundations in 2012 To implement this strategy, Berkeley relies on the which demonstrate that the business has embarked on the recruitment and retention of the best people.
A clear route towards these long-term objectives in the right way.
philosophy founded on integrity, a challenging and fullling Berkeley Annual Report 2012 15 Our Business Goodmans Fields and 75 Leman Street, Aldgate Area: 7.2 acres Homes: c. 900 Developed by: Berkeley 16 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Our Business Our Business GOODMANS FIELDS & 75 LEMAN STREET Berkeley Annual Report 2012 17
