Trading & Financial Review TRADING REVIEW Stanmore Place, HA7 Area: 7 acres Homes: 798 Developed by: St Edward TRADING PERFORMANCE Berkeleys results for the year ended 30 April 2012 demonstrate a strong underlying operating performance which, along with further growth in forward sales, a strong balance sheet and a solid land bank, leaves Berkeley well-positioned to meet its previous target of doubling its profit before tax from 110 million to 220 million by 30 April 2013, some two years earlier than originally planned and to embrace its new operational targets as it heads towards the first targeted dividend repayment in September 2015.
The strong underlying operating performance has been balanced with controlled investment in the future of the business.
Shareholder equity has increased by 170.4 million to 1,099.8 million, while capital employed increased by 266.0 million to 1,157.7 million, some 29.8% higher than at the start of the year.
A full review of Berkeleys trading performance and financial position is set out in the Financial Review on pages 74 to 79.
HOUSING MARKET Demand for residential property in good locations in London and the South East remained strong throughout the year, attracting interest from both UK domestic and international buyers, whether investors or owner-occupiers.
This is consistent with recent data from the Ofce of National Statistics which recorded that prices in London rose by 4.9% in the year to April 2012 compared to 2.1% in the South East and 1.4% nationally in the same period.
This demand undoubtedly rests on Londons pre-eminent position as one of the worlds largest trading and financial centres and the benets that this brings to the wider economy in the South East of England in terms of jobs and employment.
Underlying domestic demand has remained resilient during the year, with visitor numbers across our sites remaining stable compared to last year, as has the ongoing demand for rental properties on our developments.
For Berkeleys international customers, London continues to offer a unique combination of stability, access to some of the worlds most prestigious addresses, including shops, restaurants and cultural amenities, a number of world-class higher education establishments and a competitive exchange rate.
Together with what has historically been a supportive taxation framework, these have made London the preferred choice, when compared to the worlds other major cities, for major inward investment.
Outside London, where the market relies more on traditional owner-occupiers, forward selling is less prevalent as people tend to buy when product is completed and available for occupation.
Sales levels have been consistent with last year and Berkeley has worked carefully to try to match supply to demand.
Berkeley held 288 completed properties in stock at 30 April 2012 30 April 2011: 238 which are available for immediate sale and which is in line with historic levels.
Compounding this demand, there is a shortage of supply of new homes, exacerbated by existing planning policy and restrictions on the availability of development finance, which continues to place a scarcity value on homes in good locations.
In these conditions, Berkeley anticipates that demand will remain strong for property in the best locations in London and the South East.
These market conditions are reected in Berkeleys sales reservations which were some 27% ahead of last year, supported by the launch of 23 new sites to the market.
Cash due on forward sales stood at 1,055.7 million at 30 April 2012, an increase of 29.8% from 813.5 million at 30 April 2011.
Cancellation rates which averaged 14.8% over the course of the year remained at levels consistent with a strong underlying market.
64 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 T Trading & Financial Review rading & Financial Review T Trading & Financial Review rading & Financial Review Berkeley Annual Report 2012 65 Trading & Financial Review Government intervention to provide a solution to customer deposits and higher loan-to-value mortgages through the NewBuy scheme has been welcome.
2,444 Whilst not necessarily expected to form a significant proportion of Berkeley Plots acquired sales, NewBuy is available on properties for sale under 500,000 and is a helpful enabler for those looking to step onto the housing ladder without access to a significant deposit.
The NewBuy scheme is expected to offer a more permanent replacement to 20 the existing FirstBuy scheme when it comes to an end in December 2012.
Under New sites the governments FirstBuy initiative, some 60 customers have been helped to purchase their own Berkeley home during the year.
Finding ways to continue to help individuals secure nancing is important to ensure momentum and confidence in the housebuilding sector.
Across other areas of Berkeleys portfolio, there has remained strong interest in student accommodation, with a postgraduate scheme at Clapham Junction delivered during the year and four undergraduate schemes in the pipeline, underpinned by University and student demand in the locations identied.
This is very much demand led, and the attraction of students to the world-class universities of London and the South East, who in turn demand world-class accommodation, has supported this investment.
Despite the well-documented challenges in retailing in uncertain times, there continues to be good interest in commercial tenancies on Berkeleys mixed-use schemes, with nine major supermarket pre-lets secured over the last eighteen months and tenancies across other uses including restaurants, coffee shops and crches amongst others supporting the vibrancy of the places created.
NEW LAND ACQUISITION In the year, Berkeley secured 2,444 plots across 20 new sites, investing a further 311 million, which equates to an average plot cost of 127,000.
The average plot cost reects a concentration of land acquired in London, in line with the Groups strategy to invest in markets in which it has a competitive advantage and where the planning, political and market environment supports investment.
In Central London, the sites include a commercial property in EC1 which is currently tenanted until 2015 and has a planning consent for some 700 homes, two schemes on the Albert Embankment Eastbury House and Hampton House and a scheme at One Blackfriars which has an established consent for a 52-storey development.
In Greater London they include a former monastery in Finchley and a Royal Mail sorting ofce in Twickenham.
Outside London Berkeley has acquired a former hospital site in Tunbridge Wells, a housing scheme in Caterham, and a selection of boutique housing schemes each with fewer than 10 plots.
Most of the sites were either acquired with a planning consent or conditional on a planning consent being secured.
Berkeleys land holdings at 30 April 2012 do not include the acquisition of Wapping Village on which terms were agreed and the purchase completed in May 2012.
In the year Berkeley secured 2,444 plots across 20 new sites, investing a further 311 million, which equates to an average plot cost of 127,000.
66 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Trading & Financial Review Trading & Financial Review PLANNING AND OPTIMISATION 36 The quality of Berkeleys land bank was enhanced this year following resolution Resolutions to grant to grant planning consent on some 36 schemes.
These consents included some planning consent 750 new homes at Fulham Reach, 489 new homes at Chelsea Creek, 275 homes at Abell and Cleland House in Westminster and 144 homes at Thameside in Kew.
At 30 April 2012, 84% of the 26,021 plots in Berkeleys land bank benefited from an implementable planning consent 2011: 77%, a statistic which gives strong visibility over the future viability of the land bank.
Optimising the value of the land bank through planning has traditionally offered Berkeley the opportunity to add value while maintaining an efficient balance sheet and minimising risk.
Equally important is that the revision of planning consents often directly supports local communities by funding additional Section 106 and community benets that would not otherwise have been delivered and ensuring a sustainable use of land, a scarce resource, to build much needed homes.
Optimisation is invariably demand led, whether this is meeting the need for more new homes, changing the mix of homes or changing planning uses to meet market requirements which evolve over time.
In the year, Berkeley added approximately 6% of value to its opening land bank which is in line with historic levels and contributed to the outperformance in the growth in the land bank compared to its original target.
The planning outlook in London has been signicantly aided by the London Plan which governs planning policy in the Capital.
Outside London, where there is no common framework, planning remains more difficult due to a lack of certainty.
This year Berkeley, whilst securing some nine new consents outside London, also had applications rejected on five sites acquired conditional on securing a planning consent, a rate which is unsustainable if it continues at this level.
The National Planning Policy Framework, published in March of this year, is a helpful step forward for the industry, providing a presumption in favour of sustainable development when such development will improve and enhance the places where people live.
This is about developing in the right way, engaging with and for the benefit of local people and communities, and is a sensible platform from which the industry can work.
The engagement of developers with local communities is only part of the equation.
Planning needs to be an effective and positive process with active engagement from all parties.
Engagement with statutory consultees across a range of disciplines, whether the Highways Agency, the Environment Agency, English Heritage or Natural England to name but a few, needs to be swift and proactive, and this is not currently the case.
This is in the spirit of the National Planning Policy Framework, and is key to satisfying continuing demand for new housing in this country.
With the introduction over recent years of a wide variety of consultees on every planning application, the positive input that this brings must be balanced with the increasing cost of securing planning consents.
Berkeley works hard to meet the aspirations of all interested parties, but acknowledges that underlying financial viability, above all on the part of the developer that uses its balance sheet to support the delivery of each scheme, is the key to unlocking each of its sites.
Swift, helpful and proactive engagement from all parties is needed to unlock successful development.
Berkeley Annual Report 2012 67 Trading & Financial Review 68 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Trading & Financial Review Trading & Financial Review LAND BANK After taking account of homes completed in the year including joint ventures and student rooms at Clapham Junction, and the net addition of further plots through 2,580 replanning and optimisation, the Group including joint ventures controlled some 26,021 plots at 30 April 2012 with an estimated gross margin of 2,580 million.
This compared to 27,026 plots and 2,304 million at 30 April 2011.
The average million selling price in the land bank increased from 301,000 to 345,000 over the year, Estimated gross margin primarily reecting the land acquired in London which has a higher average selling in the land bank price than the underlying land bank.
Berkeley also holds approximately 10,000 further plots in its longer-term pipeline, including strategic land under option which requires promotion through the planning system as well as long-term regeneration land which is under contract.
Delivery on this pipeline is constrained not just by planning, but other factors including viability and vacant possession which require Berkeleys expertise to unlock value in these plots and bring them into the longer-term land bank.
Having added 276 million of potential gross margin in 2012 to 2,580 million, Berkeley is advancing its target to increase the value of its land bank, after allowing for completions over the period, to 3 billion by April 2014, against a previous target of April 2015.
1 Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth Berkeley Annual Report 2012 69 Trading & Financial Review Royal Arsenal Riverside, SE18 DELIVERY OF MAJOR PROJECTS 20 sites have moved from land not under development into production over the course of the year following planning consents and successful sales releases.
These include St Georges scheme at Fulham Reach on the river in Hammersmith and Berkeleys scheme at Goodmans Fields, where the first phase comprising the refurbishment of 75 Leman Street is underway.
The delivery of residential accommodation this year also included Griffon Studios, a post-graduate student scheme at Clapham Junction, complementing the student schemes in Acton and Aldgate in London and those in Oxford and Gillingham that are due for delivery for the start of the academic years in September 2012 and 2013 respectively.
Production levels are at their highest in London, where demand most supports this investment.
Berkeley has delivered first occupations at Chelsea Creek this year in line with previous guidance, with further occupations at our major regeneration schemes at Woodberry Park, Kidbrooke Village and Royal Arsenal Riverside.
At Grosvenor Waterside, where the Group is contracted to sell 334 properties to Project Red Limited, a company ultimately controlled by Qatari Diar, some 149 of these properties had been completed at 30 April 2012, leaving a balance of 185 properties to complete at such time as the purchaser, at its discretion, requests delivery.
Payment has been received in full for all of these properties.
Berkeley has previously highlighted seven major projects which have planning consents and which are scheduled to commence completions over the next five years.
These projects, in aggregate, comprise some 22% of the value of the current land bank, and whilst delivery will be phased over several years, may lead to an uneven distribution of earnings and increased average selling price over the medium-term depending on the exact date of delivery.
The seven major projects are The Tower at St George Wharf, Riverlight, Chelsea Creek, One Tower Bridge, 375 Kensington High Street, Ebury Square and 190 Strand.
The complex nature and size of these schemes means that it is inherently difficult to provide absolute certainty over the timing of delivery, which in some cases is up to five years away, as construction can frequently be affected by factors outside the direct control of management as well as the risk of any slowdown in sales.
Delivery of each of these projects is currently at or within the timescales previously indicated and further updates will be made to the market in due course.
Outside London, construction has continued across Berkeleys portfolio.
Apartments at Cambridge Riverside and Kingsbrook Park in Canterbury, as well as family housing at Edenbrook in Fleet, Queens Acre in Beaconseld and Kings Hill in Cirencester, have been occupied in the current year and will benefit future years.
70 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Trading & Financial Review Trading & Financial Review RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Berkeleys corporate plan is to deliver 13 per share to shareholders by 2021 and to be one of the most successful and sustainable businesses in Britain.
The challenge for Berkeley is to ensure that all of its stakeholders understand and embrace the discipline of running a business for the long-term, making the right choices to protect the Berkeley brand, reputation and operational performance, and acting with application and integrity.
This is the role of Vision2020, a framework which sets out a series of specic operational commitments across four key areas: The Customer Experience: Delivering Sustainable Communities: Building Greener Homes and encapsulated by Running a Sustainable Business.
Berkeleys approach to Running a Sustainable Business, and what this means to Berkeley, is set out in the accompanying section of the same name in this Annual Report.
OUTLOOK Berkeley is mindful that it continues to operate in an uncertain market, with a double-dip recession in the UK and continuing uncertainty across Europe.
It is, however, a market which creates opportunities for the Group.
Land is scarce and there is a limited supply of new homes: the economy in London and the South East is strong relative to other parts of the UK and less reliant on government spending: the planning regime in London is proactive and in a region where Berkeley has a competitive advantage.
In the long-term, restricted supply alongside an increasing demand from a concentration of the UKs population growth in London and the South East is likely to ensure that the prospects for new housing in Berkeleys core market remain strong, and the purchase of a new home in the right location is still one of the best long-term investments that an individual can make as well as being a place in which to live.
The focus of the business is to return the first milestone of 4.34 per share in cash to shareholders by 30 September 2015 and the Board is confident that, subject only to the resilience of the wider market, this will be achieved.
The success of Berkeley now and in the future is reliant on keeping the business agile and exible to act and react quickly in what it knows to be a cyclical property market.
Rob Perrins Managing Director Berkeley Annual Report 2012 71 Trading & Financial Review Project team meeting at Grid Architects to discuss 190 Strand 72 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Trading and Financial Review Trading and Financial Review Berkeley Annual Report 2012 73
