Highlights Highlights MANAGING DIRECTORS STATEMENT It is pleasing to report a tremendous year of performance The objective to return some 568.5 million in cash to and growth for Berkeley.
profit before tax increased 57.7% shareholders by September 2015 places a responsibility to 214.8 million from 136.2 million the previous year and on the Board to maintain strong discipline in its investment basic earnings per share are up 67.8% to 121.0 pence per strategy.
The challenge is to balance the return of 13 per share reecting both underlying earnings growth and the share in cash to existing shareholders over the remaining reduction in the rate of corporation tax.
Pre-tax return on nine years of the plan with our continued investment in land shareholders equity, one of Berkeleys two core performance and construction.
It is forecast that we will continue to invest targets, was 21.2% up from 15.3% a year earlier on retained profits into land and construction until 2014 before shareholders equity that increased by 170.4 million to generating the cash ow to pay the first dividends.
The Board is giving further consideration to ways in which share 1,099.8 million in the period.
buybacks can be integrated into this overall framework, The second core annual performance target is growth in the where it believes that this can create additional long-term value of the Groups land bank in line with our strategy to shareholder value.
The further investment of some 311 million in land acquisitions during the year contributed to growth This is an exciting stage in the cycle for Berkeley.
of the potential gross margin in the land bank by 12.0% to Our objectives are clear, and through the framework of 2,580 million and exceeds the targets set at the beginning Vision2020 our stakeholders have specic, identiable of the year.
This investment has continued into the new commitments which focus every area of the business: these financial year with the acquisition of 15 acres in Zone 1 commitments have been diligently and enthusiastically at Wapping for 150 million, payable in instalments, as embraced by all.
I rmly believe that we have the right announced in May 2012. strategy, and the right people to implement the operational plan, to give the company, our shareholders and our wider Importantly, the results also demonstrate the continued stakeholders confidence in Berkeleys ability to deliver its strengthening of the balance sheet and management of objectives over the long-term.
key operating risks, above all through an increase in cash due on forward sales to 1,056 million which underpins our Our approach brings with it an appreciation that we are investment in future delivery: an enhancement in the quality positioned well to outperform, with an unrivalled land bank, of our land bank in which some 84% is now fully consented: a strong balance sheet, a healthy forward sales position and and an increase in banking facilities to 525 million, a stable, experienced management team, but we recognise extended until April 2017, providing financial security that we are operating in an uncertain market and must remain well beyond the first planned date of shareholder returns.
sensitive to changes in the market and the wider economy.
Looking forward, we have updated our operating guidance which is aligned to returning some 568.5 million to shareholders, equivalent to 4.34 per share, by September 2015, whilst maintaining our balance sheet at least at the current level.
The Group is currently well-positioned, Rob Perrins with the land bank and planning consents now in place, Managing Director to achieve this guidance assuming overall market conditions remain resilient.
The Board also believes that there remain opportunities to add further shareholder value over the long-term through additional land investment at this point in the cycle and has maintained its target for land bank growth in the next financial year at 10%.
We will also now aim to meet our objective to grow the value in the land bank to 3 billion, by April 2014, one year earlier than originally intended.
This is an exciting stage in the cycle for Berkeley.
I firmly believe that we have the right strategy for Berkeley to deliver its objectives over the long-term.
