13 Fulham Reach, Hammersmith Computer generated images are indicative only.
London London Under Construction London Future Sites 1 21 1 375 Kensington High Street Langham Square, Putney 190 Strand, City of London 2 22 2 Battersea Reach Lime Grove Mews, Hammersmith Abell & Cleland House, Westminster 3 23 3 Beaufort Park, Hendon Marine Wharf, Deptford Carnwath Road, Fulham 4 24 4 Blackheath Road, Deptford Marryat Place, Wimbledon City Forum, City of London 5 25 5 Camberwell Grove ONESE8, Deptford Eastbury House, Albert Embankment 6 26 6 Carmelite, Finchley One Tower Bridge Hampton House, Albert Embankment 7 27 7 Caspian Wharf, Bow Parkwest, West Drayton NEC House, Acton 8 28 8 Chelsea Creek Imperial Wharf Queen Marys Place, Roehampton One Blackfriars, Southwark 9 Costume Store, Acton 29 Riverlight, Battersea 9 Queens Rise, Richmond 10 Dickens Yard, Ealing 30 Roman House, City of London 10 Section House, Finchley 11 Ebury Square, Belgravia 31 Royal Arsenal Riverside 11 Sir Alexander Close, Acton 12 Emerald Square, Roehampton 32 Saffron Square, Croydon 12 Twickenham Sorting Ofce 13 Fulham Reach, Hammersmith 33 St Catherines Place, New Cross 13 Warwick Road, Kensington Telereal 14 Goodmans Fields, Aldgate 34 St James Park Mews, Surbiton 14 Warwick Road, Kensington Homebase 15 Griffon Studios, Clapham 35 Stanmore Place 16 Grosvenor Waterside 36 Terrace Yard, Richmond 17 Napier, Acton 37 The Boatyard, Kingston 18 Kew Bridge Road 38 The Tower, One St George Wharf 19 Kew Bridge West, Brentford 39 Wimbledon Hill Park 20 Kidbrooke Village 40 Woodberry Park Sites purchased during the year Berkeley Annual Report 2012 19 Our Business OUR LAND... AND THE SOUTH EAST OF ENGLAND 5 Canterbury 10 Esher 7 Cirencester 20 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Our Business B U C K I N G E H R I A H M S S R E H I T R S E E C R O W Our Business CAMBRIDGESHIRE 4 WA RWICKSHIRE 23 SUFFOLK MILTON KEYNES 5 6 27 GLOUCESTERSHIRE ESSEX 20 GLOUCESTERSHIRE 25 7 OXFORDSHIRE 1 16 2 3 15 26 8 11 LONDON 9 22 BERKSHIRE 13 2 10 10 17 6 9 7 4 24 5 WI LTSHIRE 13 1 12 15 12 SURRE 11Y KENT 14 HAMPSHIRE 18 3 WEST SUSSEX EAST SUSSEX 14 21 19 8 South East Out of London Under Construction Out of London Future Sites 1 16 1 Basingstoke High Wycombe Amersham 2 17 2 Beaconseld Holborough Ascot 2 sites 3 18 3 Billingshurst Horsham Beaconseld 4 19 4 Cambridge North Bersted Caterham 5 20 5 Canterbury Oxford 2 sites Cheltenham 6 Cheltenham 21 Portsmouth 6 Claygate 7 Cirencester 22 Reading 7 Cobham 8 Eastbourne 23 Worcester 8 Gerrards Cross 2 sites 9 Efngham 24 Sevenoaks 9 Maidenhead 10 Esher 25 St Albans 10 Oxshott 11 Farnham Common 26 Wantage 11 Reigate 12 Fleet 2 sites 27 Woodstock 12 Shalford 13 Gillingham 13 Tadworth 2 sites 14 Gosport 14 Tunbridge Wells 15 Guildford 15 Wantage Sites purchased during the year Berkeley Annual Report 2012 21 H E R E T R F HI S O N O T R P M D A S H H T I R R O N E B E D F O R D S H I R E Our Business 190 Strand Lobby, WC2 Area: 1.2 acres Homes: c. 200 Developed by: St. Edward 22 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Our Business Our Business Computer generated images are indicative only.
Berkeley Annual Report 2012 23 Our Business OUR LAND DELIVERED THIS YEAR DURING 2012, BERKELEY DELIVERED 3,565 NEW HOMES ACROSS ITS PORTFOLIO OF DEVELOPMENTS IN LONDON AND THE SOUTH EAST OF ENGLAND.
The breadth of homes delivered stretches from modern new build apartment schemes on prime stretches of the River Thames, to major regeneration schemes in Greater London, along with new build and restoration family housing schemes outside London.
Across Berkeleys waterfront schemes in London, the first phase of homes at Chelsea Creek was delivered in the year, along with a new spa and leisure complex serving these apartments, as were the first new homes at Kew Riverside and further sales in the latest phase at Battersea Reach.
The apartments at Chelsea Creek are the first of a total of some 900 homes to be constructed in this new waterside location adjacent to Imperial Wharf.
There was a further phase of occupations at Berkeleys major regeneration schemes at Woodberry Park, Kidbrooke Village and Royal Arsenal Riverside in the year, in addition to new sales at established schemes including Beaufort Park in Hendon and Queen Marys Place in Roehampton.
Outside London, new housing delivered at Edenbrook in Fleet and Queens Acre in Beaconseld are on schemes designed to form vibrant new communities in harmony with their surroundings.
This year, Berkeley also delivered the first phase of high-specication postgraduate student accommodation for Imperial College at Griffon Studios near Clapham Junction, first occupied by Imperials students in October 2011, with the second phase due for delivery in September 2012.
Student schemes at the Costume Store in Acton and at Dorset House in Oxford are due for delivery in the next financial year.
Queens Acre, Beaconsfield Area: 6.8 acres Homes: 50 Developed by: St. James 24 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Our Business Our Business Our Business Berkeley Annual Report 2012 25 Our Business OUR LAND DELIVERED THIS YEAR Chelsea Creek, SW6 The redevelopment of a former gas works and an historic dock basin and lock in Area: 10 acres Fulham, the completed scheme will provide 889 homes over nine residential blocks Homes: c. 900 and an ofce building, with contemporary architecture based on dockside living Developed by: St George in Amsterdam and Copenhagen.
Purchasers started taking occupation of the first phase in early 2012.
The site benets from the amenities of Imperial Wharf and Chelsea Harbour close by, the convenience of the new Imperial Wharf station delivered by St George, and the on-site residents only health and tness centre with swimming pool, sauna, steam room and gymnasium.
26 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Our Business Our Business Edenbrook, Hampshire Area: 54 acres Homes: c. 300 Delivered by: Berkeley A ground-breaking development in Hampshire, new residential homes are bordered by an 84 acre country park developed by Berkeley, which includes cycle paths, walkways, boardwalks, brooks and meadowlands, having been subject to extensive ecological study and an approach to preserve and encourage wildlife to evolve within the park.
Designed to integrate its surroundings, and to take inspiration from the Arts and Crafts movement, each home has been carefully positioned to maximise its aspect and views, and benets from Berkeleys exceptional specication and attention to detail.
With the first phases of homes now delivered at Edenbrook, Berkeley has created a truly unique place.
Griffon Studios, SW11 Delivered in partnership with Imperial College London, Berkeley First completed Area: 1.6 acres the first phase of 452 high quality postgraduate student studios at Griffon Studios Beds: 566 studios in September 2011.
With easy access to Imperials West London campuses, Griffon Developed by: Berkeley First Studios provides individual studios with kitchens and en-suite shower rooms, and additional facilities include a central common room, gym, laundry, 24 7 reception and management suite.
The remaining 114 studios are due for delivery to Imperial in September 2012.
Berkeley First and Imperials joint interest in the completed scheme was sold in September 2012 to Legal and General, backed by a long lease from Imperial.
Berkeley Annual Report 2012 27 Our Business OUR LAND MAJOR PROJECTS THERE ARE SEVEN MAJOR PROJECTS WHICH, IN AGGREGATE, COMPRISE APPROXIMATELY 22% OF THE VALUE OF BERKELEYS CURRENT LAND BANK.
These are projects in prominent locations in Central London, which have detailed planning consents and which are scheduled to commence completions over the next five years.
The seven major projects are The Tower at St George Wharf in Vauxhall, Riverlight in Nine Elms, Chelsea Creek, One Tower Bridge, 375 Kensington High Street, Ebury Square in Belgravia and 190 Strand.
The first completions at Chelsea Creek were reported in the year, and first completions on the other six schemes are anticipated over the course of the next five years.
Both 375 Kensington High Street and 190 Strand are schemes owned, and being delivered by, St Edward, Berkeleys joint venture with Prudential.
The complex nature and size of these schemes means that it is inherently difficult to provide absolute certainty over the timing of delivery, which in some cases is up to five years away, as construction can frequently be affected by factors outside the direct control of management as well as the risk of any slowdown in sales.
Whilst delivery will be phased over several years, these projects may lead to an uneven distribution of earnings and increased average selling price over the medium-term depending on the exact date of delivery.
Riverlight, SW8 Area: 5 acres Homes: c. 750 Developed by: St. James Computer generated images are indicative only.
28 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Our Business Our Business Our Business Berkeley Annual Report 2012 29 Our Business OUR LAND MAJOR PROJECTS Computer generated images are indicative only.
One Tower Bridge, SE1 Adjacent to Tower Bridge, the GLA headquarters and More London, and opposite Area: 3.75 acres the Tower of London, Berkeleys development at One Tower Bridge comprises the Homes: c. 400 regeneration of a redundant site and retention and refurbishment of listed school Developed by: Berkeley buildings on the site.
Designed by Squire and Partners, and being delivered in partnership with the London Borough of Southwark, the scheme will complete the regeneration of More London, and provide a mix of residential, retail, convenience, leisure and cultural uses within a truly sustainable community.
The first phase is now under construction.
Xxxxxxxxxxxxx 30 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Our Business Our Business Computer generated images are indicative only.
Ebury Square, Belgravia, SW1 A scheme located in the prime Central London neighbourhood of Belgravia, Area: 1 acre Ebury Square is the redevelopment of a vacant apartment building formerly Homes: 71 owned by the Metropolitan Police.
The architectural design reects the high Developed by: Berkeley quality precedents of the surrounding Thomas Cubitt buildings in Belgravia.
The quality of specication will match this, and will include basement car parking, a Health Suite, Business Centre, residents lounges, 24 7 concierge and security service.
A planning consent was secured in early 2012, demolition of the existing buildings has since commenced.
The Tower, One St George Wharf, SW8 Area: 7.25 acres Homes: c. 1,400 Developed by: St George The Tower is the final phase of the 20-year redevelopment of a redundant cold storage depot and coach park by Vauxhall Bridge.
Designed by awardwinning architects Broadway Malyan, at 50 storeys it will be one of the tallest residential towers in Europe and will benefit from the vibrant mixed-use community already active at St George Wharf.
It is also well connected with adjacent bus, underground and rail links across London.
Erection of the frame is now nearing completion.
Computer generated images are indicative only.
Berkeley Annual Report 2012 31 Our Business OUR LAND SCHEMES IN DELIVERY OF BERKELEYS LAND BANK OF 101 SITES, THERE WERE 69 IN PRODUCTION AT 30 APRIL 2012.
During the course of the year, some 20 sites moved from land not under development into production, following successful planning consents and sales releases.
Production levels are at their highest in London 40 of the 69 sites in production.
Here, Berkeleys investment in construction is concentrated on the seven major schemes separately identied above.
There has also been significant investment in its major London regeneration schemes at Woodberry Park, Kidbrooke Village and Royal Arsenal Riverside, along with other schemes across Berkeleys London portfolio.
Outside London, where the remaining 29 of Berkeleys sites in production are located and where the market relies more on traditional owner-occupiers who tend to purchase closer to completion, Berkeley has continued to invest in the right schemes, working carefully to try to match supply to demand and allocating capital as efficiently as possible.
This year has also seen Berkeley invest in two significant heritage schemes, including the restoration of the Grade I Listed 18th Century Roehampton House in London and the Victorian period All Saints development in Eastbourne, both in partnership with English Heritage.
The additional financial and operational investment in delivering such challenging schemes has again been carefully considered in light of Berkeleys approach to limit the financial risk on these schemes and match supply to demand.
Roehampton House at Queen Marys Place, Roehampton Area: 13.8 acres Homes: 447 Developed by: St James 32 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Our Business Our Business Our Business Our Business Berkeley Annual Report 2012 33 Our Business OUR LAND SCHEMES IN DELIVERY All Saints, Eastbourne Berkeleys painstaking refurbishment of this Victorian hospital in Eastbourne Area: 6 acres has restored the architectural detail of this building to its former glory, blending Homes: 104 authentic period features with modern interiors.
The latest phase of homes has Developed by: Berkeley been released and the external restoration, including landscaping across the 6 acres of grounds, is complete.
Berkeley has worked closely with English Heritage in delivering this project, to preserve the history and essence of the place.
34 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Our Business Our Business Roehampton House at The refurbishment of the ornate Grade 1 listed Roehampton House is the latest phase Queen Marys Place, Roehampton of St James development at Queen Marys Place in Roehampton.
The renowned Area: 13.8 acres award-winning historic gardens, previously paved over to provide temporary parking Homes: 447 for the prior occupants, are being restored together with stunning new landscaped Developed by: St James areas.
St James has worked closely with English Heritage throughout the restoration process, to provide wonderful living spaces within a truly historic building.
These homes represent a landmark phase at Queen Marys Place.
Xxxxxxxxxxxxx Woodberry Park, N4 Area: 60 acres Homes: c. 4,600 Developed by: Berkeley At Woodberry Park, Berkeley has taken forward placemaking in a way that combines social, economic and environmental sustainability considerations in pursuit of the total living environment agreed with local residents, and has worked closely with key stakeholders to deliver a broad range of new community facilities, shops, open spaces, play facilities and transport facilities early to support the needs of existing and new residents.
Occupations of the first phases have commenced, and Berkeleys skill and expertise in identifying and delivering the right framework and approach to this major regeneration project will remain the key to its enduring success.
Berkeley Annual Report 2012 35 Our Business OUR BUSINESS NEW CONSENTS WITH ALL NEW LAND ACQUIRED, BERKELEYS INITIAL FOCUS IS ON SECURING A VIABLE, IMPLEMENTABLE PLANNING CONSENT APPROPRIATE TO THE LOCATION, DEMAND AND CONTEXT OF EACH SITE.
The Group has achieved some significant successes this year, and the quality of Berkeleys land bank was enhanced over the year by the resolution to grant planning consent on 36 schemes.
Of Berkeleys Central London schemes, the new consents included 489 additional homes at Chelsea Creek, 275 homes at Abell and Cleland House in Westminster, some 200 apartments at 190 Strand and 90 apartments at Roman House.
Across Greater London, consents were secured for some 750 new homes at Fulham Reach in Hammersmith, 144 homes at Thameside in Kew, some 150 apartments at Carnwath Road in Fulham, a housing and apartment scheme in Wimbledon and an apartment scheme in Finchley.
This is in addition to consents on the next phases at Berkeleys large-scale regeneration schemes at Kidbrooke Village, Royal Arsenal Riverside and Woodberry Park.
Outside London, nine new consents were secured, including amongst others a new housing scheme in Caterham and a selection of the Groups boutique schemes of less than ten homes.
At 30 April 2012, 84% of the sites in Berkeleys land bank benefited from an implementable planning consent 2011: 77%, a statistic which gives strong visibility over the future viability of the land bank.
The improvement of any scheme, whether through an initial consent or an optimised consent, is reliant on swift, helpful and proactive engagement from all parties involved in the planning process.
Berkeleys approach is characterised by a spirit of engagement and dialogue with local communities and stakeholders impacted by its schemes, an approach which it believes is the most effective to unlocking each of its sites, and the key to ensuring the delivery of new housing in England.
Wimbledon Hill Park, SW20 Area: 5.7 acres Homes: c. 80 Delivered by: Berkeley Computer generated images are indicative only.
36 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Our Business Our Business Our Business Our Business Berkeley Annual Report 2012 37 Our Business OUR BUSINESS NEW CONSENTS Roman House, City of London A consent was secured by Berkeley to refurbish this existing ofce block in the Area: 0.3 acres City of London close to the Barbican, to provide 90 luxury apartments in the heart Homes: 90 of Londons financial district.
The new consent retains the Portland stone faade of Delivered by: Berkeley the current building, and the interiors, designed by The Manser Practice, have been inspired by the original piece of Roman Wall adjacent to the development.
38 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Our Business Our Business Fulham Reach, W6 St George commenced construction during the year on the first phase of this Area: 7.4 acres scheme on the River Thames close to Hammersmith.
Having secured a consent for Homes: 744 some 744 new homes, based on designs by John Thompson & Partners, St Georges Delivered by: St George plans in the first phase include a mix of Manhattan, one, two and three bedroom apartments along with a spa, gymnasium, concierge, snooker room and private cinema room for the use of residents, and have already refurbished and opened the riverfront walkway.
Abell and Cleland House, SW1 Area: 1.7 acres Homes: 275 Delivered by: Berkeley In the heart of Westminster, Berkeley recently secured a planning consent for the redevelopment of these former government ofce buildings into a residential scheme.
Providing 275 new homes, the scheme will provide a high quality environment not just for the schemes residents, but with sensitive, contemporary architectural and landscape design, will represent a significant improvement for all of the local community.
Berkeley secured a planning consent in early 2012, and the existing buildings are currently being readied for demolition.
Berkeley Annual Report 2012 39 Our Business OUR BUSINESS NEW ACQUISITIONS THE PRIORITY FOR A SUCCESSFUL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT BUSINESS IS TO BUY LAND WELL, AND BERKELEY HAS A STRONG TRACK RECORD IN THIS AREA.
At Berkeley, land opportunities are assessed with a rigour that relies on the expertise and application of trusted land teams, as well as their understanding of and support for Berkeleys long-term vision.
The commercial viability, above all the demand assessment, and investment returns of each scheme are crucial: but it is the vision for each scheme, tied in with the aspirations of the local community and of local government, the quality of the place that we can create, and Berkeleys willingness to interact with stakeholders along the way, which are the key to adding value throughout the development process.
This year, Berkeley secured 2,444 plots across 20 new sites, investing a further 311 million, which equates to an average plot cost of 127,000.
The average plot cost reects a concentration of land acquired in London, in line with the Groups strategy to invest in markets in which it has a competitive advantage and where the planning, political and market environment supports investment.
In Central London, the sites included a commercial property in EC1, which is currently tenanted until 2015 and has a planning consent for some 700 homes, two schemes on the Albert Embankment Eastbury House and Hampton House and a scheme at One Blackfriars which has an established consent for a 52-storey development.
In Greater London the sites included a former monastery in Finchley and a Royal Mail sorting ofce in Twickenham amongst others.
Outside London, Berkeley has acquired a former hospital site in Tunbridge Wells, a housing scheme in Caterham, and a selection of boutique housing schemes each with fewer than 10 homes.
Most of the sites were either acquired with a planning consent or conditional on a planning consent being secured.
Berkeleys land holdings at 30 April 2012 do not include the acquisition of Wapping Village on which terms were agreed and the purchase completed in May 2012.
Berkeley prides itself on its track record of acquiring the right land selectively and at the right point in the cycle, and with the acquisition of Wapping, has now invested over 1 billion in new land since the Group repositioned its strategy in February 2009 to invest in land.
City Forum, EC1V Area: 4.7 acres Delivered by: Berkeley Computer generated images are indicative only.
40 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Our Business Our Business Our Business Our Business Berkeley Annual Report 2012 41 Our Business OUR BUSINESS NEW ACQUISITIONS EASTBURY HOUSE HAMPTON HOUSE Computer generated images are indicative only.
Eastbury House and Hampton House, Vauxhall Eastbury House and Hampton House, on the Albert Embankment in Vauxhall and Area: 1.2 acres overlooking the River Thames, were acquired during the year.
An application for Delivered by: St James a new 28 storey development, designed by Rogers Stirk Harbour Partners, has been submitted on Eastbury House, whilst Hampton House was acquired with an existing consent for 242 homes, a 167 bedroom hotel and approximately 5,000 sq ft of commercial space.
Xxxxxxxxxxxxx 42 Berkeley Annual Report 2012 Our Business Our Business Royal Tunbridge Wells A housing scheme in Royal Tunbridge Wells in Kent, this was the acquisition of the Area: 11.6 acres former Kent and Sussex Hospital, in an area where Berkeley believes that there is Delivered by: Berkeley good infrastructure and there will be strong demand.
Berkeley is working on an application to demolish the existing redundant buildings and deliver a new housing scheme appropriate to the market in this location.
One Blackfriars, SE1 Area: 1.6 acres Delivered by: St George ONE BLACKFRIARS Acquired in December 2011, One Blackfriars is a 1.6 acre cleared site to the south of the River Thames in Blackfriars.
The site was purchased with an existing consent for a combination of residential, hotel and commercial uses within a 50-storey tower.
Since the year end, and having reviewed the existing consent, St George has submitted an application to revise this consent.
