54 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Risk This section provides a review of the evolution and management of 3is key risks during the year, together with anoverview of the main elements of3is risk governance framework.
This is followed by a description of the main inherent risk factors.
Further details on the management of key risks, and related results and outcomes, can be found in the relevant section onrisk factors.
At this stage, it is difficult to predict how this will unfold, Review of risks particularly given the wider fundamental economic uncertainties, fragile confidence, and refinancing External requirements for both corporate and sovereign debt.
The key external risks affecting 3i over the course of the 3i has been managing this risk actively and, as can be seen financial year remain centred on the impact of the continuing from the chart on page 33, the debt repayment profile of difficult macroeconomic and market conditions, especially 3is Private Equity portfolio, weighted by 3i carrying values, in Europe.
means that only 34% of the debt in these companies falls duebefore the end of 2014 and 43% falls due during or These uncertain conditions impact 3is operating after2018.
environment in a number of ways.
For example, fundraising conditions are challenging for the private equity industry There is a trend towards closer scrutiny of the integrity and asawhole, as recent fund vintages have underperformed transparency of financial service firms by investors and a and investors have become more selective.
General M&A greater emphasis on Responsible Investing.
Firms that are activity remains relatively subdued, partly reflecting able to differentiate themselves in these areas are likely companies preference forhigh levels of liquidity over to beat an advantage in the future.
In recognition of this, investment.
Finally, there is still a significant private 3i completed a wide-ranging strategic review of Responsible equityfunding overhang which continues to underpin Investing and launched a new set of enhanced policies highprices for transactions.
In addition, the Group refreshed and relaunched itsvalues supported by training for all staff.
Economic conditions also present varying degrees of risk for Further information is set out in the sections on Corporate the operations and growth of 3is portfolio companies and responsibility and Business model and values.
therefore overall performance and valuations, as described under Investment risk on the following page.
Regulatory developments continue to be monitored closely.
The key developments affecting 3i include: the European Key factors include the risk of below trend economic growth, AIFM Directive, which will deliver higher levels of disclosure in the context of government deficit reduction programmes, for applicable firms: the implementation of the UK Bribery and theimpact and uncertainties of sovereign debt Act: FATCA, which requires additional monitoring and refinancing onthe wider credit markets.
The majority reporting on transactions between 3i and US companies of European financing transactions were structured at and citizens: and US financial reform, which requires certain the peak of the market in 2006 and 2007, with tenors of 3i entities to be registered with the Securities and Exchange between seven and nine years.
This means that refinancing Commission.
Changes which have been finalised or requirements will increase substantially, peaking in 2013 and implemented so far have required some modifications to 2014.
The market, therefore, is likely to become increasingly related policies and processes.
The effect on 3is overall focused on this risk in the run up to 2013. business to date has not been disproportionate in the context of the wider Financial Services industry.
Finally, changes to the investment trust rules by HM Revenue & Customs in April 2012, will help 3i simplify its business, facilitate growth in developing markets and make iteasier forthe Group to invest without third-party funds.
Overview Strategy, Business Business review Risk Corporate Governance Financial statements Portfolio and other model and KPIs responsibility information 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 55 Compliance with covenant tests and for some portfolio Strategic companies, refinancing of debt has become more 3i continues to anticipate and to respond to market challenging over the past year for some of the more highly conditions, risks and opportunities.
The strategic focus leveraged portfolio investments.
This is mainly as a result hasbeen on performance improvement and growth, taking ofslower growth in earnings together with some tightening full account of thechallenges of the current environment.
ofcredit markets, reflecting the generally weak and The key strategic risks are similar to last year, and are uncertain macroeconomic environment.
These risks are focusedaround performance at this point ofthe economic being closely monitored with input from 3is banking team.
cycle and the Groups funding strategy factoring in the A further area of focus has been the trend in 3is private current external fund raising environment, expected equityinvestment and realisation levels.
A cautious and investment and realisation levels, and balance sheet highlyselective approach has continued to be applied to management.
The growth of 3is debt management newinvestment over the year.
The run rate of realisations businessand investment in developing markets have slowed in the second half of the year, reflecting caution on alsobeen areas of focus.
Investment Treasury and funding The Groups key investment risks remain closely linked to The Group maintains a conservative financial structure theadverse economic and market conditions, described which is supported by a strong control framework and earlier.
These conditions affect each of 3is business lines balance sheet targets.
For example, a net debt limit is in indifferent ways and to varying degrees.
3is Private Equity place and a target maximum quantum for future refinancing business line remains the largest in terms of both direct in any single financial year.
balance sheet investment and assets under management andhas, therefore, been the main area of focus.
Risks The Groups bond refinancing strategy continues to focus includethe pricing of investment opportunities and potential onextending the overall maturity profile with a reduction of underperformance of portfolio companies, impacting the overall gross debt level over time.
Funding requirements valuations and, for some investments, debt covenant tests.
are evaluated on a rolling 12 month outlook to ensure Aspart of the investment assessment and asset review appropriate levels of liquidity are maintained.
3is rating is process, ESG risks are also considered.
In the context of uncertain market conditions, itis appropriate to continue to monitor the full The overall health of 3is investment portfolio has been range of refinancing options in advance of bond maturities.
mixedover the year, with some geographies and types It remains important to balance liquidity benefits against the ofinvestment more exposed than others and, accordingly, cost of funding and management of interest costs.
some valuation reductions were required.
Although it remains well diversified, the Groups investment portfolio has Liquidity continues to be monitored on a weekly basis and become relatively more concentrated over time, which may there is close review of counterparty exposures.
The majority increase exposure to the performance ofasmaller number of funds continue to be placed with AAA liquidity funds and of large investments and, therefore, thepotential for material selected banking counterparties.
The AAA liquidity funds individual valuation movements.
Thelevel of concentration are regularly evaluated to understand the nature of the risk will vary over time as the composition of the Groups underlying counterparty exposures and geographic mix.
The unprecedented current levels of uncertainty around the 3is Private Equity portfolio management processes and euro are expected to continue well into 2012.
This could give capabilities have been a subject of focus during the year.
rise to a number of possible scenarios, including a break-up Theportfolio company review process includes both the ofthe Eurozone.
Based on a review of these scenarios, identification of risks that might affect a substantial thekey issues potentially impacting 3i are around the euro proportion of the portfolio and the assessment of significant hedging strategy and euro liabilities.
A break-up would give exposures to specific known risks.
Examples of the latter rise to inevitably complex legal questions.
In this context, include exposure to weaker Eurozone countries, where areview has been undertaken of the Companys key loan the direct impact is limited to a small number of portfolio documentation.
The indirect impact of a significant shock in theregion, however, is more complex to assess.
