2 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Our business Our strategy is to invest in infrastructure businesses, making equity and junior or mezzanine debt investments.
We invest in companies with stable underlying performance: asset-intensive businesses, providing essential services over the long term, often on a regulated basis, or with significant contracted revenues.
Our objective is to provide shareholders with a total return of 12% per annum over the long term, to be achieved by building and managing a balanced portfolio of infrastructure investments.
Within this overall objective we target an annual distribution yield of 5%of opening net asset value.
For more information Investment strategy page 08 Market and opportunities page 15 Key performance indicators page 35 Overview 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 3 Our market focus is on core infrastructure inEurope, principally in the utilities and transportation sectors.
We also have investments in social infrastructure, as well as in hybrid infrastructure through our commitment tothe 3i India Infrastructure Fund.
The infrastructure asset class offers the opportunity to diversify investments across the risk return spectrum.
Social infrastructure Core infrastructure Hybrid infrastructure PPP PFI Typically government-backed Also known as economic These investments have higher risk concessions, mainly in education, infrastructure: these investments characteristics, usually through healthcare and accommodation.
typically providereturns between exposure to greater market or These investments tend to provide 1016%.
Key characteristics include geopolitical risk, and as such tend returns between 812%, mostly low volatility across economic toprovide returns above 15% over through yield, as well as high cycles and strong market positions the long term.
through favourable competitive dynamics or regulatory protection.
An in-depth operational understanding is key to driving value from these investments, as these tend to bedynamic businesses, not concessions with a nitelife.
11 % 76 % 13% 94m portfolio value 683m portfolio value 114m portfolio value at 31March 2012 at 31March 2012 at 31March 2012
