22 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Prole of senior members of  team Cressida Hogg Neil King Phil White Managing Partner, Infrastructure Partner, Infrastructure Partner, Infrastructure Cressida co-founded 3i Groups Infrastructure Neil has responsibility for the investment advisory Phil has overall responsibility for the Investment business with Michael Queen in 2005.
She took over teams investment origination and appraisal activities Advisers portfolio management activity.
In this role the role of Managing Partner from Michael in January in Europe.
He was involved in advising on most of the he works closely with the management teams of the 2009 following his appointment as CEO of 3i Group.
Companys investments, and has had a leading role businesses in which 3i Infrastructure invests.
He sits Cressida is responsible for managing the investment in ensuring a consistent approach to infrastructure on the boards of several portfolio companies including advisory team and leads the advisory relationship investment.
He led the Companys investments into LNI Verkko, Eversholt and Oystercatchers oil storage with the independent Board of 3i Infrastructure.
Neil joined 3i Group in 2005, companies.
Phil joined in 2007, bringing 20 years of Cressida oversees all aspects of 3i Groups bringing with him more than 15 years of experience in investment, advisory and nancing experience to infrastructure investment business, including the infrastructure market, including roles at Innisfree, this role, including from roles at Macquarie, WestLB investment appraisal, portfolio management and WestLB and Barclays Capital.
She also represents the Companys interests by sitting on the board of AWG.
Cressida has 17 years investment experience with 3i Group, having previously worked in 3i Groups UK growth and buyout businesses.
Stephen Halliwell Andrew Cox Scott Moseley CFO, Infrastructure Director, Infrastructure Director, Infrastructure Stephen is CFO for 3i Groups infrastructure Andrew joined 3i Group in 2006 and leads origination Scott joined 3i Group in 2007 and has responsibility investment business.
He manages the operational, in a number of sectors, including ports, renewables for origination in several sectors, including regulated financial and reporting requirements for the and midstream energy.
He is also increasingly networks and rail.
His deals include the investments infrastructure business within 3i Group.
Stephen was involved in portfolio management, sitting on the in LNI, Eversholt and the junior debt portfolio, and he previously Head of Financial Planning and Analysis in board of LNI Lmp.
Andrew has over 15 years of is a director on the board of LNI Verkko.
Scott has 3i Groups Finance Team.
During 20092010, Stephen experience in the infrastructure market, gained at 12 years of experience in the Infrastructure sector, managed certain responsibilities of 3i Groups Finance 3i and previously in both debt and advisory roles at gained at 3i Group and previously at WestLB.
Director, who was on maternity leave.
India team Girish Baliga joined 3i Group in 2005, following Deepak Bagla has overall responsibility for 3i Groups The infrastructure team in India is based in offices extensive investment experience from previous roles office in Delhi.
He represents 3i Group on several in Delhi and Mumbai, and is fully dedicated to at Chryscapital and JPMorgan Partners.
Girish led Government committees and business forums.
making and managing investments for the 3i India the Funds investment in Adani Power, and having He joined in 2007, bringing with him over two decades Infrastructure Fund.
completed the investments now serves on the boards of financial and operational experience from his time of several companies in which the Fund is invested, at the World Bank, RPG Enterprises an Indian Anil Ahuja, Head of India and South East Asia, including GVK Energy, Soma Enterprise and business conglomerate and Citigroup.
is responsible for the strategic development of Krishnapatnam Port.
3i Groups Indian business, and has been closely Saurabh Shah joined 3i Group in May 2007, after involved in all the teams investments.
Prior to joining Samir Palod joined 3i Group in 2005.
He led the 11 years at Citigroup Investment Banking where he 3i Group in 2005, Anil worked at JPMorgan Partners investments in KMC Roads and Ind-Barath Utkal and led the origination and completion of several M&A, Asia, focused on private equity, and at Citibank.
serves on those companies boards.
Prior to joining capital markets and investment transactions.
Hecurrently serves on the boards of several of 3i Group, Samir worked for over nine years with He joined the Infrastructure team in 2011.
Citigroup in India after experience with Asian Capital Partners and Arthur Andersen.
Review of investments 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 23 Review of investments
