26 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Review of investments continued Eversholt Rail Group Description Eversholt Rail Group Eversholt is one of the three leading rail rolling stock companies in the UK, and owns approximately 28% ofthe current British passenger train fleet.
Its 19eets, predominantly weighted towards electric trains, are leased to 11 Train OperatingCompanies TOCs.
Although its primary revenue stream consists of lease payments from TOCs, it also owns a freight fleet, which accounts for under 10% of its total value.
Therolling stock companies are notdirectly regulated, and have instead entered into codes of practice, monitored by the Office ofRail Regulation, under which they agree towork fairly and reasonably with theircustomers.
Review of investments 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 27 Performance in the year Investment rationale Developments in the year Cost Opening cost 151.1m 3i Infrastructure, in consortium with Morgan During the year, Eversholt completed Stanley Infrastructure Partners and STAR acceptance of the new Siemens 380 fleet for Closing cost 136.4m Capital Partners, acquired 100% of Eversholt deployment to First Scotrail, a 187 million Opening value inDecember 2010. investment in new trains for routes to Ayrshire, 160.7m Inverclyde and Renfrewshire.
Eversholt is a well established infrastructure business and ts well with 3i Infrastructures The first refranchising since the completion Closing value investment mandate: of the investment took place during the year, 154.2m when Abellio was awarded a contract to run it has strong market fundamentals, with its the Greater Anglia franchise for three years, fully utilised eets likely to retain value in the following which a 15-year franchise is expected Equity interest 33.3% long term, due to strong passenger demand to be awarded.
Eversholt successfully Income in the year 33.1m and the high cost of new trains: negotiated the re-leasing of all of its vehicles Proceeds received in the year 14.7m it has high quality cash ows contracted for for this franchise, in line with the investment Asset total return in the year 41.3m the medium term through lease agreements case plan.
with the TOCs: and Valuation basis DCF Eversholt performed strongly in the year, it has a defensive fleet portfolio, weighted helped by the expansion of the fleet, with towards electric trains, with a good its EBITDA increasing by 11.4% compared operational history, leased to a diversied to the prior year.
This strong performance customer base.
has resulted in dividends and interest of 33.1 million in the year representing a yield What has been achieved in the of over 20% on opening portfolio value, and allowed Eversholt to repay 14.7 million of its period of ownership shareholder loan as described in more detail The consortium has strengthened Eversholts on page 19.
These proceeds account for the governance through the appointment of several difference between opening and closing cost highly experienced non-executive directors to in the chart on this page.
the Irish and UK boards and the establishment of audit and remuneration committees with investor representation.
Recruitment of several suitably experienced people to the Irish and UK businesses has bolstered Eversholts technical, legal and financial resources to address the significant increase in workload during the next two to three years of rail franchise tendering.
Eversholts capital structure was fide-risked through the issuance of three long-dated public bonds for a total of 1.1 billion, attracting strong demand from public market investors and priced on attractive terms, signicantly reducing the ongoing debt servicing costs and renancing risks.
The consortium has engaged closely with the management team to assess a range of capital investment opportunities, both to add further trains to the overall fleet and to invest in upgrading existing assets to provide better passenger experience and improved reliability, at good value for money for operators.
