30 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Review of investments continued PFI portfolio Description 3i Infrastructures PFI portfolio comprises holdings in three entities: Elgin Infrastructure Limited Elgin, aportfolio of PFI project investments, comprisingve schools projects and 11community healthcare schemes, all of whichare fully operational, under concessions ofup to 32years.
The portfolio companies receive ination-linked payments to cover services andbuildings maintenance, which aresubject toperformance deductions for service failuresand unavailability.
Facilities services are subcontracted to Robertson Facilities Management in 15 projects and Carillion Facilities Management in one project.
Octagon Healthcare Limited Octagon, a concession company under a 35-year PFI contract to build, operate and maintain the Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital.
Construction of the hospital was completed inAugust 2001.
Octagon receives RPI-linked payments from the NHS Trust to cover services and buildings maintenance, which are subject toperformance deductions for service failures and unavailability.
Octagon subcontracts the provision of facilities services to Serco.
Alpha Schools Highland Limited Alpha Schools, a concession company under a 30-year PFI contract to build, operate and maintain 11 new schools on 10 sites in the Highland region of Scotland.
Alpha receives RPIX-linked payments from the Highland Council to cover services and buildings maintenance, which aresubject to performance deductions for service failures and unavailability.
Alpha Schools subcontracts the provision of facilitiesservices to Morrison FacilitiesServices.
Review of investments 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 31 All schools in the Alpha Schools portfolio are Performance in the year Investment rationale operating well and are providing high standard Cost Opening cost 99.4m Exposure to social infrastructure through PFI facilities to primary and secondary school projects is helpful in providing the Companys Closing cost 67.7m pupils in the Highland Council region.
Financial portfolio with lower risk, index-linked cash performance has beenin line with expectations.
All assets in the Companys PFI portfolio Performance deductions were levied in the 120.6m are fully operational, and deliver a robust yield.
year, relating mostly to a number of construction snagging items which remained Closing value What has been achieved in the outstanding.
These deductions were passed 93.8m through to the contractors.
Alpha Schools has period of ownership worked closely with the Council, the facilities All assets in the PFI portfolio have performed services provider and the building contractor Equity interest well through their period of ownership, in line toensure that these snagging items are with or ahead of expectations, providing a good Elgin 49.9% resolved promptly.
return to the Company since inception.
This has Octagon 36.8% been due to engaged portfolio management Alpha Schools 50.0% onthe part of the Investment Adviser and Proceeds received in the year 32.3m othershareholders, as well as to more general factors, including higher than expected ination.
Income in the year 8.5m Asset total return in the year 13.4m The Investment Adviser generated significant 2 value through the sale of Alma Mater and I, Valuation basis DCF which were sold at significant uplifts over cost in 2008 and 2009 respectively.
2 The exit from I, which was completed this year, generated an IRR of 23.8%.
Developments in the year All assets in the PFI portfolio performed well operationally during the year, delivering good levels of income, and with valuations benefiting from relatively high levels of ination and strong cost management.
All 16 projects in the Elgin portfolio are performing in line with the investment case.
All service providers are performing well, with no significant operational issues arising at any of the projects during the year.
Octagon continues to perform well nancially and operationally and has maintained its strong working relationship with the NHS Trust and with Serco.
Serco continues to provide a good level of service to the Trust.
In February, an unannounced inspection of the hospital by the Care Quality Commission concluded that the hospital meets all the essential quality and safety standards inspected.
In December, the hospital and Serco won an award for cleaning from the Health Business Awards 2011, which recognise excellence in the provision of NHS and healthcare facilities.
32 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Review of investments continued 3i India Infrastructure Fund Description The 3i India Infrastructure Fund the Fund is aUS$1.2 billion fund closed in 2008 to invest in a diversied portfolio of equity or equivalent investments in India, focusing onthe port, airport, road and power sectors.
3iInfrastructure committed US$250 million tothe Fund.
As at 31 March 2012, the Fund was 70% invested in a portfolio of six assets: Krishnapatnam Port Company Limited Krishnapatnam Port has a concession todevelop, operate and maintain the port ofKrishnapatnam in the state of AndhraPradesh.
Adani Power Limited Adani Power focuses on the development and operationofpower plants and the sale ofpower generated.
With operational capacity of 4,620MW and a further 4,620MW under construction, it is currently the largest independent private power producer in India in terms of operating capacity.
Adani Power achieved a successful IPO in August 2009.
GVK Energy is developing a portfolio of power generation projects 4,047MW, diversied by fuel type, stage of development and geography.
In addition, GVK Energy is developing two mining projects to supply coalto its own thermal power plants.
KMC Infratech KMC Roads is developing ac.
1,000 kilometres portfolio of 10  BOT road projects, oneof the largest such portfolios in India.
Soma Enterprise Limited Soma is oneofthe fastest growing infrastructure developers in India.
Its order book, valued atover US$2.6 billion, focuses mainly on BOTroad projects, but comprises projects inthe hydro power, irrigation, railways, power transmission andurban .
Ind-Barath Utkal is building a 700MW coal-red power plant based in the state ofOrissa.
Review of investments 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 33 Performance in the year Investment rationale Developments in the year Cost Closing 102.0m The investment case can be summarised The performance of the assets in the power asfollows: sector has been negatively affected by a Opening 93.8m number of factors, including most notably: the fundamentals for infrastructure Opening value i a country-wide coal shortage, which has investment in India are attractive, with 134.7m affected supply to power generators, as thecurrent infrastructure deficit in the well as coal prices, and: ii the sustainability countryproviding much opportunity for Closing value of merchant power prices, as well as the private investment: 114.2m availability of long-term power purchase the Indian government actively seeks agreements PPAs with State Electricity andencourages private investment in Boards SEBs, attributable in large part Partnership interest 20.9% infrastructure development and is working tothestrained financial position of SEBs.
Investment in the year 8.2m tomitigate some of the issues which have In February 2011, the Indian government 1 affected the sector in recent months: Asset total return in the year 28.7 m responded to the issues arising from coal Valuation basis LP share of funds the investment in the Fund offers 3i shortages by directing Coal India the main Infrastructure exposure to a diversied pool supplier of coal in the country to sign fuel 1 Includes a net foreign exchange loss of 16.0 million sterling US$ gain of 1.3 million and US$ rupee loss of 17.3 million.
of assets and larger investments than the supply agreements with power plants that have Company could access on its own account, a majority of their offtake tied up in long-term atno additional cost to the Company: and PPAs, with a minimum commitment of 80% of the annual fuel requirements of the plant.
This the Fund is well positioned, with an would cover Adani Power and GVK Energys established presence in its market and the coal-red plants, given that a majority or investment teams broad network of contacts.
entirety of their offtake is already tied up in long-term PPAs.
Ind-Barath Utkal is currently What has been achieved in the working to tie up a larger proportion of capacity period of ownership under long-term PPAs.
The Fund is nearing the end of its investment The Funds port asset, Krishnapatnam Port, has period, and has now built a diversied portfolio continued to be affected by an iron ore export including assets in the power, ports and roads ban, which remains in place.
However, non-iron sectors, in line with its mandate.
ore cargo volumes handled by the port have continued to grow over the year as it changes The construction of all projects continues to its cargo mix.
Several of the projects, including Adani Power and Krishnapatnam Port, have The Funds road assets are making steady increased signicantly in size since the progress.
During the year, 517km of road Funds investment.
Despite this, the financial projects began tolling in aggregate at Soma and performance and valuation of the Funds assets KMC Roads, taking the total of tolling roads to has been affected by a number of market and over 1,000km.
Both companies are making other external factors.
advances in the construction of other projects, and won contract awards for an aggregate of Overall, the Board is satisfied that the Funds 455km of new roads.
assets are progressing, and that appropriate management action is being taken to manage During the year, macroeconomic and political performance within the constraints of the risk factors increased, as the Indian government macroeconomic and market challenges.
manages high ination, high interest rates and a growing scal deficit.
Combined with increasing political uncertainty, and some tightening of policy towards foreign investors, these factors are currently impacting the outlook for growth and the value of the rupee.
34 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Returns and Risk
