24 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Review of investments Anglian Water Group Description Anglian Water Group Limited AWG is the parent company of Anglian Water, the fourth-largest water supply and wastewater company in England and Wales as measured by regulatory capital value.
The majority of the groups revenue is earned through tariffs regulated by Ofwat and linked to RPI.
Thegroup also includes Morrison Facilities Services, a support services business focused on the local authority and socialhousing sectors, and a small propertybusiness.
The investment is held through 3i Osprey LP, anintermediary limited partnership whose partners comprise other third parties including 3i Group, which has a small interest and which is separately managed by3i Investments.
Note: the review of the investment in LNI is covered on page 10. Review of investments 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 25 In October 2011, Anglian Water took over the Performance in the year Investment rationale operation and maintenance of private sewers Cost AWG was taken private in 2006 by a group of within its catchment area, adding c. 60% to its investors, including Colonial First State, Canada 161.9m sewer network.
This was well managed, with Pension Plan, Industry Funds Management minimal operational impact.
Opening value and 3i Group, which seeded part of its AWG The key issue currently facing Anglian Water is 195.9m holding in 3i Infrastructure when it was set the drought.
Following two unusually dry upin 2007.
The business has strong Closing value winters, much of its region was declared : 209.4m officially in drought by Defra Department for a regulated near-monopoly position in its Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and the geographical area for the provision of water Environment Agency last June.
This extended supply and wastewater treatment: Equity interest 10.3% period of dry weather has led to low water levels in key reservoirs and groundwater Income in the year 20.2m stable and predictable earnings and cash sources.
The company has responded to this ows through RPI-linked tariffs: and Asset total return in the year 33.7m challenge by obtaining drought permits from Valuation basis DCF largely predictable operating costs.
the Environment Agency to allow increased abstraction from waterways, by implementing In addition, AWG had attractive fundamentals: a capex plan to allow more water to be moved a strong management team: to dry areas, by continuing to focus on leakage, and by intensifying communication to its a relatively modern asset base: and customers on water conservation, most notably operations in a geographic region with through its Love Every Drop campaign.
highpopulation growth and low industrial In March, Anglian Water, along with other exposure, limiting cyclical correlation.
water companies in the South East of England, announced it would put in place a hosepipe What has been achieved in the ban from April 2012. period of ownership During the year, Ofwat issued several consultation papers on future regulation, and AWG has ourished under private ownership.
the Government published Water for Life, Ithas refocused on its core business, selling setting out a vision for future water Morrison Utilities Services and most of its management which will lead to legislative property portfolio.
The company has been change in due course.
Anglian Water has been ableto adopt a more efficient capital structure pro-active across the broad range of issues compared to listed peers, and to distribute covered by these publications, and will continue ahigher proportion of cash ows to to engage widely to ensure that it inuences, shareholders, resulting in a strong yield.
and is well placed to respond to, the changes TheRegulated Capital Value RCV that will ensue.
hasgrownsteadily, underpinned by acomprehensive capital expenditure Anglian Water has consistently improved its programme, which has been maintained ranking in Ofwats Service Incentive Mechanism forthe20102015 regulatory period.
SIM survey of customer satisfaction, and expects to be in a good position among A new management incentive scheme combined water and sewerage companies in the wasputin place post investment, aligning full years SIM result which combines survey compensation with long-term value growth results with quantitative data and replaces rather than short-term share price performance.
The management now balances long-term planning, for example to respond to the Morrison Facilities Services, a subsidiary of challenges of climate change, with focus AWG active principally in the provision of onoperational efficiency.
repairs and maintenance services to the social housing sector, has seen poor trading Developments in the year conditions, due mainly to spending cuts AWG continues to perform robustly and implemented by local authorities throughout to generate a strong level of yield for the UK.
Anglian Water is implementing restructuring of the business to improve its regulatory settlement, with a strong focus efficiency and reduce cost, and profitability on its wide-ranging efficiency programme.
