8 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Investment Advisers review 3i Infrastructure has built a strong portfolio of core infrastructure businesses.
The Investment Advisers origination and portfolio management skills have allowed the Company to invest at the appropriate price points and to manage the investments to drive a strong yield and steady capital growth over time.
We will maintain our disciplined approach and look forward to building on our strong investment track record.
Cressida Hogg, Managing Partner, Infrastructure, 3i Investments plc 8 May 2012 About the The infrastructure Investment strategy 3i Infrastructures objective is to provide Investment Adviser asset class shareholders with a total return of 12% per 3i Investments plc 3i Investments, a annum, to be achieved over the long term.
key characteristics wholly-owned subsidiary of 3i Group plc Within this overall objective, the Company Infrastructure businesses generally have a 3iGroup, actsas the investment adviser targets an annual distribution yield of 5% strong market position, often operating within theInvestment Adviser to the Company ofopening net asset value.
regulatory frameworks, or with revenues through its infrastructure investment team In advising the Company on how to deliver underpinned by strong, long-term contracts.
these objectives, the Investment Adviser adopts They can be described as essential, either The investment advisory team provides advice a three-step process, as represented in the because they are fundamental to economic to the Company on the origination and completion diagram below.
activity and economic growth, such as utilities of new investments, on the management of the or transport infrastructure, or because they We have applied this strategy consistently since portfolio and on realisations, as well as on support important social functions, such the Company was set up, and have built a core funding requirements.
infrastructure portfolio, which now has a Key features include: The investment advisory team is managed as five-year track record of providing: aseparate business line within 3i Group and capital-intensive: significant income this has supported operates from hubs in London and India.
and will continue to support the delivery high EBITDA margins: Allinvestment professionals have significant of3iInfrastructures 5% yield objective: experience investing in infrastructure assets.
some degree of ination linkage: Theinvestment advisory team can also draw on strong capital profits from well managed low cyclical volatility: 3i Groups network of investment professionals, realisations: and based in 12 countries, to originate predictable, income-oriented returns once an element of capital growth underpinning infrastructure investment opportunities.
operational: and the overall 9.4% annual return to shareholders 3i Group was among the subscribers to over the five years of the Companys existence.
3iInfrastructures Initial Public Offering and Infrastructure assets typically have only a low subsequent Placing and Open Offer and owns correlation with other asset classes, including 34% of the equity in the Company.
listed equities, real estate and xed income.
The quality and predictability of cash ows tendto result in attractive distributions toshareholders.
Investing for long-term to investment portfolio management value creation We maintain a rm focus on core We apply consistent and rigorous 3i Infrastructure is a long-term infrastructure, buying assets asset management to drive good investor.
We encourage portfolio at attractive price points that operational performance in companies to invest to create value contribute to the delivery of the investments, which underpins over time.
Investment Advisersreview 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 9 exposure to social infrastructure to underpin The Investment Adviser applies these skills Building a core portfolio the yield, and some exposure to hybrid toits origination and asset management The Investment Advisers strategy is to build infrastructure to provide an element of activities and has built a strong track record of aportfolio that delivers a balance of yield and highercapital growth.
investment in core infrastructure businesses.
capital growth, in line with the Companys return objectives.
Core infrastructure companies are dynamic businesses which own their asset base, The infrastructure asset class is well suited notnite concessions like PFI investments.
to this strategy, as it offers the opportunity to Assuch, the management of core infrastructure diversify investments across the risk return businesses is more complex and requires spectrum.
As shown in the diagram below, abroader set of skills, including: webelieve the infrastructure asset class can besubdivided into three main categories: a sound operational understanding of the social, core and hybrid infrastructure.
businesses and how to drive long-term value through investment in the asset base, the Returns from these assets typically range management of costs and the incentivisation between 8% and 15% or more, depending of management teams: onthe risks associated with the investment.
Yields generated from the investments also in-depth knowledge of the market and vary, depending, among other things, on the regulatory dynamics: and state of development of the assets eg assets the ability to deliver an efficient nancing under construction versus operational assets.
structure which must evolve over time according to the needs of the business.
3i Infrastructure aims to deliver the 12% net return over the long term by building a portfolio which is predominantly weighted towards mature core infrastructure, with some Social infrastructure Core infrastructure Hybrid infrastructure PPP PFI 812% target return 1016% target return 15% target return High ination correlation Dynamic businesses owning their asset Higher risk characteristics base, not concessions with a nite life country risk Mainly government-backed market volume risk revenue streams Low volatility across economic cycles GDP correlation low volume market GDP risk Lower risk return prole strong market position Operational expertise in building out Strong yield when fully operational theassets and running the business Asset management key to driving value ismore important operational expertise management of long-term performance nancing skills management incentives Yield Capital growth 10 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 New investment: LNI The businesses Lakeside Network Investments LNI 2. profitable, with ination linkage and holds 100% of two companies: LNI Verkko attractive yield Oy LNI Verkko and LNI Lmp Oy Both businesses generate high EBITDA LNI Lmp.
The businesses were margins, which are likely to support purchased from Vattenfall AB in January astrong yield over the long term 2012, as part of the vendors non-core disposal programme, for an enterprise Returns for LNI Verkko are linked to value of 1.54 billion.
3i Infrastructure ination through the annual indexation contributed 195 million in equity to fund ofits RAB andthe annual adjustment of its share of the consideration, reaching operating cost allowances in line with local itsinvestment concentration limit.
inationindices LNI Verkko is the second-largest electricity LNI Lmp has generally been able distribution network in Finland.
toincrease its charges at least in line Headquartered in Tampere, it serves withination around 400,000 customers in South West 3.
Attractive market, with opportunities Finland, and has a 12% market share.
forgrowth The business is regulated on a four-year cycle, delivering a set return on its Finland is one of the largest electricity Regulated Asset Base RAB.
LNI Verkko consumers in Europe on a per capita accounts for approximately 85% of the basis, with demand expected to overall transaction value.
growsteadily LNI Lmp operates 17 local district LNI Verkko may be able to leverage its heating networks, with strong market operational efficiencies and technological shares in their areas, and owns the superiority to create consolidation seventh longest network in Finland.
opportunities in the electricity distribution District heating, which involves the market in Finland pumping of hot water for heating and 4.
Sector and geographic diversication general purposes directly into homes from central hubs, is not regulated in Finland.
This investment diversies the Companys portfolio away from UK regulation and The consortium provides 3i Infrastructure with exposure to a core utility business in an economically LNI is owned by a consortium comprising strong, AAA-rated European country 3i Infrastructure plc 39% share and 3i Group plc 6% share GS Infrastructure Partners 45% share Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 10% share A compelling investment case 1.
Stable and transparent regulatory environment for LNI Verkko The new four-year regulatory period began in January 2012, providing clarity over the medium term Current regulatory incentives encourageinvestment, providing opportunities for value-accretive growthin LNI Verkkos RAB LNI Verkko is one of the most efficient Finnish electricity distribution networks, with a strong track record of delivering network development and technical innovation eg smart metering.
Investment and innovation are likely toremain key aspects of future regulatory incentives Investment Advisersreview 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 11 Investment Advisers review continued Asset distribution We develop a comprehensive understanding Managing the portfolio At31March 2012, 76% of the portfolio was ofthe businesses in which the Company The Companys intention is generally to hold invested in core infrastructure.
This core invests, ofthemarkets in which they operate, investments over the long term and to generate portfolio has been built over time, as shown their competitive dynamics and the relevant income from these over time.
Matching the in Chart 1. regulatory environment.
We engage with the long-term hold period of the underlying management teams of the portfolio companies, The Companys core infrastructure investments with evergreen funding was the at board level as well as more informally, with investments, now including AWG, Oystercatcher, principal reason for structuring the Company the objective ofdelivering: Eversholt and LNI, generate gross returns that as a listed vehicle with permanent capital.
are consistent with 3i Infrastructures return strategies that support growth In contrast, the 3i India Infrastructure Fund was objectives, a substantial proportion of which inthelongterm: structured as a 10-year investment vehicle with aredelivered in the form of portfolio income.
continued improvements in a strategy of holding investments through their The completion of the investment in LNI in : construction development phase and exiting 2012 was a key event.
LNI, a mature business when they establish a track record of disciplined cash management: with operations in a country with attractive operational performance.
macroeconomic fundamentals, complements efficient capital structures, that can evolve In light of the complexity and long-term nature the other portfolio companies in terms of according to market contingencies and of infrastructure investing, and in particular geography and sector exposure.
business needs: and core infrastructure investing, portfolio alignment of interests between management management is a key area of focus for the and shareholders, ensuring management Investment Adviser and is an important tool in focus on the long-term development of the achieving 3i Infrastructures return objectives.
business, rather than short-term goals.
We monitor business performance to ensurethat any issues are identied and actedupon quickly.
We receive monthly management information from portfolio companies, and establish channels of communication with management teams, outside the formal governance framework, including regular working groups with a focuson, for instance, business plans, capitalstructure and regulation.
Chart 1 Asset distribution, value at 31 March m 2012 94 683 114 2011 121 566 135 2010 114 436 98 2009 66 380 90 2008 175 277 38 Seed portfolio at inception 94 140 Social Infrastructure Core Hybrid 12 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Investment Advisers review continued Charts 2 and 3 illustrate how the Investment Chart 2 Portfolio asset returns throughout holding period Advisers investment management strategy five years since inception, m has delivered strong returns from the portfolio.
In particular, the charts show that: AWG the return is underpinned by substantial 173 cash generation in the form of income or 209 12 83 realised profits: LNI most investments return a significant 195 proportion of their cost through income 201 inarelatively short period of time: and Eversholt where investments have been sold, notably 151 in the PFI and junior debt portfolios, they 154 15 46 have generated good uplifts over cost.
Oystercatcher As shown in Chart 3, in total, from investment 85 of 1,075 million, the portfolio has already 118 42 returned cash income of 233 million since inception, and realised proceeds Junior debt portfolio of 400 million, helping to deliver the 120 Companys dividend objectives since inception.
135 24 While 3i Infrastructure is set up to hold 3i IIF investments over the long term, it will sell 102 assets on an opportunistic basis, where 114 compelling offers generate shareholder PFI portfolio value, as was the case for Alma Mater and 2 233 I in 2008 and 2009 respectively.
The exit 2 from I, completed this year, generated 94 229 38 an IRR of 23.8%.
T2C and Novera The Company will also sell investments 18 where market conditions suggest that a sale 10 might be appropriate, as was the case with the junior debt portfolio.
Total cost Value including Proceeds on disposals Cash income accrued interest capital returns The assessment of the market opportunity for investment, as well as realisations, is another of the key skills that the Investment Adviser brings to the Company.
Our ability to Chart 3 Portfolio cash generation five years since inception, m react quickly to market opportunities, timing investments and exits, is exemplied by the 1,200 Companys investments in the junior debt portfolio, which delivered an IRR of 11.6% 1,000 890.8 through their holding period, as described inmore detail in the case study opposite.
804.5 800 600 232.8 400 70.4 200 399.9 173.4 profit 195.9 63.1 0 200 1,075.2 400 Net IPO and Investment Proceeds Cash Dividends Other net Conversion Cash and placing and from income paid cash ow of warrants portfolio at open offer disposals received 31 March proceeds 2012 Investment Advisersreview 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Divestment: junior debt portfolio The market opportunity and The assets Viridian operates both regulated and investment rationale unregulated businesses within the Irish During the course of 2008 and 2009, 3i energy market, managing power transmission, Infrastructure invested in a portfolio of five distribution and supply infrastructure, as junior debt holdings in core infrastructure wellas a power generation business and businesses with leading positions in the abusiness offering services tothe markets in which they operate.
The strategy was to acquire these holdings NGW Arqiva is the leading owner and atprices below par, delivering attractive operator of national broadcast infrastructure equity-like returns to maturity and strong supporting television, radio and wireless levels of cash yield.
The graph below illustrates that the Tldiffusion fide France is the leading investments were timed darker blue provider of broadcast transmission shading over a period when asset valuations infrastructure and services and were under stress due to broader market telecommunications infrastructure pressures on similar debt instruments.
inFrance, and also has operations Thisis shown by the decline in the S&P inGermany, Finland and Hungary.
The operational Thames Water is the UKs largest water and performance of the issuers at the time wastewater services company, operating ofinvestment was, however, robust.
across London and the Thames Valley.
Thedivestments light blue shading were timed when the pressure on the market Associated British Ports is the largest value of traded loan instruments was easing portgroup in the UK, and operates facilities and the portfolio was sold progressively in England, Scotland and Wales.
through the course of 2010 and 2011, astheholdings traded towards par.
Income generation and IRRs Income throughout Investment cost holding period IRR Holding m m % Viridian 42.0 6.6 12.0 NGW Arqiva 32.4 6.4 8.5 Tldiffusion fide France 24.2 6.6 14.9 Thames Water 18.9 3.9 11.6 Associated British Ports 2.4 0.1 20.3 Total 119.9 23.6 11.6 Overall, the investments, which are now fully realised, generated an aggregate IRR of 11.6% and proved that the Company can take advantage of its financial exibility and the experience and track record of the Investment Adviser to execute quickly on new opportunities that emerge in challenging markets.
S&P European leveraged loan index 100 Investment Divestment 90 80 70 60 50 Jan 08 Jan 09 Jan 10 Jan 11 S&P European Leveraged Loan Index, used as a market proxy for traded debt instruments 14 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Investment Advisers review continued Chart 4 Portfolio companies revenue and EBITDA growth by Investing for the longterm category last four financial years, % year-on-year growth Driving income generation from the portfolio is crucial to the delivery of the Companys return 2009 Revenue objectives.
Returns from core infrastructure 10.3% businesses, however, also have a significant 2009 EBITDA capital growth component, which is maximised through capital investment for long-term 13.6% development.
Infrastructure investing, and inparticular core infrastructure investing, 2010 Revenue isnot just about extracting short-term yield, 6.0% but about creating and maintaining value over 2010 EBITDA the long term.
11.2% As long-term investors, we encourage companies to implement strategies that deliver 2011 Revenue value accretion over time.
4.3% As described earlier, the Investment Adviser 2011 EBITDA engages constructively with the management 1.4% teams of portfolio companies at board level, as well as more informally.
As an engaged 2012 Revenue partner, the Investment Adviser supports 7.4% and empowers management teams to devise and implement development strategies that 2012 EBITDA support growth over a long-term period 4.5% of ownership.
This requires an in-depth knowledge of market and sector dynamics, Social Infrastructure Core Hybrid as well as an understanding of the long-term value drivers for each of the assets.
Note: the gures shown in the chart are calculated on a weighted average basis and the assets included Chart 4 shows how this strategy has resulted in the analysis for each year are those that were operational and had been held by the Company for one year or more.
in robust levels of revenue and EBITDA growth year-on-year in the underlying portfolio companies.
This, in turn, supports the steady value growth of the companies in 3i Infrastructures portfolio.
High EBITDA and revenue growth levels in2009and 2010 were driven by strong performance at Oystercatcher, during an expansion phase following investment, and at AWG.
Given the portfolio composition at that time, these strong performances had adisproportionately high impact on the weighted average.
In subsequent years, astheportfolio developed, the weighted average EBITDA growth for those years wastherefore representative of a broader setofunderlying investments.
Investment Advisersreview 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 15 Market and Opportunities Outlook There has been little change to the themes In addition to broader M&A and debt market opportunities driving our pipeline.
Non-core disposals from considerations, the outlook for ination and corporates and financial institutions continue to interest rates will be an important determinant provide the bulk of the opportunities, including of the conditions for investment in the future.
Conditions for investment the Companys investment in LNI in Finland.
While ination is relatively high in most developed countries, webelieve that in the Europe Over time, we expect governments throughout short term this will havealimited impact on A number of relatively sizeable infrastructure Europe to develop frameworks and interest rates, as governments and monetary transactions were completed during the year, incentives to encourage private investment authorities try to stimulate growth.
despite significant market and macroeconomic in infrastructure, as they continue to focus headwinds.
These included the sale of electricity on reducing their budget deficits.
The UK Competition for infrastructure assets is networks in the UK and in Germany, the government, for instance, published an updated increasing.
significant funds have been public-to-private acquisition of Northumbrian National Infrastructure Plan in November 2011, raised over the last few years.
However, Water in the UK, the acquisition of major stakes containing major commitments to improve the disintermediation is becoming a key feature in the Gassled pipeline in Norway, as well as UKs transport and broadband networks as of the market, as some investors, including the 1.5 billion acquisition of LNI in Finland by well as steps to attract significant new private notably sovereign wealth funds and large the Company and its consortium partners.
The Treasury is also leading pension funds, are investing directly in This activity was underpinned by the continued initiatives to encourage UK pension fund infrastructure assets rather than through availability, for strong infrastructure businesses, investment in infrastructure, as well as funds.
Corporate buyers have also been active of bank and capital markets debt at relatively increased foreign investment.
in the market over the last few years, as many attractive terms, even while liquidity remained restructure and refocus their businesses.
Resource-constrained governments might constrained in other sectors and asset classes.
This has resulted in greater pricing pressure alsochoose to privatise or open up essential for infrastructure assets, in particular at the Other significant processes are ongoing, such infrastructure through PPP-style transactions, lower end of the risk return spectrum.
as the Thameslink procurement programme, as was the case for the Thameslink for which 3i Infrastructure, in the XLT procurement programme.
In the UK, it is likely The Investment Adviser has a solid track consortium with Siemens and Innisfree, was that government-owned assets, in particular in record of completing complex transactions selected as preferred bidder last summer.
the transportation sector, will be sold to private and working alongside strong operating We are currently working with the Department investors when operational.
In addition, the partners and other investors.
It also has a for Transport to bring this transaction to a UK government announced in March that it is broad network of relationships with banks financial close.
assessing the possibility of privatising trunk and the capital markets.
Similar debates and initiatives are taking 3i Infrastructure is well placed to access the The year was, however, characterised by place across Europe.
best deal ow and to manage the portfolio an increase in macroeconomic and market to deliver on its return objectives when fully volatility, fuelled by concerns over European Opportunities in Europe could also come, in due invested, even in volatile markets.
sovereign debt, the stability and viability of the time, from the acquisition of assets from other euro as a currency, the solvency of European financial investors.
Some infrastructure funds banks and the availability of credit to the are nearing the end of their investing periods broader economy.
and will need to realise investments to return capital to investors, or to prove valuations.
Due to this increased volatility, we have focused There may also be opportunities from the our investment origination activities on a renancing of companies, as overall levels narrower set of opportunities.
In particular, in of leverage reduce.
light of the increased risks involved in investing in the euro periphery, our focus has been on India remains a significant market for opportunities in the UK and Northern Europe,  investors.
Strong GDP as exemplied by the Companys investment growth and an increasingly urbanised in LNI and the proposed investment in the population continue to drive demand for Thameslink project.
While overall transaction volumes have declined, the India  committed Macroeconomic conditions in India are toprivatesector participation.
challenging, with high ination and a growing scal deficit impacting the outlook for growth.
These challenges have affected market performance: the BSE Sensex, Indias principal stock market index, declined by 10.4% in the year to 31 March 2012.
Transaction activity, as a result, has been slower.
Nevertheless, the local banking market remains supportive of infrastructure development and our team in India is progressing a number of opportunities.
