42 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Basis of preparation Throughout the Investment Advisers review, Several adjustments to the consolidated  partnership are the Returns and Review of investments financial statements required under IFRS treated as a minority interest on a consolidated sections, the Investment Adviser has presented weremade, in order to show returns on an basis but are accrued as an expense in the the Companys net asset value and financial investment basis.
The main adjustments are investment basis.
results to show the return on a pro forma set out below.
3i Infrastructure holds two wholly-owned investment basis.
This information is in addition 3i Infrastructure holds 68.5% of 3i Osprey LP subsidiaries, Oystercatcher Luxco 1 S. r. l. and to the consolidated financial statements as and 87.3% of 3i Networks Finland LP, the Oystercatcher Luxco 2 S. r. l. Oystercatcher shown on pages 58 to 61, as required under vehicles through which it holds its investments Luxco 1 and Oystercatcher to fund the International Financial Reporting Standards in AWG and LNI respectively.
The remaining minority investment into three subsidiaries IFRS.
The pro forma investment basis portions of these entities are held by 3i Group ofOiltanking GmbH.
External borrowings were presentation provides an alternative and other third parties.
3i Infrastructure is made by Oystercatcher to partly fund the representation of the Companys net asset required under IFRS to consolidate the results investments.
These borrowings are nonvalue, shows the Companys cash utilisation and balance sheet of these limited partnerships recourse to 3i Infrastructure.
Under IFRS, the for investment and differentiates between into its financial statements on a line-by-line results and balance sheet of the Oystercatcher non-recourse borrowings held within asset basis.
In the investment basis presentation, Luxco 1 and Oystercatcher subsidiaries are specic acquisition companies and borrowings 3iInfrastructure has recognised only its share required to be consolidated into 3i Infrastructures which may be made at the Company level.
of the income and balance sheet of 3i Osprey LP financial statements on a line-by-line basis.
In The investment basis accounts for majority and 3i Networks Finland LP.
This adjustment the investment basis presentation Oystercatcher investments and subsidiaries formed has the effect of eliminating the minority is not consolidated but is accounted for as a specifically for investment purposes in the interest entitlement shown on the statement portfolio asset held for investment purposes same way as minority investments, by ofcomprehensive income and the balance and is fair valued accordingly.
determining a fair value for the investment, sheet on an IFRS basis.
and therefore does not consolidate these The Company invests in 3i India Infrastructure entities line-by-line as is required under IFRS.
One subsidiary of the Company, 3i Primary Holdings Limited through 3i India Infrastructure Infrastructure 200506 LP, which holds Fund A LP, a limited partnership in which the theinvestment in Alpha Schools, has Company is the sole investor.
This limited investingpartners which are entitled to a partnership has not been consolidated under 8.75%share ofprots, once certain cash the investment basis and is treated as an hurdlecriteria aremet.
investment, and is fair valued accordingly.
Review report Review report to the Companys members Directors responsibilities Directors those matters we are required to asabody of 3i Infrastructure plc state to them in a review report and for no The Summary of total return and the Summary otherpurpose.
balance sheet are the responsibility of, and Introduction have been approved by, the Directors.
The A review consists of making enquiries, primarily Directors are responsible for preparing these of persons responsible for financial and We have been engaged by the Directors to statements in accordance with the basis of accounting matters, and applying analytical review the accompanying Summary of total preparation set out above.
A review is return see Table 3 for the year ended 31March substantially less in scope than an audit 2012 and the Summary balance sheet see conducted in accordance with International Table 4 as at 31 March 2012 of 3i Infrastructure Our responsibility Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
plc the Company, which are prepared on the Our responsibility is to provide a conclusion on Accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion.
basis of preparation set out above.
the Summary of total return and the Summary balance sheet based on our review.
This report is made solely to the Companys Conclusion members, as a body.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Based on our work described in this report, Scope of our review responsibility to anyone other than the nothing has come to our attention that causes We conducted our work in accordance with the Company and the Companys members, as us to believe that the Summary of total return guidance contained in International Standard on abody, for our review work, for thisreport, and the Summary balance sheet set out above Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 orforthe conclusions we haveformed.
are not prepared, in all material respects, in Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or accordance with thebasis of preparation set Reviews of Historical Financial Information out above.
issued by the International Federation of Accountants.
Our review work has been Ernst & Young LLP undertaken so that we might state to the Jersey, Channel Islands 8 May 2012 Governance 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 43 Governance
