20 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Investment Advisers review continued As shown in Chart 4 on page 14, this was the Foreign exchange impact Underlying asset fourth consecutive year of EBITDA increases, Foreign exchange rates were volatile demonstrating the robustness in the performance throughout the year.
As set out in Table 2, the performance of the portfolio across a period The fully operational assets in which the reported foreign exchange loss on the portfolio of volatile market conditions.
Company holds an equity stake delivered a solid of 4.3 million also set out in Chart 7 increased In India, the growth rates in earnings are performance during the year.
Earnings before to a net loss of 16.3 million 2011: 4.3 million considerably higher than for the European interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation loss after the impact of other foreign exchange portfolio, as investments are at an earlier EBITDA for these assets increased by 4.5% related movements.
The most significant of stageof development.
on a like-for-like basis relative to the prior year.
these was the loss arising from the US$ rupee exchange rate movements which formed T2C is still not yet fully operational and remains This gure is calculated on a weighted average part of the unrealised value movement of valued at nil.
basis and the assets included in this analysis the US dollar-denominated 3i India are those that have been operational and held Infrastructure Fund.
by the Company for one year or more: AWG, Eversholt, Oystercatcher, Elgin underlying Sterling appreciated by 14% against the Indian project companies, Octagon and Alpha Schools rupee in the year, resulting in net foreign and, within the 3i India Infrastructure Fund, exchange losses of 16.0 million for the Adani Power, Soma Enterprise and Company, as its exposure to the Indian rupee Krishnapatnam Port.
through the 3i India Infrastructure Fund remains unhedged.
The Board monitors specifically, Eversholt saw an EBITDA growth both the rupee exposure and the cost benefit of 11.4% over the prior comparable year, while of hedging that exposure on a regular basis.
Oystercatchers EBITDA remained at and The foreign exchange losses incurred AWGs declined by 1.3%.
However, the EBITDA within the US dollar-denominated 3i India ofAWGs core regulated water business, Infrastructure Fund had a significant impact on Anglian Water, was up 1.3% year-on-year.
the valuation of the Fund and on overall returns Thedecline in AWGs overall EBITDA was driven in the year.
mainly by the weaker performance of Morrison Facilities Services, one of its non-core During the period, sterling also appreciated by subsidiaries, due to challenging trading 6% against the euro, but the resulting losses conditions in the social housing sector.
were offset by foreign exchange hedging entered into to provide mitigation from movements in the sterling euro exchange rate, resulting in a small negative net impact of 0.3 million.
Table 2 Impact of foreign exchange movements on returns m Sterling Rupee Sterling Euro Net impact Translation of assets US$ 1.3 1.3 Translation of assets 5.6 5.6 Reported foreign exchange losses on investments 4.3 1 Asset valuation US$ rupee 17.3 17.3 Movement in fair value of derivative financial instruments hedging 5.3 5.3 Other foreign exchange movements 12.0 Net foreign exchange losses 16.0 0.3 16.3 1 Contained within Unrealised profits on revaluation of investments in Table 3 on page 35.
