Investment Advisersreview 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 21 Changes to the discount rates used to value the Discounted cash ow and Summary of assets are as follows.
discount rates valuation methodology AWG The discount rate used to value the Around 96% of the portfolio was valued on Companys holding in AWG was reduced, Investment valuations are calculated at the aDCF basis at 31 March 2012.
The weighted reecting: i the valuations achieved in recent half year and at the financial year end by the average discount rate applied was 12.6% transactions in the UK water sector: ii AWGs Investment Adviser and then reviewed and 2011: 13.2%, deriving from a range of 8.2% strong track record of operational performance approved by the Board.
Investments are an operational PFI asset and 19.0% a project and its good progress against its opex and reported at the Directors estimate of fair within the 3i India Infrastructure Fund.
capex targets set out in the regulatory valueat the reporting date.
The main reason for the year-on-year decrease settlement: iii the decline in risk-free rates: The valuation principles used are based on in the weighted average discount rate was and iv the companys continued ability to International Private Equity and Venture Capital the addition of LNI to the portfolio, which renance its debt in the market at attractive valuation guidelines, generally using a was valued using a discount rate lower than rates, as reected in the continued reduction discounted cash ow DCF methodology the previous weighted average.
except where a market quote is available, Chart 8 shows the movement in the weighted Oystercatcher The discount rate used to value which the Board considers to be the most average discount rate applied to the portfolio Oystercatcher was increased to reect a higher appropriate valuation methodology for ineach six-month period since inception.
renancing risk and greater sensitivity to unquoted infrastructure equity investments.
interest rates and exchange rates, as the The discount rate applied to each investment Where the DCF methodology is used, the maturity of the acquisition debt facility and of is reviewed at each valuation date.
The rate resulting valuation is checked against other associated interest and exchange rate hedging selected reects the risk inherent in the valuation benchmarks relevant to the particular instruments approaches.
This increase is not a business, taking into account sustained investment, including for example: reection of the operating performance of the movements in the risk-free rates of return underlying companies, which remains robust.
earnings multiples in the relevant country and appropriate risk premia.
Elgin The discount rate used to value the Elgin recent transactions portfolio was reduced slightly to reect the Risk-free rates equating to 10 30-year quoted market comparables track record of good operational performance government bond yields have declined over achieved by the assets, and aligning it to the regulated asset base multiples theyear.
In light of current market conditions, discount rate used to value the rest of the and particularly in light of increasing PFI portfolio.
uncertainty across markets reected in our assessment of risk premia and of current India The discount rates applied to value market pricing, the decline in risk-free rates projects across the Funds portfolio, based didnot result in a reduction of the discount ontheir stage of development, have remained rates used to value the portfolio, other than broadly unchanged.
The discount rates used forAWG, for which it formed part of the overall to value a few individual projects held within rationale for the reduction in the discount rate, GVK Energy and KMC Roads were reduced, as described below.
This had no material impact on the overall discount rate applied across the Fund.
Chart 8 Portfolio weighted average discount rate % 3i India Infrastructure Fund The Companys investment in the 3i India Infrastructure Fund was valued as its share of 19.0 net assets held by the Fund.
Within the Fund valuation, Adani Power, which has been a listed 13.8 company since August 2009, was valued on a 13.2 13.1 13.1 12.8 mark-to-market basis using closing bid prices.
12.6 12.5 12.5 12.4 12.0 All other assets were valued on a DCF basis, with the exception of a portion of Soma Enterprises valuation, which was calculated using earnings multiples, and a small element of the Krishnapatnam Port valuation, derived 8.2 from value attributable to a put option, which provides downside valuation protection.
