28 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Review of investments continued Oystercatcher Description Oystercatcher Luxco 2 S. r. l. Oystercatcher is the holding company through which 3iInfrastructure invested in 45% stakes inthree subsidiaries of Oiltanking GmbH Oiltanking, located in the Netherlands, Malta and Singapore.
These businesses provide over 3.6 million cubic metres of oil, petroleum and other oil-related storage facilities and associated services to a broad range of clients, including private and state oil companies, reners, petrochemical companies and traders.
Oiltanking is one of the worlds leading independent storage partners for oils, chemicals and gases, operating 72 terminals in 22 countries with a total storage capacity of 19.6 million cubic metres.
Review of investments 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 29 In Amsterdam, a 42,000 cubic metre expansion Performance in the year Investment rationale project was approved in 2009 to provide Cost The investment was completed in August 2007. dedicated storage for biodiesel products for The key elements of the investment case were: 84.5m anew production facility adjacent to the site.
This strong projected demand for oil and Opening value capacity was pre-let on a use-or-pay basis.
oil-related products: 119.6m Several smaller investments were approved storage capacity is scarce, and a key toupgrade throughput and customer service.
Closing value component of the oil and oil product supply In Malta, investment in a new 13,000 cubic 118.2m chain, resulting in low customer turnover: metre tank was approved in 2011, let on a the three terminals are defensively located use-or-pay basis to an existing customer inkey trading hubs in Amsterdam, Malta Equity interest 45.0% fromFebruary 2012. andSingapore, and have a strong Income in the year 9.5m Since investment, total capacity at the three marketposition: 1 Asset total return in the year 8.1m terminals increased by 23%, while annual contracts are let on a use-or-pay basis with throughput increased by 22%.
Valuation basis DCF xed terms of up to 10 years, often with 1 Includes foreign exchange losses of 7.2 million.
tariffslinked to local ination rates, resulting Developments in the year in reliable cash ows: and All three terminals performed in line with, the transaction allowed 3i Infrastructure orahead of expectations during the year.
topartner with a dominant player in the Market conditions for traders have not been as oilstorage market, with a strong favourable as in the past, with trading margins .
squeezed by a shallower forward curve, as well as by lower volatility in oil prices.
Despite this, What has been achieved in the all storage capacity has continued to be fully period of ownership let throughout the year, with strong contract renewal rates, and throughput levels have The 2007 investment case has largely been been high.
confirmed, with the investment performing well.
All storage capacity has been fully let The 42,000 cubic metre bio-diesel storage throughout the period of investment, and expansion project in Amsterdam and the new throughput levels have been high.
All three 13,000 cubic metre storage tank in Malta were terminals have been largely unaffected by the completed on schedule and within budget.
global economic slowdown, even though the The discount rate used to value the Companys attening of the forward curve in recent years holding in Oystercatcher was increased during has squeezed oil trading margins and increased the year, to reect an increase in the renancing traders focus on storage costs during contract risk and greater sensitivity to interest rate and renewal negotiations.
However, global trade exchange rate movements, as the acquisition in petroleum products continues to increase, facility and associated hedging instruments leading to further growth in demand for approach maturity in 2014.
The increase in oil storage.
thediscount rate is not a reection of the The Investment Adviser has been actively operating performance of the underlying involved in the assessment of a range of capital companies, which remains strong, with good expenditure project proposals that have long-term prospects.
In Singapore, a 160,000 cubic metre expansion project was approved in 2008 to accommodate increasing demand from adjacent reneries and petrochemical industries.
This was completed in June 2009, with the capacity let on a use-or-pay basis under a long-term contract to an existing customer.
