Governance 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 47 Directors report The Directors report contains statutory and corporate governance The investment exclusivity granted to the Company under the Investment information for the year to 31 March 2012 theyear.
Advisory Agreement initially lasted for an investment period ending on the earlier of March 2012 or the full investment of the IPO proceeds the Relevant Investment Amount.
As part of the Companys Placing and Principal activity Open Offer of new shares in July 2008, the terms of the agreement were 3i Infrastructure is a closed-ended investment company that invests in amended so that the Relevant Investment Amount covered the IPO infrastructure businesses and assets.
The Directors do not anticipate any proceeds and the equity proceeds raised through the Placing and Open change in the principal activity of the Company in the foreseeable future.
Offer, and also included the original cost of any disposal proceeds from The Companys investment policy is set out on page 79 and the the investment portfolio realised up to 12 months from the admission Companys principal subsidiaries are shown on page 78. ofnew shares issued pursuant to the Placing and Open Offer.
The most recent amendment, dated December 2010, increased the Relevant Regulation Investment Amount by 200 million and extended the investment periodto the earlier of i the full investment of the increased Relevant 3i Infrastructure is incorporated in Jersey and is regulated as a collective Investment Amount: and ii 13 March 2015, the date of expiry of the investment fund under the Collective Investment Funds Jersey Law Investment Advisory Agreement.
It has a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
3i Group was among the subscribers to 3i Infrastructures IPO and to Results and dividends the subsequent Placing and Open Offer and owns 34% of the equity in the Company.
Fee arrangements and the amount payable to 3i plc The financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together a wholly-owned subsidiary of 3i Group for the year are set out in referred to as the Group for the year appear on pages 58 to 61.
For information on the Totalcomprehensive income for the year attributable to equity holders  of the Investment Adviser, please see page 51. ofthe parent was 55.0 million 2011: 86.8 million.
An interim dividend of 2.97p 2011: 2.86p per share in respect of the year to 31 March 2012 was paid on 11 January 2012.
The Directors recommend a final dividend Other significant service arrangements of 2.97p 2011: 2.86p per share be paid in respect of the year to In addition to the arrangements described above, 3i plc and 3i 31March2012 to shareholders on the register at the close of business Investments, in relation to certain regulatory services, have been on22 June 2012. appointed by the Company to provide support services to the Group, including treasury and accounting services, investor relations and The distribution of the dividend payments between interim and final other back office support services.
The amounts payable under these dividends is evaluated by the Board each year, according to the arrangements are described in more detail in Note 19 on page 77.
Companys performance and portfolio income generation.
State Street Secretaries Jersey Limited formerly Mourant & Co.
Secretaries Limited has been appointed as the Administrator and Operations Company Secretary to the Company.
The Company has a non-executive Board of Directors and no employees.
The Board acts as the Companys investment committee and is Business review responsible for the determination and supervision of the investment Observing the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules requires the policy and for the approval of investment opportunities sourced by Company to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the theInvestment Adviser.
The Board also supervises the monitoring Company during the financial year ended 31 March 2012, including a ofexisting investments and approves divestments and further description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company nancingof portfolio assets.
and an analysis of the position of the Companys business at the end of the financial year, known as a Business review.
Advisory arrangements The information that fulls the current Business review requirements 3i Investments plc 3i Investments, a wholly-owned subsidiary of can be found on the following pages of this document which are 3iGroup plc 3iGroup, acts as Investment Adviser to 3i Infrastructure incorporated into this report by reference: through its infrastructure investment team.
The investment advisory team provides advice to the Company on the origination and completion a fair review of the Companys business, see pages 2 to 5: of new investments, on the realisation of investments, on funding a description of the principal risks facing the Company, see page 40: requirements, as well as on the management of the investment portfolio.
It provides its services under an Investment Advisory Agreement which the development and performance of the Companys business during includes an investment exclusivity arrangement.
Under this agreement, the year, see page 36: the appointment of the Investment Adviser may, inter alia, be terminated the position of the Companys business at the end of the year, by either the Company or the Investment Adviser giving the other not less seepage39: than 12 months notice in writing to expire no earlier than 13 March 2015 provided that either party may terminate the agreement on 12 months financial key performance indicators, see page 35: notice at any time, in the event that the Investment Adviser ceases to other key indicators, see page 4: beamember of 3i Group, or with immediate effect by either party intheevent of the insolvency or material or persistent breach of the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, agreements terms by the other party.
The Investment Adviser may also performance and position of the Company, see page 15: terminate the agreement on two months notice given within two months environmental matters and policy, including the impact of the of a change of control of the Company.
Companys business on the environment, see page 44: references to, and additional explanations of, amounts included intheCompanys annual financial statements, see page 35.
48 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Directors report continued Risk management objectives Directors interests A description of the risk management objectives and policies is included Directors interests in the shares of the Company as at 31 March 2012 are in Note 10 to the financial statements and in the Returns and Risk section shown below: on pages 40 to 41.
Ordinary Ordinary Directors interests and shares at shares at 1 benecialinterests 31 March 2012 1 April 2011 Share capital Peter Sedgwick 89,653 49,653 Ordinary shares Philip Austin 10,000 10,000 The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2012 was Sir John Collins 19,215 19,215 881,349,570 ordinary shares 2011: 816,911,161.
The increase in the Florence Pierre number of ordinary shares outstanding is attributable to the exercise of 64,438,409 warrants in the year to 31 March 2012.
The warrants have Charlotte Valeur 3,500 now expired, and therefore no further conversions will take place Paul Waller 244,639 244,639 see Warrants below.
Steven Wilderspin 10,000 10,000 1 No options have ever been granted since the inception of the Company.
Warrants Note: no Directors had any interests or beneficial interests in the Companys warrants throughout theyear.
Under the IPO, for every 10 shares purchased, one warrant was issued.
Each warrant entitled the holder to subscribe for one ordinary share In the period from 1 April 2012 to 30 April 2012, there were no changes at1.00 at any time from 13 September 2007 to 13 March 2012. inthe interests of each Director.
Duringthe year, 64,438,409 2011: 5,828,580 warrants were converted into shares.
Of the 70,640,980 warrants issued at IPO, 281,491 were left Directors authority to buy back shares unsubscribed at expiry.
The Company did not purchase any shares during the year.
The current No additional warrants were issued during the year and there are no authority of the Company to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of further dilutive securities in issue.
the issued ordinary share capital expires on 10 July 2012.
The Company will seek to renew such authority until the end of the Annual General Major interests in ordinary shares Meeting AGM in 2013 specifying the maximum and minimum price at which shares can be bought back.
Any buyback of ordinary shares will be Notications of the following voting interests in the Companys ordinary made subject to Jersey law and the making and timing of any buybacks share capital as at 31 March 2012 and 30 April 2012, which are will be at the absolute discretion of the Directors.
Such purchases will also disclosable in accordance with Chapter 5 of the FSAs Disclosure and only be made in accordance with the Listing Rules of the FSA which provide Transparency Rules, are as follows: that the price paid must not be more than the higher of: i 5% above the average middle market quotations for the ordinary shares for the five Number of 1 ordinary shares business days before the shares are purchased: and ii the higher of the as at last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the 31 March 2012 London Stock Exchange at such time.
and Interests in ordinary shares % 30 April 2012 Directors re-election 3i Group plc and subsidiaries 34.14 300,922,661 The Companys Articles of Association provide for: 1 Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote.
a Directors to retire at the first AGM after their appointment by the Board and for the number nearest to, but not exceeding, one-third of the remaining Directors to retire by rotation at each AGM: and b all Directors to retire at least every three years.
Paul Waller, as a non-independent Director, is required to retire each year.
Subject to the Articles of Association, retiring Directors are eligible for reappointment.
Under the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, however, all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders.
The Board voluntarily decided to adopt this procedure at the 2011 AGM, in advance of an obligation to do so.
All Directors will voluntarily retire and stand for re-election at the AGM to be held on 10 July 2012 and at all subsequent AGMs.
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conicts of interest with the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association enable Directors to approve conicts of interest and include other conict of interest provisions.
The Company has implemented processes to identify potential and actual conicts of interest.
Such conicts are then considered for approval by the Board, subject, if necessary, to appropriate conditions.
Governance 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 49 In accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Directors indemnities theDirectors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: The Companys Articles of Association provide that, subject to the a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable provisions of the Statutes, every Director of the Company shall be accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all liabilities and financial position and profit or loss of the Group taken as a whole: and expenses incurred by him in the actual or purported execution or discharge of his duties.
Statutes here refers to the Companies Jersey b the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and Law 1991 and every other statute, regulation or order for the time being performance of the business and the position of the Group taken in force concerning companies registered under the Companies Jersey asawhole, together with a description of the principal risks and Law 1991.
In addition, the Company has entered into indemnity uncertainties faced by the Company.
agreements for the benefit of its Directors and these remain in force The Directors of the Company and their functions are listed on page 46. atthe date of this report.
The Company also had Directors and officers liability insurance in place in the year.
Going concern The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to Statement of Directors responsibilities affect its future development, performance and position are set out in The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the theInvestment Advisers review on pages 8 to 21, in the Returns and Risk financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
section on pages 35 to 41, and in the financial statements and related As a company listed on the London Stock Exchange, 3i Infrastructure is notes on pages 58 to 78.
The financial position of the Company, its cash subject to the FSAs Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Rules, as well as to all applicable laws and regulations of Jersey, where it financial statements and related notes on pages 58 to 78.
Note 10 to the financial statements includes the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk Jersey Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging statements for each financial period in accordance with generally activities, and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The financial statements of the Company are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of The Company has liquid financial resources and a strong investment the Company at the period end and of the profit or loss of the Company portfolio providing a stable and robust income yield and an expectation for the period then ended.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors should: After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: thatthe Company has adequate resources to continue in operational make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
specify which generally accepted accounting principles have been adopted in their preparation: and By order of the Board Authorised signatory prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
State Street Secretaries Jersey Limited Company Secretary The Directors are responsible for keeping accounting records which 8 May 2012 are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and are Registered Office: such as to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, Jersey position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial Channel Islands JE4 8PX statements prepared by the Company comply with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
These financial statements comply with International Financial Reporting Standards and reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates have been used in their preparation.
