46 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Board of Directors Peter Sedgwick Philip Austin Non-executive Director, Sir John Collins Non-executive Chairman  Non-executive Director Between 2000 and 2006, Peter was a member of the Philip spent most of his career in banking with HSBC Sir John Collins was previously Chairman of DSG management committee and a Vice President of the in the UK and Jersey and, from 1997 to 2001, was International plc, National Power Limited, and Shell UK European Investment Bank EIB, one of the largest Deputy Chief Executive of the banks business in the plc.
He was a non executive director of Rothschild multinational lending institutions in the world.
In 2001, he became the founding Continuation Holdings AG, and The Peninsular and also a director of the European Investment Fund from CEOof Jersey Finance Ltd, the body set up as a joint Oriental Steam Navigation Company plc.
Before joining the EIB, he was a career venture between the Government of Jersey and its served as Chairman of the Advisory Committee on HM Treasury civil servant in the UK.
He also sits on the Finance Industry, to represent and promote the Business and the Environment, Chairman of the DTIs boards of two of 3i Infrastructure plcs Luxembourg Industry in Jersey and internationally.
Between 2006 Energy Advisory Panel, Chairman of the DTI DEFRAs subsidiaries, 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg Holdings and 2009, he was at Equity Trust where he had direct Sustainable Energy Policy Advisory Board, President S. r. l. and 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg S. r. l. responsibility for Jersey, Guernsey and Switzerland of the Energy Institute and as a Governor of Wellington He was a trustee and director of Dyslexia Institute aswell as being a Member of the Group Executive College.
Limited trading as Dyslexia Action between 2007 Committee.
He has since taken a number of and2011.
directorships in companies in the financial services sector.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers and a Fellow of the Institute of Management.
Florence Pierre Charlotte Valeur Paul Waller Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Florence is an independent consultant with her own Charlotte is Managing Director of Brook Street Paul is a Managing Partner at 3i Group, with specic consultancy rm, Financire Action.
She previously Partners, an alternative investment consultancy which responsibility for fundraising and managing 3i Groups held several executive positions, including Founder she founded in 2003.
Through Global Governance global relationships with the fund investor community.
Director and Chief Operating Officer of the Corporate Group, founded in 2009, Brook Street Partners also He is a member of the 3i Group Leadership Team, Finance subsidiary of La Compagnie Financire advises ongovernance best practice and conducts director of 3i Investments and is a member of the Edmond fide Rothschild in Paris and Founder and Chief board evaluations for the boards of investment funds.
He was previously a Executive of Financire Concorde, an independent She was previously a director in Capital Markets, Fixed director andchairman of the European Private Equity M&A advisory boutique rm.
She was subsequently Income atSG Warburg, BNP Paribas, Socit Gnrale & Venture Capital Association and chairman of the named Chief Executive of the French branch of and Commerzbank.
Charlotte also serves as Investor Relations Committee.
Paul is a 3i Group Degroof Corporate Finance, a subsidiary of Bank Chairman of listed hedge fund Brevan Howard Credit nominee.
Degroof, and a Director of Degroof Corporate Finance Catalyst and asa non-executive director on the board in Belgium.
She has taught economics and finance at of AIM listed Renewable Energy Generation.
Danish Institut dEtudes Politiques in Paris and has published national, residentin Jersey.
several books and articles on corporate valuation.
French national, resident in France.
Steven Wilderspin Non-executive Director,  Steven has been the Principal of Wilderspin Independent Governance, which provides independent directorship services, since April 2007.
He was previously a director of fund administrator Maples Finance Jersey Limited.
Hehas served on a number ofprivate equity, property and hedge fund boards aswell as the boards of special purpose companies engaged in structured finance transactions.
Before that, from 1997, he acted as Head of Accounting atPerpetual Fund Management Jersey Limited.
