Our investment process Equities Key strengths Active management Bottom-up investment style, emphasising company We aim to add value by identifying good quality stocks, fundamentals defined chiefly in terms of management and business model, which are attractively priced.
Good stock picking is Team approach, with asset managers based in the regions the key to our performance.
We downplay benchmarks in where we invest portfolio construction since these provide little clue to future Low portfolio turnover, buying stocks and holding them for performance.
Our asset managers avoid businesses that we the long-term do not understand or those with discriminatory shareholder structures.
First-hand research is central to our process Proprietary research No investment without interviewing the companys Our mainstream equity managers always visit companies management first before investing, making thousands of visits annually to existing Aberdeens mainstream equity process dates from the early and prospective holdings.
Every contact is documented in detail.
1990s and we believe its advantage lies in the consistency of its If a security fails our screening, we will not own it, irrespective of approach, irrespective of market conditions.
From the company visits and analysis carried out regionally, Team approach through to portfolio construction decisions, we adopt a team We employ over 130 equity investment professionals globally.
Portfolio decisions are made collectively, and we avoid Cross-coverage of securities locally ensures objectivity.
Cross-coverage of securities Diversification at the stock level is our main control of risk.
also increases objectivity and lessens reliance on individuals.
We aim to add value by capitalising on original research and in Long-term focus avoiding fashions.
We see equity risk in terms of investing in a Our mainstream strategies are simple: we buy and hold, poor quality company, or overpaying for a good one.
add on price dips and take profits on price rises.
This reduces transaction costs and keeps portfolios focused.
We rarely pursue short-term returns from mainstream equity strategies, albeit for specialist portfolios, activity may be more dynamic.
Equity investment process Equities breakdown Global Company visit note Risk emerging markets % controls Asia Pacic % Global EAFE % UK % STEP STEP STEP North America % Europe % 1 2 3 Aberdeen Price Quality Portfolio Pass or fail?
universe Cheap or construction expensive Potential Monitor Watchlist revisit review As at September Total.
bn Source: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 14 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Fixed income Key strengths Active management Active management, operating globally, in a transparent We aim to add value by exploiting market inefficiencies in and accountable structure, within a risk framework interest rates, currency, investment grade credit, emerging market debt, high yield, convertibles and money markets.
We Belief that multiple sources of added value improve the risk have dedicated portfolio managers and analysts in the three return profile main time zones Asia Pacific, Europe and the US.
They operate Focus on proprietary research as close-knit teams within a global framework, with investment decision-making devolved to specialists, based on their Local presence in London, Philadelphia, So Paulo, knowledge and expertise.
Singapore, Sydney, Bangkok, Tokyo and Budapest Flexible and disciplined investment process Strong derivatives capability to assist implementation of Our investment structure enables us not only to follow a both active and liability matching strategies disciplined investment process but also to be flexible to manage We believe outperformance should be generated within a risk portfolios for a wide variety of client requirements.
This may framework, adding value through multiple sources with low range from strategies which employ multiple sources of correlations to create natural diversification.
As such, our fixed uncorrelated returns to those that are focused on a particular income structure comprises independent product teams, with specialist area.
their investment universes being as unconstrained as possible.
Team approach Our global product team is responsible for capturing these We employ over 120 investment professionals across our investment ideas into specific client portfolios, working within teams.
They invest within clearly delineated parameters, individual client portfolio guidelines.
Team members are in with defined reporting lines.
Our team structure is based on continual discussion with the alpha teams to ensure that the transparency and accountability.
best decisions of these teams are implemented across all Diverse solutions mandates.
Many clients are moving to higher performance or core plus mandates.
Another trend is the move away from market based indices and the use of liability driven benchmarks.
We aim to deliver performance across the full range of our fixed income capabilities.
We also use derivatives, such as interest rate and credit default swaps, to add value and also to match liability exposures.
Fixed income investment process Fixed income breakdown Asia Pacic % Money market % Alpha inputs Strategy determination portfolio construction UK % US % Resulting Emerging markets % Risk EMD EMD Client Europe % lter portfolio Global % Global High yield % Agreed Asset macro Currency overlay % client allocation Key strategy Convertibles % Product specic Duration investment Team factors Curve themes Credit such as: FX research Security Objective selection Guidelines High High Global IR Yield Yield Risk appetite overlay As at September Total.
m Source: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC www.
com 15 OUR INvESTMENT PROCESS CONTINUED Property Key strengths by active asset management, and selecting assets with this An active property investment manager potential enables a skillful investment manager to create alpha and outperform the market.
Unrivalled local presence in key international markets Local presence Separate accounts and collective funds, including fund of Active property investment requires a local presence.
We have funds expanded in Europes heartland, through our Singapore office Disciplined investment process, supported by research on into Asia and more recently into North America.
We now the ground number over 300 professionals based in 13 countries.
This unrivalled local reach is essential to our understanding of local Team approach, with managers based in the regions where markets and our commitment to local decision making.
we invest Active management, top-class research, local presence and a Structured investment process rigorous investment process are the means by which we add Our robust investment process links the three essential value to property investment.
We offer a wide range of welldisciplines of allocation, selection and asset management.
We structured vehicles that provide strong risk-adjusted returns as apply it rigorously to all property sectors and geographies.
well as a choice of geographic and sector allocations.
Our principle is to combine advanced top-down research with a pragmatic, but structured, bottom-up approach from our In addition to funds holding direct property, we have pioneered local professionals.
The former focuses on managing beta, or the development of funds of property funds, with exposure to portfolio risk, the latter on creating alpha.
UK, Continental Europe, Asia Pacific and North America.
This team invests in third party funds, not in direct property and its Delivering risk-adjusted returns clients are exclusively institutional investors.
Their philosophy We aim to help our institutional clients achieve well diversified focuses on creating alpha and not on general market exposure.
property exposure by delivering superior risk-adjusted returns Our direct investment and multi manager teams manage client through funds that offer a clear choice of geographic or sectoral money in segregated mandates as well as pooled vehicles.
With our advanced portfolio modelling techniques, we provide an understanding of the risk of different property Active management investments and their place in multi asset portfolios.
Our understanding of the factors that drive returns stems from our local presence and our dedicated research capability.
A unique feature of property is the value that can be added Property investment process Property breakdown Nordic direct % 1 Allocation 2 Selection UK direct % Creation of risk budget Spending the risk Continental Top down budget Bottom up Europe direct % investment implementation Global direct % planning Team-based, Continental Europe high conviction multi manager % decisions Fund Asia multi manager % management UK multi manager % team 3 Management 4 Performance review Maximising returns Analysis and feedback within the risk budget As at September Total.
bn Source: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 16 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Aberdeen solutions Key strengths A focus on long-term investing Active management of diversified multi asset portfolios, In multi manager funds, we aim to add value by identifying and multi manager funds, fund of hedge funds and fund of building strong relationships with those managers which we private equity funds believe will excel at providing risk-adjusted performance.
This approach mirrors our mainstream equity investment process, Bottom-up and proprietary research is the cornerstone of which is based on regular company visits with management.
our investment process In multi asset portfolios and the balanced element of multi No investment in any asset is made without first manager products, we also employ top-down processes to aid interviewing management superior portfolio construction and reduce risk.
Continual improvement to risk management controls Risk management Our risk management controls are both specific to asset Team-based approach with managers based in London, classes and characterised by our institutional clients own risk Edinburgh, Paris, Singapore and Philadelphia, with access to appetites, their agreed risk budgets and any other mandate all of the Groups skill sets worldwide constraints.
While the strength of our investment decisionOur fund of hedge funds, fund of private equity funds and multi making process is predominantly qualitative, in our fund of manager capabilities enhance and complement Aberdeens hedge funds and multi manager businesses we also draw on traditional skills in multi asset investing.
Our aim is to provide a number of quantitative inputs to help guide our investment client portfolios and funds that diversify and control risk while decision making.
optimising returns, whether using in-house capabilities or those of third party managers.
A range of passive fund solutions is also Proprietary research available, according to client needs.
First-hand analysis is a central tenet to Aberdeen as an investment manager.
Despite the differences of our alternative Active management asset capabilities, our stock and manager selection processes Our multi asset team builds portfolios by investing in securities share the key values of our mainstream investment processes, that have been researched and selected by our specialist asset namely due diligence, repeated investment meetings to verify class teams in-house, while our multi manager and fund of our decisions and a disciplined attention to risk control.
hedge fund teams research and invest in highly-skilled third party managed funds.
Alternatives investment process Alternative strategies breakdown 1 Investment research 2 Due diligence Long-only Quality and Operational multi manager % repeatability and legal Indexed equities % Multi asset % Funds of hedge funds % Funds of 5 Monitoring private equity % Continual evaluation 4 Investment 3 Portfolio committee Oversight and governance optimisation Asset allocation As at September Total.
bn Source: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC www.
