Strategy We aim to generate long-term returns for our shareholders by building a highly regarded global asset management group founded on providing the highest levels of investment management performance and client service.
Our investment process Priorities Maintain and further develop our four established Our investment process is founded on our own primary research investment competencies.
This is implemented through a Focus on growing our business where we have comprehensive and robust investment screening procedure which strong capabilities.
is applied consistently by our teams.
Enhance our reputation and capability for global Our strong team culture, with distinctive and transparent emerging market products across all strategies.
investment processes, sets us apart.
Strengthen the global investment process in areas As a truly active manager, it is key that our teams are based in the such as credit and sovereign research.
major locations where we invest.
Develop our capability to combine our investment skills into providing more holistic, strategic advice.
Our distribution approach Priorities Optimise revenue margins by focusing growth on We have built a global network of offices to serve our clients.
To win higher margin products.
new business in the current environment demands excellent client Targeted approach to growth: concentrate on the service and a strong brand, as well as top investment performance.
capabilities where we have a strong track record in We have dedicated teams for client management with the markets where there is a demand for these performance metrics geared around service levels and client products.
Ensure that product development is driven by market Our global distribution network allows us to service the largest and client demand and that it focuses on products private banks and wealth managers and build on our strategic where our capabilities allow for optimised returns.
Build tailored business plans for each market.
Building on our brand Priorities Increase profile and preference through We develop our brand and differentiation through a co-ordinated appropriate marketing spend in our priority series of local and regional name awareness initiatives and markets to support revenue growth.
Prioritise marketing support on our top tier Whilst brand initiatives are tailored to the relevant country or capabilities and channels.
region, they follow the common theme of Aberdeens global capability and consistent processes, complemented by our local presence.
Our global operating model Priorities Continue to invest in a robust and scalable global The Groups in-house systems cover strategic operations such as operating model.
centralised dealing, as well as decision support, data, and compliance.
Consolidate software development to leverage Most of our back office functions, such as investment global platforms whilst reducing costs and risks.
administration, are outsourced to well established third parties Use of strategic third party service providers to who pass our stringent operational requirements.
outsource volume and reduce risk.
Quality and continuity of service is of paramount importance.
12 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic highlights in the year Investment process Distribution Continued strong investment performance.
Increasing blended average management fee rate due to flows into higher margin 10bn net inflows in equities, where we are investment products.
Targeted growth of distribution teams with Our global equities team has now been particular emphasis on the US and Europe.
together for 10 years demonstrating Significant net flows in these markets.
our commitment to team approach and continuity.
New product specialists for solutions and property.
Emerging market debt is a major growth product outside equities.
Brand Operating model Our series of conferences toured Singapore, Growth has been managed in a cost New York and Aberdeen.
comprised our institutional clients and fund Balance sheet and capital strength selectors.
The Group has strengthened its balance The Scottish Open golf and Cowes Week sheet and capital position, with net cash of sponsorship in the UK highlighted our 266.4 million at 30 September 2012. commitment to the UK market We remain on track to meet regulatory Ongoing Dad vail regatta sponsorship in capital requirements without reliance on the US reinforced our local footprint in the consolidation waiver by the end of 2012 Philadelphia.
Principal risks The principal risks associated with executing the strategy are explained on pages 31 to 33, along with how we manage risks.
These include: Investment process Movements in AuM due to markets and investment decisions Breach of an investment mandate Loss of key investment personnel Distribution Loss of clients due to misrepresentation or poor management of relationships Products that fail to meet clients' needs Brand Reputation risk if the brand is inconsistent with the culture, products and capabilities.
Client service and Failure of external service providers or Aberdeen systems administration www.
