Market and industry overview Market background for sub-investment grade bonds.
Although spreads currently As the global economy continues to struggle in the wake of the remain above historical lows, a bubble could be forming.
financial crisis, the investment industry has faced several broad At the same time, objective-based products, including those challenges.
These include ultra-low interest rates, increased that target particular levels of return or risk, have multiplied.
market volatility, risk aversion, and tighter regulation.
High correlation across asset classes as well as volatility has Europe has been the main economic drag.
The failure of proven tough for more complex strategies.
In aggregate, hedge politicians to agree a strategy for growth amid gathering funds have not performed.
austerity has sapped investor confidence.
In the US, the One prevailing trend is increasingly concentrated fund flows.
prolonged election battle has distracted leaders.
The In what others have called a winner takes all environment, experiment in quantitative easing and the price distortions top quartile funds in Europe captured around 60% of the flows.
that result continues against a background of partisanship Thus the big funds have got bigger.
We have been a beneficiary exemplified by the stand-off over the fiscal cliff.
of this trend in our equities products: and we are extending our In the absence of clear economic direction, asset prices have reach with EMD.
After a steep plunge at the end of 2011, equities Other fund manager groups have come unstuck before through staged an improbable recovery through the early months of hopeful product diversification.
Since June they have resumed choppy progress.
Markets and process, and aligning our marketing efforts, we believe have prematurely cheered solutions to the European debt crisis that we can win over buyers to our products such as EMD with several times: yet the Continents underlying fiscal position which they have not historically associated us.
This is starting to affect corporate profits worldwide.
Distribution If fund flows have become concentrated, the same might Products and performance increasingly be said of distribution.
The top distributors in We have done well because of our focus on identifying Europe and Asia appear to be tightening their grip.
high quality companies rather than being diverted by Their job has been made easier by the stumbles among macroeconomic issues.
This has been reflected in good equity banks, some of which have stepped back from frontline retail performance in areas of traditional strength emerging because of regulatory reforms on giving advice as in the UK or markets, Asian and global equities, plus emerging market because of the need to shore up capital by gathering deposits debt EMD.
Amid this change, much of the distribution industry However, we have missed out on some trends.
Chief among is also trying to re-brand itself as wealth management.
The these has been the search for income amid record low private banks market to high net worth individuals but banks, interest rates.
High yield bonds have been clear beneficiaries: financial advisers and advisory platforms offer sometimes equity income stocks have also been in demand.
All of them are trying to attract fixed income funds are now pushing further along the credit investors back.
This has led to a boom in demand Emerging markets have grown faster than mature ones in 2011 partly due to stronger flows Year-end 2011 vs Year-end 2010, percent Change in AuM YE 2010-11 Cumulative Market EUR billions AuM growth net ows performance North America 46 0% 1% 0% Western Europe -217 -2% 0% -2% Japan -201 -6% 0% -6% Australia 70 5% 2% 3% Africa & ME 100 11% n a n a Latin America 126 14% 5% 9% Emerging Asia 22 1% 3% -2% CEE & Russia 63% 4% -1% Global -49 0% 1% -1% Source: McKinsey Global Asset Management database -3% 6 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Emerging Mature Scepticism is widespread however.
The erosion of trust that developments have played to our strengths.
The growth in followed the financial crisis has affected asset management ETFs and passive strategies creates more market inefficiency as much as banks and the emerging world as much as the for active managers such as Aberdeen to exploit, in the form developed one.
Financial assets managed by asset managers of added value or alpha.
It also helps us to contrast our high have been dwindling in Asia according to McKinsey, as people conviction approach not only with passives, but with those turn to property and alternative hard assets.
In Latin America actives whose portfolios are large and unfocused and whose the situation is similar: in fact the market base is much lower performance can never be better than middling.
in part because pension systems, with one or two obvious Our institutional client focus is well established.
We were exceptions, are less developed.
successful in gathering new assets because we have stuck to This decline in interest in the west is amplified by the running money well.
Our strategy now is to target prospects retirement of the baby boomers albeit median working ages better and seek more frequent and thoughtful engagement.
are climbing fast in some Asian countries too.
Doom-mongers This is on our marketing agenda, as we seek to raise profile warn colourfully of the death of equities.
The situation need through conferences and sponsorship.
Equities may have struggled to perform How long the current sweet spot lasts depends on various consistently during the current deleveraging: nonetheless they factors: our performance, of course, as well as market are real assets.
The collapse in the finances of so-many western behaviour.
Provided developing markets can sustain higher countries has underscored that bonds, even sovereign ones, growth, and this growth translates into investment profits, pose a credit risk as must any 'IOU'.
we believe allocation re-balancing from the developed to the On closer inspection equity risk aversion masks significant takedeveloping world will prove an enduring trend.
up in so-called passive strategies that aim to capture market Tighter regulation performance or beta, be these regular index tracker funds Regulators nearly everywhere have been looking to increase or the new breed of synthetic exchange traded funds ETFs consumer protection, prevent a repeat of mis-selling and to and, prospectively, confusingly-named active ETFs.
Another ensure that fund managers are better run.
important qualification: this battle between active and passive managers is taking place in developed markets.
The most dramatic illustration of these concerns is the UKs Retail Distribution Review RDR, which will ban wholesale There has been no let-up in the rich worlds transfer of money retrocession or commission payments from January 2013.
In to developing markets, almost all of which goes into active effect this will create a pure advisory industry.
Last, it is direct retail investors who have led the redrawn the distribution industry in the UK by severing the buyers strike.
Institutions have been less reactive: indeed, conflict of interest that commissions present.
This may lead to underlying flows into pensions and the like may even have consolidation amongst independent financial advisors.
helped them compensate for the retail shortfall.
All of these Top ten mutual fund strategies in Europe Top ten mutual fund strategies in the U. S. Net inows, Cumulative net inows, Net inows, Cumulative net inows, 2011 2006-2011 2011 2006-2011 Intermediate-term 47 Money market, taxable 555 Global bonds 25 Money market 186 bonds Target date Intermediate-term bonds 40 366 US bonds 40 Global equity 115 retirement World allocation 25 Target date retirement 252 High-yield bonds 25 Mixed exible 86 World bonds 24 Diversied emerging markets 157 Target maturity 24 Emerging market equity 77 High-yield bonds 21 Foreign large blend 143 Global bonds Emerging-market bonds 21 67 Diversied emerging 19 World allocation 133 Global equity High yield bonds 19 64 markets Short-term bonds 15 Short-term bonds 116 Commodities 15 Emerging market bonds 60 Emerging market 15 Large blend 106 Other bonds 15 Absolute return 55 bonds Bank loans 14 World bonds 97 Mixed balanced 14 Commodities 46 Conservative 13 High-yield bonds 71 Asia Pacic bonds 13 Guarantee protected 44 allocation $ billions $ billions $ billions $ billions Solutions Global and emerging market funds Sources: Strategic Insight: BCG analysis www.
com 7 MARKET AND INDUSTRY OvERvIEW CONTINUED After consulting with a wide range of distributors to ensure that Any solutions proposal is, of necessity, very client specific we meet the requirements of our clients, we have launched our and resource intensive.
It must start with a definition of risk series of RDR ready share classes.
from the client's perspective a subject which can divide even sophisticated investors.
Therefore, while solutions are an Europe has a more bank-led distribution culture than Britain.
exciting departure for us given our steadfast equity style, it is Advice is the exception and costs are heavily bundled.
and its corollary, consumer education has not been an overriding concern.
Neither an RDR regime nor one where We are especially wary of growing market pressures to tempt customers are evaluated for their financial sophistication, income funds explicitly to target or promise a high level of the two poles of current debate, seems ideal.
The next phase yield, potentially at the expense of capital.
Investors may be of MiFID, the European directive on the selling of financial happy when promises are met: they will not be when these are instruments, will need to find common ground.
Desisting from promises should be a point of agreement for the industry and regulators.
Mis-selling, or rather guarding consumers from unnecessary risks, has been an overarching concern of regulators since the Summary crisis.
The associated drive for transparency has largely been Having spent the past few years consolidating acquisitions, our good.
We have instilled an internal risk management culture business today is efficient.
This matters because, although our that spans all areas of the business.
distribution servicing network has been built for higher flows, a prolonged downturn in volumes and markets cannot be ruled Risks and solutions out.
To extract better economies of scale we need to offer We reported last year on the convergence of traditional products that people want this includes more fixed income long only products with alternatives, especially in the use of and solutions.
Property is our natural stabiliser.
derivatives, to generate more predictable returns.
Multi asset We have the advantages of comparative stability, low staff funds are one outcome: retail-friendly hedge funds another.
turnover and the positive regard in which clients hold us.
Our We believe that multi asset solutions as an umbrella idea has culture or brand ought to be appealing as we are seen to be merit.
Many investors today are as focused on the management independent of the largest banking groups, as well as more of risk as the generation of positive returns.
For them, the grounded and approachable.
conventional way of looking at asset allocation, i. e. from an asset class return perspective may not work.
Progress is encouraging so far.
Recognition of the Aberdeen name has risen among European industry professionals, even For example, income or inflation protection has become a compared with a couple of years ago.
In the US and Canada starting point for many pension schemes now that in some we have gained a similar profile among the closed end fund markets cash returns are negative in real terms.
Our standing among institutional consultants is others is lower volatility.
For those investors with very long run already strong.
Getting ourselves better known elsewhere is our liability profiles, less liquid assets like infrastructure may have number one priority: we are on the map among institutions in an appeal especially in instances when western banks can no Japan, and across channels in Australia and mainland Asia.
But longer participate and a premium return can be captured.
the US still represents the worlds deepest pool of savings and hence its mass market remains our biggest challenge.
The dual growth model of flows and market performance has stopped at a global level Global AuM Year-end, EUR billions -342 293 38,242 38,153 2,476 238 -7,387 4,376 349 86 YE 2007 AuM 2008 2009 2010 2011 YE 2011 AuM 0.9% 0.3% 0.7% 0.8% -3% Market performance Net ows Net ows as % of BoY AuM Source: McKinsey Global Asset Management database 8 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Aberdeen Asset Management commenced a three year sponsorship deal in 2012 for the Scottish Open to support brand growth in UK, Europe and the US.
