Business Review Business Model HOW DO WE WE HAVE MAKE MONEY?
Non-risk based model We earn most of our revenues through acting in an agency role: The combination of better odds and unique features fosters customer we are remunerated for bringing customers together and facilitating loyalty.
As a result, a large majority of revenue each year comes from their interaction.
As we are not, from an economic perspective, acting existing customers, so the model requires less acquisition marketing as a counterparty in these transactions this model can be considered spend to maintain and grow revenues.
to enjoy a low level of risk.
Betfairs Exchange also has significant barriers to entry, including our On the Betting Exchange, our unique technology matches customers leading technology, substantial customer base and liquidity advantage.
bets, eliminating the financial risk borne by a traditional bookmaker.
Indeed, these factors create a self-perpetuating virtuous circle.
None of Betfair earns a commission on the net profits of any individual customer our competitors have been able to replicate our success with a on each market regardless of the outcome of the event.
bookmakers build a margin into their odds to reect their risk, leading to an imperfect market and sub-optimal prices for customers.
By LMAX, Betfairs financial trading business, operates a similar model contrast, Exchange markets are often near perfect and the available and earns revenue by charging commission on each transaction on odds represent the true price of an outcome.
As a result, customers its platform.
usually enjoy better odds when betting on the Exchange, even after the commission paid to Betfair.
In addition, we offer pooled or tote-style sports betting products, acting as an agent for the pools providers and earning a commission on stakes With the Exchange revenue model, where a commission is charged placed.
We also generate subscription revenue from providing content on the net winnings, the need for an in built margin is removed, so such as Timeform.
customers can alter their positions frequently during an event with minimal friction costs.
In this way they can more efficiently trade Some of our gaming products are also peer-to-peer, with Betfair acting positions and lock-in a profit or cut losses throughout the event.
For instance, in poker, players compete against each other and Betfair takes a share of the winnings on each hand.
Risk-based model Under the risk-based model we act as a counterparty in transactions, Prices are obtained from a number of sources, including the Exchange, with customers playing directly against Betfair.
proprietary models and third party providers.
Our trading team further manages risk through exposure management, including hedging into To give customers a full range of sports betting opportunities we offer the Exchange, and customer management, including limiting the stakes certain products on a risk basis, where Betfair acts like a traditional of certain customers.
We generate revenue and manage risk by applying a margin to the odds offered so that we expect to win over time.
Unlike Betfair also offers products such as casino and arcade games in which the Exchange, it is possible for Betfair to lose on any individual bet customers are playing against the house.
Revenue is generated through when it is acting as principal so returns are typically more volatile.
an inbuilt margin, with the odds favouring the operator.
Over a short period of time returns can be volatile, but in the long run the operator should win.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 12
