Governance The Board of Directors and Executive team 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Board of Directors 1.
Mike McTighe b Chair a b c Chair Non-executive Chairman Senior Independent Director Gerald Corbett is the Companys Chairman, a position he assumed in External appointments: Board member of Ofcom the UKs March 2012 having joined the Betfair Group as Deputy Chairman in regulator of the broadcasting, telecommunications and wireless January 2012. communication sectors where he is Chairman of the Risk and Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nominations External appointments: Chairman of Britvic Plc, Moneysupermarket.
He is Chairman of JJB Sports plc, Volex Group plc and WYG Group Plc, Towry Holdings Limited and the Royal National Institute for plc, and is also Chairman of two privately-owned technology companies.
He is also a non-executive director of the investment and stock Mike acts as a special advisor to General Atlantic, a US-based private broking business, Numis Securities.
Previous experience: Over a long business career, Gerald has been a Previous experience: Chairman of Pace plc, Chairman and CEO of director of 12 public companies, five of which he has chaired.
His most Carrier1 International SA, Executive Director and CEO of Cable & recent role was as Chairman of SSL International plc between 2005 to Wireless plc.
During the recent past he has been a member of the Audit 2010.
His executive career included Group Finance Director roles with Committees of Alliance & Leicester plc and London Metals Exchange Redland plc and Grand Metropolitan plc and he was Chief Executive of Holdings Ltd. A Director of Betfair since 17 October 2008.
Ian Dyson d Chair a chair c Interim CEO and CFO Independent Non-executive Director Stephen is the Companys Chief Financial officer and during the year External appointments: Non-executive Director of Punch Taverns plc.
He joined Betfair in 2002, becoming Finance Previous experience: CEO of Punch Taverns plc, Group Finance & Director in July 2005 and Chief Financial officer in September 2006.
Operations Director at Marks & Spencer plc and Finance Director of Prior to joining Betfair, he headed the UK finance team at Sapient, the The Rank Group plc.
Prior to this he was Group Financial Controller of NASDAQ-listed business innovator.
He has been a Director of Betfair Hilton Group plc.
He joined Hilton from Le Meridien, a division of Forte since 25 September 2006. plc, where he had been Finance Director.
His early career was spent with Arthur Andersen, where he qualied as a Chartered Accountant in 1986 and was promoted to a Partner of the rm in 1994.
Ian was a non-executive Director of Misys plc until September 2005.
A Director of Betfair since 1 February 2010.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 38 2012 Overview Pages 01 09 Business Review Pages 10 37 Governance Pages 38 57 Financial Statements Pages 58 100 5.
Josh Hannah a Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director External appointments: Non-executive Director of International External appointments: General Partner of Matrix Partners.
Airlines Group S. A. formed as a result of the merger between British Previous experience: Josh Hannah was Chief Executive and co-founder Airways and Iberia, a Non-executive Director of E. ON AG, APR Energy of Flutter.
com which merged with the Betfair Group in 2002.
He has plc and Korn Ferry International.
She is Deputy Chair of the Advisory been a Director of Betfair since 21 February 2002.
Board of PwC and is a member of Microsofts European Policy Council and of IESE Business School.
Martin Cruddace d e Previous experience: Non-executive Director at British Airways plc Chief Legal and Regulatory officer and Company Secretary 2004-2010.
Deputy Chairman of the Competition Commission 1996 Martin is Betfairs Chief Legal and Regulatory officer and Company to 2003, chairing 20 economic enquiries into almost every sector in Secretary, positions he assumed in July 2004 and September 2004 UK industry, before going on to chair three government-backed reviews respectively.
Previously Martin was a Partner in a private London law and task forces over the next six years for the Department of Trade rm, and prior to that he was Head of the Legal Department for Mirror and Industry and Department for Culture, Media and Sport.
Martin qualied as a solicitor in 1988.
Kingsmill has been a Director of Betfair since 1 February 2011.
Fru Hazlitt b c e Chair Independent Non-executive Director External appointments: Managing Director of Commercial and Online Key: at ITV Plc.
Committee memberships a Audit Committee d Market Disclosure Committee Previous experience: CEO of GCAP Media Plc, Chief Executive of Virgin b Nomination Committee e Corporate Responsibility Radio and a Managing Director of Yahoo UK and Ireland.
Fru has been a c Remuneration Committee Committee Director of Betfair since 23 March 2005.
Executive team Stephen Morana Ian Chuter d Chair e Interim CEO and CFO Group Operations Director Ian joined the company in July 2011.
He is responsible for overseeing Martin Cruddace Betfairs global operations team, which includes customer service, d e Chief Legal and Regulatory officer and Company Secretary telephone betting, market operations, fraud, payments and trading.
Ian has nearly 30 years industry experience including nine years at Andrew Botha William Hill, where before joining Betfair he served as its Group Head Acting Chief Commercial officer of International and UK Operations.
Previously he worked at Rank Group and Talarius in a variety of commercial and operational roles.
Andrew is Betfairs Acting Chief Commercial officer, a role he assumed in January 2012, having joined Betfair in 2008 as the Companys Niall Dore Commercial and International Finance Director.
Andrew has over Finance Director 20 years experience in managing high performing global finance and operational divisions.
Before joining Betfair, he worked as UK Chief Niall joined the Company in June 2006.
Previously he worked at Operating officer for Ceridian UK Ltd and prior to that as Finance General Electric as the Group Financial Controller of a financial services Director for Lastminute.
coms UK and Ireland business.
Andrew gained subsidiary and prior to this Niall had held senior finance roles across his ACA qualication in 1991. a variety of sectors.
He is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Mark Brooker d Corporate Development Director Tony McAlister e Chief Technology officer Mark joined the Company in March 2010.
He has responsibility for Corporate Strategy, M&A and Investor Relations as well as the Tony joined the Company in 2009.
He has spent over 25 years building Companys Other investments Betfair US, LMAX, Betfair Australia.
and running successful global technology businesses in the e-commerce Mark previously spent 17 years working in investment banking advising and entertainment sectors, and was previously CIO of Vodafones mobile UK companies on equity capital raising and M&A, most recently at content division in London and North Carolina.
Morgan Stanley and prior to that Merrill Lynch.
Mark graduated from Oxford University with a Masters degree in Engineering, Economics Tony Williams and Management.
e Group Human Resources Director Tony joined the Company in 2009.
He was previously Group Human Resources Director of Kingsher plc, Carlton Communications plc and IPC Media.
Tony started his career in General Electric Company plc holding a number of divisional Human Resources Director positions, and went on to assume senior Human Resources Director roles with several companies such as News International and WH Smith.
Tony is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of People and Development and has a Postgraduate diploma in Personnel Management.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39
