2012 Overview Pages 01 09 Governance Business Review Pages 10 37 Governance Pages 38 57 Report of the Audit Committee Financial Statements Pages 58 100 The Audit Committee is the body which carries out the functions required by DTR 7.1.
3 Audit Committees and their functions.
The principal procedures and the effectiveness of these procedures: responsibilities of the Committee are to: Companys procedures to ensure all relevant audit information has corporate governance compliance prior to their consideration by the been disclosed: Board: control weaknesses and to consider the Companys response to any such occurrence: its risk and assurance mitigation plan and the annual assessment of control effectiveness: over financial reporting: statements required under UK legislation before submission to the Board: practices: Internal Audit function: effectiveness: and resignation, dismissal and the overseeing of the external auditors, including review of the external audit, its cost and effectiveness: treasury, related parties transactions, financial authorisation controls, financial personnel succession planning and directors and senior and the fees to be paid for that work together with the monitoring of officer expenses.
the external auditors independence: The Companys financial statements are reviewed by the Committee in regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters advance of their consideration by the Board.
and the condential, anonymous submission by employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters: and External auditors independence The Committee has primary responsibility for making recommendations announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors.
reviewing significant judgements contained therein.
The Committee maintains an ongoing oversight of the external audit appointment and recommends that the auditors, KPMG Audit Plcs Audit Committee process KPMG election be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Committee discharges its responsibilities, as dened in its terms of reference, through a series of meetings throughout the year at KPMG was appointed as external auditor, following a competitive tender which detailed reports are presented for review.
The Terms of Reference in 2003.
Any decision to open the external audit to tender will be taken of the Committee can be found on the Companys website on the recommendation of the Committee based on a review of the www.
effectiveness of the external auditor.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees choice of external auditors.
In any event, The Committee commissions reports, from external advisers, Internal the external auditors are required to rotate the audit partner responsible Audit, or Company management, either after consideration of the for the Group audit every five years.
The current lead audit partner will Companys major risks or in response to developing issues.
Committee meets privately with the external auditors and the Director of Group Internal Audit & Risk Management.
The external auditors meet The Committee is satisfied that there are no relationships between the Director of Group Internal Audit & Risk Management in private the Company and the auditor, its employees or its afliates that throughout the year and liaise with Company management in considering may reasonably be thought to impair the auditors objectivity areas for review.
During the year, the Committee considered the following matters: Private meetings were held with KPMG to ensure there were no restrictions on the scope of their audit and to discuss any items that the auditors did not wish to raise with the Executive Directors present.
The Committee reviews and agrees the engagement letter from KPMG and non-audit fees in accordance with the Committees policy to ensure veries their independence and objectivity.
It also reviewed the scope of the safeguard of audit independence: non-audit services provided by KPMG to ensure that their objectivity was not impaired.
reference, its resourcing and external support: reappointment: Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47 Governance Report of the Audit Committee continued Non-audit services In addition, the Audit Committee receives: The Committee has adopted a policy on the use of the external auditors for non-audit work which is in compliance with the Code.
The external auditors may carry out certain specified non-audit work, in areas that have been pre-approved by the Committee.
Any other work for which under the annual internal audit plan: and management wishes to utilise the external auditors must be approved.
The pre-approved services include the following: Through the monitoring processes set out above, the Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control financial statements audit, subsidiary audits and local statutory during the year ended 30 April 2012.
The system of internal control is accounts: and designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as such, it can only provide reasonable and not and tax advice.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that context, the review, in the opinion of the Board, did not indicate that the system In exceptional circumstances relating to urgent transactions or services was ineffective or unsatisfactory and the Board is not aware of any change deemed not to be of a material nature, the engagement of the auditor for to this status up to the approval of this Annual Report.
non-audit work must be approved in advance by the Committee Chairman.
The Company has a long established process for analysing its key risks and adopts a proactive approach in this area with ultimate ownership resting The Committee is satisfied that the level of fees payable in respect of with respective Board and Executive Board members who manage the audit services is appropriate for a group of its size and that an effective specic risks associated with their areas of responsibility together with a audit was conducted during the year.
The fees for audit and non-audit dedicated central risk management team.
services are disclosed in Note 3 to the Financial Statements on page 74.
Risk Management Framework Internal controls and risk management The Risk Management Framework is a well established process adopted The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and to ensure that the Company understands, evaluates and mitigates the risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order to discharge potential risks facing the business is shown below.
that responsibility, the Board has established the procedures necessary to apply the Corporate Governance Code, including clear operating Risk Management Framework procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
These procedures, which are in accordance with revised Turnbull Guidance, Betfair Board have been in place since before the Group was listed and are regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Group has in place internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and for the preparation of Audit Committee consolidated accounts.
These systems include policies and procedures to facilitate the maintenance of records that accurately and fairly reect transactions, provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or Corporate UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, as appropriate, and that Risk Committee require reported data to be reviewed and reconciled, with appropriate monitoring internally and by the Audit Committee.
Business performance is managed closely and the Board and the Risk Management Internal Executive Committee have established processes, as part of the normal Department Audit good management of the business, to monitor: Team accounting and reporting framework: Risk sub-committees: Business functions: Risk functions: appraisal, authorisation and post investment reviews: Escalate critical risks Risks identied by Business Continuity requiring Risk business functions Planning, Fraud, ensure that they continue to be appealing and relevant: and Committee review and documented Integrity, Anti-Money on the risk register Laundering etc the Internal Audit Team, that the significant risks faced by the Group Escalate key risks are being identied, evaluated and appropriately managed, having requiring Risk regard to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
Committee review Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 48 2012 Overview Pages 01 09 Business Review Pages 10 37 Governance Pages 38 57 Financial Statements Pages 58 100 Betfair has a comprehensive risk management framework across the Disaster recovery DR capability is a key part of the wider business whole of the Group.
The framework provides the Directors and Senior continuity plan.
The objective of the DR strategy is to ensure that Management with a consolidated view of the key risks faced by the response and recovery of Betfairs technology infrastructure is in line with business which is updated and evaluated regularly.
The Directors believe prioritised business needs and compliant with regulatory requirements the Groups approach and capabilities will, over the long-term, contribute COBIT DS4 IT Continuity.
Betfair has pre-placed equipment in to the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
dedicated DR sites in Ireland to which key products, technology operations and back end functionality can be moved over and remotely The risk management framework comprises a number of committees operated.
While not in DR use, this equipment is used to performance made up of senior executives and relevant senior managers from across and capacity test new software code before deployment to Betfairs the Betfair Group, which deal with matters of policy and control and live environment.
exercise oversight of the operational implementation of risk management, together with several operational teams.
This framework Internal Audit Team is overseen by the Corporate Risk Committee, which reports to the Audit The internal audit team is responsible for giving risk based, independent Committee.
A central risk management team co-ordinates, structures assurance on the effectiveness of risk management, control and and embeds risk management practices across the business on an governance processes.
It maintains a central risk register which documents the risks across the whole organisation and how they are being managed.
It provides assurance that: A description of the Corporate Risk Committee, and some of the key components of Betfairs risk management framework is set out below.
Corporate Risk Committee The Corporate Risk Committee comprises the CEO, the CFO, Finance Director and the Chief Legal and Regulatory officer.
The Corporate Risk Committee is responsible for the review of significant business risk issues The internal audit teams responsibilities include reporting regularly for Betfair, including but not limited to money laundering, fraud, integrity, to management on the effectiveness of Betfairs controls and the team operations and legal and regulatory issues.
The International Marketing reports to the CFO and also has a direct reporting line to the Audit Committee and Technology Risk Committee report into The Corporate Committee.
It makes recommendations to the Audit Committee and, as appropriate, to the Board as to the Betfair Groups overall appetite for Compliance Group risk and its approach to managing and mitigating risk.
Importantly, it also The Compliance Group comprises four teams of specialist and subject reviews Betfairs risk management and internal control frameworks to matter experts in their individual elds.
The teams report through the ensure consistent performance and recommend improvements as Director of Group Compliance to Betfairs Chief Legal and Regulatory necessary.
The Corporate Risk Committee meets quarterly and Affairs officer.
Regulatory Compliance Team International Marketing Committee The Regulatory Compliance team provides advice and administrative The International Marketing Committee plays a central role in ensuring assistance across the Betfair business in the development, licensing and that Betfair consistently operates within the scope of its measured and launch of new products, and day-to-day product and process compliance prudent approach to regulatory compliance.
The committee reports to with existing licences and Betfair regulatory policies.
Together, Betfairs the Corporate Risk Committee with respect to marketing campaigns and compliance managers and compliance analysts maintain an ongoing is responsible for approving amongst other things the Groups marketing dialogue with gambling regulators and relevant staff within the business campaigns and decisions concerning the offering of Betfairs products in to ensure that Betfair operates in accordance with the terms of its licences any jurisdiction.
Technology Risk Committee Regulatory Licensing Team The Technology Risk Committee is responsible for identifying and This team is responsible for applying for, and obtaining, relevant gambling mitigating key risks to Betfairs technology infrastructure, including risks licences in jurisdictions which the business has identied as a suitable to the current and future operating requirements of Betfairs technology.
market to offer its products.
The team co-ordinates and organises the In particular it is responsible for Betfairs disaster recovery planning.
The collation and submission of the application and supporting documents Technology Risk Committee meets quarterly.
and acts as advisor to the product team and Regulatory Compliance to ensure products meet the new jurisdictional requirements.
Business continuity planning Through its comprehensive business continuity strategy, Betfair aims to Additional risk management policies and practices relating to be able to continue to service its customers irrespective of any incident or customers failure which may impact on any of Betfairs key operating and technology Betfair has a number of important policies which are embedded in its locations.
The key components of this strategy are physical site security, operations to protect both its customers and Betfair from certain risks departmental continuity plans for all functions and a technology disaster often associated with remote gambling.
In part, these policies also help recovery plan.
Annual testing is carried out by an external third party to Betfair to meet licensing and regulatory requirements and comply with ensure all customer-facing functions can cope with the loss of at least one applicable legislation.
They also underpin some important capabilities of key operational location.
Betfairs state of business continuity readiness is Betfair, in particular by facilitating the close and consistent co-operation demonstrated by the business continuity plans continued certication of several of the risk management functions described above.
The Chief Technology officer and direct staff have primary responsibility for the business continuity plan and Technology Risk Committee each accountable for individual components thereof.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49 Governance Report of the Audit Committee continued KYC Customer due diligence: Betfair operates a sophisticated and governments.
Maintaining the integrity of Betfairs betting markets four-level customer due diligence process referred to as Know your is important to Betfairs reputation for fairness amongst customers and customer or KYC, which uses both automated and manual methods sports bodies.
To this end the MoU framework is complemented by a to verify a customers age, identity and source of funds.
The KYC comprehensive and detailed set of betting rules which Betfair applies in process also assesses the extent and quality of the customers the operation of its betting markets.
Those rules, together with decisions verication information in determining whether to allow the customer about the operation and settlement of betting markets and practices to operate a Betfair betting account, either at all, or above certain relating to customers, are overseen by Betfairs Rules and Regulations levels of activity.
Betfairs KYC processes are integral to the antiCommittee, which reports to the Corporate Risk Committee.
money laundering, fraud and integrity policies and practices described below.
Sustainable gambling team The sustainable gambling team develops and implements Betfairs Underage betting and gaming: All customers are required to confirm policies and practices in relation to problem gambling and responsible upon registration that they are over the legal age for gambling within play.
Customers are educated about playing responsibly and can access each particular jurisdiction.
As an essential and specic component tools which enable them to apply automated controls on their betting of the customer due diligence policy referred to above, Betfair also and gaming activity with Betfair, including full self exclusion and applying carries out age verication checks on all customers who use payment loss limits.
The team is headed by the former CEO of the Responsibility in mechanisms which may be available to under 18s, and performs Gambling Trust now GREaT.
Betfair also makes donations to various random age verication checks on all customers.
Betfair suspends research and treatment organisations, including the Responsible all UK based customers who fail to verify their age within 72 hours.
Gambling Trust RGT and Gambling Therapy.
It was one of the five UK Betfair advises and encourages its customers to prevent minors betting and gaming operators that committed to underwrite any shortfall from accessing betting and gaming websites.
in the 2011-12 5 million funding target set by RGT to ensure delivery of research and treatment programmes in the UK.
All Betfair staff complete Ring-fenced customer funds: Betfair holds all Core Betfair customer regular training in responsible gambling.
Betfair is currently working with moneys in separately managed bank accounts, which are safeguarded leading UK academics to develop data analysis tools and behavioural independently of Betfairs corporate funds, under the terms of a markers to create a risk prole for problem gambling so that such Trust Deed.
customers can be referred to Betfairs various tools and support services.
Anti-Money Laundering Team Regulatory overview Betfairs anti-money laundering AML compliance policy encompasses a Betfair operates in a heavily regulated sector where changes in regulation collection of procedures, technologies and techniques to: can have a significant impact on its operations.
The regulation and legality of online betting and gaming varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction from Make a risk-based assessment of all financial transactions using Betfair open licensing regimes to sanctions or prohibitions and in certain payment, betting and gaming systems.
jurisdictions there is no directly applicable legislation.
Online betting and gaming is subject to uncertainties in many jurisdictions and approaches to Establish and implement relevant record-keeping requirements across enforcement vary.
Betfairs determination as to whether or not to permit the business.
customers in a given jurisdiction to access any one or more of its products and whether to engage in different types of marketing activity and Report on an ongoing basis to the relevant statutory authorities any customer contact is made on the basis of its measured and prudent suspicious circumstances concerning financial transactions.
approach to regulatory compliance, and is based on a number of factors which include: Ensure regular staff training in Betfairs AML procedures.
A dedicated AML team is responsible for assessing and implementing Betfairs AML policy in accordance with the Financial Action Task Force FATF recommendations, European Directives and national legislation.
supra-national law including EU law if applicable, and in particular the The AML team is also responsible for managing Betfairs anti-bribery way in which such laws and regulations apply to the specic betting strategy in accordance with the requirements of the UK Bribery and gaming products and specic types of related activity Act 2010. regulations by regulatory and other authorities.
Integrity Team and Rules and Regulations Committee The integrity team is responsible for monitoring betting activity on the With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to insure against Betting Exchange, investigating any potentially suspicious activity, and every risk to the fullest extent.
The Group regularly reviews both the type is the main point of liaison for sports regulatory bodies.
Betfair has and amount of external insurance that it buys with guidance from an Memoranda of Understanding MoUs in place with over 50 sports external independent body, bearing in mind the availability of such cover, regulators, under which, in certain circumstances, Betfair shares relevant its cost and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
information about its customers with sports regulators to help in policing the rules which govern their participants and or the prevention and The Companys principal risks and uncertainties may be found on detection of crime.
The sports regulator may then use the personal pages 36 and 37. information found by Betfair to investigate and act on any such breaches in accordance with its procedures.
Betfair also provides some sports regulators with BetMonitor, a proprietary technology portal which enables regulators to monitor betting activity by Betfair customers in real time.
The Directors consider Betfairs MoU framework and information Ian Dyson sharing policy to be market leading and a key contributor to the trust with Chairman of the Audit Committee which Betfair is regarded by customers, sports and gambling regulators Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 50
