Governance Directors Report Directors Report Employees The Directors present their Report and the audited financial statements The responsibility for formulating, implementing and ensuring adherence for the year ended 30 April 2012.
The Directors Report should be read in to employment policies and relevant legislation is the responsibility of conjunction with the other sections of this Annual Report: the Chairmans Human Resources.
The Company fully supports the principle of equal Statement, Chief Executive Ofcers Review, Financial Review, Principal opportunity for all employees and opposes all forms of discrimination and Risks and Uncertainties, Corporate Governance Statement, Corporate has policies to ensure it meets its legal obligations.
It is also Group policy Responsibility Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, all of to give full and fair consideration to the recruitment of disabled persons.
which are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
The Company believes in open and continuous communications as an Principal activities important part of the employee engagement process.
The Company has Betfair is the worlds biggest betting community and one of the worlds an intranet and various internal communication channels for informing leading online betting and gaming operators.
employees about financial results, business development and other news concerning Betfair and its people.
At the heart of Betfair is its pioneering Betting Exchange, where customers come together in order to bet at odds set by themselves or Further information can be found on page 32 in the Corporate offered by other customers, instead of with a traditional bookmaker.
Betting Exchange usually provides customers with better pricing and more choice and exibility than competing products, which has resulted Conicts of interests in Betfairs customers showing greater levels of loyalty than its The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider and, competitors with signicantly higher customer satisfaction rates.
if it sees t, to authorise situations where a Director has an interest that conicts, or may possibly conict, with the interests of the Company Betfair additionally offers a range of other sports betting products, Situational Conicts.
The Board has a formal system in place for casino games and poker.
As at 30 April 2012, Betfair had more than Directors to declare Situational Conicts to be considered for 4 million registered customers worldwide and processed, on average, authorisation by those Directors who have no interest in the matter being more than 7 million transactions per day on the Betting Exchange, considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a Situational Conict, the more than all European Stock Exchanges combined during the non-conicted Directors are required to act in the way they consider preceding 12 month period.
would be most likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of all shareholders, and they may impose limits or conditions Betfair also owns Betfair US, which comprises TVG a licensed US horse when giving authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is racing wagering and television broadcasting business, a development appropriate.
The Board believes that the systems it has in place for ofce in California, and 99.75% of LMAX, which operates an exchange reporting and considering Situational Conicts continue to operate platform for online retail financial trading which has evolved from effectively.
In addition, Betfair has a 50% holding in Betfair Australia, a joint venture which operates a licensed Related party transactions betting exchange business in Australia.
Internal controls are in place to ensure that any related party transactions involving Directors or their connected persons are carried out on an arms Directors length basis and are properly recorded.
Details of the Directors as at 30 April 2012 can be found on pages 38 and 39 and the Board composition and any changes to it throughout Interim dividend the year are detailed in full in the Corporate Governance Statement The Company declared an interim dividend on 14 December 2011 of on pages 43 to 50.
3.2 pence 2011: nil per share which was paid on 27 January 2012.
The Company has announced that Breon Corcoran will join on 1 August Final dividend 2012 and he will stand for election at the 2012 Annual General Meeting The Company has declared that a final dividend of 7.0 pence 2011: 5.9p AGM along with Gerald Corbett who was appointed during the year per share will be paid in respect of the year ended 30 April 2012. in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Further details can be found in the Notice of Meeting which is enclosed with these Share capital financial statements.
The Company has a single class of shares in issue divided into ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each.
As at 30 April 2012 the Companys issued share Articles of Association capital was 102,328,826.
The Articles of Association can only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No amendments are proposed to be The ordinary shares carry the right to the profits of the Company available made to the existing articles at the 2012 AGM.
for distribution and to the return of capital on a winding up of the Company.
The ordinary shares carry the right to attend and speak at Directors indemnity general meetings of the Company: each share holds the right to one vote.
As permitted by the Articles of Association the Directors have the At the year end there were no shares held in treasury and the Companys benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity employees share trust held 752,581 shares.
provision as dened by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The indemnity was in force throughout the last financial year, and Authority to purchase shares remains in force.
The Company also purchased and maintained The Company currently has the authority to purchase a maximum of throughout the financial year, Directors and Ofcers liability 10,759,855 of its own shares.
This authority will expire at close of the insurance in respect of itself and its Directors.
2012 AGM or the earlier of the 2012 AGM or 18 months from the date of resolution.
Pursuant to this authority the Company announced Corporate Governance Statement its intention to repurchase shares up to the value of 50 million for The Corporate Governance Statement is made in accordance with the cancellation on 28 June 2011.
As at 30 April 2012, the Company had Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs 7 and the Corporate repurchased for cancellation 6,506,009 shares.
Further details relating to Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in May 2010. the share purchase programme can be found in note 18 on page 84.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 40 2012 Overview Pages 01 09 Business Review Pages 10 37 Governance Pages 38 57 Financial Statements Pages 58 100 Major shareholdings There are no provisions in the Directors or employees service agreements As at 28 June 2012, the Company had been notied, in accordance with providing for loss of ofce or employment occurring because of a DTR Rule 5 of the UK Listing Authority, of the following major takeover.
shareholdings in the ordinary share capital of the Company: The rules of certain of the Companys share plans include provisions which Number of Percentage of apply in the event of a takeover or reconstruction.
Shareholder shares held issued capital % Edward Wray 11,624,602 11.36 Supplier payment policy Charlton Corporation 11,033,109 10.78 It is the Groups policy to comply with the terms of payment agreed with Le Peigne SA 9,769,772 9.54 its suppliers.
Where payment terms are not negotiated, the Company endeavours to adhere to suppliers standard terms.
As at 30 April 2012, Andrew Black 9,275,390 9.06 the Group had trade creditors of 15.6 million 2011: 5.2 million.
Richard Koch 6,694,530 6.53 SBI Holdings 4,890,233 4.77 Going concern, responsibilities and disclosure Balderton Capital 4,227,170 4.13 After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to Share transfer restrictions continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company.
reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Annual General Meeting The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held on Funding and liquidity risk 11 September 2012 is contained in a circular sent out to shareholders Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial with this Report.
The Notice of Meeting contains full details of the obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is resolutions that will be put to shareholders.
to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, Political donations without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups At the 2011 AGM, shareholders passed a resolution to authorise the reputation.
The Group also spreads its cash reserves across several highly Company to make political donations and or incur political expenditure rated banks and investments to mitigate counterparty risks.
The Group as such terms are dened in sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act performs regular cash ow projections to ensure that it has sufficient cash 2006, in each case in amounts not exceeding 50,000 in aggregate.
As on demand to meet expected operational expenses for a period of at least the authority granted will expire on 22 September 2012, renewal of this 90 days.
The Group has no committed lines of credit.
authority will be sought at this years AGM.
Further details are available in the Notice of AGM.
The denitions of political donations and political Auditors expenditure used in the Companies Act 2006 are broad in nature and this KPMG Audit Plc KPMG, the Companys external auditors, have authority is sought to ensure that any activities undertaken throughout expressed their willingness to be reappointed as auditors of the Company.
the Groups businesses, which could otherwise be construed to fall within Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, resolutions to these provisions, can be undertaken without inadvertently infringing them.
reappoint KPMG as the Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2012 During the year, the Group made 14,907 2011: nil of EU political Annual General Meeting.
donations comprising of 7,453.53 each to the Schleswig-Holstein branches of the Christian Democratic Union and Free Democratic Disclosure of information to auditors Party in Germany.
Each of the Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of the Directors Report confirms that: so far as they are aware, there is no In accordance with applicable US state and federal laws, the Group has relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, made 107,944 2011: 6,468 of contributions to support candidates for and that they have taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a nomination and or election to public ofce.
The Group has fully complied Director to make them aware of any relevant audit information and to with jurisdictional reporting of these contributions and such contributions establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
in the US are accepted normal business practice.
Betfair is committed to working with Governments in the EU, US and other jurisdictions in By order of the Board which it operates.
Charitable donations The Group donated 384,700 2011: 560,000 for charitable purposes within the UK during the financial year.
The Companys charitable activities are described within the Corporate Responsibility Stephen Morana section on pages 30 to 35.
Director Contractual arrangements Registered ofce The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third parties Betfair Group plc in support of its business activities.
The disclosure in this Report of Waterfront information about any of those third parties is not considered necessary Hammersmith Embankment for an understanding of the development, performance or position Chancellors Road access on Winslow Road of the Groups businesses.
London W6 9HP Change of control provisions Registered number There are no significant agreements which contain provisions entitling 6489716 other parties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change in control of the Company.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41 Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Group and Parent Financial Statements in accordance with applicable the corporate and financial information included on the Companys law and regulations.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent in other jurisdictions.
Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in accordance with Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to Annual Report prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in page 43 UK accounting standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted of this Annual Report, confirm that, to the best of each persons Accounting Practice.
knowledge and belief: Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: By order of the Board of Betfair Group plc applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company Financial Statements: and is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
Stephen Morana Director The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 42
