Managers Report Introduction Stockmarkets performed well in 2012.
The FTSE All-Shares total return was 12.3%, but this was eclipsed by the NSCI XIC s 29.9%.
Small companies therefore regained the ground lost in 2011 and, indeed, proceeded to move above the previous highs established in 2007.
Illustrating the importance of income to equity returns, the NSCI XIC ended the year 19% above its mid 2007 peak in total return terms but only 1% above that peak in capital only terms.
ASCoT performed relatively well in 2012.
Its NAV total return of 31.9% is analysed in detail in the Investment Performance section of this report.
These strong returns from equities are apparently at odds with macro economic developments through the year: the US had to deal with the fiscal cliff, Chinese GDP decelerated from double digit growth rates, the Eurozone crisis rumbled on to drag much of the Continent into recession, and in the UK the austerity strategy combined with weaker overseas demand to provoke a double-dip recession.
Offsetting these challenges was an encouraging performance from the US economy, where there are indications, not least from the housing market, that the consumer sector might be able to resume its traditional role of supporting global demand.
Moreover, while the Eurozones problems are still very obvious, markets have been tempted to the view that some of the key elements of a lasting solution may be starting to fall into place and that things may have stopped getting worse.
Pervading these positive and negative influences on real economies are unprecedented monetary conditions.
While it is still too early to be definitive about the merits or otherwise of quantitative easing in the US and UK or the Eurozones new outright monetary transactions, the past year witnessed rising frustration with such unconventional measures.
These appear frequently to have missed their intended target, which is presumably investment in the real economy, instead providing a boost to asset prices.
Thus, the risk-on, risk-off gyrations of the equity markets in recent years can be rationalised as coinciding with the announcement of the latest liquidity boost.
But, the distortions of government action, whether through central banks quantitative easing or through regulation of the type applied to the valuation of defined pension liabilities, are not confined to volatile assets such as equities.
Government bonds, which have not endured the curse of volatility in recent years, are in uncharted territory.
Their yields, the cornerstone of financial asset valuation, have been driven down to historically low levels.
Within the discount rates used to value apparently riskier assets, the so-called risk free component is close to zero.
This leaves the more subjective component, the asset specific risk premium, much more important.
In such an environment, the valuations of financial assets can readily become detached from reality.
The beneficiaries within equity markets are those businesses that are perceived capable of growing irrespective of economic conditions and of avoiding the disappointment of expectations that is to say, those businesses that, like bonds themselves, have experienced low volatility in recent years.
Within the context of the NSCI XIC, such companies are relatively few and have enjoyed very strong share price performances over recent years, resulting in stretched valuations relative to the majority.
This valuation stretch, which is quantified later in this report, perhaps hints at the most convincing reason for the strong performance from small UK quoted companies and, indeed, other equities during 2012: accentuated by the stockmarket declines in 2011, the valuations of the majority of companies were simply much too low.
While markets, under the influence of government action, might be slower than usual to exploit valuation anomalies, they do get there in the end.
6 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Managers Report Investment performance ASCoTs NAV total return in 2012 was 31.9%.
Against a background of a strong market for the shares of small UK quoted companies, with the NSCI XIC returning 29.9%, ASCoTs gearing was beneficial.
Average gearing of 7.5% enhanced portfolio returns as the following table demonstrates.
For the 12 months ended 31 December 2012 Basis points Stock selection -422 Based on mid-prices } Sector selection 477 Attributable to the portfolio of investments, based on mid prices after transaction costs of 34 basis points 55 Movement in mid to bid price spread -31 Cash gearing 260 Purchase of ordinary shares 9 Management fee -91 Other expenses -7 Total attribution based on bid prices 195 Note: 100 basis points 1%.
Total Attribution is the difference between the total return of the NAV and the Benchmark Index i. e. NAV 31.89%: Benchmark Index 29.94%: difference is 1.95% being 195 basis points.
The standard methodology to split attribution between Stock and Sector selection can be misleading when analysing ASCoTs performance.
Your Managers investment process is focused on decisions about individual companies.
Only rarely does a general view on a particular sector play a part in determining the profile of the portfolio.
The TMT period, when ASCoT had very little representation in new economy businesses, was a notable instance of a sector level influence, but even then the key insights were the nonsensical valuations attributed to individual companies within the TMT areas of the market.
In 2012, some investment was made in the resources companies, but the portfolio benefited overall from its under-weight position in the resources sectors, which accounted for roughly 60% of the positive sector attribution.
The following paragraphs describe some of the themes inherent in the portfolio and their influences on performance.
Style The opening section of this report described how the unusual conditions pervading financial markets since the global financial crisis have manifested themselves in the universe of small UK quoted companies.
The bear market for value stocks in recent years has been the deepest and most prolonged in the 57 year history of the NSCI XIC.
Given your Managers consistently applied value investment disciplines, this has represented a significant headwind to ASCoTs relative performance.
Encouragingly, the past twelve months witnessed a stirring in value.
There are several methods to assess the performance of value against growth, all of which have advantage and disadvantages.
Data from Style Research an independent performance analysis firm shows value stocks out-performing growth in 2012.
This suggests that style influences were beneficial to ASCoTs returns last year.
Size The NSCI XIC is defined as the bottom 10% by value of the UK stockmarket.
This definition drives a market capitalisation ceiling of 1.4bn and so the index includes a large number of mid cap companies.
Indeed, the overlap with FTSE 250 accounts for 76% of the value of the NSCI XIC.
The profile of ASCoTs portfolio is rather different, with 56% invested in mid caps.
This positioning is motivated by the more attractive valuations on offer among the smaller denizens of the NSCI XIC : the craving for certainty that has characterised financial markets in recent years has driven many investors to overlook the less liquid smaller small companies.
With its closed-end status, ASCoT is well placed to exploit the consequent discount for illiquidity.
This discount is unusually large at present and does not accurately reflect the business fundamentals of many smaller small companies.
This has presented the opportunity to your Managers to invest in companies that ought to be attractive from the perspective of both the value and the growth investor.
Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 7 Managers Report Turnover With the NSCI XIC led higher by growth companies over recent years, the majority of businesses have been neglected.
Re-ratings among this majority have been infrequent.
Thus the opportunities to take money out of investments that have enjoyed a revaluation and to put it back to work in more modestly rated investments have also been infrequent.
This is manifest in ASCoTs portfolio turnover, which, at 26% in 2012, was lower than the 22 year average of 38%.
Since the basic dynamic of recycling capital makes an important contribution to the performance of many value investors, your Managers, though conscious of the frictional dealing costs, would not be uncomfortable were turnover to return to more normal levels in the years ahead.
Strong balance sheets Balance sheets remain unusually strong across the corporate sectors of major economies.
This is also a feature of the NSCI XIC s constituents and of ASCoTs investments: companies forecast to have net cash on their balance sheets at the end of 2013 accounted for 38% and 36% by value of the year end portfolio and index respectively.
ASCoTs exposure declined through 2012 as a result of portfolio changes and, encouragingly, of a handful of holdings coming up with a use for the cash.
However, hoarding remains the general theme.
Your Managers acknowledge the still uncertain trading environment but would prefer ASCoTs investee companies to utilise their financial strength on organic investment or modestly priced acquisitions.
In the absence of these, mounting cash piles are of little help to anyone and represent an opportunity cost to investors.
fide-equitisation Last year was another of net fide-equitisation within the small cap universe, with new issuance out-weighed by returns of capital, dividends and acquisitions.
The first half of 2012 witnessed an upturn in the level of M&A activity in the small cap world.
The most encouraging aspect was the large 50-60% premiums to market prices that acquirers were able to justify, though it is worth stating that traditional premiums of around 30% would have been unattractive in view of the low valuations accorded to many businesses by the stockmarket.
However, after the half year, the level of M&A fell sharply, possibly in response to macro economic uncertainty.
Over the year as a whole, 18 constituents of the NSCI XIC were acquired.
ASCoT owned five of these.
This represented a lower than average hit-rate, though the portfolio enjoyed an indirect benefit as the large premiums paid in the first half drew wider attention to the valuations on offer.
Meanwhile, there was little IPO activity within the investment universe, with only five primary listings.
The principal influence here is again the low valuations already on offer in the secondary market.
These are often too low to attract private equity houses, which instead trade businesses between each other.
But if vendors do not move their valuation expectations the chances of a sustained uptick in IPOs are not high.
Dividends The worst year for small company dividends since records for the NSCI XIC began in 1955 was 2009.
Since then, the recovery has been strong.
Entering 2012, the third year of recovery, your Managers were cautiously expecting a slowdown in the rate of aggregate dividend growth from the NSCI XIC s constituents.
In the event, the dividend experience proved better than expected, helped by the contribution of companies that had passed their dividends in 2009 returning to the dividend register.
ASCoTs portfolio has shared in this favourable backdrop.
The following table classifies ASCoTs 90 holdings at 31 December by their most recent dividend action.
Band Nil Down Flat Up New No.
of holdings 19 5 16 46 4 Supported by long term data, which show that dividend yield and dividend growth have accounted for over three quarters of the total real return from small companies, your Managers believe that income will continue to be crucial to future returns from the asset class and, indeed, from equities in general.
However, in todays income starved world, it can be frustrating when the search for yield within the UK equity market tends to begin and end with the FTSE 100.
8 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Managers Report The 2.8% yield of small companies is below the 3.6% of the FTSE All-Share, but this is in part a result of the relatively large proportion of the NSCI XIC that still does not pay dividends: the yield of the yielders is 3.4%.
The small company universe also comprises many more stocks than the large cap world and income is considerably less concentrated, a point highlighted by BPs problems two years ago.
Within the NSCI XIC there are numerous businesses on attractive yields that have good dividend records and whose boards appreciate the importance of income to investors.
Such businesses are a feature of ASCoTs portfolio and help drive a yield premium over the NSCI XIC.
ASCoTs portfolio dividend cover of 3.1x is also noteworthy: this is towards its highest ever level and ought to be supportive of dividend growth in future years.
Valuations 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Characteristics ASCoT NSCI XIC ASCoT NSCI XIC Number of companies 90 389 89 422 Weighted average market capitalisation 512m 748m 391m 676m Price earnings ratio historic 10.5x 12.8x 9.0x 10.5x Dividend yield historic 3.0% 2.8% 3.4% 3.2% Dividend cover 3.1x 2.8x 3.3x 3.0x The table above provides the historic PE ratios and dividend yields of the portfolio and the NSCI XIC.
Both metrics emphasise the portfolios value characteristics.
The table also illustrates the portfolios size positioning: ASCoTs weighted average market capitalisation is much lower than that of the index.
This is again a result of your Managers value investment disciplines: the smaller companies within the NSCI XIC are presently valued more cheaply than the larger companies.
When assessing the value of individual businesses, in relation to their own histories, to other companies or to M&A valuations, your Managers tend to focus on the ratio of enterprise value to earnings before interest, tax and amortisation EV EBITA.
This is because the PE ratio of a company is influenced by the liability structure of its balance sheet: other things being equal, a company with a high amount of net debt will have a lower PE ratio than a company with net cash.
2013 EV EBITA ratio 36 growth companies 247 other companies Tracked NSCI XIC ASCoTs portfolio 13.5x 8.6x 9.4x 7.4x The table above sets out the EV EBITA ratios of ASCoTs portfolio, the NSCI XIC and two components of the index to which the opening section of this report alluded.
Your Managers monitor a collection of growth stocks within the NSCI XIC.
These totalled 36 in December, though 31 have been constituents of the NSCI XIC over the last three years.
At 1 January 2010, the 31 represented just 7% by number of the NSCI XIC.
However, they accounted for 13% of the then value of the index and for 28% of its 52% total return over the three years to 31 December 2012.
The re-rating over the period took their average EV EBITA ratio up to 13.5x.
Meanwhile, the substantial majority of the NSCI XIC, which can be considered to comprise value stocks, enjoyed more modest but still strong returns.
The average EV EBITA multiple of these companies ended 2012 at 8.6x, implying a 57% premium for growth and perceived certainty.
TMT aside, this is the widest value stretch that your Managers have witnessed over ASCoTs 22 years.
The disparity is stark and gives your Managers confidence that ASCoTs portfolio is well positioned to generate good relative returns in the future.
Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 9 Managers Report Outlook & conclusion The trouble with value investors is that they can almost always present a set of numbers that demonstrates how much cheaper their portfolio is than the market.
However, with a long term horizon, this is probably enough.
Academic studies on both sides of the Atlantic suggest that the value style out-performs over time, through the process of steady compounding in companies that the market chooses not to re-rate and through the disciplined recycling of funds from companies that have been revalued into those on lower valuations.
In last years report, conscious of shorter time horizons of some investors, your Managers described four potential catalysts for a renaissance of the value style.
A year on, it is reasonable to conclude that each of these may have played a part in 2012s stirring in value.
Dividends have continued to grow and the hunger for yield may slowly be rubbing off on small companies.
Your Managers have continued to conduct discreet corporate engagement in an attempt to close value gaps.
fide-equitisation has continued, with a slightly disappointing number of M&A transactions offset by higher than average premiums.
An improved macro economy is perhaps most difficult to argue, though, without further unpleasant surprises, equity prices had possibly discounted much of the downside as 2011 drew to a close.
A year on, despite the asset classs intervening 29.9% returns, your Managers remain enthused about the prospects for value investment in the equities of small UK quoted companies.
This enthusiasm is motivated by what are still attractive valuations.
And these valuations are attractive because, for several years now, the market has run scared of practically everything that ASCoT has to offer: the low volatility of bonds has been preferred to equities: the perceived certainty of the growth style has been preferred to value: more liquid larger small companies have been preferred to smaller small companies: private equity models have been preferred to quoted companies: and exciting emerging markets have been preferred to the UK.
From a contrarian perspective and backed up by historical evidence, your Managers consider ASCoTs portfolio of well financed and attractively valued businesses suitably positioned to take advantage of todays unusual structure of relationships within financial markets and to deliver good returns for investors over the medium and long term.
Aberforth Partners LLP Managers 29 January 2013 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2012
