Admiral Group plc 44 Annual Report 2012 Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and the Charitable and Political Donations audited financial statements for the year ended During the year the Group donated 141,000 31December 2012.
2011: 194,000 to various local and national charities.
The amount the Group donates fluctuates annually due to Business Review changes in sponsorship initiatives and employee demand The Company is the holding Company for the Admiral for matched funding.
The Group has never made political Group of companies.
The Groups principal activity donations.
Refer to the Business Review for further details.
continues to be the selling and administration of private motor insurance and related products.
Employee Policies Detailed information on the Groups employment The information that fulfils the requirements of the practices is set out in the Business Review.
The Group Business review, as required by Section 417 of the purchases appropriate liability insurance for all staff Companies Act 2006, and which should be treated as andDirectors.
forming part of this report by reference are included in the following sections of the annual report: Creditor Payment Policy t Chairmans statement It is the policy of the Group to pay all purchase invoices t Chief Executives statement bytheir due date, and appropriate quality measures are t Business review.
inplace to monitor and encourage this.
At the end of the year outstanding invoices represented 16 days purchases Group Results and Dividends 2011: 14 days.
The Group is a signatary to the prompt The profit for the year, after tax but before dividends, payment code.
Contractual Arrangements The Directors declared and paid dividends of The Group considers its coinsurance and reinsurance 219.3 million during 2012 2011: 198.8 million contracts, as described in the Business Review section refer to note 10bfor furtherdetails.
onpage 11 to be essential to the running of the Groups business.
No other contractual arrangements are The Directors have declared a final dividend of considered to be essential.
124.5 million 45.5 pence per share, payable on 24 May 2013.
Additional Information for Shareholders Where not provided previously in this Directors Report, Share capital the following provides the additional information required Refer to the Business Review for the disclosure for shareholders as a result of the implementation of the of substantial shareholdings in accordance with Takeovers Directive into UK law.
Chapter 5 ofthe Transparency and Disclosure rules.
At 31 December 2012, the Companys issued share capital Financial Instruments comprised a single class of shares referred to as ordinary The objectives and policies for managing risks in shares.
Details of the share capital and shares issued relation to financial instruments held by the Group during the year can be found in note 10d.
are set out in note 5c to the financial statements.
On a poll, every member present in person or by proxy Directors and their Interests and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary The present Directors of the Company are shown on share held.
The notice of the general meeting specifies pages 30 and 31 of this report, whilst Directors interests deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy inthe share capital of the Company are set out in the notice or present in person or by proxy in relation to Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 56. resolutions to be passed at general meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced atthe Annual General Meeting and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2012 45 There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary Appointments of Directors shares in the Company other than: The Companys Articles of Association the Articles t certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed give the Directors power to appoint and replace by laws and regulations for example, insider trading Directors.
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination laws : and Committee, any appointment must be recommended by t pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services the Nomination Committee for approval by the Board of Authority whereby certain employees of the Company Directors.
The Articles also require Directors to retire and require the approval of the Company to deal in the submit themselves for election at the first Annual General Companys securities.
Meeting following appointment and all Directors who held office at the time of the two preceding Annual The Company has not purchased any of its own shares General Meetings, to submit themselves for re-election.
However, in accordance with the requirement under There are no agreements between the Company and theUK Corporate Governance Code for annual election itsDirectors or employees providing for compensation of Directors all Directors will submit themselves for forloss of office or employment whether through re-election at the Groups Annual General Meeting resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise on25April 2013. thatoccurs because of a takeover bid.
Articles of Association There are a number of agreements that alter or terminate The Articles may only be amended by special resolution upon a change of control of the Company following a of the shareholders.
takeover bid, such as commercial contracts.
None is considered to be significant in terms of their impact on Power of the Directors the business of the Group as a whole except for the longThe Directors are responsible for managing the business term co-insurance agreement in place with Great Lakes of the Company and may exercise all powers of the Reinsurance UK Plc.
Details relating to this agreement Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, are contained in the Business review.
toany directions given by special resolution and to the Companys Memorandum and Articles.
The Articles for Power to Issue Shares example, contain specific provisions and restrictions At the last Annual General Meeting, held on 26 April 2012, concerning the Companys power to borrow money.
authority was given to the Directors to allot unissued Powers relating to the issuing of new shares are also relevant securities in the Company up to a maximum of included in the Articles and such authorities are renewed 89,535, equivalent to one third of the issued share capital by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting each year.
This authority expires on the date of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 25 April 2013 Annual General Meeting and the Directors will seek to renew this authority for the It is proposed that the next AGM be held at Cardiff City following year.
Hall, Cathays Park, Cardiff CF10 3ND on Thursday 25 April 2013 at 2.00pm, notice of which will be sent to A further special resolution passed at that meeting shareholders with the Annual Report.
granted authority to the Directors to allot equity securities in the Company up to a maximum of 5% of the issued share capital of the Company for cash, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This authority also expires on the date of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 25 April 2013 and the Directors will seek to renew this authority for the followingyear.
Admiral Group plc 46 Annual Report 2012 Directors Report continued Directors Responsibilities Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual arealso responsible for preparing a Directors report, Report and the Group and Parent Company financial Directors Remuneration report and Corporate statements, in accordance with applicable law and Governance statement that comply with that law regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Parent Company financial statements for each andintegrity of the corporate and financial information financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the the Group financial statements in accordance with UKgoverning the preparation and dissemination of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as financial statements may differ from legislation in adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected otherjurisdictions.
to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable Responsibility Statement law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: t The financial statements, prepared in accordance Under company law the Directors must not approve withthe applicable set of accounting standards, give thefinancial statements unless they are satisfied that atrue and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial theygive a true and fair view of the state of affairs of position and profit or loss of the Company and the theGroup and Parent Company and of their profit or undertakings included in the consolidation taken lossfor that period.
asawhole: and t The Directors report includes a fair view of the In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company development and performance of the business and financial statements, the Directors are required to: the position of the Company and the undertakings t select suitable accounting policies and then apply included in the consolidation taken as a whole, them consistently: together with a description of the principal risks t make judgements and estimates that are reasonable anduncertainties that they face.
and prudent: t for the Group financial statements, state whether Disclosure of Information to Auditors theyhave been prepared in accordance with IFRS The Directors who held office at the date of approval asadopted by the EU: ofthis Directors report confirm that, so far as they are t for the Parent Company financial statements, state each aware, there is no relevant audit information of whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each been followed, subject to any material departures Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have disclosed and explained in the Parent Company taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant financial statements: and audit information and to establish that the Companys t prepare the financial statements on the going auditor is aware of that information.
concernbasis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue Auditor in business.
The Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has indicated willingness to continue in office and resolutions to The Directors are responsible for keeping proper reappoint it and to authorise the Directors to fix accounting records that disclose with reasonable itsremuneration will be proposed at the Annual accuracy at any time the financial position of the GeneralMeeting.
ParentCompany and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act By order of the Board, 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the Mark Waters Kevin Chidwick assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud Company Secretary Chief Financial Officer andother irregularities.
5 March 2013 5 March 2013 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2012 47 A Statement to Shareholders from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder, During the year ended 31 December 2012, the I am pleased to introduce the Directors Remuneration Committee met on five separate occasions.
The key report the Report for the year ended 31 December matters considered included: 2012, which has been prepared by the Remuneration t Reviewing salary and fee proposals for the Executive Committee the Committee and approved by Directors, the Chairman and Senior Management: the Board.
t Reviewing the appropriateness of the performance conditions for both the Discretionary Free Share This Report covers the reporting period from 1 January Scheme DFSS and Free Share Incentive Plan 2012 to 31 December 2012 and provides details of the SIP awards: activities of the Committee and remuneration policy t Reviewing the Companys performance against the ofthe Company.
performance conditions applicable to the DFSS and SIP awards and where appropriate authorising the The UK Government Department of Business Innovation vesting of awards: & Skills BIS is currently proposing changes to the t Reviewing and authorising the grant of awards under structure and contents of Directors Remuneration both DFSS and SIP plans: Reports DRRs.
The Committee has decided to adopt t Reviewing the Committees terms of reference and anumber of these proposed changes early: therefore recommending amendments to the Board after this brief introduction, the Report is divided into for approval: and three sections: t Reviewing the efficiency of DFSS awards for t A Policy Report which will detail Admirals overseas businesses.
remuneration policies and links to Group strategy: t An Implementation Report, which will focus on the remuneration arrangements and outcomes for the year under review: and t A third section containing information required this year under the existing regulations.
John Sussens 2012 has been another strong year for the Group Chairman of the Remuneration Committee despite a challenging external environment.
The Group 5 March 2013 increased profits in the year by 15% to 344.6 million with a return on capital employed of 60% which supported total dividends for the financial year of 90.6 pence per share, and represents a distribution of 95% of our earnings.
The Groups strategy remains to continue to maximise our position in the UK while taking what we know and do well, which is internet and telephone delivery of car insurance and price comparison, to our overseas insuranceand price comparison businesses.
John John S Sussens Ch Chai air rm man of the R Remu emunerationCommittee
