Admiral Group plc 30 Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance continued The Admiral Board Alastair Lyons, CBE 59 David Stevens, CBE 50 Non-Executive Chairman, Chief Operating Officer, appointed July 2000 appointed in 1999 Nomination Committee Chairman Group Risk Committee member Current appointments Background and experience Non-Executive Chairman of Serco Group plc David is a founder Director of Admiral and was recruited in 1991 to set up Non-Executive Chairman of the Towergate Insurance Group the Admiral business.
David was part of the management team that led Deputy Chairman of Bovis Homes Group plc the MBO in 1999.
Senior Independent Director at the Phoenix Group Prior to joining Admiral David worked at McKinsey & Co, in the Financial Background and experience Interest Group, and Cadbury Schweppes in the UK and the USA.
In his executive career Alastair has been Chief Executive of the National David has an MBA from INSEAD and he was awarded a CBE in 2010 for Provident Institution and of the National & Provincial Building Society, service to business and the community in Wales.
Managing Director of the Insurance Division of Abbey National plc, and Director of Corporate Projects at National Westminster Bank plc.
He was also a Non-Executive Director for the Department for Transport and the Department for Work and Pensions.
A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, he was awarded a CBE in the 2001 Birthday Honours for services to social security.
Henry Engelhardt, CBE 54 Manfred Aldag, 62 Chief Executive Officer, Non-Executive Director, appointed in 1999 appointed in 2003 Background and experience Current appointments Henry is a founder Director of Admiral and was recruited by the Munich Re Chief Executive Manager responsible for UK and Ireland.
Brockbank Group in 1991 to set up the Admiral business.
Background and experience Henry was part of the management team that led the MBO in 1999.
Manfred graduated from University of Essen with a degree in Economics and Business Management.
Since 1981, Manfred has been working for Prior to joining Admiral, Henry was the original Marketing and Sales Munich Re.
Henry has an MBA from INSEAD and he was awarded an honorary CBE in2008 for services to business in Wales.
Martin Jackson, 64 Non-Executive Director, Kevin Chidwick, 49 appointed in August 2004 Chief Financial Officer, Group Risk Committee Chairman appointed in September 2006 Remuneration Committee member Background and experience Current appointments Kevin is responsible for finance, compliance and investments, as well as Non-Executive Director of IG Group Holdings plc the subsidiary Elephant Auto.
Background and experience Kevin joined Admiral in 2005, becoming Finance Director in September Martin was the Chairman of the Admiral Group Audit Committee from 2006.
Prior toAdmiral Kevin has worked in UK financial services for over August 2004 until January 2012, when he became Chairman of the newly 25 years andhe has held a number of senior roles in other insurance formed Group Risk Committee.
organisations, including being the Finance Director of Engage Mutual Martin was the Group Finance Director of Friends Provident plc between Assurance and Cigna UK.
2001 and 2003 and Friends Provident Life Office between 1999-2001.
Kevin is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Certified Accountants and Prior to this he was the Group Finance Director at London & Manchester has an MBA from London Business School.
Group plc from 1992, up to the date of its acquisition by Friends Provident Life Office.
Martin is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2012 31 Margaret Johnson, OBE 54 Colin Holmes, 47 Non-Executive Director, Non-Executive Director, appointed in September 2006 appointed in December 2010 Audit Committee member Audit Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee member Nomination Committee member Current appointments Current appointments Group Chief Executive Officer of Leagas Delaney Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Bovis Homes Group plc and Chairman of GO Outdoors Ltd. Background and experience Margaret has worked for the international advertising agency Leagas Background and experience Delaney for the past 15 years.
Colin was formerly a member of the Executive Committee of Tesco plc and during his 22 year career at Tesco he held a wide range of positions, Margaret was awarded an OBE in 2013 in recognition of her services including UK Finance Director and CEO of Tesco Express.
tothe creative industries and her voluntary work for charities.
Colin is a Chartered Management Accountant.
Lucy Kellaway, 53 Roger Abravanel, 66 Non-Executive Director, Non-Executive Director, appointed in September 2006 appointed in March 2012 Nomination Committee member Remuneration Committee member Current appointments Current appointments Lucy is a management columnist on the Financial Times.
Non-Executive Director serving on, amongst others, the Boards of: Luxottica Group S. p. A: Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd: Banca Background and experience Nazionale del Lavoro S. p. A and COFIDE S. p. A.
In her 20 years at the Financial Times Lucy has been an oil correspondent, a Lex columnist and Brussels correspondent.
Lucy is an author of Board member of the Italian Institute of Technology.
Chairman of the INSEAD Advisory Group in Italy.
Background and experience Roger has significant international consulting experience having been with McKinsey and Co. from 1972 until his retirement as Director Emeritus in 2006.
John Sussens, 67 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Annette Court, 50 appointed inAugust 2004 Non-Executive Director, Remuneration Committee appointed in March 2012 Chairman Group Risk Committee member Group Risk Committee member Audit Committee member Current appointments Current appointments Non-Executive Director of Vesuvius plc Non-Executive Director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Background and experience Background and experience John was the Group Managing Director of Misys plc between 1998 Between 2007 and 2010 Annette was CEO of Europe General Insurance and2004, having been on the Board of the Company since 1989. for Zurich Financial Services and a member of the Group Executive Committee.
Prior to joining Misys, John was Manufacturing Director at JC Bamford Excavators Ltd. Annette is former CEO of the Direct Line Group, formerly known as RBSInsurance.
In this role Annette was also a member of the RBS Group John was a Non-Executive Director at Chubb plc between 2001 Executive Management Committee.
Annette has previously served as a member on the Board of the Association of British Insurers ABI.
