Admiral Group plc 10 Annual Report 2012 UK Car Insurance Review Twenty years ago, Admiral launched on a grey Saturday But thats hist to or ry y.. W Wh ha at at t d does the future hold?
The in Wales the seventh of what ultimately became headlines unu us su ual allly y in in t th h he p e e po po op p p p p p pular press, as well as the a couple of dozen Direct Line clones: new players trade pres ss s a ar re d e do om miina nate ted d by t d b by he current slew of actual andsubsidiaries of big, established insurers, copying and pote en nti tia al l l legisl egisla ativ tive e a an nd d regulatory change the theover-the-phone cut out the middle man model.
Compet titi itio on C n Comm ommiis ss siion, hot on the heels of the OFT Forsuch a superficially dull industry, those twenty years enquiry, the Ja Jac ck ks so on re n ref fo orms, possible further changes have seen an astonishing pace of change.
tothe admin iniis st tr rati atio on n of of, and costs associated with bodily injury claim ms s, t, th he b e banni ning of gender-based rating, the For a start, of the top five private car insurers in 1993, only newly-formed d Fin F ancial Conduct Authoritys focus on one made it into the top five in 2011 Royal, Sun Alliance, value for money add-ons.
But its not the ultimate AGF, Eagle Star, Direct Line in 1993 Direct Line, Admiral, outcome of this frenetic activity that will determine the Aviva, LV & AXA in 2011. health of Admirals core UK operation in twenty years time.
Current and proposed changes, as long as theyre Back in 1993, one in five customers made a claim each implemented and enforced even-handedly and universally year and almost all of those were for bent metal or car across the market, dont affect relative competitive theft.
Twenty years on, its heading towards one in ten strength, over anything but the very short-term.
Nor do making a claim, but most of the cost of those claims is they affect overall industry profitability.
It is, as it has now attributable to bodily injury.
Of course, most always been, the ability to execute better than others strikingly, none of the business in 1993 came via the indozens of individually insignificant, but collectively internet, and only a minority over the phone.
Now, important, ways, and to respond to fundamental almostthree quarters of new customers start their underlying changes more quickly and more adeptly journeyon the internet.
thancompetitors that will be the key to future success.
But some things dont change.
The market average Late last year, we launched our first major product expense ratio in 1993 was 26%.
Last year, after two extension ever, with the launch of household insurance.
decades of industry consolidation, I. T. investment, One question we will be able to answer in twenty years, or adaption of direct distribution, exploitation of the possibly sooner, is whether weve developed an industryinternet, the industry average expense ratio was 26%.
beating competence in a second 6 billion market without Admirals was 13%: delivering an eighteenth year of losing our edge in the ever more massive car insurance better-than-industry average expense ratio, and a market.
tenthyear of beating it by over ten percentage points.
In terms of concrete future guidance on household, all I Our claims ratio has also bettered industry averages, at can really say is so far, so good.
For what least since the millennium.
Our rapid rise up the league thats worth.
tables to be the UKs second largest car insurer, by vehicles covered, is all down to this sustained superior underwriting performance over many years.
David Stevens, CBE Chief Operating Officer 5 March 2013 David Stevens, CBE Chief Operating Officer
