44 Corporate governance Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com BOARD OF DIRECTORS Andrew Gould Chris Finlayson Den Jones Martin Houston Chairman Chief Executive Interim Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer andExecutive Director andExecutive Director Appointed as a Non-Executive Director Appointed as an Executive Director in 2011: in2011: Chairman from the 2012 Annual Chief Executive from1January 2013.
Appointed as an Executive Director in 2009: General Meeting AGM.
Skills and experience: Before joining Skills and experience: Prior to joining Skills and experience: A chartered BGGroup, Chris gained over 33 years BGGroup, Den spent more than a decade Skills and experience: Martin joined accountant, Andrew was chairman and technical and commercial experience in inspecialist financial management and BritishGas in 1983 and became BG Group chiefexecutive officer of Schlumberger theoil and gas industry, with Royal Dutch analyst positions, encompassing senior Executive Vice President in 2000.
He has from 2003 to 2011, retiring as chief Shell plc, where he was a member of the rolesat PwC and Citibank Salomon Smith gained extensive international experience executivein 2011 and chairman in April Exploration and Production leadership Barney Investment Bank.
He has been from a wide variety of technical, commercial 2012.
Until May 2012, Andrew was senior team, serving in Russia, Nigeria, Brunei withBG Group since 2000 in a range of and management roles and has played a independent director of Rio Tinto plc.
senior financial management positions and, leading role in developing the Groups LNG from 2010, was Group Financial Controller, business.
He is a fellow of the Geological Other appointments: Prior to his appointment as Chief Executive, reporting directly to the Chief Financial Society of London and a Companion of the member of the Board of Trustees, Chris was responsible for BGAdvance, Officer, with responsibility for the Groups Institution of Gas Engineers and Managers.
theKing Abdullah University including BG Groups exploration team, finance function and operations.
Den ofScienceand Technology theGroups major capital projects Responsibilities: He is responsible for the wasAlternate Director for FabioBarbosa member of the International Advisory programme, contracts and procurement, operational performance of the Groups from 9 September 2012 to 15 February 2013.
Board, the King Fahd University and technology.
assets, as well asGroup-wide business ofPetroleum and Minerals Responsibilities: He is responsible for Group development.
Other appointments: None member of the Development finance, tax, treasury, investor relations, Other appointments: None Committee membership: AdvisoryBoard, the Royal Academy mergers and acquisitions, strategy and Chairmans Committee membership: ofEngineering portfolio development, and internal audit.
Finance Group Executive Committee membership: Other appointments: None Group Executive Sustainability Chairmans Committee membership: Finance Chairmans Nominations Finance Remuneration Group Executive Sustainability Baroness Hogg Non-Executive Director Appointed in 2005: elected Senior IndependentDirector in 2009.
Sir Robert Wilson KCMG Sir Frank Chapman Skills and experience: Sarah is a former Sir Robert stepped down as Chairman Sir Frank stepped down as ChiefExecutive headof the Prime Ministers Policy Unit, andfrom the Board of Directors at the and from the Board ofDirectors on assecond permanent secretary from AGMin May 2012.
1990to 1995, and has extensive experience of business, government and the media.
Until2010, she waschairman of 3i Group plcand has been a non-executive director ofseveral other FTSE100 companies.
Other appointments: chairman, the Financial Reporting Council chairman, Frontier Economics Limited member of The Takeover Panel senior adviser, the Financial ServicesAuthority lead non-executive board member, HMTreasury non-executive director, John Lewis Fabio Barbosa Philippe Varin Partnership Fabio stepped down as Chief Financial Philippe stepped down as a Non-Executive Officer and from the Board of Directors Director on11 February 2013.
Corporate governance Board of Directors continued 45 Peter Backhouse Vivienne Cox Dr John Hood Caio Koch-Weser Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed in 2000.
Skills and experience: Peter is a former Skills and experience: Vivienne worked Skills and experience: John was Skills and experience: Caio was German executive vice president of refining and for BP plc from 1981 to 2009, serving in a  of the University deputy minister of finance from 1999 marketing at BP plc.
Prior to this, he was variety of posts in the UK and continental ofOxford, vice chancellor of the University to 2005, responsible for international chief executive of BP Oil Europe and Europe ranging from supply and trading ofAuckland, and also a member of the finance G7Deputy, European economic headofUK North Sea oil development.
to commercial, finance and exploration Growth and Innovation Advisory Board and financial affairs, as well as capital He gained considerable experience and renewable energy, and was the former andthe Enterprise Council of the Prime markets, banking and insurance.
He in international LNG and natural gas executive vice president of gas, power and Minister of New Zealand.
Hehas also was also chairman of the Supervisory development, latterly as head of BPs renewables and former chief executive been adirector of New Zealand-based Board of the German Federal Financial UKgasbusiness.
companies, including Fonterra Co-operative Supervisory Authority BaFin.
From Group Ltd and ASB Bank Limited, andwas 1973 to 1999, Caiowas with the World Other appointments: Other appointments: chairman of Tonkin & Taylor Ltd. Bank where heworked on Latin America, member of the advisory board, senior independent director, Pearson plc China, theMiddle East and Africa, and Carlyle Riverstone Energy Partners non-executive director, Rio Tinto plc Other appointments: heldanumber of high-level positions.
chairman and non-executive director, member of the supervisory board, president and chief executive officer, Hestya EnergyB.
V. Vallourec SA Robertson Foundation Other appointments: patron of the St Francis Hospice Charity chairman, Study Group Pty Ltd vice chairman, Deutsche Bank Group Committee membership: member of the Board, INSEAD chairman, Rhodes Trustees senior adviser, Royal Institute of Sustainability member of the Development Advisory chairman, URENCO International Affairs Chatham House Board, the Royal Academy of Engineering board member, Peterson Institute Committee membership: lead independent director, the forInternational Economics Audit MinisterialBoard of the Department supervisory board member, Nominations forInternational Development DFID EuropeanClimate Foundation Remuneration advisory board member, Committee membership: Sustainability Centre for European Reform Remuneration Sustainability Committee membership: Audit Sustainability Lim Haw-Kuang Sir David Manning GCMG CVO Mark Seligman Patrick Thomas Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed in March 2013.
Skills and experience: Haw-Kuang is the former Skills and experience: David was a member Skills and experience: A chartered Skills and experience: Prior to joining the executive chairman of Shell companies in China.
of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office accountant, Mark has held senior roles at Bayer Group in 2006, Patrick spent seven He joined Shell in Malaysia in 1978, holding roles for 35 years, serving in Warsaw, New Delhi, Barclays fide Zoete Wedd and SG Warburg years with the Huntsman Corporation, in information technology, finance, natural gas, Paris, Moscow, Tel Aviv and Brussels.
He is a former chairman of UK aUS chemicals company, latterly in the exploration and production and oil products.
retired from the Diplomatic Service in 2008 Investment Banking at Credit Suisse and role of corporate executive vice president Prior to becoming executive chairman of Shell after four years as British ambassador to is a former member of the banks Global of Huntsman Matlin Patterson.
Patrick China in 2005, his assignments included Shell the USA.
gained 20 years experience with ICI business development manager for the former Pharmaceuticals and Agrochemicals, where Other appointments: Other appointments: Soviet Union and Sakhalin: chairman and he held a number of positions including non-executive director, Lockheed Martin deputy chairman, G4S plc managing director for Shell Malaysia: president, regional director for Europe, Africa and UK Holdings Ltd alternate member of The Takeover Panel oil products for Shell Asia Pacific and Middle the Middle East, and was also global chief senior adviser, the Royal Institute of member of the Regional Growth Fund East: and Shell International vice president executive officer of ICI Polyurethanes International Affairs Chatham House advisorypanel ofcorporate strategy and planning.
between 1997 and 1999. trustee, Turner Contemporary senior independent director, He studied information technology at Imperial director, Gatehouse Advisory Partners Kingfisherplc Other appointments: College, University of London, and has an MBA nominated member, Council of Lloyds chief executive officer, Bayer Committee membership: in International Management.
In 2011, HawofLondon MaterialScience AG Audit Kuang was honoured by the Beijing Municipal chairman, London School of chairman, Oxford University Business Government with the Great Wall Friendship EconomicsIDEAS Advisory Board Economics Programme Board Award, recognising his contribution to the city.
chairman, advisory board of the Committee membership: European Institute for Industrial Other appointments: Nominations Leadership independent non-executive director, Sustainability president, PlasticsEurope Sime Darby Berhad chairman, Sime Darby Energy & Utilities Committee membership: Audit Committee membership: Remuneration None
