76 Corporate governance Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com OTHER DISCLOSURES THIS SECTION CONTAINS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION WHICH THE DIRECTORS ARE REQUIRED BY LAW ANDREGULATION TOINCLUDE WITHIN THE ANNUAL REPORTAND ACCOUNTS.
There are a number of legal and regulatory bybeing a shareholder in relation to general Variation of rights requirements with which BG Group must meetings, are shareholders who have paid the If the Companys share capital is split into comply, such as the Companies Act 2006 Company all calls, and all other sums, relating different classes of shares, the rights attached theAct, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure to their shares that are due at the time of to any class of share may be varied by a special and Transparency Rules, which are addressed themeeting.
This applies both to attending resolution passed at a separate meeting of in this section.
ameeting personally and to attending by that class of shareholders or with the written proxy or corporate representative.
consent of at least 75% of the holders of the Shareholders existing shares of the class by nominal value.
Incorporation and constitution Deadlines for exercising voting rights BG Group plc is domiciled in England and To decide who can attend or vote at a general Alteration of share capital incorporated in England & Wales under meeting and how many votes can be cast, The shareholders can by ordinary resolution: Company Number 3690065. thenotice of the meeting must give a time a consolidate, or consolidate and then divide, bywhich people must be entered on the all or any of the Companys share capital into BG Group plcs Articles of Association Register in order to be entitled to attend or new shares of a larger nominal amount than theArticles may only be amended by a special vote at ameeting.
This time must not be more the existing shares: and b divide some or resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
than 48hours before the time fixed for the allof the Companys share capital into shares The Articles are available on the Companys meeting and for this purpose no account that are of a smaller nominal value than website at www.
com shallbe taken of any part of a day that is theexisting shares.
This is subject to any notaworking day.
restrictions under the Act and all other laws Substantial shareholders and regulations applying to the Company.
As at 31 December 2012, the following voting Restrictions on shareholders rights Theresolution may provide that, as between interests in the ordinary share capital of Subject to the Articles, and unless the Directors the holders of the divided shares, different theCompany, disclosable under Disclosure decide otherwise, if a shareholder has failed rights and restrictions that the Company can andTransparency Rule 5, had been notified tosupply information about interests in shares apply to new shares may apply to all or any totheDirectors: which the shareholder is required to provide ofthe different divided shares.
The Company within 14 days of receiving a notice issued by may reduce its share capital by special BlackRock Inc and or the Company under Section 793 of the Act, resolution confirmed by the court in accordance its subsidiaries 259 128 305 7.62% theshareholder shall not be entitled to attend with Section 641 of the Act and subject to its Legal and General Group or vote at a shareholders meeting for as long Articles.
In accordance with Section 690 of the plc and or its subsidiaries 119 909 474 3.52% as the default continues, and any person who Act, the Company may purchase its own shares Norges Bank 152 363 377 4.48% acquires these shares is subject to the same including any redeemable shares subject to restrictions unless the transfer was: Chapter 4 of the Act and the Articles.
However, if the Company has securities that are admitted No change in voting interests in the ordinary an approved transfer pursuant to a takeover: or to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority share capital of the Company, disclosable and that are convertible into equity shares, then under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, a bona fide sale to a person unconnected the Company can only buy back equity shares if have been notified to the Directors between withthe shareholder: or either the terms of issue of thelisted securities 31December 2012 and 20 March 2013. the transfer was made by a shareholder permit the Company tobuy back equity shares whowas a not himself in default in supplying or the buy back, oragreement to buy back, has Share capital the information, and b when presented for been approved bya special resolution passed The Companys share capital consists of registration the transfer is accompanied by by holders of the listed securities.
ordinary shares with a nominal value of 10p acertificate issued by the Directors stating each.
For information and details of shares that, after due and careful enquiries, Transfer of shares issued during the year, see note 23, page 120. theshareholder is satisfied that none of the Unless otherwise provided in the Articles sharesincluded in the transfer are such shares.
orthe terms of issue of any shares, any Voting rights Inaddition, if the shareholders interests shareholder may transfer any or all of his When a shareholder is entitled to attend represents 0.25% or more of the existing shares shares.
The Directors may refuse to register ageneral meeting and vote, where there is a of a class, a the Directors may withhold atransfer of shares in certificated form that are poll, subject to any special rights or restrictions payment of any dividend or other money, not fully paid-up or otherwise in accordance attaching to any class of shares, if they are b the shareholder will not be allowed to with the Articles.
However, if any of those entitled to be present and to vote, they have register to receive shares in place of dividends, shares have been admitted to the Official List of one vote for every share that they hold.
and c the Directors may refuse to register the UK Listing Authority, the Directors cannot thetransfer of such shares unless one of refuse to register a transfer if this would stop Unless the Articles say otherwise, the only theprovisos outlined above was satisfied.
dealings in the shares from taking place on an people who can attend or vote at general open and proper basis.
If the Directors decide meetings, or exercise any other right conferred not to register a transfer, they must notify Corporate governance Other disclosures continued 77 theperson to whom the shares were to be ofthe assets of the Company or transfer any Employees with disabilities transferred of the refusal, together with part of the assets to trustees on trust for the BG Group remains committed to the full reasons for the refusal, as soon as practicable benefit of the shareholders.
No past or present andfair treatment of people with disabilities and in anyevent within two months after shareholder can be compelled to accept any inrelation to job applications, training, thedate onwhich the Company receives the shares or other property under the Articles promotion and career development.
Every transfer inthe case of a share in certificated that carries a liability.
effort is made to find appropriate alternative form or the instruction from the operator jobs for those who are unable to continue ofthe relevant system including CREST, in the Research and development intheir existing job because of disability.
case of a share in uncertificated form.
The Act requires the Directors report to TheGroup encourages its partners to take a stateany activities in the field of research similar approach to these issues where Group Powers for the Company to anddevelopment undertaken by the Company.
Policies or Standards are not able to be buy back or allot its own shares In2012, BG Group invested $52 million in implemented directly.
In order to enable the Company to return research and development projects, up from valueto shareholders, the Company was given $38 million in 2011.
Focus areas of the 2012 Community authority at the 2012 AGM to make market research and development investments have Donations purchases of up to 339 614 578 of its own been coal seam gas operations and drilling During 2012, BG Group donated around ordinary 10p shares at a maximum price per optimisation, carbon management and gas $328794 to registered charities in the UK.
More share of 105% of the average middle market utilisation, and research to support the information on the Groups social performance closing price of the shares for the five trading Groupsexploration activities and to improve and social investment activities canbe found in days prior to the relevant purchase.
This understanding of carbonate fields.
A key the 2012 Sustainability Report, available online authority will expire at the conclusion of the milestone was the establishment of the first at www.
com sustainability 2013 AGM and approval from shareholders Science without Borders BG Group fellowship willbe sought at that meeting to renew programme in Brazil.
BG Group continues BG Groups policy is not to make donations theauthority for a further year.
tobecommitted to increasing technology forpolitical purposes.
In 2012, no donations investment in Brazil and now expects toopen were made in any EU member state for At the 2012 AGM, the Directors were given aGlobal Technology Centre in Rio deJaneiro political purposes, nor contributions made thepower to allot shares up to a maximum in2014.
See note 2, page 96 forresearch toany non-EU political parties.
nominal amount of 114 597 739, representing anddevelopment expenditure included in approximately 1 3 of the Companys issued theincome statement.
Suppliers share capital excluding treasury shares as at BG Group aims to adopt fair payment practices 15 March 2012, together with ordinary shares Branches in line with each country in which it operates outstanding under BG Groups share option BG Group, through various subsidiaries, has and aims to pay all its creditors promptly and schemes.
This authority will expire at the established branches in a number of different in accordance with contractual and other legal conclusion of the 2013 AGM and approval from countries in which the business operates.
It is the Groups policy to agree shareholders will be sought at that meeting thepayment terms with each supplier at torenew the authority for a further year.
Employees thestart of business and to ensure that they Employees are informed about significant are aware of the terms of payment.
In the UK, Dividends business issues and BG Groups performance the Group is a signatory to the governments The shareholders can declare final dividends using webcasts, the Groups intranet and Prompt Payment Code.
The Group had 16 days byordinary resolution.
No dividend can exceed in-house publications, as well as at face-to-face purchases outstanding at 31 December 2012 the amount recommended by the Directors.
briefing meetings at each business location.
2011: 20 days based on the average daily No interim dividend shall be paid on shares When appropriate, consultation with employee amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
that carry deferred or non-preferred rights if, and union representatives also takes place.
at the time of payment, any preferential Significant contracts change of control dividend is in arrears.
Unless the rights attaching Employees are encouraged to become There are a number of agreements that take to shares or the terms of any shares provide shareholders in the Company and many effect, alter or terminate upon a change of otherwise, dividends are paid based on the participate in BG Groups share plans.
control of BG Group following a takeover bid.
amounts that have been paid up on the shares inthe relevant period.
Equal opportunities It is possible that the Republic of Kazakhstan BG Group takes the issues of equality and may claim to have a right to acquire the The Directors can recommend that the diversity seriously and encourages its partners Groups interest in the Final Petroleum Sharing shareholders pass an ordinary resolution to todo likewise.
By using the talent and skills Agreement governing the operation of the direct all or part of a dividend to be paid by available in all groups and communities in Karachaganak oil and gas condensate field distributing specific assets.
The Directors must thecountries in which it operates, the Group BGGroup currently 29.25% or the shares give effect to such a resolution.
If a dividend isable to build a strong foundation for the inthecompany holding that interest in the has not been claimed for one year, the Directors lasting success of its business.
This is achieved event of a change of control of BG Group may invest the dividend or use it in some other by using appropriate recruitment and selection following a takeover bid.
way for the benefit of the Company until the techniques, ensuring equality of employment dividend is claimed.
Any dividend that has not opportunities and equal access to As at 31 December 2012, BG Energy Holdings been claimed for 12 years may be forfeited development opportunities.
Limited had bilateral, committed, multi-currency andbelong to the Company, if the Directors revolving borrowing facilities with a number of sodecide.
The Group is also committed to providing its relationship banks in an aggregate amount awork environment free from harassment of $5.2 billion.
This commitment is taken together, these facilities are significant If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, included in the Groups Human Resources Policy, to the ongoing liquidity of the Group and with the authority of a special resolution and which is available on the BG Group website.
repayment or cancellation of any or all of them any other sanction required by relevant law, may be demanded upon a change of control divide among the shareholders all or part ofBG Group.
78 Corporate governance Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Other disclosures continued No other agreements that take effect, Directors borrowing powers facilities, aswell as the Groups objectives, alterorterminate upon a change of control So far as the Companies Acts as defined policies and processes for managing capital, ofBGGroup following a takeover bid are inSection 2 of the Act allow, the Directors are described on pages 2 to 49.
Financial risk considered to be significant in terms of their canexercise all the powers of the Company to: management objectives, details of financial potential impact on the business of the Group a borrow money: b issue debentures and instruments andhedging activities and asa whole.
other securities: and c give any form of exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk guarantee or security for any debt, liability aredescribed in note 19, page 111.
The Essential contracts or other arrangements orobligation of the Company or of any Directorsconsider that theGroups business Given the scope and diversity of BG Groups thirdparty.
activities and financial resources ensure activities, BG Group does not consider that it thatitis well placed to manage its business has contractual or other arrangements that The Directors must limit the Borrowings riskssuccessfully.
are essential to the business of BG Group.
asdefined in the Articles of the Company andexercise all voting and other rights or The Directors are satisfied that the Groups Directors powers of control exercisable by the Company andthe Companys activities are sustainable The Directors are empowered to exercise all inrelation to its subsidiary undertakings, forthe foreseeable future, and that the the powers of the Company subject to any soasto ensure that the total amount of all business is a going concern and the Financial restrictions in the Articles, the Act and Borrowings by the Group outstanding at statements have therefore been prepared anyspecial resolution.
anytime will not exceed twice the Adjusted onthis basis.
Total of Capital and Reserves as defined in Conflicts of interest theArticles at such time.
This limit may be Statement of Directors responsibilities The Company has procedures in place to exceeded if the Companys consent has been forpreparing the Financial statements manage Directors conflicts of interest and given in advance by an ordinary resolution The Directors are responsible for preparing potential conflicts of interest, which the Board passed at a general meeting.
theAnnual Report, the Directors considers operate effectively.
All Directors Remuneration report and the Financial have a duty to avoid situations that conflict Statement of disclosure statements in accordance with applicable withthe interests of the Group.
Directors of information toauditors lawand regulations.
arerequired to notify BG Group when they As required by Sections 418 and 419 of the become aware of a conflict of interest or Act, each of the Directors has approved this The Act requires the Directors to prepare potential conflict of interest.
Once notified, report and confirmed that, so far as they are Financial statements for each financial year.
allmatters are considered by the Nominations aware, there is no relevant audit information Under the Act, the Directors have prepared Committee and an appropriate recommendation beinginformation needed by the auditors theGroup and the parent Company Financial is made to the Board on whether to authorise inconnection with preparing their audit statements in accordance with IFRSs such conflict ofinterest or potential conflict report of which the Companys auditors are asadopted by the European Union and as ofinterest.
unaware, and they have taken all the steps appliedinaccordance with the provisions of that they ought to have taken as a Director theAct.
The Financial statements are required Certain safeguards apply when theDirectors inorder to make themselves aware of any bylawto give a true and fair view of the state consider the conflict of interest or potential relevant audit information and to establish ofaffairs of the Group and the Company conflict of interest: a only Directors who have that the Companys auditors are aware andofthe profit or loss of the Group for no interest in the matter are able to take the ofthatinformation.
relevant decision: b in taking any decision, theDirectors must act in a way that they Financial The Directors consider that, in preparing the consider, in good faith, will be most likely to Results and dividend Financial statements on pages 83 to 137, promote the Companys success: and c the For the year ended 31 December 2012, the total theCompany has used appropriate accounting Directors are able to impose limits or conditions profit for the Group before tax was $6 366 million policies consistently applied and supported when giving such authorisation, if they think 2011: $7 237 million.
A final dividend of byreasonable and prudent judgements and this isappropriate.
14.26cents per ordinary share is proposed estimates, and all applicable accounting 2011:12.96 cents, making a total dividend standards have been followed.
The Company Annual re-election of Directors for2012 of 26.14 cents 2011: 23.76 cents.
has complied with UK disclosure requirements The Articles provide that Directors are subject Theresults are dealt with more fully in the in this report in order to present a consistent tore-election by shareholders every three Financial statements on pages 83 to 137 picture to all shareholders.
The Board, however, decided in2010 andsummarised in the Financial review that, in accordance with the Governance onpages 26 to 31.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring Code, all Directors wishing tocontinue that the Company keeps accounting records inofficeshould offer themselves for The Trustees of the BG Group New Employees that disclose with reasonable accuracy the re-electionannually.
Share Trust, the BG Group plc Employee Share financial position of the Company and of the Trust and the BG Group Share Incentive Plan Group and that enable them to ensure that Indemnities and insurance have waived their right to receive dividends theFinancial statements and the Directors BG Group maintains liability insurance over 414, 3 071 566 and 4 230 ordinary Remuneration report comply with the Act and, foritsDirectors and officers.
as regards the Group Financial statements, Company Secretary and members of the GEC Article 4 of the International Accounting have also been granted aqualifying third-party Going concern Standard Regulation.
indemnity, under theAct, which remains in BG Groups business activities, together with force.
Neitherthe Companys indemnity nor factors likely to affect its future development, The Directors have general responsibility insurance provides cover in the event that performance and position, are set out in fortaking such steps as are reasonably theindemnified individual is proved to have theBusiness review on pages 2 to 41. opentothem to safeguard the assets of acted fraudulently ordishonestly.
Thefinancial position of the Group, its cash BGGroup andto prevent and detect fraud flows, liquidity position and borrowing andother irregularities, and have adopted Corporate governance Other disclosures continued 79 acontrol framework for application across Directors report principal disclosures theGroup.
Information required to be disclosed in the Directors report is set out on the following The Directors, having prepared the Financial pages: statements, have asked the auditors to take Acquisition of own shares 77 whatever steps, and to undertake whatever Appointment and retirement of Directors 58 inspections, they consider to be appropriate Articles of Association 76 forthe purposes of enabling them to give Branches 77 theiraudit report.
The Directors confirm that Charitable donations 77 theAudit Committee continues to review the Creditors payment policy 77 adequacy of the system of internal control Directors details 44 adopted by BG Group.
Directors conflict of interest 78 Directors indemnities 78 A copy of the Financial statements of the Directors interests 69 Company is placed on the BG Group website.
Directors powers 78 The work carried out by the auditors does Directors responsibilities 78 notinvolve consideration of the maintenance Disclosure of information to auditors 78 ofthe BG Group website and, accordingly, Employee involvement 77 theauditors accept no responsibility for Employee share schemes 71 anychanges that may have occurred to the Employees with disabilities 77 Financial statements since they were initially Equal opportunities 77 presented on the website.
Financial instruments 111 Legislation in the UK governing the Future developments 16 preparationand dissemination of Financial Going concern 78 statements may differ from legislation Payments to Directors employees on a takeover 66 inotherjurisdictions.
Political donations 77 Principal activities and business review 02 Pursuant to Rule 4.1.
12 of the Disclosure and Profit and dividend 78 Transparency Rules, each of the Directors, Research and development 77 thenames and functions of whom are set Restrictions on the transfer of shares 76 outon pages 44 to 45, confirms that to Risk management 32 thebest of his or her knowledge: Share capital 76 Shareholders rights and obligations 76 the BG Group Financial statements, which Significant contracts change of control 77 have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, Substantial shareholders 76 as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view Voting rights 76 ofthe assets, liabilities, financial position andprofit of the Group: and the management report represented By order of the Board bytheDirectors report on pages 2 to 79 includes afair review of the development and performance of the business and the position ofthe Group, together with a description oftheprincipal risks and uncertainties that Chris Finlayson theGroup faces.
Chief Executive The Directors have concluded that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides theinformation necessary for shareholders Den Jones toassess BG Groups performance, business Interim Chief Financial Officer model and strategy in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2012.
20 March 2013 The Boards review of the system Registered Office: of internal control 100 Thames Valley Park Drive The Board, with the advice of the Audit Reading Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness Berkshire RG6 1PT ofthe Groups risk management and internal United Kingdom controls system for the period 1 January 2012 tothe date of this report, and is satisfied Registered in England & Wales thatthe Group complies in this respect with No.
3690065 theInternal Control: Guidance to Directors formerly the Turnbull Guidance.
80 Financial statements Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com INSIDE ONE OF THE LNG STORAGE TANKS AT THE QCLNG PROJECT, CURTIS ISLAND, QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA The QCLNG project includes the construction ofa two-train LNG plant on Curtis Island where the gas will be converted to LNG for export.
Financial statements 81 82 Independent Auditors report FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 83 Principal accounting policies Financial statements, notes Primary statements andotherkey data.
87 Consolidated income statement 88 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 89 Balance sheets 91 Statements of changes in equity 92 Cash flow statements 93 Notes to the accounts 128 Supplementary information gas and oil unaudited 135 Historical production unaudited 136 Five-year financial summary unaudited
