46 Corporate governance Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AND COMPANY SECRETARY The Group Executive Committee GEC, chaired by the Chief Executive, comprises the Executive Directors of BG Group, together with the executives shown on these pages.
The GEC hasprimary authority for the day-to-day management of theGroups operations, within the agreed limits set by the Chris Finlayson Den Jones Martin Houston Chief Executive Interim Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer Board.
The GEC is responsible andExecutive Director andExecutive Director Sub-committee membership: formonitoring strategic risk, Exploration and Appraisal Sub-committee membership: Sub-committee membership: operational management Governance Investment Investment oftheGroup and health, safety, Investment Risk Management security and environment HSSE strategy.
The GEC has also assumed the keyperformance management responsibilities of the Group, previously delegated to the Group Performance Committee, which was disbanded during theyear.
In addition to the GEC, the following sub-committees Reserves Committee focuson particular aspects of the Groups business: Chairman Chris Cox, Acting Executive Vice President, BGAdvance Exploration and Appraisal Committee The Committee approves amendments to reserves Chairman Chris Finlayson, Chief Executive policy, process and guidelines.
It reports annually to the Audit Committee on the reserves process and reviews The Committee formulates the Groups exploration and challenges BG Groups proposed reserves and andappraisal strategy and is responsible for planning resourcesestimates.
andsetting objectives and priorities to deliver that strategy.
In addition, the Committee approves funding forexploration and appraisal.
Risk Management Committee Chairman Den Jones, Interim Chief Financial Officer Governance Committee The Committee formulates managements approach Chairman Chris Finlayson, Chief Executive toriskand risk management.
This includes consideration of risk appetite and strategic risks and oversight of the risk The main purpose of the Committee is to oversee management function and the Enterprise Risk Management theeffectiveness of BG Groups governance, business risk Framework.
The key responsibilities of the Energy Trading and assurance processes, to approve Group Standards, and Credit RiskCommittee ETCRC have been subsumed to overseethe implementation of all other parts of the into the Committee.
The ETCRC was disbanded during InternalControl Framework, and to ensure that there is theyear.
aneffective process for the identification, management andescalation of risk.
Speak Up and Fraud Investigations Committee Chairman Graham Vinter, General Counsel Investment Committee Chairman Chris Finlayson, Chief Executive The purpose of the Committee is to monitor the effectiveness of the Speak Up Policy, to oversee material The Committee considers and, where appropriate, approves investigations into allegations of breaches of the Business merger, acquisition and disposal transactions, and other Principles, Group Policies, and any laws or regulations, investment decisions, with the exception of exploration toprovide advice to the business on remedial actions andappraisal business development transactions.
andtoshare lessons learnt across the business.
Sir Frank Chapman stepped down as Chief Executive andfrom the GEC on31December 2012.
Fabio Barbosa stepped down as Chief Financial Officer andfrom the GEC on15February 2013.
Ashley Almanza left BG Group on 18December 2012 andstepped down fromtheGEC on20November 2012.
Catherine Tanna was appointed Chairman ofBGAustralia in April2012 with accountability for key stakeholder relationsinAustralia.
She no longer sitsonthe GEC.
Interim Committee Chairman, since 1 January 2013.
Corporate governance Group Executive Committee and Company Secretary continued 47 Robert Booker Malcolm Brown Chris Cox Sir John Grant KCMG Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Acting Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, HumanResources Exploration BGAdvance PolicyandCorporate Affairs Skills and experience: Prior to joining Skills and experience: Malcolm is a Skills and experience: Prior to joining Skills and experience: John joined BGGroup in 2006, Robert worked as a geologist and has worked in the oil and BGGroup in 2006, Chris spent 22 years BGGroup in September 2009, having senior human resources HR consultant for gas industry for 36years.
He joined British with Chevron Corporation and two been president of BHP Billiton Europe Ernst & Young and Mercer Human Resource Gas in 1982 and has been responsible years withAmerada Hess in a variety of since 2007.
Before then, he was a member Consulting in the UK and Canada.
He is forworldwide exploration in BG Group for technical, commercial and management of the Diplomatic Service, holding posts a chartered accountant, holds a Masters 12 ofthelast 16 years.
He was appointed to roles in a number of international settings.
in Stockholm, Moscow and Brussels, in Finance fromLondon Business School the GEC on 1 January 2013, having previously He was appointed to his current position where he was the UKs permanent and was elected as a William Pitt Fellow been Senior Vice President, Exploration.
on 1January 2013, having previously been representative to theEuropean Union ofPembroke College, Cambridge, in October Heis a fellow of the Geological Society Senior Vice President, Developments, from 2003 to 2007.
Robertis also honorary treasurer ofLondon.
Operations and Well Engineering in Responsibilities: John is responsible of the Chartered Institute of Personnel BGAdvance.
Responsibilities: Malcolm is responsible for government and public affairs, and Development.
He was appointed forexploration worldwide.
Responsibilities: Chris is responsible communications, social performance tohis current position in February 2009, for BGAdvance, which incorporates andBusiness Principles.
Sub-committee membership: having previously been General Manager, developments, operations, capital projects, Exploration and Appraisal Sub-committee membership: Performance and Reward.
well engineering, HSSE, IT, contracts and Risk Management Exploration and Appraisal Responsibilities: Robert is responsible for all procurement, and technology, providing Speak Up and Fraud Investigations matters relating to HR strategy and policy.
the Group with technical and commercial assurance and services, including resourcing Sub-committee membership: and development of staff capabilities.
Governance Risk Management Sub-committee membership: Speak Up and Fraud Investigations Exploration and Appraisal Reserves Sami Iskander Matt Schatzman Graham Vinter Steve Allen Executive Vice President Executive Vice President, General Counsel Company Secretary andManaging Director, Africa, GlobalEnergy Marketing Skills and experience: Graham joined Skills and experience: Steve is a qualified Central and South Asia andShipping BGGroup as General Counsel in November lawyer.
Before joining BG Group in 2005, Skills and experience: Prior to joining Skills and experience: Prior to joining 2007.
Prior to this, he spent 27 years with he worked as a corporate lawyer in private BGGroup in 2008, Sami spent his career BGGroup in 2007, Matt worked at Dynegy theinternational law firm, Allen & Overy LLP, practice in London.
Prior to becoming with Schlumberger and fulfilled a number where his last position was president where he was a partner for just under Company Secretary in May 2011, he held of key leadership roles with them, with and chief executive officer of Dynegys 20years and was global head of projects a number of roles within the Groups assignments in Latin America, the USA, energy marketing and power generation from 1996 to 2007.
Grahams experience Legal Department and was Chief Counsel, Africa, Europe and the Middle East.
He was appointed to his current includes advising on energy transactions in Corporate from 2008.
In that role, he Hewas appointed to the GEC in July role on 1 January 2012, having previously Europe, the Middle East, Asia and elsewhere.
led theteam providing legal support for 2009, having previously been Senior Vice been Senior Vice President Energy corporate functions.
Responsibilities: Graham is responsible President, Operations and Developments Marketing, BG Americas and Global LNG.
forthe legal affairs of the Group.
Responsibilities: As Company Secretary, inBGAdvance.
Responsibilities: Matt is responsible for Steve is responsible for advising the Board, Sub-committee membership: Responsibilities: Sami is responsible energy marketing, trading and shipping through the Chairman, on all governance Governance fortheGroups activities across Africa activities across the Group.
All Directors have access to Investment andCentral and South Asia.
the advice and services of the Company Sub-committee membership: Speak Up and Fraud Investigations Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring Sub-committee membership: Risk Management that Board procedures are complied with.
Exploration and Appraisal Sub-committee membership: Governance Risk Management
