12 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com HOW BG GROUP CREATES VALUE BG GROUPS VISION IS TO BE AN INTERNATIONALLY DIVERSIFIED E&P COMPANY WITH A SPECIALISM IN GAS.
THEBUSINESS MODEL OF THE GROUP HAS EVOLVED OVER TIME, ADAPTING ORGANICALLY YEAR-ON-YEAR AS BG GROUP HAS GROWN ANDTHE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENTS HAVEBECOME MORE COMPLEX.
DISTINCTIVE CAPABILITIES COMMERCIAL AGILITY BG Groups track record of value creation is BG Group identifies high-value markets where BG Groups specialism in gas allows it builton a number of competitive advantages, there is demand, then looks forresources that toidentify and capture value throughout including: commercial agility: a unique can be connected economically to those markets, thegasmonetisation chain.
LNGmodel: andworld-class exploration either bypipeline or ships.
strategy provides monetisation options early in As an example, BG Group moved quickly to the process.
Decision-making through to project scale down drillingactivity in the USA in view sanction is further fast-tracked by utilising oflower gasprices, and then secured early BGGroups streamlined organisational structure mover advantage for LNG export volumes and processes which create clear, personal from theUS Gulf Coast.
OPERATING MODEL SET DIRECTION RESOURCE The operating model has five elements Set Direction articulates BG Groups The business must have adequate financial SetDirection, Resource, Organise, investment proposition and associated resources, equipment, materials, services and PerformandGovern.
objectives, its strategy and the plans technology, as well as a sufficient number throughwhich the Group intends to ofpeople with the right skills, to deliver Safety is always BG Groups highest deliverthose objectives.
priorityand is embedded in each ofthesefiveelements.
The strategy is given form and substance A number of business processes exist to ensure through development of detailed business that resources are identified, developed and plans, populated with tangible business allocated.
These include human resources, ventures opportunities, developments, the strategy and business planning process, projects and operations.
the capital investment process andsupply chain management processes.
The remaining elements of the operating model support delivery of BG Groups BG Groups business leaders act as stewards strategyand plans.
overthese resources, utilising them in a cost-effective and efficient manner.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES CREATE THE OPPORTUNITY ASSESS AND SELECT THE DEVELOPMENT The creation of economic value and delivery Exploration and business development Multiple concepts are studied to develop ofBG Groups strategy require that the activities are performed to identify, discover theopportunity.
Options are further evaluated Groupperforms a number of fundamental andcapture new sources of value.
and the most valuable development concept activities effectively.
These are the Groups isselected to be progressed as a project.
BG Group Business Principles Governance Framework Business review How BG Group creates value continued 13 OPERATING MODEL SET DIRECTION Investment Proposition, Objectives, Strategy and Plans RESOURCE RESOURCE People, Finances, Equipment, Materials, People, Finances, Equipment, Materials, Services and Technology Services and Technology ORGANISE SET DIRECTION ORGANISE Board, GEC, Assets, Functions GOVERN Board, GEC, Regions, Assets, Functions and Corporate Activities Investment Proposition, and Corporate Activities Objectives, Strategy and Plans PERFORM Principal Activities, PERFORM BG Way and Behaviours Principal Activities, BG Way and Behaviours GOVERN LNG EXPLORATION BG Group has an industry-leading LNG portfolio Since 1997, BG Group has been involved Throughout its exploration activities, offlexible supply contracts, high-value sales in15giant discoveries, each of more than BGGroup hasbeen able to deliver organic contracts, shipping capacity and market positions.
growth andcreate value because of talented Unlike the traditional long-term point-to-point and experienced geologists and geophysicists.
LNG business model, BG Group is able to An analysis of the industrys achievements The Groups ability to make quick decisions re-optimise its LNG portfolio to respond to from 2002 to 2011 by Wood Mackenzie shows onnew projects further underscores the changes in demand andcustomer requirements.
that BG Groups performance is outstripping Groups commercial agility.
This allows the Group to access the highest-value other major energy companies inmost of the markets and, in combination with the scale exploration categories.
Of the 35companies BG Groups recent exploration success ofour portfolio, results in an LNG proposition analysed, BG Group is ranked second overall inTanzania is set out on page 23. differentiated from other major players.
ORGANISE PERFORM GOVERN BG Groups organisation is built upon The creation of economic value and the The BG Group Business Principles and Governance cleardesign principles that determine the delivery of BG Groups strategy and plans Framework provide the requirements and fundamental shape of the organisation and require a number of fundamental activities boundaries within which the Group operates.
the roles and accountabilities of individuals.
tobe performed effectively and competitively.
Further details can be found in the Sustainability These Principal Activities are set out below.
and Corporate governance reports onpages BG Groups organisation is asset-based, 38and 48. withenabling expertise flowing from The BG Way is a structured and consistent functionsand corporate activities: approach to performing the components that The BG Group Business Principles set out make up each Principal Activity.
It defines the theGroups core standards of ethical conduct.
assets and functions work together critical activities that underpin each Principal They also define the Groups responsibilities to inequalpartnership: Activity and how, when and by whom they itspeople, to society and to the environment.
assets deliver business performance should be performed.
They are mandatory and are underpinned by andareintegrated from the reservoir detailed Policies and Standards.
tothemarket:and The BG Group Behaviours define how the workforce should act at all times, individually The Governance Framework requires high BG Groups global energy marketing and collectively, in delivering their work for standards of corporate governance at all times.
businesscreates value through identifying theGroup.
It has three elements: Committee organisation andcapturing markets and connecting and structure: the Internal Control Framework: theGroups supplies to customers, The nine Behaviours are: Anticipate: Challenge: and Independent assurance.
Collaborate: Concern: Deliver: Develop: Impact: Inspire: and Understand.
DEFINE AND EXECUTE THE PROJECT OPERATE THE ASSET MARKETING After concept selection, a project is defined To realise value, gas, LNG, liquefied petroleum Marketing occurs in parallel with the tothe level of detail required for sanction.
gas LPG, condensate and oil are produced, otherPrincipal Activities.
Value is created Sanctioned projects are then built to deliver processed and transported, associated andrealised through understanding anoperating asset.
contracts are managed and the asset is marketsand specific customer needs and maintained and improved.
byconnecting gas, LNG, LPG, condensate andoil to these markets.
BG Group Business Principles Governance Framework
