20 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012 Alliance Trust Investments was founded to use the investment skills of our managers and to create a business managing third party assets which would generate value for the Trust.
We have made progress this year through the 1.9bn significant increase in third party assets under management and advice and have in 2012 taken a meaningful step value of investments under towards achieving profitability.
management and advice, a In August, we entered into an agreement with Aviva 248% increase Investors under which we engaged a team of specialist Sustainable and Responsible Investment SRI managers.
After the year end, we assumed the management of 1.2bn of third party assets in SRI funds which we had advised on during the second half of the year.
The Sustainable Future Fund range is invested across equities and fixed income.
Following the restructure of the Trusts investment team we reviewed our range of funds, and closed three where we felt that they would be unable to attract sufficient third party 1.2bn investments to be profitable.
We launched a new fund, the Dynamic Bond Fund, which uses a target return strategy value of new business from investing in a full range of bonds as well as bond derivatives.
deal with Aviva Investors The strategy was developed specifically to address the needs of the UK institutional investor and discretionary fund managers.
We consulted with a number of leading market participants as we recognise the challenges faced by the institutional market in times of low yields, high volatility and elevated potential for economic collapse to occur.
We have increased the availability of our funds through reaching agreements with fund platforms to extend their distribution.
Alliance Trust Funds are now available on six of the top nine retail platforms in the UK market.
75% We are beginning to attract greater interest from of the funds under management and institutional investors.
After the year end we entered into two investment management agreements with institutional advice were in the 1st or 2nd quartile investors for almost 50m of assets.
of their peer group over the year Assets Under Management and Advice Third Party Assets Under Management and Advice %FD 1.9bn %FD 1.4bn %FD 551m %FD 129m BO 384m BO 83m Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012 | 21 Financial Performance Key Strengths Net revenue We have a number of key strengths which position us well in Alliance Trust Investments 111% increase in net revenue the market.
was due to five months of fees from the SRI advisory assets commencing August 2012, 0.5m performance t OWFTUNFOU.
BOBHFST o XF IBWF B UFBN PG FYQFSJFODFE fees 13% of net revenue, fees from 203m seed capital and specialist investment managers who, between them, invested by Alliance Trust in newly launched ATI funds have previously managed significant third party assets at Global Thematic Opportunities Fund and Dynamic Bond leading investment houses.
"Fund and fees from Alliance Trusts investment in the t OWFTUNFOU 1FSGPSNBODF o WF PG PVS GVOET XFSF UPQ ""5."
POUIMZ ODPNF #POE 'VOE RVBSUJMF QFSGPSNFST PWFS UIF ZFBS BOE UIF.
POUIMZ Income Bond Fund ended the year as the best Average third party basis points performing fund in its sector.
The average 43 basis points earned on third party revenue t OWFTUNFOU $IPJDF o XF IBWF B XJEF SBOHF PG GVOET reflected the bias of the portfolio towards fixed income available to suit both institutional and retail investors.
funds, where typically management fees are lower, during the year prior to the transfer of the SRI advisory assets.
Strategy t 8F XJMM CFDPNF FTUBCMJTIFE BT B MFBEJOH TQFDJBMJTU GVOE Expenses manager focusing on SRI, global equities and fixed income.
Expenses increased by an annualised 3.2m.
The t 8F XJMM CVJME B CBMBODFE CVTJOFTT UISPVHI CPUI XFBMUI increase was due in part to the one-off acquisition costs managers and institutions.
of the SRI funds and the additional recurring running costs of that team.
t 8F OPX IBWF B NPSF TVCTUBOUJBM SBOHF PG GVOET BOE with our expanded team, will be recognised as one of the top SRI managers in the European market.
Net assets During the year Alliance Trust invested 10m in the t 8F XJMM MPPL GPS PQQPSUVOJUJFT UP HSPX PVS CVTJOFTT through appropriate strategic partnerships where they business reflecting the additional capital required to are consistent with our own culture and values.
support the larger assets under administration and advice following the SRI assets transfer.
Outlook Although the business was launched in 2009, market bN bN conditions since then have extended our start-up period.
The significant increase in assets under management and Net Revenue 3.8 1.8 Expenses 10.4 6.6 advice during 2012 will flow through to higher revenues 0QFSBUJOH MPTT from 2013.
We continue to consider additional options to accelerate our path to profitability.
Net assets 8.6 1.8 Third Party Average Net Revenue Third Party Net Revenue %FD 0.43bps %FD 1.8m %FD 0.31bps %FD 0.4m BO 0.40bps BO 0.3m
