6 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012 Statement from the Chair At Alliance Trust, our culture and values are captured in our vision to be the UKs most trusted investment and savings business.
"We need to demonstrate focus on sustainability in everything we do, by: tPOH UFSN DPOTJTUFOU BOE TUSPOH JOWFTUNFOU QFSGPSNBODF t 'PDVT PO DMJFOU SFMBUJPOTIJQT BOE DVTUPNFS TFSWJDF t 5SBOTQBSFOU DPNNVOJDBUJPO t "" GPDVT PO QFPQMF t #VJMEJOH QSPEVDUT UP NFFU TQFDJD OFFET t 4USPOH DPSQPSBUF HPWFSOBODF Our investment team continues to build a consistent longterm track record, following the actions which we have taken to sharpen our focus on our core capabilities of equities and fixed income."
At the same time our investment I am delighted to have the opportunity and savings businesses have both reached key milestones to present my first statement to in their development which should give shareholders the shareholders in the same year as Alliance confidence that they can represent a source of value and differentiation.
We have also undertaken a number of Trust celebrates its 125th anniversary.
exciting new initiatives despite the continuing challenges The nature of our business and the across the markets in which we operate.
"environment in which we operate has Dividend Policy undergone great change since 1888, and today more than ever there is a need for BOOPVODFE UIF JOUFOUJPO BU PVS MBTU ""."
UIBU JO MJHIU PG the greater flexibility available to investment trusts following us to retain the trust of those we serve.
recent changes to the tax regime, the Board would review its dividend policy in the course of this year.
Having completed this review we intend to retain our policy of paying a Karin Forseke steadily rising dividend.
However, we now intend, under normal circumstances, to pay out all of each years net revenue earnings.
Where our current years earnings exceed our previously published guidance we may pay a special dividend from those earnings.
We have also decided that, unless there are exceptional circumstances, we will not pay dividends out of our realised capital reserves as we believe that, in the longer term, this is not sustainable.
Dividend Our ordinary dividend of 9.27p continues our long and proud tradition of annual increases in the dividend, now stretching into a 46th consecutive year, a record shared with only a handful of other FTSE companies.
In addition, we are also announcing a special dividend of 0.36p per share, payable PO PS BSPVOE VMZ NBLJOH B UPUBM GPS UIF ZFBS PG 9.63p per share, a 7% increase over the previous period.
The total dividend is again paid from current year earnings.
The declaration of a special dividend reflects the level of income generated last year from the companies in our portfolio, during a period when dividend growth was strong.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012 | 7 Discount and share buybacks also welcomed Susan Noble as a non-executive director during the year and Win Robbins after the end of the year.
Our willingness to undertake share buybacks where we judge it to be beneficial to shareholders is now well established, and A glance at the biographies of the members of the Board we are committed to the ongoing flexible use of buybacks, in this report will demonstrate the diversity of backgrounds UBLJOH JOUP BDDPVOU UIF $PNQBOZ T EJTDPVOU SFMBUJWF UP UIF and experience which they bring to the Board table.
During the year we bought back around 5% of have not adopted a quota or target for gender diversity UIF $PNQBOZ T TIBSF DBQJUBM on the Board because, at a time when there is increasing focus on gender diversity in other companies, we can The effect of our policy of buy-backs has been to reduce the demonstrate a long-term commitment to selecting the volatility of the discount of our share price to NAV.
During best candidates, regardless of gender, throughout the 2012, it traded in a narrower range than in any of the last $PNQBOZ XJUI XPNFO DVSSFOUMZ DPNQSJTJOH PWFS IBMG five years.
"Over the year, the discount narrowed to 13.7% PG UIF #PBSE BOE POF UIJSE PG UIF &YFDVUJWF $PNNJUUFF as markets rallied in the first quarter of the year, and then, ""DSPTT UIF $PNQBOZ BT B XIPMF XF BSF DPOTUBOUMZ TFFLJOH along with many of the other big trusts in the sector, we saw ways to ensure that every member of our staff has the EJTDPVOUT XJEFO VOUJM MBUF VOF 5IFSFBGUFS UIF EJTDPVOU IBT opportunity to fulfil their full potential."
been narrowing consistently, so that it ended the year where it started, broadly unchanged, at 15.6%.
A changing business environment At a time when the financial services sector is widely Business developments mistrusted, and economies are only slowly showing signs Each of our businesses underwent change during the course of recovery from a long period of recession, the regulatory of the year.
environment in which we operate and the level of risk which The investment portfolio was radically restructured to ensure we are prepared to accept within our businesses are regular that going forward we invest on a genuinely global basis, discussion topics for the Board.
unconstrained by issues of regional allocation, to create long The dramatically increased weight of regulation is an term value for shareholders.
understandable reaction to the events of the past, and Alliance Trust Savings reached agreement to sell its more we seek to engage constructively with our regulators.
We complex Full Self Invested Personal Pension SIPP business know from our own experience that the cost of regulatory and sold its Small Self Administered Scheme SSAS pensions compliance has escalated significantly over recent years.
This allows it to focus on the opportunities open Regulation must, however, be proportionate, preventing to a transparently priced on-line trading platform in the new excessive risk-taking while encouraging a responsible and regulatory environment.
After a long period of investment in informed approach to risk.
We support a framework that the repositioning of this business it is now well positioned to encourages business and provides choice to investors perform profitably throughout 2013. and customers.
Alliance Trust Investments was successful in acquiring Avivas Sustainable and Responsible Investment team and Scottish Independence the funds which it managed, amounting to some 1.2bn.
As a company, Alliance Trust does not believe it is This gives our third party asset management business critical appropriate that we should make any comment on the mass in a competitive market place and allows us to offer a merits of the Scottish Independence proposals.
We are, product that meets the increasing demand for a sustainable IPXFWFS BDUJWFMZ FOHBHFE XJUI UIF $# BOE 4DPUUJTI and responsible approach to investments.
Financial Enterprise in trying to explain and understand what opportunities and challenges may be presented to The Board us as an investor, employer and a provider of financial I would like to thank Lesley Knox for all her support, products.
Scottish independence might alter the landscape guidance and wise counsel both during her time as a for regulated financial services products, although we do not %JSFDUPS BOE $IBJSNBO PG ZPVS DPNQBOZ BOE BMTP UP NF BT expect much detail on this ahead of the referendum in 2014. assumed her role less than a year ago.
"As a provider of such products, we are used to operating 4JODF MBTU ZFBS T ""."
BTUFST in a constantly changing legislative environment and are have both stood down from the Board and I record my adept at analysing the impact that such changes will have on our businesses and adjusting our products accordingly.
UIBOLT UP UIFN CPUI GPS UIFJS DPOUSJCVUJPO $ISJT IBT QMBZFE We will be prepared and ready to deliver the best for an invaluable role in the transition of the Board as Senior our shareholders, customers and clients regardless of the Independent Director, and we were fortunate to be able to outcome of the referendum on Scottish independence.
attract Alastair Kerr as a worthy successor in this role.
