24 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012 Risk Factors The Companys risk management strategy Principal risks is to identify events and scenarios that may Strategic Risks impact the business and to manage these within the risk appetite set by the Board.
Building investment credibility is dependent on the performance of the portfolio.
Risk Management Framework The ability to pay a steadily increasing dividend depends upon portfolio structure and Primary responsibility for oversight of the Groups Risk income generation.. BOBHFNFOU 'SBNFXPSL XIJDI JT TIPXO CFMPX SFTUFE The Trust may borrow money for investment XJUI UIF 3JTL.
BOBHFNFOU $PNNJUUFF GPSNFSMZ UIF 3JTL purposes.
If the investment falls in value, any $PNNJUUFF XIJDI JT DIBJSFE CZ UIF 'JOBODF %JSFDUPS BOE borrowings will magnify the extent of this loss.
comprises representatives from Alliance Trust and each of its Borrowing facilities may not be renewed.
BOBHFNFOU 'SBNFXPSL JT A lack of understanding of the Trust and its objectives designed to ensure that the key risks facing the Group are could lead to a lack of demand and a widening of the identified, monitored, assessed and controlled.
There is clear discount to Net Asset Value.
ownership and accountability for the day to day management of risk across the Group with risk management practices Market Risks embedded within business operations.
For 2013 we decided to enhance the level of scrutiny applied The Trust currently invests primarily in equities and to risk within the business by establishing a Board Risk in fixed income securities and its principal risks are therefore market related and include counterparty and $PNNJUUFF UP GPDVT PO UIF PWFSTJHIU PG UIF SJTL market risk currency, interest rate and other price management framework.
An explanation of these risks is included in note 23 on pages 77 to 84.
Over the counter derivatives are used in the fixed income funds managed by Alliance Trust Investments both for efficient portfolio management and for investment purposes.
Risk universe Operational Risks Risk appetite One of the key risks to which all investment trusts asset management firms are exposed is operational risk.
The operational risks to which the Group is Policies exposed include: Loss of key personnel: business continuity: management of third parties suppliers: fraud and Risk other criminal acts: conflict of interest: processing Governance Management failures, including administration dealing errors and information breach of investment mandates: the number of Capital significant business change initiatives and the volume Risk Risk of regulatory change.
Management Management organisation methodologies Embedded Risk Compliance risk practices culture Legal, Regulatory & Disclosure risks The Financial Services sector continues to experience significant regulatory change at national and international levels.
"The FSA will split into the Prudential Regulatory ""VUIPSJUZ 13"" BOE UIF 'JOBODJBM $POEVDU ""VUIPSJUZ '$"" JO 3JTLT JODMVEF VODFSUBJOUZ PWFS SPMFT BOE responsibilities and the likelihood for increased costs."
