1 2 3 4 5 Board of Directors Limited, including Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer and, 1.
Jac Nasser prior to that, held senior management positions with Halcrow UK, AO, BBus, Hon DT, 64 MIM Holdings, Peko Wallsend and Industrial Equity.
Mr Broomhead Chairman and independent Non-executive Director is currently Non-executive Chairman of Asciano Limited and Chairman of the Nomination Committee a Non-executive Director of Coates Group Holdings Pty Ltd. Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2006.
Jac Nasser was appointed Chairman of BHP Billiton Limited and 4.
Sir John Buchanan BHP Billiton Plc on 31 March 2010.
BSc, MSc Hons 1, PhD, 69 Following a 33-year career with Ford Motor Company in various Senior Independent Director, BHP Billiton Plc leadership positions in Europe, Australia, Asia, South America and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee United States, Mr Nasser served as a member of the Board of Directors Member of the Nomination Committee and as President and Chief Executive Officer of Ford Motor Company Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since February 2003. from 1998 to 2001.
Mr Nasser has more than 30 years experience in Educated at Auckland, Oxford and Harvard, Sir John Buchanan has large-scale global businesses and a decade of private equity investment broad international business experience gained in large and complex and operating expertise.
Mr Nasser is currently a non-executive advisory international businesses.
He has substantial experience in the petroleum partner of One Equity Partners JPMorgan Chase & Cos Private Equity industry and knowledge of the international investor community.
He has Business, a Non-executive Director of British Sky Broadcasting held various leadership roles in strategic, financial, operational and Group plc and a member of the International Advisory Council of Allianz marketing positions, including executive experience in different countries.
Mr Nasser is a former Director of Brambles Limited.
He is a former Executive Director and Group Chief Financial Officer of BP, Treasurer and Chief Executive of BP Finance and Chief Operating Officer 2.
Marius Kloppers of BP Chemicals.
He is currently the Chairman of Smith & Nephew Plc, BE Chem, MBA, PhD Materials Science, 50 Chairman of ARM Holdings Plc, a member of the Advisory Board of Ondra Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director Bank, a former Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director of Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since January 2006.
Vodafone Group Plc and a former Director of AstraZeneca Plc.
Sir John Marius Kloppers was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 1 October 2007. is Chairman of the International Chamber of Commerce UK and Mr Kloppers has extensive knowledge of the mining industry and Chairman of the UK Trustees for the Christchurch Earthquake Appeal.
Active in the mining and resources industry since 1993, he was appointed Chief Commercial Officer in December 5.
Carlos Cordeiro 2003 and Group President Non-Ferrous Materials and Executive Director AB, MBA, 56 in January 2006.
Mr Kloppers was previously Chief Marketing Officer, Independent Non-executive Director Group Executive of Billiton Plc, Chief Executive of Samancor Manganese Member of the Remuneration Committee and held various positions at Billiton Aluminium, including Chief Operating Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since February 2005.
Officer and General Manager of Hillside Aluminium.
He is currently Carlos Cordeiro brings to the Board more than 30 years experience Chairman of the International Council on Mining and Metals and was in providing strategic and financial advice to corporations, financial previously Deputy Chairman.
institutions and governments around the world.
Malcolm Broomhead previously Partner and Managing Director of Goldman Sachs Group Inc and Executive Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia LLC.
Mr Cordeiro MBA, BE, 60 remains an Advisory Director of The Goldman Sachs Group Inc and Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia LLC.
Member of the Sustainability Committee Member of the Finance Committee Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since March 2010.
Malcolm Broomhead has extensive experience in running industrial and mining companies with a global footprint and broad global experience in project development in many of the countries in which BHP Billiton operates.
Mr Broomhead was Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Orica Limited from 2001 until September 2005.
Prior to joining Orica, Mr Broomhead held a number of senior positions at North BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2012 | 29 6 7 8 9 10 6.
Lindsay Maxsted AO, BComm, LLB, FCA, FCPA, 68 DipBus Gordon, FCA, 58 Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Chairman of the Finance Committee Chairman of the Risk and Audit Committee Member of the Finance Committee Director of BHP Limited since May 1994.
Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since March 2011.
David Crawford has extensive experience in risk management and Lindsay Maxsted is a corporate recovery specialist who has managed business reorganisation.
Mr Crawford has acted as a consultant, scheme a number of Australias largest corporate insolvency and restructuring manager, receiver and manager and liquidator to very large and complex engagements and, until recently, continued to undertake consultancy groups of companies.
Mr Crawford was previously Australian National work in the restructuring advisory field.
Mr Maxsted was the Chairman of KPMG, Chartered Accountants.
Mr Crawford is Chairman Chief Executive Officer of KPMG Australia between 2001 and 2007. of Lend Lease Corporation Limited, Chairman of Australia Pacific Airports Mr Maxsted is currently Chairman of Westpac Banking Corporation Corporation Limited and is a former Chairman of Fosters Group Limited.
Mr Maxsted is also a Director and Honorary Treasurer of Baker IDI Heart and Diabetes Institute.
Pat Davies on the Board of the Public Transport Corporation from 1995 to 2001 and in his capacity as Chairman from 1997 to 2001 had the responsibility BSc Mechanical Engineering, 61 of guiding the Public Transport Corporation through the final stages Independent Non-executive Director of a significant reform process.
Mr Maxsted is the Boards nominated Member of the Remuneration Committee audit committee financial expert for the purposes of the US Securities Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2012. and Exchange Commission Rules, and the Board is satisfied that he Pat Davies has broad experience in the natural resources sector across has recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the a number of geographies, commodities and markets.
From July 2005 UK Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules until June 2011, Mr Davies was Chief Executive of Sasol Limited, and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
an international energy, chemical and mining company with operations in 38 countries and listings on the Johannesburg and New York 10.
Mr Davies began his career at Sasol in 1975 and BSc Business Administration, CPA, 68 held a number of diverse roles, including managing the groups oil Independent Non-executive Director and gas businesses, before becoming Chief Executive in July 2005.
Member of the Risk and Audit Committee Mr Davies was a Director of Sasol Limited from August 1997 until Member of the Finance Committee June 2011 and is a former Director of various Sasol Group companies Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2009. and joint ventures.
Wayne Murdy has a background in finance and accounting, where 8.
Carolyn Hewson he gained comprehensive experience in the financial management AO, BEc Hons, MA Econ, 57 of mining, oil and gas companies during his career with Getty Oil, Apache Corporation and Newmont Mining Corporation.
Mr Murdy Independent Non-executive Director served as the Chief Executive Officer of Newmont Mining Corporation Member of the Risk and Audit Committee from 2001 to 2007 and Chairman of Newmont from 2002 to 2007.
Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since March 2010.
Mr Murdy is also a former Chairman of the International Council Carolyn Hewson is a former investment banker and has over 30 years on Mining and Metals, a former Director of the US National Mining experience in the finance sector.
Ms Hewson was previously an Association, a former member of the Manufacturing Council of Executive Director of Schroders Australia Limited and has extensive the US Department of Commerce and a former Director of Qwest financial markets, risk management and investment management Communications International Inc. Mr Murdy is a Non-executive expertise.
Ms Hewson is a Non-executive Director of Stockland Group Director of Weyerhaeuser Company.
and BT Investment Management Limited.
Ms Hewson previously served as a Director on the boards of Westpac Banking Corporation, AMP Limited, CSR Limited, AGL Energy Limited, the Australian Gas Light Company, South Australia Water and the Economic Development Board of South Australia.
Ms Hewson is currently a member of the Advisory Board of Nanosonics Limited, a Director of the Australian Charities Fund Pty Limited, Patron and a Director of the Neurosurgical Research Foundation and Chair of the Westpac Foundation.
Baroness Shriti Vadera BSc, MSc Geology, 58 MA, 50 Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Member of the Sustainability Committee Member of the Risk and Audit Committee Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since January 2011.
Shriti Vadera brings wide-ranging experience in finance, economics Keith Rumble was previously Chief Executive Officer of SUN Mining, and public policy, as well as extensive experience of emerging markets a wholly owned entity of the SUN Group, a principal investor and and international institutions.
In recent years, Ms Vadera has undertaken private equity fund manager in Russia, India and other emerging a number of international assignments, including advising the G20 and transforming markets.
Mr Rumble has over 30 years experience chair under the Republic of Korea, Temasek Holdings, Singapore on in the resources industry, specifically in titanium and platinum mining, strategy and the Government of Dubai on the restructuring of Dubai and is a former Chief Executive Officer of Impala Platinum Pty Ltd World.
Ms Vadera was a Minister in the British Government from 2007 and former Chief Executive Officer of Rio Tinto Iron and Titanium Inc to 2009 in the Department for International Development, the Business in Canada.
Mr Rumble began his career at Richards Bay Minerals Department and the Cabinet Office, where she was responsible for the in 1980 and held various management positions before becoming response to the global financial crisis.
Ms Vadera was on the Council Chief Executive Officer in 1996.
Mr Rumble serves on the Board of of Economic Advisers, H M Treasury from 1999 to 2007 focusing Governors of Rhodes University and is a Trustee of the World Wildlife on business and international economic issues.
Prior to her time Fund South Africa.
He is a former Director of Aveng Group Limited.
in the British Government, Ms Vadera spent 14 years in investment banking at UBS Warburg, where she specialised in advisory work 12.
John Schubert in emerging markets.
Ms Vadera is currently a Non-executive Director of AstraZeneca Plc and is a former Trustee of Oxfam.
AO, BCh Eng, PhD Chem Eng, 69 Independent Non-executive Director 14.
Jane McAloon Chairman of the Sustainability Committee BEc Hons, LLB, GDipGov, 4 8 Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Group Company Secretary Director of BHP Limited since June 2000 and a Director of BHP Billiton Jane McAloon joined the BHP Billiton Group in September 2006 Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001. as Company Secretary for BHP Billiton Limited and was appointed Group Company Secretary in July 2007.
John Schubert has considerable experience in the international oil industry, including at Chief Executive Officer level.
Dr Schubert has had Prior to joining BHP Billiton, Ms McAloon held the position of Company executive mining and financial responsibilities and was Chief Executive Secretary and Group Manager External and Regulatory Services in Officer of Pioneer International Limited for six years, where he operated the Australian Gas Light Company.
Ms McAloon previously held various in the building materials industry in 16 countries.
Dr Schubert has Australian State and Commonwealth government positions, including experience in mergers, acquisitions and divestments, project analysis Director General of the NSW Ministry of Energy and Utilities and and management.
Dr Schubert was previously Chairman and Managing Deputy Director General for the NSW Cabinet Office, as well as Director of Esso Australia Limited and President of the Business Council working in private legal practice.
Ms McAloon is a Fellow of the of Australia.
Dr Schubert is a Director of Qantas Airways Limited Institute of Chartered Secretaries and a Member of the Corporations and Chairman of G2 Therapies Pty Limited.
He is a former Chairman and Markets Advisory Committee.
of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and of Worley Parsons Limited.
