The coal quality for Illawarra Coal, Lampunut, Haju, Luon, Exploration Licences A248 and 4470 following a signed agreement with Bumbun and Juloi Northwest deposits is for in situ quality on an air-dried the holder of coincident Petroleum Production Licences PPLs for a portion basis.
Tonnages are at an in situ moisture basis.
2 Saraji East Exploration drilling and a new geological model has produced 5 West Cliff Declaration of Dharawal National Park has resulted in the loss an increase in Coal Resources.
The area was previously a State Conservation Area 3 Wards Well Drilling, an updated model and inclusion of Coal Resources and, as such, mining was possible.
The declaration of a National Park has in MLA 70443 has increased the Total Coal Resources.
removed any possibility of future mining.
Drill hole spacings vary between seams and geological domains and were determined in conjunction with geostatistical analyses where applicable.
Total Marketable Coal Reserves tonnes are the tonnage of coal available, at specified moisture Deposit Processing Recovery and air-dried quality, for sale after the beneficiation of the Total Coal Reserves.
Goonyella Riverside Broadmeadow 76% Note that where the coal was not beneficiated, the tonnes of Total Coal Reserves are the tonnes of Total Marketable Coal Reserves, with moisture Peak Downs Peak Downs: 62% adjustment where applicable.
Caval Ridge: 56% 9 Goonyella Riverside Broadmeadow Broadmeadow UG was re-estimated using the Longwall Top Coal Caving method.
Saraji 63% 10 Peak Downs Reserve life decreased from 62 to 35 years as Caval Ridge Norwich Park 70% project was approved for execution.
The production rate will increase from Blackwater 88% 16.5mtpa to 31mtpa.
11 Norwich Park Change in reserves was due to cost and revenue Daunia 80% assumption changes.
12 Daunia and Poitrel-Winchester Coal type previously called Met Th is now Gregory Crinum 80% called Met based on product specifications.
South Walker Creek 75% 13 South Walker Creek Total Marketable Coal Reserves are Pulverised Coal Poitrel-Winchester 74% Injection PCI coal.
14 Appin Total reserve increased following the granting of state government Appin 85% development consent in December 2011.
This enabled the conversion West Cliff 75% of exploration title to mining title in the northern areas.
As this process is ongoing, all reserves declared in the extended areas were classified Dendrobium 69% as Probable Coal Reserves.
15 Dendrobium Change in reserves was due to detailed review of current equipment extraction capabilities.
