BKM Brockman, MM Marra Mamba, NIM Nimingarra, CID Channel Iron Deposits.
2 The resource grades listed refer to in situ mass percentage on a dry weight basis.
Wet tonnes are reported for WAIO deposits and Samarco JV, including approximate moisture contents: BKM 3%, MM 4%, CID 8%, NIM 3.5%, Samarco JV 6.5%.
3 Jimblebar Resource interpretation and model update for BKM ore type.
4 Mt Goldsworthy JV Northern Resource interpretation and model update for NIM ore type.
5 BHP Billiton Iron Ore Exploration Resource interpretation and model update for BKM ore type.
6 Samarco JV The increase in Mineral Resources was due to an update of the geological model with all recent drilling results.
Changes to the cut-off criteria for LOI in concentrate and inclusion of compact itabirite with specular hematite have also increased the resource tonnage.
Northern, which resides on a standard Western Australian mining lease.
9 The reserve grades listed refer to in situ mass percentage on a dry weight We are required to obtain certain state government approvals including basis.
For Mt Newman, Mt Goldsworthy and Yandi joint ventures and environmental and heritage clearances before we commence mining Jimblebar, tonnages represent wet tonnes based on the following moisture operations in a particular area.
We have included in our reserves areas contents: BKM 3%, MM 4%, CID 8%, NIM 3.5%.
For Samarco JV the reserve where one or more approvals remain outstanding but where, based tonnages also represent wet tonnes based on a moisture content of 6.5% on the technical investigations we carry out as part of our mine planning for ROM.
Iron ore is marketed as Lump direct blast furnace feed, Fines process and our knowledge and experience of the approvals process, sinter plant feed and direct reduction and blast furnace pellets Samarco JV.
we expect that such approvals will be obtained as part of the normal 10 Cut-off grades used to estimate reserves: Mt Newman JV 5962%Fe for BKM, course of business and within the time frame required by the current 50%Fe for BKM beneficiation material, 59%Fe for MM: Jimblebar 59%Fe mine schedule.
for BKM, 58%Fe for MM: Mt Goldsworthy JV Northern 50%Fe for NIM, 12 Mt Newman JV and Yandi JV Reserve life has reduced as a result Mt Goldsworthy JV Area C 57%Fe for MM, 59%Fe for BKM: Yandi JV of approved increased production rates aligned with WAIO growth plan.
13 Samarco JV The approved production rate increased to 55mtpa resulting in a reduced reserve life.
