Market review Reinsurance Insured losses from natural catastrophes and severe weather related events were notably lower in 2012 at 65|billion, compared to the record 160|billion in 2011.
The year was 1 dominated by Hurricane Sandy, which is expected to generate insured losses of $25 billion.
Catastrophe pricing remained rm during the year following significant increases during 2011 and in the first half of 2012.
US|catastrophe rates remain at peak levels.
Introduction Amlins market position and products Market commentary The reinsurance market provides risk transfer and Amlins reinsurance businesses offer cedants 2012 was a less active year for catastrophe claims, contingent capital to insurance companies.
As a strong Financial Strength ratings and but still above the long term average.
Hurricane result of consolidation in Europe, Bermuda capitalisation, underwriting expertise founded Sandy, which hit New York and the surrounding and the US, this market is dominated by large on deep knowledge of local markets and high area in October, was the most significant insured reinsurers in Germany, Switzerland, Bermuda, levels of client service.
natural catastrophe, a highly damaging event which VJG 75 CPF YKVJKP|.
NQ[FoU is currently estimated to give rise to an insured Catastrophe reinsurance is the largest segment 2 market loss of approximately $25 billion.
The Amlin underwrites reinsurance principally through of Amlins reinsurance business, accounting for cumulative impact of 2010 and 2011 catastrophe Lloyds Syndicate 2001 Amlin London and Amlin 55% of gross written premium in 2012.
Amlin is a claims, together with Hurricane Sandy, continued AG Amlin Bermuda and Amlin Re Europe.
recognised leader in this area, with Amlin London to drive an upward trend in catastrophe pricing, and Amlin Bermuda viewed by brokers as preferred The majority of Amlins reinsurance business is although this slowed somewhat through the year.
markets, which is reflected in the consistently high sourced through global reinsurance brokers.
In line retentions achieved on renewal business.
Amlin Rates on Amlins international catastrophe with market practice in Continental Europe, Amlin Re London is a leading writer of excess of loss portfolio increased 13.4% during the year, with an 'WTQRG VTCPUCEVU UQOG DWUKPGUU FKTGEV YKVJ|KPUWTGTU reinsurance in Lloyds.
Amlin Bermuda ranks increase of 17.2% in the first six months of 2012, in the top 15 Bermudian reinsurers by net following increases of 27.9% in the second half of 2012 Reinsurance GWP by division 1 premium written.
In loss affected areas rate increases were significantly higher, particularly in Japan, where 17% Amlins catastrophe account is underwritten rates reached peak levels for Amlins portfolio.
mainly on a treaty excess of loss basis.
While The US catastrophe market was less directly the US accounts for the largest proportion of affected by the catastrophe events of 2010 and catastrophe premium by geography for both 3 2011, but the release of RMSv11, an update to 48% London and Bermuda, the overall catastrophe one of the mostly widely used US windstorm portfolio is a global one, with a significant spread models, continued to have an impact on demand of international business outside the US.
Rates on Amlins US catastrophe reflects Amlins strategy to seek profitable RQTVHQNKQ KPETGCUGF D[ HQT VJG|[GCT YKVJ CP diversity within individual business classes as well increase of 10.6% achieved in the first half.
The as across the whole Group underwriting portfolio.
impact of Hurricane Sandy provided further Amlin London Amlin Re Amlin London and Amlin Bermuda also write support to US catastrophe pricing at the start of Amlin Bermuda other property reinsurance classes, including risk 2013 with rates up a further 3.9%.
GZEGUU QH NQUU CPF RTQRQTVKQPCN P|CFFKVKQP GZEGUU 2012 Reinsurance GWP by class The release of a similar update to RMSv11 for of loss reinsurance is written for marine and European windstorm risk in 2012 had limited aviation exposures.
These classes provide further 15% impact on pricing, due to the absence of major diversity to the reinsurance portfolio and are catastrophe losses and plentiful reinsurance underwritten with a focus on minimising 7% capital.
Consequently the trading environment for correlation with the property catastrophe account.
AREs portfolio, which is predominantly Amlin Re Europe ARE was established in proportional reinsurance across a broad range of 11% 55% October 2010, to provide the Group with access classes, remained largely stable with rates to European reinsurance business that does not increasing by 2.2% during 2012. typically flow into the London and Bermuda 12% There was a disappointing market response on markets.
ARE is a full service reinsurance casualty classes given the fall in investment returns.
operation, meeting demand among small and medium sized European reinsurance buyers for Catastrophe Proportional Strategic development greater diversity of risk transfer and counterparty reinsurance reinsurance The Reinsurance Underwriting Practice Board Property Special risks risk as an alternative to the small number of began operating during 2012, with regular reinsurance Classes 4% established reinsurers already operating in the meetings attended by senior underwriters from Continental European market.
AREs business Source: Amlin each of Amlins reinsurance businesses.
The initial proposition has been well received by brokers Note: focus was the agreement of a global approach to and clients and at the end of 2012, it had gross 1.
Standard & Poors Global Reinsurance Highlights writing catastrophe business and optimising new written premium of 206.5 million.
Munich Re Press Release, 3 January 2013. business development through existing 3.
