Performance Strategic overview Governance Financial statements Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements The overarching principle for Amlins 2013 Key objectives Dear Shareholder remuneration policy is to provide appropriate 2012 saw executive remuneration as one To review the Group Remuneration levels of remuneration to our Directors, of the key items on the stakeholder agenda Policy to ensure it is fit for senior executives and employees, reflecting and in June of that year the Department for purpose and will comply with a contribution of the financial performance Business Innovation & Skills BIS published BIS recommendations: of the Group and the individuals achievement its consultation on Narrative Reporting and To review and recommend appropriate in meeting their own personal performance Executive Remuneration.
During 2013 Amlin will be reviewing executive emolument packages contributed its views to the BIS consultation the detail of our remuneration policy to ensure including exit clauses in line with and we believe that the remuneration structure that this complies with best practice, where BIS suggested requirements: already in place within Amlin is relevant, possible, and the BIS recommendations.
We transparent and easily understood.
To review all performance-related will be consulting with major shareholders and To provide greater clarity and understanding remuneration and that the Companys other advisers to ensure that their views are around the total remuneration paid to share and incentive plans remain captured and incorporated, where appropriate, executives, we have included, for a second relevant: and whilst remaining true to that principle.
We year, charts detailing the total remuneration welcome engagement with shareholders and To review incentive arrangements for paid to each of the Executive Directors.
These other stakeholders on the Companys approach senior management outside the UK.
charts include a comparison of our 2010, 2011 to remuneration and reward.
and 2012 numbers to enable shareholders to I am delighted to welcome Julie Chakraverty, view the performance of the Company on a who will bring risk expertise and will reinforce year-on-year basis and also to demonstrate the current best practice of the Committee.
that Amlins policy of performance-related Nigel Buchanan will step down from the rewards works: with 2011 having lower total Committee at the conclusion of the AGM in remuneration compared to 2010 and 2012, May 2013 and I thank him for his support reflecting the Companys performance in 2011 and commitment during his tenure.
These charts can be found on page 80.
Yours sincerely In addition a historical 10-year CEO total remuneration versus Company Total Shareholder Return TSR chart to demonstrate the correlation between CEO pay and TSR has been included on page 91.
Executive remuneration is based on the Sir Mark Wrightson performance of the Group and individual Chairman of the Remuneration Committee personal performance, with the individuals personal performance contributing to both their 1 March 2013 salary and bonus.
Richard Hextalls and Simon Beales basic salaries have been increased to reflect the increased responsibilities that they have assumed during the year.
In the case of Richard Hextall, in addition to his finance director role, he has assumed responsibility for both operations and actuarial functions in Amlins Corporate Centre: and in the case of Simon Beale, in becoming the Groups Chief Underwriting Officer.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 81 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 81
