Market review continued Commercial & Domestic The sustained improvement in UK commercial insurance lines contrasted with competitive market conditions in Continential Europe during 2012.
In both markets, Amlin remained focused on profitable underwriting.
Introduction Amlins market position and products Market commentary Commercial lines insurance provides motor, Amlin UK is a market leader in commercial fleet During 2012, there were differing trends in the motor business, writing a wide range of commercial insurance markets in which Amlin property and liability insurance to commercial commercial motor coverage in the UK including operates.
In the UK, the commercial insurance enterprises, ranging from sole traders to global coach, haulage, commercial vehicle, private car trading environment continued to improve.
In some markets, commercial fleet, private public hire and self drive hire.
Amlin was a further retraction in motor fleet capacity insurers also provide insurance to local and UK also underwrites property and liability during 2012, as competitors withdrew from national government entities.
Personal lines business for UK corporate entities.
The property segments of the market following poor results.
insurance provides cover to private individuals account includes package products aimed at the Fleet motor rates again showed a marked for risks such as motor, property and SME sector, which incorporate combined improvement, with an increase on Amlins personal accident.
RTQRGTV[ CPF NKCDKNKV[|EQXGT portfolio of 9.7% during the year and an overall Amlins commercial lines business is underwritten increase of more than 21% since Amlins motor Amlin UKs business is mainly underwritten by Amlin UK, which serves clients in the UK and book first began to experience significant rate through Syndicate 2001.
The experience and Ireland, and Amlin Europe, which operates in the rises during 2010.
Amlin UK continued to seek technical expertise of Amlin UKs underwriters Netherlands, Belgium, and France.
Amlin UK opportunities to write new fleet motor business, and their ability to create and price nonaccounted for 55% of Amlins commercial and with 29.3 million of net new income added conventional programmes is a competitive domestic gross written premium in 2012, with during the year.
Property rates also continued to advantage.
The business works closely with the remaining 45% from Amlin Europe.
improve, with pricing on Amlins book increasing brokers to create niche products, meeting client by 1.5%.
Liability rates also showed modest Amlin sources its commercial insurance mainly needs across a wide range of business types and improvement, achieving rate increases of 1.2%.
through brokers and regional intermediaries in sectors.
Amlin UK also writes some personal lines the UK and Continental Europe.
In the insurance, such as high net worth products for The trading environment for Amlin Europe Netherlands, Amlin Europe is also a major private individuals, which is sourced through remained demanding, with ample capacity participant in the Beurs co-insurance market.
driving competition across all commercial business lines.
There was some evidence of Amlin Europe is a leading provider of commercial greater stability in Amlin Europes non-marine property and liability insurance in the Netherlands 2012 Commercial & Domestic GWP markets, with firming of terms on certain less and in Belgium, where it also underwrites by class attractive risks and those with poor loss commercial motor fleet insurance.
Overall, rates on Amlin Europes 3% Amlin Europe writes a diverse range of business 4% non-marine business were flat.
including property, cargo, professional liability CPF URGEKG KPUWTCPEG #U|YGNN CU C YGNN 24% established and growing SME focused French 39% client portfolio, Amlin Europe has also been successfully targeting larger corporate accounts in the French market.
Amlin Europe benefits from long-standing relationships with major international brokers operating in the Benelux 30% region and France as well as with a broad range of local brokers and intermediaries.
Property Captives Fleet Other motor Classes 4% Liability Source: Amlin 40 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements developing larger commercial clients in France to Strategic development further diversify its well-established French SME In August 2012, Amlin announced that, in line client base.
with the Groups growth strategy for Europe, Amlin France would be integrated into Amlin Amlin UK continued to invest in building its Europe previously Amlin Corporate Insurance.
property underwriting capability and recruited a This integration will consolidate all the Groups team of high net worth underwriters during the commercial insurance activities on the European year.
With this and previous investment in continent and will deliver a broader client property underwriting and distribution, Amlin UK proposition in Europe.
Franois Martinache, wrote 25.2 million of new property business, net Chairman of Amlin France, will continue to lead of brokerage, in 2012.
This increased the the French business with Alexandre Martinache, proportion of property business in Amlin UKs previously General Manager, Amlin France, portfolio to 36% of 2012 gross written premium, becoming Country Manager, France, for Amlin in line with the strategic objective of achieving a Europe.
During the year Andreas Luberichs, who better balanced portfolio.
joined Amlin from Chubb in March 2011 as Head The Commercial & Domestic Insurance Practice of Group Underwriting, transferred to Amlin Board is scheduled to begin operating in 2013.
He assumed the newly created role of During 2012 its terms of reference and Executive President, Non-Marine, taking membership were agreed.
responsibility for the management and future development of Amlins non-marine business Further comment on the performance of Amlin across Europe.
UK and Amlin Europe can be found on pages 51 and 52.
During 2012, Amlin Europes non-marine underwriting teams were further strengthened and the business portfolios reviewed, with particular emphasis on reducing volatility.
Presentations were made to key brokers in each of Amlin Europes non-marine markets to communicate its business proposition and a strategy was initiated to target regional brokers.
Excludes effect of claims inflation.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 41 Amlin Plus is one of the leading bloodstock underwriters in the world, providing cover worldwide for thoroughbred racehorses and other high value competition horses.
