Our strategic Vision Delivering long term value Our strategy is centred on delivering long term value to our shareholders.
Our Vision, to be the global reference point for quality in each of our markets, gives strategic focus and drives operational performance.
Underpinning our Vision are strategic priorities which we believe must be achieved to be successful.
Our goal Shareholder value Financial targets 15% cross-cycle return on GSWKV[ YKVJ RTQVCDNG VTCFKPI throughout the insurance cycle Our Vision Our Vision for 2010 2015 is to be the global reference point for quality in each of our markets Strategic priorities First class client service based on a thorough understanding of their needs 2TQV HQEWUGF WPFGTYTKVKPI GZEGNNGPEG Effective risk management which optimises returns for the risks we take Measured expansion of core businesses and geographic footprint A culture and employment practices that make Amlin the place to work 6 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin has grown its gross written premium capital requirement of Amlin AG and therefore Such a strategy clearly requires an ability income 130.3% over the last five years through any earnings from Amlin Re Europe enhance to deliver positive margins in the areas of a combination of start-ups, acquisitions and expansion.
With the exception of Fortis Amlin AGs return on capital.
pure organic growth, which has been aided by Corporate Insurance, where it has taken The strength of our service, reputation and longer to correct poor performance than attracting market-leading talent to the Group.
franchise in reinsurance has enabled strong initially envisaged, all acquisitions have Our primary aim is to deliver leading returns organic growth in this area, as was demonstrated contributed positively to the Groups average on equity over the cycle, with a cross-cycle when we created Amlin Bermuda in 2005, which return on equity.
We believe that the action average of at least 15% per annum.
This is now represents 22.6% of the Groups gross taken in Amlin Europe formerly Fortis significantly above our cost of equity, which is written premiums, and Amlin Re Europe, which is Corporate Insurance will result in a more estimated at 8.5%.
Its achievement, therefore, on course to write more than 250 million of consistently profitable business, generating should be materially accretive for shareholders gross written premium in 2013, having only attractive returns on capital, which will over the long-term.
opened for business in October 2010. complement our strategy.
We recognise that, with our leading franchise It is more difficult to grow non or less catastrophe Many of the strategic initiatives referred to in catastrophe reinsurance, there is a degree exposed business in the London market, as the above have been taken while the competitive of volatility in annual earnings.
This was very volumes coming to London are not growing and environment has been tough.
We believe that clearly illustrated in 2011 when we recorded there is increased competition from new entrants insurance remains a cyclical business, even if our first loss since 2001, but still had an to Lloyds.
These have numbered more than 16 peaks and troughs may be less pronounced than average five year return on equity of 14.7% over the last five years and accounted for 1.7 hitherto.
A more favourable trading environment and a 10 year return on equity of 18.0%.
Some business which will both enhance growth prospects and improve used to come to the London market is We endeavour to compensate for the volatility the returns from our investments.
We therefore increasingly being written closer to its source.
of writing high margin catastrophe reinsurance believe that our strategy over the past several with our portfolios of non or less catastrophe years places us in an exceptionally good Following the start-up of Amlin Bermuda, the exposed business.
This is more difficult towards position to grow both top and bottom line proportion of higher volatility business grew from the bottom of the insurance cycle, when the when conditions improve.
55% of gross written premiums in 2005 to 66% in margins on such business can be negligible, 2008.
Much of our strategy, involving acquisitions Our financial strategy is focused on active but has been proven to work satisfactorily of niche businesses such as Lead Yacht, J R Clare capital management to ensure capital through most of the pricing cycle.
and Crowe Livestock, the establishment of a efficiency, while maintaining a strong balance bridgehead into Continental Europe with the Our solvency and economic capital requirement sheet supported by prudent management of acquisitions of Fortis Corporate Insurance and is driven by our catastrophe exposures and the investments.
This enabled us to pay an Anglo French Underwriters now Amlin Europe, potential for very extreme events.
With this, uncovered dividend after the exceptional and the start-up of Amlin Re Europe, has been non or less catastrophe exposed business can catastrophe claims of 2011, while remaining aimed at providing a balance to the organic be written with little, if any, additional capital well capitalised to take advantage of requirement.
Therefore, the margin achieved growth potential of our strong catastrophe opportunities for profitable growth.
The high volatility classes on such business is likely to be enhancing to the strategy, the people and the capital in return on equity.
Amlin Re Europes business, represented 51.5% of gross written premium in place to grow significantly as the trading for example, has not dramatically increased the 2012, close to the level in 2005. environment improves.
Amlins portfolio analysed by volatility of business lines 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 Low Remaining classes High top 30 Medium Middle 30 Note: Modelled classes ranked using a capital allocated by percentile layer technique and accumulated in three broad categories for high, medium and low volatility.
