Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration received The remuneration received in respect of the year ended 31 December 2012 by each of the Directors, excluding pension contributions and long-term incentive plan payments, is shown in the table on the previous page.
In addition, Richard Hextall received and retained a non-executive directors fee of 27,000 from the City of London Investment Trust PLC 2011: 27,000 and Simon Beale received a fee of 32,725 from the Council of Lloyds which was paid over to the Company.
Where applicable, the amounts shown as paid to Non-Executive Directors include fees paid by or on behalf of the Companys subsidiaries.
The total fees and salaries received in 2012 by Simon Beale, Brian Carpenter, Richard Hextall and Charles Philipps increased by 15.9%, 3.0%, 7.4% and 2.8% respectively over 2011.
Richard Hextalls and Simon Beales basic salaries have been increased to reflect the increased responsibilities that they have assumed during the year.
In the case of Richard Hextall, in addition to his finance director role, he has assumed responsibility for both operations, IT and the actuarial functions in Amlins Corporate Centre.
The increase to Richard Hextalls salary is being staggered with a 7% increase that took effect on the change in role in 2012 and a second increase of 7.5%, which includes the annual review that will apply from 1 April 2013.
In the case of Simon Beale, his salary has increased to reflect his wider responsibilities upon becoming Group Chief Underwriting Officer: to bring his pay closer to the median paid for similar roles within the market: and to compensate him for the proposed loss of performance related elements of his remuneration package upon assuming his new role.
For 2013 Simon Beale will be unable to participate in the Profit Commission and Capital Builder schemes.
Elements of executive remuneration Elements of executive remuneration Fixed Annual performance Longer-term Fixed Annual performance Longer-term 1 3 2 4 Underwriters Salary and benefits Pensions 1 Profit Commission 3 LTIP awards Capital Builder Plan All employee SIP 2Profit Commission Underwriters Salary and benefits Pensions Profit Commission LTIP awards Capital Builder Plan All employee SIP Profit 1 2 4 Non-underwriters Salary and benefits Pensions Bonus LTIP awards Performance Share Plan All employee SIP Commission 1 2 Note: Non-underwriters Salary and benefits Pensions Bonus LTIP awards Performance Share Plan All employee SIP 1.
Pension provision is Defined Contribution or a combination of Defined Benefit and Defined Contribution.
Share Incentive Plan allocation of up to 3,000 of shares per annum.
Profit award element 3 Performance award element Sizes of boxes are for illustration only and do not reflect typical proportionate values.
Profit award element Sizes of boxes are for illustration only and do not reflect typical proportionate values.
depending on seniority, age and the percentage commitments in respect of DB pensions are Fixed of salary if any that the employee chooses to set out in note 32 to the Accounts.
The DB Salary and benefits contribute.
The maximum total DC employer employee contribution rates, as a percentage of Details of the policy on base salary can be contribution made for any Director in 2012, for pensionable salary, are 5% in the UK, 6% in the found on page 86, and the remuneration a Director with only DC contributions and aged Netherlands, 7% Singapore, 15% Switzerland received by each Executive Director is shown on over 50, was 10.3% of base salary 2011: 9.8%.
In 2011 a salary sacrifice option was introduced rates vary according to actuarial advice in order Non performance-related benefits to which for UK employees in respect of employee DC to deliver the promised levels of pension.
The Executive Directors and other employees are pension contributions, with the consequential employer contribution rate for the main UK generally entitled are private health insurance, employer NIC saving being shared equally scheme is currently 16% 2011: 19%.
cover for death in service and permanent between the Group and an additional payment disability, and a choice of other benefits, such Annual performance into the employees DC pension.
From April as subsidised gym membership, private dental Annual bonus scheme Group Bonus Scheme 2011, those Directors and other UK staff who costs, etc.
Senior staff, including Executive For those Executive Directors and other exceeded the 50,000 UK annual pension tax Directors, also receive a car allowance.
employees who are not directly involved in relief allowance were given the option to underwriting activities, the Groups shorter-term convert the excess into a non-pensionable Pensions performance incentive is a cash bonus scheme.
taxable allowance, adjusted for employer The Company pays a percentage of base salary The Group Bonus scheme rewards and contributions, to ensure it is cost neutral to into a Group occupational and or a stakeholder incentivises participants against a mixture of the Group.
Directors reaching lifetime pension pension plan.
Executive Directors participate in business performance, measured by reference limits received cash payments in lieu of pension the relevant Group pension plans on the same to the Groups and, depending on the position as noted in the Directors pension details on basis as other senior employees.
Pensionable of the employee, the relevant entities return page 87. salary is base salary only.
The Group has both on equity ROE compared with target returns defined contribution DC and defined benefit DB The DB schemes for UK and Belgium staff have set by the Committee at the beginning of schemes.
At the year end, 405 out of the Groups been closed to new entrants since 1998, and each year, and the individuals performance, total employees of 1,707 were accruing any September 2009 respectively.
Amlin Europe measured against agreed stretching personal element of DB pension.
These included 59 out of Netherlands DB scheme remains open for objectives.
The mix of business and individual 1,267 staff in the UK, Singapore, Switzerland and qualifying new employees.
Remaining active DB bonus elements varies by seniority, with 70% Bermuda 2011: 61 out of 1,021 and 346 out members of the UK scheme continue to accrue of the potential target reward at the most senior of 427 at Amlin Europe 2011: 345 out of 422. additional years service under the schemes but role levels, including participating Executive DB participants included two of the four generally only based on 2006 pensionable Directors, being rewarded on Group Executive Directors.
salaries, with salary increases from April 2006 business performance and 30% on personal onwards being pensioned through DC In respect of DC pensions, the Group performance.
The total Target and maximum arrangements.
Further details of the Groups contributes a percentage of base salary bonus levels also increase with seniority.
84 84 Performance Strategic overview Governance Financial statements Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements For 2012 the Executive Directors scale was Profit Commission PC annual award over shares valued on grant at 75% for on-target performance, rising to a The PC is a shorter-term incentive for more than 100% of base salary.
potential maximum of 165% of base salary if both underwriters, which consists of a cash profit During 2012 the maximum such value was the Group business and personal performance share in respect of each underwriting year.
awarded to the Chief Executive and the Group elements were to reach their maxima.
Richard Participants are from the UK and Bermudian Finance & Operations Director.
Once the Hextall and Charles Philipps both received a total businesses and are formed of senior employees, vesting level is determined after five years, bonus payment of 139.65% of salary.
which include certain Executive Directors of in accordance with the performance condition, Amlin plc.
PC is paid on an underwriting year For Directors and those at other senior and provided the relevant participant is still basis, usually partly related to the business management levels, any element of payment employed by the Group, an award can be unit in which the relevant participant works of annual bonus that is above the base salary exercised within the following 30 months.
In and partly to wider Syndicate 2001 and Amlin maximum percentage for the relevant certain restricted or exceptional circumstances, Bermuda underwriting performance.
management level for example, 120% for and with the agreement of the Committee, Executive Directors will be deferred for three The structure of the PC comprise of two an early leaver may be able to exercise early years from the usual date of payment.
Total elements: Profit award and Performance award.
on a pro rata basis subject to a performance or partial claw-back of such deferred cash bonus The Profit award is made up of a profit pool, condition measurement over the shorter period will also apply in the event of either the consisting of two elements: business unit award to the leaving date.
Committee finding that a participant has not 50% of profit pool and divisional award 50% PSP performance condition complied with internal standards or controls of profit pool.
Amlin UK participants The extent to which PSP awards vest depends or has caused reputational damage to the are eligible only for the divisional award based on a sliding scale of the Groups average annual Company: or if any results or accounts on which on 100% of the profit pool.
The Performance post tax return on net tangible assets Return the bonus was based proves to be incorrect or is award is calculated on a combination of on NTA over the ensuing five years.
This required to be re-stated.
Provisions also apply Group and personal performance during the absolute performance measure balances the whereby a leaver during the three-year deferral Groups accounting year as measured against relative measures of the Groups Long Term period will forfeit the deferred bonus, unless they pre-determined targets.
PC payments are Incentive Plan.
The average return is calculated leave for one of a number of specified good capped as a percentage of annual salary, based after five years, with no re-testing.
The targets leaver reasons, including circumstances agreed on job role, and a retrospective loss clause is and scales may vary with each grant at the by the Committee to be exceptional.
In view of incorporated to ensure any loss in one year discretion of the Committee but the scale for the material potential long-term share-based is offset against profits in another year.
all of the grants to date is as detailed in this incentive component in all senior executive PC is calculated over a thirty-six-month report on page 88. remuneration, the Committee believes that this period from the start of the underwriting year.
The Committee may make adjustments to degree of deferment and potential clawback of Payments for this are paid in two tranches with take account of variations in capital and similar annual cash bonus payments provides an the first 30% of the estimated payment made matters.
In the event of the Company being appropriate overall balance between immediate in the year following the year of account: and subject to a takeover or similar event before the and deferred performance-related pay, and a further payment of 70% of the estimated normal vesting date, vesting will take place to between payment in cash and in shares.
payment is made in the second year following the extent that the Committee is satisfied that The Committee sets thresholds for the business the year of account.
the performance condition has been satisfied performance element of the bonus potential on Employees based in Switzerland participate in up to that early vesting date, with the an annual basis.
The thresholds set vary over a separate local scheme which is operated on proportion of the award which vests also the insurance cycle and the Committee believes a similar basis as the UK PC scheme.
The Swiss depending on the time that has elapsed since that lower thresholds are appropriate when PC is based on an accounting GAAP year basis.
insurance market margins are low and higher Eligible employees in Amlin Europe participate in Capital Builder Plan thresholds are appropriate when margins are an annual bonus scheme, for which underwriting higher.
The Committee also has regard to the The Amlin Capital Builder Plan 2006 Plan is participants includes a performance measure anticipated investment returns.
designed to reward senior underwriters if they against underwriting profitability.
exceed long-term target underwriting returns Basis of Directors Group Bonus Scheme over rolling five-year performance periods.
The Longer-term performance rewards business performance payments Committee believes that the Capital Builder Performance Share Plan 2012 2011 Plan is a significant retention and recruitment The Amlin Performance Share Plan 2004 PSP Minimum payment tool for those underwriters who are likely to is intended to aid the recruitment, retention, ROE threshold 6% 5% be most significant in determining the Groups motivation and reward of a small number of key 1 Plan ROE 12% 10% underwriting profitability and development over senior executives who are not underwriters, Maximum payment each performance period.
Awards have been including relevant Executive Directors.
Awards ROE threshold 22% 18% made under the Plan to between 50 and 60 have been made each year since 2004.
During participants from Amlin London, Amlin UK, Total ROE achieved the year awards were made to a total of 2 Amlin AG and Amlin Bermuda in 2006 to 2012 for year 18.4% 9.05 % 27 participants 2011: 24 over an aggregate inclusive and are intended to be made on a of 968,510 shares 2011: 697,807.
The Note: similar basis in 2013.
Figure amended to provide like-for-like comparator on Committee intends to continue making similar a year on year basis.
discretionary annual awards, although the Payments under the Plan may be made at the 2.
The ROE used is adjusted by the Committee to remove the effects of final dividends being included in opening criteria for inclusion may vary.
The rules of the Companys discretion in either cash or shares shareholders equity and of foreign exchange items PSP provide that no individual may receive an and have a cap of 1 million on the total relating to hedging.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 85 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 85 Directors remuneration report continued amount that may be paid to a participant in Awards may be made each year at the levels to build up interests in the Company at respect of each rolling five-year performance discretion of the Committee, based on seniority an acceptable accounting and administrative period.
Payments will be made over the two and with no individual receiving awards over cost to the Company.
years after the end of each performance period.
shares having a market value on grant in excess Executive Directors service contracts The first payment under the current Plan, in of 100% of annual base salary or, exceptionally, The dates of the service or employment respect of the performance period 2006 to 200% for a senior new recruit.
In 2012 the contracts of each Director who served as an 2010, was made in 2011.
This payment was maximum such value awarded was 100% of executive during the year, all of which are with up to 70% of each pool allocated, with the base salary to the Executive Directors.
Once the the Companys subsidiary, Amlin Corporate balance paid in 2012.
Payments in respect of vesting level is determined after three years, Services Limited, are as stated below.
Salaries the performance period 2007 to 2011 were and provided the relevant participant is still have been periodically reviewed since the payable in 2012 based on the results to the end employed by the Group, awards are exercisable original contract dates, with the current annual of 2011 with a further payment to be made in within the following 30 months.
The LTIPs base salaries as at the date of this report being 2013.
Further payments under the Plan will be provisions are similar to those of the PSP, as as stated below.
made in respect of performance period 2008 referred to above, on such matters as early to 2012, in 2013. leavers and variations in capital.
Directors service contracts and current salaries Annual Date of current Amlin Long Term Incentive Plan 2006 LTIP Executive share option schemes base salary at service or The LTIP replaced grants of executive share Executive share options were granted at the employment 31 December contract 2012 options from 2007 onwards.
Both senior discretion of the Committee under the underwriters and senior non-underwriters, Approved and Unapproved Amlin Executive S C W Beale 7 Nov 1994 385,000 including Executive Directors, participate in Share Option Schemes each year from 1997 B D Carpenter 17 Feb 1997 350,200 the LTIP.
Awards were made in 2012 to to 2006 to Executive Directors and other R A Hextall 26 Nov 1999 465,000 118 participants in all parts of the Group staff whether underwriters or not above C E L Philipps 20 Feb 1997 580,000 2011: 108, over a total of shares 2,208,380 a certain level of seniority, and were subject 2011: 1,648,895. to performance conditions.
No further grants All of the contracts remain in force at the date can be made.
of this report and are on a full-time basis.
The The LTIPs primary performance condition is a contracts provide for 12 months notice of relative TSR measure.
The precise performance All-employee share plans termination by either party.
There are no special conditions are set by the Committee at each The Company offers HM Revenue and Customs provisions for compensation on termination award.
For all the awards made to date the approved Sharesave options, the current plan in any Directors contract other than that the extent to which awards vest depends on the having been adopted in 2008 with a ten year employer has the right to pay salary in lieu Companys TSR over the ensuing three years life for new grants.
An annual offer was made of any required period of notice.
Executive relative to an index of TSRs.
Sharesave offers are made Directors service or employment contracts considers that TSR remains the most under the plan to staff in all jurisdictions where are available for inspection at the Companys appropriate measure of performance.
local tax and regulation makes this practicable registered office.
without amending the plan, which does not The constituents of the index for the 2012 include Continental Europe.
The 2012 awards were: Axa, Hannover Ruckversicherung Shareholding targets Sharesave offer was open to all applicable AG.
Royal An objective was set when the LTIP was employees who were employed by the Group Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc, SCOR S. E, introduced in 2006 that Executive Directors on 2 July 2012.
Exercises are not subject to Swiss Re, Zurich Financial Services Limited, would retain or build up shareholdings in the any performance condition.
Since 2007 the Beazley plc, Catlin Group Limited, Hardy Company to the value of at least 125% of their Company has also operated a HM Revenue Underwriting Group plc, Hiscox plc, Novae base salaries and other senior executives to the and Customs approved all employee Share Group plc, Ace Group, Alterra Capital Holdings value of at least 50%.
The shareholdings of all Incentive Plan SIP allowing offers of shares Limited, Argo Group International Holdings the Executive Directors were above the target at no cost to employees.
Such free shares are Limited, Chubb Corporation, Everest Re Group throughout 2012, mostly by a substantial offered or allocated to all Group staff meeting Limited, Fairfax Financial Holdings Limited, margin.
Of the other senior executives covered an employment qualification period.
The Markel Corporation, PartnerRe Limited, by the policy the Group Management Committee has a policy of making an award RenaissanceRe Holdings Limited, Validus Committee, all those who have been with the of free shares each year, on an equal basis to Holdings Limited, White Mountains Insurance Group since 2006 have met their shareholding all eligible Executive Directors and staff subject Group Limited, W. R. Berkley Corporation and targets and the rest are expected to do so as to a pro rata adjustment, where permitted, for XL Group plc.
Three companies in the incentive plans vest.
The targets were reviewed part time employees, subject to the annual comparator group, Hardy Underwriting Group, by the Committee during the year and reresults.
The quantum, between nil and the Chaucer Holdings and Transatlantic Holdings affirmed as remaining appropriate.
The annual maximum level of 3,000 worth of Incorporated, delisted.
Committee believes that the combination of shares per employee, is decided in the light of these shareholdings and the structure of Irrespective of relative TSR, no award will vest the ROE achieved in the previous year.
In 2012 performance incentives continue to ensure that unless the Committee is satisfied that the no award was made, reflecting 2011s ROE the interests of management and shareholders Companys financial performance over the being lower than the minimum threshold.
in the success of the Company are closely performance period has been satisfactory.
Reflecting 2012s ROE, an award of 2,000 is aligned.
Details of the Directors holdings in the The performance period is always a single expected to be made to all eligible employees Company may be found on page 92. three-year period with no provision for in 2013.
The Committee considers that the re-testing the performance conditions.
plans are successful in encouraging staff at all 86 86
