Market review continued Marine & Aviation Despite a record market loss from the sinking of the cruise ship Costa Concordia, the marine market benefited from little increase in pricing, although there were some signs of improvement in the Benelux marine market.
Aviation and Amlin Europes marine portfolio continued to operate in competitive conditions.
is mainly written by specialist mutuals called P&I leader in cargo.
In Belgium, Amlin Europe Introduction Clubs, with those based in the UK and the Nordic underwrites specialist commodities The global marine market provides insurance for region accounting for approximately 90% of ECTIQ|DWUKPGUU hull, cargo, marine liability, energy and related premiums.
Global marine premiums accounted for Amlin is a well-respected aviation underwriter, approximately $32 billion in 2011.
Lloyds and The aviation market provides specialist cover for offering expertise across the aviation and other London insurers form one of the largest a wide range of risks including airlines, airports, aerospace sectors.
Amlins aviation portfolio marine markets, underwriting approximately 10% general aviation and satellites.
includes global airline operators and their lessors, and 18% of global cargo and hull premiums aviation products manufacturers, service Amlins market position and products respectively, and just over 58% of global offshore providers, air traffic controllers and airports.
1 Amlin is a major insurer in the global marine energy premium.
Other regional centres for Amlin also underwrites general aviation risks market, with combined gross written premium marine insurance include the Nordic region, the including small aircraft and specialist aerospace for Amlin London and Amlin Europes marine Netherlands and Japan.
Marine liability insurance insurance for satellites.
Amlin sources its Marine & Aviation business Amlin London, through Syndicate 2001, writes mainly through brokers and other intermediaries.
2012 Marine & Aviation GWP by class a diverse marine portfolio.
This includes an international hull book with a balance between 3% 5% larger blue water accounts and niche areas 6% such as fishing vessels, as well as a worldwide cargo account.
Amlin also underwrites a broad energy 10% portfolio and specialises in insuring risks associated with the exploration and production phases of the energy industry, as well as the construction of new 13% 63% offshore platforms and facilities.
Other areas of expertise include a wide range of marine liability risks from ship owners, charterers and shipyards to port and terminal owners.
Marine insurance War Amlins energy liability portfolio comprises oil and Energy Bloodstock gas risks associated with world wide exploration Aviation insurance Specie and production companies.
Amlin offers cover for Source: Amlin marine contractual liability, pollution risks and other liability risks.
War and political risks 2012 GWP Marine by class insurance is also written.
Amlin is a leading insurer of yachts ranging in size and value from small pleasure boats to 22% super yachts of over 30 metres in length and up 30% to $150 million in value.
Specialist yacht cover underwritten by Syndicate 2001 is sourced through Amlin service companies Haven 11% Knox-Johnston for smaller craft and Lead Yacht for super-yachts.
12% Amlin Europe is a market leader in marine 25% insurance in the Benelux region.
In the Dutch market, Amlin Europe writes a diverse regional Cargo Yacht and international account with a focus on Hull Other specialist inland and coastal risks such as Liability dredging, lifting and salvage and is also a market Source: Amlin Note: 1.
IUMI 2012 Global Marine Insurance Report, September 2012: 2011 data.
38 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Market commentary Strategic development Market conditions and pricing varied between Amlin London and Amlin Europe continued to the London and Benelux markets and between co-operate closely on the re-underwriting of Amlin different classes.
The impact of the sinking of Europes marine portfolio, which was largely cruise ship Costa Concordia in January 2012, completed during the year.
As well as nonwhich is expected to generate the worst ever loss renewal or renegotiation of underperforming to the international marine market of more than marine business, there was also a focus on $1 billion, was the most significant market loss achieving a more balanced risk profile and event during the year.
However, it had only a reducing the overall volatility of Amlin Europes modest impact on pricing due to oversupply of marine portfolio.
Through the Marine & Aviation capacity in the market.
Amlins share of the Practice Board, Amlin London and Amlin Europe %QUVC %QPEQTFKC NQUU KU|GUVKOCVGF CV OKNNKQP formally agreed procedures to ensure that writing PGV QH|TGKPUWTCPEG of business is co-ordinated between the London and Benelux markets and that new business Pricing on Amlin Londons marine portfolio opportunities for either business are jointly reflected its diversity, with varying trends but with KFGPVKHKGF CPF|GZRNQKVGF margins remaining good in hull, energy and yacht business.
Offshore energy rates for Amlins The management team of Amlin Europe was portfolio were flat, having increased by 6.3% in further strengthened with the appointment of 2011, following the Deepwater Horizon and Bert Nelen as European President Marine, Maersk Gryphon losses.
Yacht business saw a responsible for the development of Amlin modest overall increase of 1.3%, while war and Europes marine business.
specie classes experienced decreases of 2.7% Further comment on the performance of Amlin and 1.5% respectively.
Conditions in the global London and Amlin Europe can be found on pages aviation and aerospace segment also remained CPF competitive, with little overall change in a weak pricing environment.
Amlin Europes marine operation continued to experience a challenging trading environment in a competitive local market.
However, there was some withdrawal of capacity from the Dutch marine market during the year, as competitors reacted to poor results.
Amlin Europes marine portfolio had an overall rate increase of 0.6%.
