Our investment case 10 key strengths 1.
Strong franchise supported D[|HKTUV ENCUU ENKGPV UGTXKEG Amlins underwriting approach is highly Amlins underwriters are supported by disciplined and focused on gross a|team of seasoned professionals in Amlins Vision is to be the global reference underwriting profitability before specialist disciplines including claims, point for quality in each of our markets.
investment income and reinsurance risk management, actuarial, catastrophe The strength of our franchise is based on across the insurance cycle, rather modelling, investments and finance.
access to expert underwriters and speed than|targeting premium income or of response combined with fair, timely and Senior managers average years market share.
This is underpinned by equitable claims settlement.
The value of QH|KPFWUVT[ GZRGTKGPEG incentive structures which reward our long-standing relationships with underwriters for consistent profitability.
brokers and clients is reflected in consistently high business retention.
25 Amlin Group average combined Group retention ratio 2012 ratio 2008 2012 4.
A diverse and balanced portfolio 84% 87% Amlins portfolio balances high margin but volatile catastrophe underwriting with 6.
Underwriting excellence lower margin and less volatile business.
significant scope for growth Amlins unique underwriting culture This diversity, combined with profitable Our balance sheet strength makes Amlin is|founded on the expertise of our cross-cycle underwriting, reduces earnings a preferred market for major brokers and underwriters, who have built and volatility and enables more effective cycle clients.
Amlins strong capital position refined|quality portfolios over many years.
This enhances quality of underpins our ability to attract and retain As Amlin has grown, this experienced and earnings and capital efficiency, as well as the best quality business, support organic stable team has been further enhanced offering a broad range of opportunities growth and fund longer term strategic by the addition of high|calibre senior for growth in different territories and investments in new ventures.
underwriters and management through classes of|business.
The strength Equity and long term debt Major classes of business written of|Amlins underwriting capabilities provide .
1,902m 30 Average turnover of senior underwriters 2008 2012 2.5% 8 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements 7.
Cross-cycle track record QH|QWVRGTHQTOCPEG Our flexible approach to capital Amlins enterprise risk management management ensures that Amlin framework is recognised by regulators Amlins business model is focused on maintains the capital strength to and rating agencies as market leading.
delivering an average return on equity withstand major catastrophe claims It|enables us to manage risk effectively of at least 15% across the insurance and|exploit opportunities for profitable and optimise return for the risks that cycle.
Over the past ten years we have growth, while delivering excellent returns we|take, ensuring that we utilise capital delivered a weighted average return for investors.
Understanding and efficiently across the business.
As well as on|equity of 18.0% and cumulative managing the level of capital required, enhancing returns, this risk management profit after tax of 1,778.0 million.
The adjusting the level of equity and debt capability will be important under business is well positioned to|continue employed across the cycle to enhance Solvency II regulation.
this strong performance through further returns and support growth, and profitable growth.
Average net claims ratio returning surplus capital to shareholders Total shareholder return 2008 2012 are key aspects of this strategy.
A dynamic approach to 611.5m managing investment risk Amlins disciplined and responsive approach to investment management has delivered consistently robust returns|in more stable financial markets.
In current difficult markets our focus on risk appetite rather than a target return is crucial.
Simple average % outperformance of peer group investment return over last five years 0.9% Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 9
