Market review continued PVGTPCVKQPCN 2TQRGTV[ |%CUWCNV[ International property pricing continued its gradual upward trend after the exceptional loss activity experienced in 2011 and was given renewed impetus in the US by Hurricane Sandy.
Lower investment returns, claims ination and poor results also continued to support a modest improvement in casualty|pricing.
Introduction Amlins market position and products Market commentary The international property and casualty market Amlin London writes property and casualty The US property market was again affected by provides coverage for a wide range of risks which insurance lines through Syndicate 2001, focused significant loss activity in 2012.
Overall insured are typically commercial, large and complex, on five principal areas: property, casualty, losses for the US market are estimated at $58 requiring specialist underwriting and individually accident and health, professional lines and auto.
billion, compared to the 2000 to 2011 average tailored cover.
The US surplus lines market is the US risks account for the majority of the portfolio, loss of $27 billion in 2012 dollars.
While some largest single source of property and casualty although business is written globally.
$25 billion of this estimate is attributable to business and the Lloyds market is an important Hurricane Sandy, insured losses from tornadoes The property account, which is the largest by source of capacity and expertise for this market, and thunderstorm events exceeded $14 billion, premium written, comprises a wide range of risks, 2 underwriting approximately 19% of total US despite a quieter year for tornadoes than in 2011. from small to very large commercial property 1 surplus lines premiums in 2011.
Capacity is also Severe drought also caused significant crop and industrial plants, including power generation, provided by major international insurers and insurance claims and contributed to damaging utilities, mining and petrochemical facilities.
Amlin sources its business wildfires.
The impact of these losses, combined portfolio is written with the aim of achieving from Lloyds brokers and international brokers with lower investment returns, claims inflation territorial diversification.
and poor recent results contributed to a continued Casualty lines written include medical overall improvement in US property and casualty 2012 International P&C GWP by class malpractice, errors and omissions, workmens pricing, with an average increase across the 3 compensation, automobile liability and directors market of 5% as shown in the chart below.
The personal accident 9% Rates for Amlins property insurance portfolio account consists of direct business, written both increased by 6% in the first half of 2012, with on a facultative and delegated authority basis, 9% approximately 71% of business written in this and a treaty account, written on a pro-rata and period.
Rates then showed signs of weakening, an excess of loss basis.
In professional lines, before Hurricane Sandy restored stability to 54% Amlin provides cover for mid-size to large law pricing, giving an increase for the full year of 6.7%.
firms, architects and engineers, consultants and 23% other professions.
In auto classes, Amlin offers a Rates for loss affected territories such as wide range of specialist products, including Thailand, Australia and New Zealand increased automobile physical damage, dealers open lot, more significantly, creating opportunities for motor truck cargo, logging forestry, construction new business growth.
In other market sectors Property Accident & Health and comprehensive cover.
Excess of loss and such as accident and health and auto insurance Casualty Special risks proportional reinsurance is also offered by the the market remained stable and rates were Auto Professional lines casualty including professional liability, accident generally flat.
Source: Amlin and health and auto teams.
AM Bests rating of Lloyds 2012, August 2012.
Munich Re, US Natural Catastrophe Update, January 2013.
6 15.9 9 97.5 7.5 14.3 Strategic development During 2012, Amlin London recruited a senior underwriter with twenty five years experience in international casualty business, with the objective of further diversifying Amlins casualty account by building a non-US portfolio of casualty risks including municipal, utilities, transportation, mining, construction and onshore oil and gas.
The leadership of Amlins International Property & Casualty business unit changed during the year following the departure of the previous head Duncan Dale.
Duncan was succeeded by Mark Clements, a long-standing senior underwriter within the Amlin London team.
The International Property & Casualty Practice Board is scheduled to begin operating in 2013.
During 2012, its terms of reference and members were agreed.
Further comment on the performance of Amlin London can be found on page 48.
US Property Market combined ratio return on equity ROE Combined % ratio 110 18 105 15 100 12 95 9 90 6 85 3 80 0 1978 1979 2003 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Combined ratio left hand scale ROE right hand scale R R Source: Marketscout Barometer Insurance Information Institute.
