Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Outlook Earnings momentum Overall we continue to experience a satisfactory trading environment.
Although the diversity of our business across classes and platforms means that market conditions vary across the portfolio, we anticipate that all Amlins major business units should be capable of delivering an improved performance in 2013.
In Continental Europe, insurance pricing is Underwriting environment Investment markets broadly flat, with some signs of less intense In January 2013, approximately 39% of the Whilst structural issues remain a headwind to competition in the Benelux marine market.
The Groups expected 2013 gross written premium global economic growth, we believe that growth is re-underwriting of Amlin Europes marine renewed.
The average rate increase was 1.2% more sustainable in 2013 than in the past few portfolio is now complete and this is reflected in a compared to 4.0% at the start of 2012.
In the US, the housing market is starting to more stable and lower claims ratio.
For 2013, a recover, which will have a positive impact on job slowdown reflects the non-recurrence of the more efficient reinsurance structure for Amlin substantial catastrophe reinsurance rate rises creation and household wealth and, therefore, Europe was developed, yielding savings which consumer spending.
This should help to cushion seen at the start of 2012, after the multiple will benefit margins.
Improving Amlin Europes catastrophe losses of 2011.
Nevertheless, the the impact of fiscal tightening.
The economic expense ratio will be a major focus in 2013, outlook for Europe and China also looks to be impact of Hurricane Sandy maintained the although the effect of actions taken may take strength in US catastrophe reinsurance pricing, improving, albeit European growth is likely to be some time to come through to results.
only marginally positive this year.
This background which for Amlins portfolio increased by 4.2% in However, the material integration costs, should be supportive for equities.
International catastrophe rates 2012: 20.6 million latterly relating to systems concerned about the prospect for bond yields to also largely remained at the higher levels integration, will not be repeated in 2013. rise and retain a defensive duration position.
Amlin Re Europe now has a substantial and well Summary An influx of capital into the retrocession market diversified portfolio, with a high quality client during 2012 drove rates down and enabled us to Investment markets remain challenging and we base.
While the rate of premium growth is renew our retrocession programme at lower FQ PQV UGG VJKU CU CP QRRQTVWPG VKOG VQ CFF|TKUM slowing, as the business consolidates its initial premiums with significantly lower retentions.
This in pursuit of higher returns.
Amlins longgrowth phase, profitability should continue to YKNN HWTVJGT DGPGHKV UVTQPI TGKPUWTCPEG|OCTIKPU standing focus on underwriting profit without improve in 2013 as more premium is earned.
reliance on investment returns stands us in Hurricane Sandy has given additional impetus to Overall, we anticipate more than 10% growth in good stead, but in this lower margin the modest upturn in US direct property gross written premium for the Group in 2013. environment we are nevertheless focused on insurance pricing seen during 2012, particularly Capital and risk management enhancing efficiency across the Group and for large direct and facultative property lines, expense control remains a priority.
The stronger earnings of 2012 have further which were significantly impacted by Hurricane strengthened Amlins balance sheet and the Sandy claims.
We have already seen an increase The Group is benefiting from recent investments Group is well positioned to support business in surplus lines business volumes into the in areas where stronger pricing is enabling expansion and our progressive dividend policy.
London market, and we expect this to continue, profitable growth, particularly in Amlin UK.
creating new business opportunities for Amlin The upward trend in US property and casualty With constant changes in the reinsurance and rates will create further opportunities which our Londons Property & Casualty team as particularly the retrocessional markets, we loss-affected business renews and brokers seek Amlin London Property & Casualty team is well continue to adjust our reinsurance purchases placed to develop.
to access more London capacity.
US casualty according to appetite and availability.
We carry out pricing is also showing gradual improvement, a variety of analyses of our portfolios and past loss In 2013, we anticipate further improvement in which should be sustained given the mounting experience to ensure that we purchase cost the performance of Amlin Europe and Amlin Re pressure of lower investment returns on margins effective reinsurances, providing protection to Europe.
Increased earnings from these for longer tail business.
balance sheet and profit and loss accounts at both businesses, with their relatively low exposure to Group and entity levels.
Given the recent growth catastrophe risk, will further enhance capital We anticipate further increases in UK motor fleet of Amlin, a division or business unit may require efficiency across the Group, as well as creating pricing, as competitors continue to withdraw reinsurance cover which is beyond that required by scope to increase the Groups appetite for capacity in response to poor results.
This has been facilitated by the use of catastrophe risk.
improvement in commercial property rates has Amber Re a part of Amlin Bermuda which takes been less marked, but consistent.
As the market With a strong balance sheet and excellent broker co-insurance of programmes for the Amlin Group.
offers more growth opportunities, Amlin UK is franchise, Amlin is very well positioned to take benefiting from previous investment in this area.
The Group also continues to benefit from the advantage of higher catastrophe margins as a Liability lines are also moving upward.
With insurance linked catastrophe bond of $150 market leader in catastrophe underwriting.
higher income, better margins and the million, placed into the capital markets at the momentum provided by growth in previous years, end of 2011.
This helps provide greater Amlin UK is well positioned to deliver a stronger protection against severity and frequency of RGTHQTOCPEG KP| ECVCUVTQRJG|GXGPVU Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 53
