Directors remuneration report continued to have first-class employment practices, in the Groups businesses in France and 6JG %QOOKVVGG contributing to Amlin being the place to Switzerland operate on a similar basis to that Committee members work for high-quality people in its sector.
of the UK, maintaining an appropriate balance The Committees membership comprises at This requires levels and structures of between local and existing Amlin practices.
least two independent Non-Executive Directors remuneration that are appropriate to attract, During late 2012 and early 2013 Amlin Europe in accordance with the Committee Terms of retain, incentivise and reward the high-calibre discussed a revised remuneration policy to Reference.
With effect from 1 January 2013 talent that is required for the success of comply with the voluntary Insurance Code as Julie Chakraverty was appointed a member the Group: set out by the Dutch Insurance Industry and the of the Committee.
fide Nederlandsche Bank regulations, which was to reward management focus on financial adopted with effect from 1 January 2013.
Advice to the Committee measures, such as return on equity, risk and During 2012, the Committee had access to underwriting returns, and on longer-term In all spheres of operation, the Committee aims advice from: objectives, such as underwriting cycle to keep the practices of its competitors under management, and the attainment of the review and believes that, as market and Amlins Internal to the Group: Groups Vision: and own practices evolve, it is important to ensure Chairman of the Company Roger Taylor succeeded that remuneration structures continue to when determining remuneration, the by Richard Davey support the Groups competitive advantage.
Committee will take into account pay and Chief Executive Charles Philipps employment conditions elsewhere in the Group HR Director Mark Farrow External influence Group and in the sector.
Company Secretary Mark Stevens Throughout the year the Committee kept under review any emerging regulatory and market Chief Risk Officer James Illingworth During the year the Committee discussed the practices.
The Committees approach, as well potential changes required to the Group as complying with the principles, codes and Remuneration Policy following the publication External to the Group: regulations that apply to Amlin, continues to be of the BIS consultation on Narrative Reporting New Bridge Street consultants to consider the rationale and analysis behind and Executive Remuneration, and considered The Committees independent remuneration other proposals, that may not strictly apply to the action required to address the points likely adviser is New Bridge Street consultants NBS, Amlin, on their merits and to consider voluntary to be raised once the final legislation is drafted.
which advises the Committee on structuring application where and when appropriate.
1XGTCNN TGOWPGTCVKQP NGXGNU and utilisation of the Groups performance- 1XGTCNN UVTWEVWTG QH &KTGEVQTUo CPF Amlins key remuneration strategy is to ensure related incentives and on remuneration policy that base salaries across all categories of staff GORNQ[GGUo TGOWPGTCVKQP generally.
NBS also provides advice on will be determined by the job, market rate and The remuneration of all Executive Directors remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
personal performance with the market rate consists of three principal elements: 1 base NBS operates independently within the Aon plc having regard to the median for the appropriate salary, benefits and pension contributions: 2 group of companies, which also has certain market.
Variable pay will be designed so that short-term performance rewards on an annual trading relationships with the Companys top quartile performance will be rewarded with or underwriting year basis : and 3 longer-term subsidiaries.
NBS is a signatory to the top quartile remuneration.
In determining performance rewards measured over threeor Remuneration Consultants Group Code of individuals remuneration, the Group takes five-year performance periods.
A copy of the statement regarding account of remuneration statistics for the noncase for other senior executives throughout the relationship with NBS is published on the life insurance sector in which the Group the Group although the balance between the Companys website.
operates and, where applicable for certain three elements varies according to seniority The Committee is exclusively responsible for the roles, wider remuneration statistics.
review, selection and appointment of its advisers.
This policy of aiming to encourage and Underwriters and other senior executives below Remuneration strategy reward superior, rather than merely average, main Board level are also eligible to receive The aim of Amlins remuneration strategy is performance is considered the most appropriate significant proportions of their total to support its vision and strategic objectives.
to support the success of the Group.
Salaries are remuneration as performance-related benefits.
Amlins Group Remuneration Policy comprises generally reviewed as at 1 April each year.
Pay Following the review of senior non-underwriters of guiding principles and policies which are and employment conditions of employees and remuneration in 2009, the Committee believes applicable to the Group as a whole.
The wider associate undertakings were also taken into that the overall balance between fixed and Committee regularly reviews the policy to consideration in determining Board remuneration.
performance rewards is appropriate and no ensure that the Groups remuneration practices In the UK, remuneration for underwriters further changes were made in this respect continue to be in the interest of the Company and those performing other technical insurancein 2012.
A review of senior underwriters and its shareholders.
The main objectives of related roles is strongly influenced by the remuneration is proposed as part of the the policy are: Lloyds sector.
Lloyds underwriting businesses overall Group remuneration policy review.
to secure the most appropriate alignment tend to relate a significant proportion of between the interests and long-term career the potential rewards of underwriters to Executive remuneration structure development of Executive Directors and the absolute profitability of the relevant in 2012 other senior employees with the ambitions underwriting unit, sometimes on an uncapped The structure of the various elements of senior of the Group and the creation of value basis.
Similar remuneration structures and executive remuneration has not changed over for shareholders: policies have applied for staff in Amlin the last year, except in the case of Simon Beale.
The remuneration policies applied The mix of elements applicable to him has 82 82
