Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration received The remuneration received in respect of the year ended 31 December 2012 by each of the Directors, excluding pension contributions and long-term incentive plan payments, is shown in the table on the previous page.
In addition, Richard Hextall received and retained a non-executive directors fee of 27,000 from the City of London Investment Trust PLC 2011: 27,000 and Simon Beale received a fee of 32,725 from the Council of Lloyds which was paid over to the Company.
Where applicable, the amounts shown as paid to Non-Executive Directors include fees paid by or on behalf of the Companys subsidiaries.
The total fees and salaries received in 2012 by Simon Beale, Brian Carpenter, Richard Hextall and Charles Philipps increased by 15.9%, 3.0%, 7.4% and 2.8% respectively over 2011.
Richard Hextalls and Simon Beales basic salaries have been increased to reflect the increased responsibilities that they have assumed during the year.
In the case of Richard Hextall, in addition to his finance director role, he has assumed responsibility for both operations, IT and the actuarial functions in Amlins Corporate Centre.
The increase to Richard Hextalls salary is being staggered with a 7% increase that took effect on the change in role in 2012 and a second increase of 7.5%, which includes the annual review that will apply from 1 April 2013.
In the case of Simon Beale, his salary has increased to reflect his wider responsibilities upon becoming Group Chief Underwriting Officer: to bring his pay closer to the median paid for similar roles within the market: and to compensate him for the proposed loss of performance related elements of his remuneration package upon assuming his new role.
For 2013 Simon Beale will be unable to participate in the Profit Commission and Capital Builder schemes.
Elements of executive remuneration Elements of executive remuneration Fixed Annual performance Longer-term Fixed Annual performance Longer-term 1 3 2 4 Underwriters Salary and benefits Pensions 1 Profit Commission 3 LTIP awards Capital Builder Plan All employee SIP 2Profit Commission Underwriters Salary and benefits Pensions Profit Commission LTIP awards Capital Builder Plan All employee SIP Profit 1 2 4 Non-underwriters Salary and benefits Pensions Bonus LTIP awards Performance Share Plan All employee SIP Commission 1 2 Note: Non-underwriters Salary and benefits Pensions Bonus LTIP awards Performance Share Plan All employee SIP 1.
Pension provision is Defined Contribution or a combination of Defined Benefit and Defined Contribution.
Share Incentive Plan allocation of up to 3,000 of shares per annum.
Profit award element 3 Performance award element Sizes of boxes are for illustration only and do not reflect typical proportionate values.
Profit award element Sizes of boxes are for illustration only and do not reflect typical proportionate values.
depending on seniority, age and the percentage commitments in respect of DB pensions are Fixed of salary if any that the employee chooses to set out in note 32 to the Accounts.
The DB Salary and benefits contribute.
The maximum total DC employer employee contribution rates, as a percentage of Details of the policy on base salary can be contribution made for any Director in 2012, for pensionable salary, are 5% in the UK, 6% in the found on page 86, and the remuneration a Director with only DC contributions and aged Netherlands, 7% Singapore, 15% Switzerland received by each Executive Director is shown on over 50, was 10.3% of base salary 2011: 9.8%.
In 2011 a salary sacrifice option was introduced rates vary according to actuarial advice in order Non performance-related benefits to which for UK employees in respect of employee DC to deliver the promised levels of pension.
The Executive Directors and other employees are pension contributions, with the consequential employer contribution rate for the main UK generally entitled are private health insurance, employer NIC saving being shared equally scheme is currently 16% 2011: 19%.
cover for death in service and permanent between the Group and an additional payment disability, and a choice of other benefits, such Annual performance into the employees DC pension.
From April as subsidised gym membership, private dental Annual bonus scheme Group Bonus Scheme 2011, those Directors and other UK staff who costs, etc.
Senior staff, including Executive For those Executive Directors and other exceeded the 50,000 UK annual pension tax Directors, also receive a car allowance.
employees who are not directly involved in relief allowance were given the option to underwriting activities, the Groups shorter-term convert the excess into a non-pensionable Pensions performance incentive is a cash bonus scheme.
taxable allowance, adjusted for employer The Company pays a percentage of base salary The Group Bonus scheme rewards and contributions, to ensure it is cost neutral to into a Group occupational and or a stakeholder incentivises participants against a mixture of the Group.
Directors reaching lifetime pension pension plan.
Executive Directors participate in business performance, measured by reference limits received cash payments in lieu of pension the relevant Group pension plans on the same to the Groups and, depending on the position as noted in the Directors pension details on basis as other senior employees.
Pensionable of the employee, the relevant entities return page 87. salary is base salary only.
The Group has both on equity ROE compared with target returns defined contribution DC and defined benefit DB The DB schemes for UK and Belgium staff have set by the Committee at the beginning of schemes.
At the year end, 405 out of the Groups been closed to new entrants since 1998, and each year, and the individuals performance, total employees of 1,707 were accruing any September 2009 respectively.
Amlin Europe measured against agreed stretching personal element of DB pension.
These included 59 out of Netherlands DB scheme remains open for objectives.
The mix of business and individual 1,267 staff in the UK, Singapore, Switzerland and qualifying new employees.
Remaining active DB bonus elements varies by seniority, with 70% Bermuda 2011: 61 out of 1,021 and 346 out members of the UK scheme continue to accrue of the potential target reward at the most senior of 427 at Amlin Europe 2011: 345 out of 422. additional years service under the schemes but role levels, including participating Executive DB participants included two of the four generally only based on 2006 pensionable Directors, being rewarded on Group Executive Directors.
salaries, with salary increases from April 2006 business performance and 30% on personal onwards being pensioned through DC In respect of DC pensions, the Group performance.
The total Target and maximum arrangements.
Further details of the Groups contributes a percentage of base salary bonus levels also increase with seniority.
