Building a world class distribution team Client events.
As our client base grows we have responded by Ashmore has always had a culture of focusing on our clients needs.
increasing the number of client events we hold.
May 2012 saw the Our goal is simple: we aim to be the pre-eminent specialist Emerging inaugural Ashmore Emerging Markets Investment Forum in London Markets investment manager.
To achieve this, we know that all of us held over two days and was attended by key clients from around the need to be totally committed to building close and ongoing relationships globe discussed below.
Testament to that commitment is the fact that many of Product Development.
During the year we provided access through our clients have been invested with Ashmore for many years.
40 Act and SICAV vehicles to all our main investment themes and Focused on our clients needs added new ones in Frontier equity, local currency corporate debt Over the period we have strengthened our account management and investment grade debt.
This has allowed us to keep close to our growing Understanding our clients worlds client base so that we can better anticipate their needs and focus As well as expanding our account management team, we have our resources where they have the most impact.
Feedback from our also built out our business development team.
This is in line with clients has led to a number of enhancements to our client service: the second and third phases of Ashmores strategy of establishing Client reporting.
We have enhanced our client reporting, Ashmore as a trusted allocator across themes and mobilising introducing more depth and transparency and quicker delivery, Emerging Markets capital managed on and offshore.
and have more improvement planned.
Growing the team means we can talk to more clients in their Client communications.
We have recruited product specialists domestic market and deepen our understanding of local regulations who are focused on keeping our clients informed on our and requirements.
It also supports our goal of maintaining diversity investment strategy and performance outlook.
Given the both in geographical spread and in client type.
continuing market uncertainty, this ongoing and regular Ashmore has made good initial progress in the expansion of its Third communication with our clients is especially important.
Party Distribution business in Europe.
Our strategy of partnering with Structured and tailored education.
This is a key part of our client both global and regional private banks and wealth managers as well offering.
One example of this is a residential programme we run as making inroads into the platform market has started to generate in partnership with Cass Business School for our central bank asset ows for the business.
The foundations that have been built and sovereign wealth clients.
As well as hearing from Ashmore over the past 12 months will put us in a strong position to take this investment professionals, attendees also have the opportunity distribution franchise forward.
to hear from a number of guest speakers.
Our objective for hosting the Forum was not only to offer clients an insight into the breadth of Ashmores investment services, but also to bring a variety of different perspectives on the opportunities offered by Emerging Markets.
We were delighted to welcome Mr Jin Liqun, Chairman of the Board of Supervisors of the China Investment Corporation, as our keynote speaker opening the Forum, Naguib Sawiris, Executive Chairman of Orascom Telecom Media and Henrique fide Campos Meirelles, ex-Governor of the Bank of Brazil.
We also took the opportunity to run workshops in smaller groups so clients could interact with our portfolio managers.
We are planning our next key client Investment Forum in New York later in 2012.
16 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 AuM by investor type % % Permanent capital 1 Governments 37 % Fund of funds 1 % Foundation Endowment 2 % Corporate 3 % Insurance 4 % Funds sub-advisor 5 % Banks 6 Third party intermediaries % retail HNWI 11 % Public pension plans 13 % Private pension plans 17 AuM by investor geography % % Asia Pacic 29 Europe 21 % UK 12 % % Americas 20 Middle East 18 Ashmor Ashmore Gr e Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 oup plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 17
