The global backdrop will continue to be dominated by weaknesses China and Brazils cyclical upswings are likely to be headline grabbing in the HIDCs Heavily Indebted Developed Countries in the coming drivers of global growth next year, but domestic demand across the year due to sub-trend growth and bouts of risk aversion arising broader Emerging Markets universe will be a real driver, especially from serious macroeconomic problems and limited policy options.
Trade between other Emerging Market Sentiment will continue to shift back and forth as Europes debt crisis regions will continue to expand rapidly, accompanied by greater is pitched against the deteriorating scal backdrop in the US.
Faced internationalisation of Emerging Market currencies, including CNY.
with this ugly contest institutional investors will further diversify Chinas determined and visionary early transition from export-led to out of HIDC exposures, which are either over-stretched markets or domestic-led growth has put Emerging Markets right at the front of excessively risky ones, in favour of Emerging Markets.
the process of global rebalancing.
Global rebalancing will accelerate as deleveraging continues in HIDCs, underpinning Emerging Market The absolute and relative strength of Emerging Markets stands currencies and vesting them with major upside option value versus in sharp contrast to the weakness in the HIDCs.
economies are unencumbered by excessive public and private sector debts and resilient to shocks due to deeper structural drivers, Emerging Markets will continue to manage ination risks well in with room to stimulate their economies in the face of HIDC-led response to strong bottom up political pressures in favour of prudent downturns.
Growth in Emerging Markets is likely to accelerate policy.
New Frontier Economies will continue to enter the global from a low of about 5% this year to well above 6% in the coming financial markets as more established Emerging Markets continue 12 months on the back of active policy easing as the inventory-cycle to deepen and broaden rapidly.
The great financial broadening and triggered by the European slowdown last year fades away.
deepening of the Emerging Market universe will therefore continue A stronger growth picture in Emerging Markets in turn underpins even as financial repression intensies and the global backdrop in the global commodity markets.
the HIDCs only improves very slowly.
Individual country stories will continue to play out within Emerging Markets and will eventually become more important drivers of returns than global market sentiment, supporting the case for active and Emerging Market specialist management in this space.
The Ashmore advantage Ashmore has a business model that focuses on providing investment We believe that the best way to gain exposure to strong medium and management across a diverse range of Emerging Markets themes.
long-term trends in Emerging Markets is to employ specialist managers Through its well established and successful processes Ashmore using an active approach.
We believe our portfolio managers have the achieves long-term investment outperformance for fund investors technical skills and an understanding of the asset class gained over and shareholders alike.
many years of experience which ts in well with our rigorous and proven investment approach.
Investor geography The Groups clients are drawn from developed markets and Emerging Markets across the globe.
The centrally managed but globally located distribution ofces are our link to these clients.
14 14 Ashmor Ashmore Gr e Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 oup plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Superior economic outlook 7 % 6.1 6 Forecasted GDP growth for Emerging Markets 5 4 3 2 1 0 2007 2011 2012 2016 Emerging Markets Developed Markets Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15
