The Foundations Aims In 2011, the Ashmore Foundation paid out 473,710 to 23 grantees The Ashmore Foundation aims to make a positive difference in the delivering social work in 11 Emerging Market countries up from Emerging Market communities in which Ashmore operates and in 197,690 in 2010, benefitting approximately 60,000 people.
In the countries in which Ashmore invests.
The Foundation provides 2011, trustees approved grant commitments totalling 768,000 over financial grants to effective non-profit organisations working to the period from 2011 2014.
The Ashmore Foundation has donated enhance human welfare, opportunities and capabilities for those 934,832 to charitable causes since inception in 2008. that are vulnerable or neglected and in particular children, young In 2012 the Foundation will also be funding the STARS Impact people and marginalised communities.
The Emerging Market Awards in Asia as a complement to its approach, awarding much focus allows for increased leverage of the skills, knowledge, needed funding to and shining a light on exceptional examples of expertise and networks of Ashmore to deliver the social goals of innovative frontline NGOs delivering life changing services to the Foundation and provides support for a thriving and diverse civil disadvantaged children in developing countries.
sector, which is essential to democratic development in transitional and emerging nations.
Ashmore Employee Engagement Employees have the opportunity to recommend eligible charities for The grant making policy of the Ashmore Foundation is wide ranging support by the Ashmore Foundation.
All organisations considered for but maintains a particular focus on providing access to and improving support are assessed against the standard criteria of the Foundation quality of education and basic health, the former in particular seen designed to identify well managed and accountable organisations.
as the best way to help the long-term self-development of Emerging Employees can also make use of matched funding offered by Market countries.
The Foundation is also interested in supporting Ashmore for donations and by the Ashmore Foundation to community-based social enterprise and sustainable livelihoods, to Foundation grantees.
empower people with the tools and resources with which to help themselves.
The board of trustees directors comprises Ashmore employees and an independent director.
Ashmore employee directors are rotated to The Foundation supports charitable causes through a Small Grants ensure new members have the opportunity to contribute and learn and Partnership scheme.
The Small Grants scheme provides exible from the Foundations activities.
one-off funds of up to 5,000, whilst the Partnership Grants scheme provides larger, often multi-year grants, building relationships with a The Ashmore Foundation presents information on local charities handful of particularly strong charities or NGOs in pursuit of agreed within the Emerging Markets to rm employees on a regular basis, social outcomes.
including showcasing by grantees at Ashmores ofces.
The Foundation primarily sources partners through research and recommendation, seeking locally-based, emerging organisations which display a deep knowledge of the local context and culture, demonstrable involvement of and commitment to the community served, a good track record in meeting clearly dened social needs, professionalism, accountability, ability to measure results, costeffectiveness and potential to scale or disseminate knowledge.
38 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Class sponsored by the Ashmore Foundation at the Philippine Community Funds community school for children living in Tondo or Navotas slum in Manila Sunday and Joe, residents at Mama Laadis foster home supported by Ashmore Foundation grantee, Afrikids, which works to alleviate child suffering and poverty in Northern Ghana Nutritious meals and supplements along with family education and social support, are provided by Nu3 Foundation for malnourished children in Barranquilla, Colombia Girl-friendly soccer training is combined A pre and post natal satellite with nutrition and life skills workshops clinic delivered by Impact for at-risk children and youth through Bangladesh as part of a holistic grantee, Futbol Con Corozon at La Playa programme funded by the in Colombia Ashmore Foundation to reduce malnutrition, protect mothers and babies, and provide primary healthcare to 22,500 people Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39
