Chief Executive Officers Report continued In facing all of our challenges together I continue to be impressed Investors from Emerging Markets into other Emerging Markets are by our team, and by the significant levels of emotional capital they also increasing in number and size as they re-assess global risks.
As we grow and clients demands get more particular, we have seen substantial growth of assets from Emerging complex, and new people such as our AshmoreEMM colleagues join Markets government entities, including central banks, as these us, the pressure on individuals and the need for the whole firm to institutions diversify away from developed countries.
We expect this help each other will only increase.
I should like to thank everyone for trend to continue.
Our strategy of building on-the-ground presence the contribution made during the last year and look forward to our in Emerging Markets also positions us to take advantage of the continuing joint effort to do everything better, achieving investment institutionalisation of local savings over the next few years which outperformance and retaining and raising AuM whilst operating in an together with our growing access to more distribution channels and efficient and controlled manner across our existing and new businesses.
end investor types in developed countries will continue to diversify our income streams Outlook In summary, more and more investors are seeing Emerging Markets Markets have been obsessed with Eurozone tail-risk and low debt as an alternative to fixed income in general, not just developed levels of developed world growth, and we expect these concerns world corporate credit.
Indeed, with yields in the developed world to continue to affect financial market sentiment over the coming either high for a good reason or yielding next to nothing, Emerging months, but to a steadily declining degree.
The larger backdrop of Markets debt looks highly attractive.
Furthermore, after a period fide-leveraging and global rebalancing of currencies remains and of relatively poor performance and flows, Emerging Markets equity, justifies investment allocations to Emerging Markets much higher which has long been an established asset class, looks to be ripe for than today.
a good year given relatively low valuations.
In particular, we believe Although this developed world environment means that Emerging that our depth and outstanding performance advantage in small Markets will go through periods of slower growth via lower export and mid-cap companies, in new frontier markets and regions in orders from the US and EU, they are becoming less dependent the Middle East, Africa, and Asia are bound to attract attention as on this export demand as they are trading and investing more investors lose their solely large cap bias in the search for high longamongst themselves.
For several of the most export-dependent term returns and outperformance.
Asian economies there is also a progressive shift to a domestic Our job remains to outperform across as broad a product set as demand-led model of growth and hence growth rates of Emerging possible, to fight for our investors to achieve risk return diversification Markets economies are not only higher than in the West, but and, through focusing on revenue and costs, to maintain a high increasingly more resilient.
As a result an Emerging Markets allocation is more and more seen as an important diversifier and risk reducer for investors as in the Mark Coombs worst developed world scenarios Emerging Markets are likely to be Chief Executive Officer safer investment destinations.
Countries with high levels of foreign exchange reserves and low debt are most insulated from global risks, and in an about-turn from 15 years ago, that means Emerging Markets.
Having the odd US$300 billion in reserves means a central bank can intervene to protect its currency at will at any time.
Continuing to hold such large reserves concentrated in US dollars is, of course, unsustainable in the longer term and 2013 may see more diversification by central banks into Emerging Markets currencies.
This also benefits other asset classes denominated in those currencies, both fixed income and, in due course, equity.
We expect that this will contribute to significant growth in fixed income and equity issuance.
Corporate debt market growth is being encouraged in many countries to provide term financing to companies and to help dis-intermediate banks that need to fide-lever.
Valuations are not expensive in either asset class, with both unsustainably low price earnings ratios in equities, and certain spreads almost double 2008 levels despite greater relative safety.
Prejudice about Emerging Markets is steadily being eroded.
Whilst it is difficult for some investors to accept the harsh realities in the West, there is gradually less difficulty in taking the plunge and investing in Emerging Markets.
Fears of slow growth in Emerging Markets or a Chinese hard landing constitute excuses for delay rather than longterm reasons for not investing.
We are seeing new types of developed world investors steadily increase allocations.
12 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Ashmores focus exclusively within the Emerging Markets is key to its long-term investment outperformance Emerging Markets are the driver of global growth see p. 1415 Strengthening our global platform to enhance our client offering see p. 1617 This commitment to Emerging Markets is furthered by the Ashmore Foundation, which supports locally-based organisations and charities, and emphasises that people are at the heart of the business.
see p. 3839 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
