Board of Directors The Hon.
Michael Benson, Non-executive Chairman Age 69 Melda Donnelly, Non-executive Director Age 62 Michael Benson was appointed to the Board as Non-executive Melda Donnelly joined the Ashmore Group plc Board as a Chairman on 3 July 2006.
He is Chairman of the Companys Non-executive Director in July 2009, and is also a member of the Nominations Committee.
Michael began his career in the City in 1963 Audit and Risk Committee.
Melda is an Australian citizen and a and, after a series of senior positions in the investment management Chartered Accountant.
She was the Founder and Chairperson industry, was, from 2002 to March 2005, Chairman of Invesco and of the Centre for Investor Education.
Current directorships include Vice Chairman of Amvescap plc.
Prior to that he was CEO of Invesco Treasury Group Limited and Uni Super Limited.
Ms Donnellys past Global 1997 to 2002.
Michael is a Non-executive Director of Trinity investment experience includes being CEO of Queensland Investment Street Asset Management, is the Director of the York Minster Fund Corporation, Deputy Managing Director of ANZ Funds Management and is CEO of the York Minster Revealed project.
and Managing Director of ANZ Trustees.
She is currently a member of the Advisory Committee of the Oxford University Centre for Ageing.
Committee membership: N, R Committee membership: A Mark Coombs, Chief Executive Officer Age 52 Mark Coombs was appointed a Director on the incorporation of the Simon Fraser, Non-executive Director Age 53 Company in December 1998, and has served as its Chief Executive Simon Fraser joined the Board on 10 February 2012.
Simon has Officer since then.
He held a number of positions at Australia and extensive experience of the fund management industry, having worked New Zealand Banking Group ANZ and led Ashmores buyout from at Fidelity International from 1981 to 2008.
At Fidelity he held a number ANZ in early 1999.
He is Co-Chair of EMTA, the trade association for of positions during his career, including President of the European & UK emerging markets, having been on the Board since 1993.
Mark has Institutional Business, Global Chief Investment Officer, Chief Investment an MA in Law from Cambridge University.
Officer for Asia Pacific and Chief Investment Officer of the European Investment Group.
He is a Non-executive Director of Barclays Bank plc Graeme Dell, Group Finance Director Age 46 and Barclays plc, Chairman of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust plc, Graeme Dell was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director The Merchants Trust plc and a Non-executive Director of Fidelity in December 2007.
Prior to joining Ashmore, Graeme was Group European Values Plc and Fidelity Japanese Values Plc.
Finance Director of Evolution Group plc from 2001 to 2007, where Committee membership: None he had group-wide responsibility for finance, operations, technology, compliance, risk and HR which included playing a significant role in Key to membership of committees the foundation and development of Evolutions Chinese securities A Audit and Risk business.
Graeme previously worked for Deutsche Bank and Goldman N Nominations Sachs in a range of business management, finance and operations R Remuneration roles both in Europe and in Asia Pacific.
Graeme qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Coopers & Lybrand and is a graduate of Hertford College, Oxford University.
Nick Land, Senior Independent Non-executive Director Age 64 Nick Land was appointed to the Board as Senior Independent Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee on 3 July 2006.
He is a qualified accountant and was a partner of Ernst & Young LLP from 1978 to 2006 and its Chairman from 1995 to 2006.
Nick is a Non-executive Director of BBA Aviation plc, Alliance Boots GmbH and Vodafone Group plc and a trustee of the Vodafone Group Foundation.
He is a Board member of the Financial Reporting Council, a member of the Finance and Audit Committees of the National Gallery and is Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Farnham Castle.
Committee membership: A, N, R Jonathan Asquith, Non-executive Director Age 55 Jonathan Asquith joined the Board on 1 September 2008 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He was formerly Vice Chairman of Schroders plc and held the position of Chief Financial Officer between 2002 and 2007.
Prior to that he worked for Morgan Grenfell and was appointed as Chief Financial Officer of Deutsche Morgan Grenfell in 1995 and Chief Operating Officer in 1997.
He is also Non-executive Chairman of AXA UK plc and a Non-executive Director of AXA Investment Managers, 3i Group plc, Dexion Capital plc, and a member of the Finance and Audit Committees of the Tate galleries.
Committee membership: A, N, R 30 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012
