Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and financial statements Directors conflicts of interests for the year ended 30 June 2012.
Since October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 has imposed upon Directors a new statutory duty to avoid unauthorised conflicts of The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with interest with the Company.
The Company has adopted revisions International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the to its Articles of Association which enable Directors to approve EU IFRS.
conflicts of interest and which also include other conflict of interest provisions.
The Company has implemented processes to identify Principal activity and business review potential and actual conflicts of interest.
Such conflicts are then The principal activity of the Group is the provision of investment considered for approval by the Board, subject, where necessary, management services.
The Company is required to set out in this to appropriate conditions.
report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 30 June 2012 and of the position of the Group at the end Executive Directors do not presently hold any external appointments of that financial year and a description of the principal risks and with any non-Ashmore related companies.
uncertainties facing the Group referred to as the business review.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review Directors share interests can be found in the financial and operational highlights on page 2, The interests of Directors in the Companys shares are shown on page the Chief Executive Officers report on pages 8 to 13, the business 53 within the remuneration report.
review on pages 20 to 29 and the Corporate Governance report on pages 40 to 44.
Significant agreements with provisions applicable to a change in control of the Company The principal risks facing the business are detailed in the business Save as described, there are no agreements in place applicable to review on pages 28 and 29 and in the Corporate Governance report a change in control of the Company.
Resolution 16 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will seek Results and dividends approval from shareholders to a waiver of the provisions of Rule 9 The results of the Group for the year are set out in the consolidated of the Takeover Code in respect of the obligation that could arise statement of comprehensive income on page 55. for Mark Coombs to make a mandatory offer for the Company in the event that the Company exercises the authority to make market The Directors recommend a final dividend of 10.75 pence per share purchases of its own shares.
Further details are contained in the 2011: 10.34 pence which, together with the interim dividend of separate Notice of AGM.
4.25 pence per share 2011: 4.16 pence already declared, makes a total for the year ended 30 June 2012 of 15.00 pence per share Restrictions on transfer of shares 2011: 14.50 pence.
Details of the interim dividend payment are set On 31 May 2011 the Company completed the acquisition of Emerging out in note 11 to the financial statements.
Markets Management LLC now renamed Ashmore EMM LLC.
A Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend proportion of the initial and earnout consideration paid and to be paid will be paid on 7 December 2012 to shareholders on the register to the selling shareholders of AshmoreEMM is in Ashmore Group plc shares which are subject to certain restrictions on sale for a period on 9 November 2012 ex-dividend date being 7 November 2012. of up to three years from either completion or the date of earnout.
Related party transactions Dealings in the Companys ordinary shares by persons discharging Details of related party transactions are set out in note 26 to the managerial responsibilities, employees of the Company and, in each financial statements.
case, their connected persons, are subject to the Groups Dealing Code which adopts the Model Code of the Listing Rules contained Post-balance sheet events in the Financial Services Authoritys Handbook.
As set out in note 28 to the financial statements there were no postbalance sheet events that required adjustment or disclosure herein.
Certain restrictions, customary for a listed company, apply to transfers of shares in the Company.
Directors The Board may, at its absolute discretion, decline to register any The members of the Board together with biographical details are transfer of a share which is not fully paid or where there are more shown on page 30, all of whom served as Directors throughout the than four joint holders.
year with the exception of Simon Fraser who was appointed to the Board on 10 February 2012.
Details of the service contracts of the current Directors are shown in the remuneration report on pages 46 to 53.
Details of the constitution and powers of the Board and its committees are set out in the corporate governance report on pages 40 to 44.
The corporate governance report also summarises the Companys rules concerning appointment and replacement of Directors.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31 Directors Report continued In the case of certificated shares, registration of a transfer may also shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts, unless be refused where i the instrument of transfer is not duly stamped the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms length unless exempt from stamping : ii insufficient evidence of title is sale.
Registration of a transfer of shares may be refused in the case of produced in respect of a transfer: or iii the transferor has been served uncertificated shares in the circumstances set out in the Uncertificated with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure to Securities Regulations as defined in the Articles.
provide the Company with information concerning interests in those Substantial shareholdings The Company has been notified of the following significant interests over 3 per cent in accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules other than those of the Directors which are disclosed separately on page 53 in the Companys ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each as set out in the table below.
In addition to the interests in the Companys ordinary shares referred to above, each Director and senior manager who is an employee of the Group has an interest in the Companys ordinary shares held by Carey Pensions and Benefits Limited under the terms of the Ashmore 2004 Employee Benefit Trust.
Percentage interests are based upon 707,372,473 shares in issue which excludes 5,368,331 shares held in Treasury 2011: 707,916,106 shares in issue which excluded 5,368,331in Treasury.
Share capital These authorities are valid until the date of the next Annual General The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into Meeting.
A resolution for the renewal of such authorities will be ordinary shares of 0.01 pence, each of which rank pari passu in respect proposed at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
of participation and voting rights.
The shares are in registered form.
The issued share capital of the Company at 30 June 2012 is 712,740,804 Employees shares in issue of which 5,368,331 shares are held in Treasury.
Details of the Companys employment practices including the employment of disabled persons can be found in the corporate Details of the structure of and changes in share capital are set out in governance report on pages 40 to 44. note 20 to the financial statements.
Carey Pensions and Benefits Limited as trustee of the Ashmore 2004 Restrictions on voting rights Employee Benefit Trust the EBT has discretion as to the exercise A member shall not be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class of voting rights over shares which it holds in respect of employee meeting in respect of any share held by him if any call or other sum share options that have not vested and other restricted share awards.
then payable by him in respect of that share remains unpaid or if The current arrangement is that the EBT considers the Companys a member has been served with a restriction notice as defined in recommendation s before voting such shares at a general meeting the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information of the Company, subject to an overriding duty to act in the interests concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under of the EBT.
Votes may be exercised in person or by proxy.
The Articles currently provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms Corporate governance of 48 hours before the meeting.
The Company is governed according to the applicable provisions of company law and by the Companys Articles.
As a listed company, Purchase of own shares the Company must also comply with the Listing Rules and the The Company is, until the date of the next Annual General Meeting, Disclosure and Transparency Rules issued by the United Kingdom generally and unconditionally authorised to buy back up to Listing Authority UKLA.
Listed companies are expected to comply 70,791,600 of its own issued shares.
In the year under review the as far as possible with the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Company did not purchase any shares for Treasury.
The Company Governance Code, and to state how its principles have been applied.
retains a total of 5,368,331 shares for Treasury which were acquired A report on corporate governance and compliance with the provisions at an average price of 129 pence per share.
The Company is seeking of the Code is set out on pages 40 to 44. a renewal of this authority at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
Board diversity Power to issue and allot shares The Board has noted the recommendations of the Davies Report The Directors are generally and unconditionally authorised to allot issued in February 2011 relating to Board diversity.
The Nominations unissued shares in the Company up to a maximum nominal amount Committee considers diversity, including the balance of skills, of 23,597.20 and 47,194.40 in connection with an offer by way experience, gender and nationality, amongst many other factors, of a rights issue.
when reviewing the appointment of new Directors but does not consider it appropriate to establish targets or quotas in this regard.
A further authority has been granted to the Directors to allot the Companys shares for cash, up to a maximum nominal amount of 3,559.28, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Acts.
No such shares have been issued or allotted under these authorities, nor is there any current intention to do so, other than to satisfy outstanding obligations under the employee share schemes where necessary.
32 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Charitable and political contributions Companies Act 2006 During the year, the Group made charitable donations of 0.1 million This Directors report on pages 31 to 33 inclusive has been drawn 2011: 0.3 million.
The work of the Ashmore Foundation is up and presented in accordance with and in reliance on English described further below in the corporate social responsibility section company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with of this report.
It is the Groups policy not to make contributions for that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided political purposes.
References in this Directors report to the financial highlights, Creditor payment policy the business review, the corporate governance report and the The Groups policy and practice in the UK is to follow its suppliers remuneration report are deemed to be included by reference terms of payment and to make payment in accordance with those in this Directors report.
terms subject to receipt of satisfactory invoicing.
Unless otherwise agreed payments to creditors are made within 30 days of receipt Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: of an invoice.
At 30 June 2012, the amount owed to the Groups trade creditors in the UK represented approximately 28 days average Michael Perman purchases from suppliers 2011: 30 days.
Company Secretary 10 September 2012 Auditors and the disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration.
Note 7 to the financial statements sets out details of the auditors remuneration.
2012 Annual General Meeting The 2012 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 12.00 noon on Wednesday 31 October 2012 at Kingsway Hall Hotel, 66 Great Queen Street, London WC2B 5BX.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are given in the separate circular and notice of meeting.
Going concern The Company and Group have considerable financial resources and the Directors believe that both are well placed to manage their business risks successfully.
Further information regarding the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position is set out on pages 40 to 44.
After making enquiries, the Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future and confirm that the Company and the Group are going concerns.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33
