60 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Basis of preparation By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and Basis of preparation uncertainty because they relate to future events that are beyond This review complies with the recommendations of the European our control.
For example, certain insurance risk disclosures are Union EU Modernisation Directive, the Companies Act 2006 dependent on our choices about assumptions and models, which Contents of Directors Report: Business Review and is in line with by their nature are estimates.
As such, actual future gains and current best practice.
It is addressed to, and written for, the losses could differ materially from those that we have estimated.
members of Aviva plc with the aim of providing a fair review of Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially our business development, performance and position at the from those estimated by the forward-looking statements include, current time.
In producing this review, we aim to present a view but are not limited to: that is balanced and comprehensive and that is consistent with global economic business conditions: the size and complexity of our business.
The review is written in monetary and interest rate policies: the context of the risks and uncertainties facing our business.
foreign currency exchange rates: We anticipate that the format and content of the review will equity and property prices: evolve over time, along with developments in our business and the impact of competition, inflation and deflation: the external environment.
changes to regulations, taxes and legislation: the timing and impact of acquisitions and business Key performance indicators combinations in relevant industries: The Companies Act requires that a fair review of the business natural and other disasters: contains financial and, where applicable, non-financial key changes to consumer saving and spending habits: and performance indicators KPIs.
We consider that our financial our success in managing the above factors.
KPIs are those that communicate to the members the financial performance and strength of the Group as a whole.
Consequently, our actual future financial condition, performance These KPIs comprise: and results of operation could differ materially from the plans, adjusted operating profit, before and after integration and goals and expectations set out in our forward-looking statements.
restructuring costs: We undertake no obligation to update the forward-looking IFRS profit loss after tax: statements contained in this review or any other forward-looking life internal rate of return statements we make.
general insurance combined operating ratio economic capital surplus: Longer-term investment return net operating capital generation: and The long-term nature of most of our operations means that shortreturn on equity shareholders funds.
term realised and unrealised gains and losses are shown as an adjustment to operating profit.
We focus instead on operating Management also use a variety of other performance indicators profit incorporating a longer-term investment return LTIR.
The OPIs in both running and assessing the performance of rates of return that we use for equity and property in our LTIR individual business segments and units, rather than the Group as methodology are aligned with the rates that we use under a whole.
OPIs include measures such as new business margin and 27 MCEV principles.
For fixed interest securities, we include the value of new business.
amortisation of premiums or discounts arising on purchase, In addition to reporting on our financial performance, it is thereby producing an LTIR that is equivalent to the gross important that as a forward-thinking company we are aware of redemption yield.
our wider responsibilities and report on the non-financial aspects of our performance.
We consider that our employees and Future accounting developments customers are fundamental to the success of our business: We continue to take an active role in the development of as such, they form the basis for our non-financial measures, new accounting standards, via industry forums and working and include: parties, and reviewing and providing comment on proposals from employee engagement and leadership: and the IASB.
Phase II of the IASBs project on insurance contracts customer advocacy.
continues to be the most significant area of development for us alongside the ongoing project to revise accounting for financial Accounting basis of preparation instruments IFRS 9, given the important interaction between the In addition to presenting our results and financial position on an two.
We fully support the timely development of global standards International Financial Reporting Standards basis, we also use for both insurance contract accounting and financial instruments non-GAAP measures based on Market Consistent Embedded that reflect the economics of our business, and continue actively 27 Value principles.
Further details of non-GAAP measures are to engage in the debate, working directly and through the CFO given in the section Performance Review Financial and Forum of leading European insurers to achieve this.
We continue to monitor other major IASB projects, including Details of the accounting basis of preparation including critical revenue recognition and leasing.
accounting policies and estimates are set out in Financial Statements Accounting Policies.
Forward-looking statements This business review contains forward-looking statements about: our future plans: our current goals: and our expectations of our future financial condition, performance and results.
27 MCEV: market consistent embedded value: In preparing the MCEV information, the directors have done so in accordance with the MCEV principles with the exception of stating held for sale operations at their expected fair value, as represented by expected sale proceeds, less cost to sell..
Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 61 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility In this section 2012 Highlights 62 Our corporate responsibility strategy 62 Trust and transparency 64 Attracting and retaining talent 66 Community development 67 Climate change and environment 68 Key indicators 70 Accounting for Sustainability 72 Indices and benchmarks 75 Independent Assurance Report 76
