Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 129 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2012 2011: 258 million, 2010: 45 million and to other investment Insurance Groups Directive IGD The IGD requires member states to introduce the following vehicles of nil 2011: nil, 2010: nil.
These commitments are expected to be funded through operational cash flow without measures to strengthen supervision of insurance companies which are part of a group: recourse to core structural borrowings.
An adjustment margin to the solvency calculation in relation Regulation to participating interests in other insurance undertakings in order to eliminate double-gearing the use of the same Compliance regulatory capital in more than one entity of a group.
In both our insurance and fund management businesses, matters An additional parent undertaking solvency margin may arise as a result of industry-wide issues, inspection visits or calculation analogous to the adjusted margin test referred to other regulatory activity, requiring discussion and resolution with above, to be applied at the level of the parent undertaking.
The Group needs to ensure that procedures The introduction of new solo supervision requirements, are in place to address any regulatory concerns, and that such including rules as to internal control within the insurance procedures are properly planned, managed and resourced.
undertaking regarding the production of information Corrective action is undertaken, when necessary, with progress relevant to supplementary supervision, the exchange of reported to relevant regulatory bodies in a timely manner.
information within the group and the supervision of intraOverview of regulation as it affects our business group transactions.
Our principal insurance and fund management operations are Further provisions aimed at ensuring co-operation between in the UK, Europe, North America and the Asia Pacific region.
competent regulatory authorities of member states.
We are therefore subject to financial services regulation and local regulatory supervision in all these areas, as individually Since 31 December 2006, the group capital resources covered below.
requirement the parent undertaking solvency calculation As the Groups parent company is based in the UK, both mentioned above has been a hard test i. e. it constitutes EU legislation and the rules of the FSA can impact Avivas a requirement to maintain the group capital resources, rather business practices worldwide.
Regulators supervising the Group than simply to make the calculation for UK-based companies co-ordinate on a cross-border basis through a college.
The European Union Reinsurance Directive In addition to its UK businesses, Aviva is active in other EU Adopted on 16 November 2005, this directive requires that all member states through wholly owned subsidiary and joint reinsurance undertakings be authorised in their home member venture companies.
These companies are subject to the laws state.
To obtain that authorisation, they need to meet strict and regulations of the EU member state in which they are based, requirements, but are then free to operate anywhere in the EU but are also affected by higher level EU legislation, which will through the single market passport process.
continue to have a significant influence on the legislative Distance Marketing Directive environment in the UK and other EU markets.
Under the Distance Marketing Directive, EU member states are The EU operates by promulgating directives that must be required to implement a framework of rules and guidance in implemented into local national legislation within each EU order to protect consumers by: member country.
These directives set minimum standards for setting minimum standards for information that must be national legislatures to meet, with each legislature able to decide provided to consumers before entering into a financial how they should be implemented.
National governments may not services contract by distance means: and pass laws which fail to meet the minimum standards set out in a for certain products and services, giving a cooling-off period directive, but are generally free to impose legal requirements in which a consumer may cancel a contract without penalty.
which go beyond those required.
Directives are written at a fairly high level, with more detail being provided at national level Insurance Mediation Directive through legislation developed in accordance with the local legal This requires EU member states to establish a framework to: system.
Even greater detail may be imposed through the rules and ensure that insurance and reinsurance intermediaries have regulations of national regulators and, for financial services been registered on the basis of a minimum set of businesses these rules can be extensive.
professional and financial requirements: The EU may also impose requirements directly on countries ensure that registered intermediaries will be able to operate through regulation.
EU financial services regulation is based on in other member states by availing themselves of the the principle of home country control, which makes the home freedom to provide services or by establishing a branch: and country regulator responsible for monitoring compliance with all impose requirements on insurance intermediaries to provide applicable regulation.
specified minimum information to potential customers.
Key directives of particular relevance to the financial services industry, and so to Avivas businesses in the EU include: Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID MiFID, which superseded the earlier Investment Services Directive, Third Life and Non-Life Directives builds on the home country control principle, extending the range These directives implemented the home country control principle of core investment services and activities that may be passported for life and non-life insurance business in the mid-1990s and from one member state to another, clarifying the allocation of placed the responsibility for such issues as solvency, actuarial responsibilities between home and host country jurisdictions, and reserves, investment of assets, and certain governance issues on introducing greater harmonisation governing the organisation the home country regulator.
Most companies licensed to conduct and conduct of business of investment firms.
insurance business in one member state may rely on their home country regulation to passport into all other member states to Solvency II conduct business without having to be separately licensed in The agreed Solvency II Level 1 Directive was published in each.
The general exception is selling activity which continues to November 2009.
Solvency II represents a fundamental change be regulated by the state in which the sale takes place.
in European regulation and will result in a more sophisticated economic risk-based capital approach.
Its objectives are to establish a solvency system that is better aligned to the true risks of insurers, and aims to enable supervisors to protect policyholder 130 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2012 interests as effectively as possible in accordance with common purposes of FSMA.
Regulated activities are prescribed in the principles across the EU.
FSMA Regulated Activities Order 2001 and include banking, Since approval, the focus has been on developing the insurance and investment business, stakeholder pension schemes, technical standards and requirements necessary to determine insurance mediation and certain mortgage mediation and how the directive will be applied in practice, and expected lending activities.
amendments to the Solvency II Directive Omnibus II Directive Authorised Firms must at all times meet specified threshold following the creation of the new European Supervisory conditions, including possession of adequate resources for the Authorities ESAs in September 2010.
It is still not clear when carrying on of their business, and being fit and proper to conduct these developments, including the implementation requirements that business, having regard to all the circumstances.
Firms must also operate in accordance with the FSAs Principles The European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority for Business.
These are 11 high level principles for conducting EIOPA, replaced CEIOPS on 1 January 2011.
A proposed financial services business in the UK, including maintenance of amending directive was published in January 2011 Omnibus II adequate systems and controls, treating customers fairly, and Directive to update Solvency II.
Omnibus II set out powers for communicating with customers in a manner that is clear, fair EIOPA to issue binding guidance standards, changes to specific and not misleading.
aspects of Solvency II and delays to the implementation of The FSA regime is based on the principle that firms should Solvency II.
The details of Omnibus II are still being negotiated have effective systems and controls, including robust risk and it is not clear when Omnibus II will become legislation.
management, which are appropriate to the size, complexity Solvency II is currently set to apply to insurers from 1 January and diversity of their business.
This date is expected to be changed in 2013.
It should be noted that during 2013 the FSA will be replaced EIOPA proposes to issue guidelines for supervisors in 2013 by two separate regulatory bodies, the Prudential Regulation as interim measures to address the uncertainty caused by the Authority PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
ongoing delays to Solvency II and encourage harmonisation of The FSAs regulation of the Group supervisory approach across jurisdictions while Solvency I remains in force.
These guidelines are expected to cover systems of A number of the Groups UK subsidiaries are directly authorised and regulated by the FSA, including our insurance companies governance, ORSA, internal model application procedures and reporting to supervisors.
The FSA has proposed changes to its e. g. the UK Life and UK General Insurance companies, asset managers Aviva Investors and intermediaries UK Healthcare.
ICAS regime following the continuing delay.
These changes will allow companies to use the work done in preparation for Aviva plc, although not directly authorised by the FSA, does itself come within the scope of some regulation as the ultimate Solvency II for ICA.
This highlights the need for continued and engaged industry insurance holding company in the Group.
As Aviva is a UK-based group, the FSA has the responsibility participation.
Aviva continues to actively participate, through the key European industry working groups, who provide the voice of of acting as lead regulator i. e. the cross-sector supervisory co-ordinator for the Group within the EU.
the industry, in ongoing discussions in Brussels.
Future EU developments Approved persons and controllers The FSA places great emphasis on the principle of senior During 2013 the European Commission will be undertaking a review of the European System of Financial Supervision ESFS.
The directors of, and senior managers carrying out FSA defined controlled function roles in, any of the The ESFS includes the three sector specific European Supervisory Authorities ESAs that have powers to make binding rules and Groups regulated entities are individually registered with the FSA under the Approved Person regime, and can be held drive supervisory consistency and convergence through a single rule book.
directly accountable to the FSA for control failings in those entities.
A number of senior managers at Group level have There are a number of European dossiers that are expected to progress during 2013, including Packaged Retail Investment also been registered as Approved Persons for the regulated subsidiaries, even though they are neither directors nor senior Products PRIPs that will introduce common product disclosure standards and sales conduct rules, the review of the Insurance managers of these firms.
This recognises that these managers exert significant influence over the regulated subsidiaries, because Mediation Directive IMD and the MiFID, the European Market Infrastructure Regulation EMIR that will introduce central they are responsible for key parts of the Groups control framework on which the regulated subsidiaries place reliance.
clearing for standard Over the Counter OTC derivatives, the Directive for Institutions of Occupational Retirement Provisions The FSA regulates from a legal entity perspective, even though Aviva tends to operate by business unit.
However, the FSA IORP that sets rules for occupational pension schemes, and the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD that also expects that Avivas regulated subsidiaries operate within an overall framework of Group governance and controls.
Its rules will introduce a regime governing the marketing of alternative investments to EU investors.
expressly provide that any systems and controls which operate on a Group basis will be taken into account in determining the United Kingdom adequacy of a regulated subsidiarys systems and controls.
The robustness of these Group controls is therefore subject to scrutiny The Financial Services Authority and challenge by the FSA.
In the UK, the FSA is currently the single regulator for those The FSA regulates the acquisition and increase of control over individuals and firms conducting defined regulated activities in the Authorised Firms.
Under FSMA, any person proposing to acquire financial services sector.
The FSA has the authority to make rules control of, or increase control over certain thresholds of, an and issue guidance, taking into account relevant EU directives, in Authorised Firm must first obtain the consent of the FSA.
The relation to a wide sphere of activity encompassing the governance Authorised Firm must also inform the FSA of any such proposed of the conduct of business by, and the prudential supervision of, acquisition or increase.
In considering whether to grant or individuals and firms authorised by the FSA to conduct such withhold its approval of the acquisition or increase of control, business Authorised Persons or Authorised Firms.
the FSA must be satisfied both that the acquirer is a fit and Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA no proper person and that the interests of consumers would not person may carry on, or purport to carry on, a regulated activity be threatened by this acquisition or increase of control.
by way of business in the UK unless he is an Authorised Person or Control over a UK Authorised Firm is acquired if the acquirer: an exempt person.
A firm granted permission by the FSA to carry on regulated activities becomes an Authorised Person for the Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 131 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2012 holds 10% or 20% if the Authorised Firm is an insurance assesses pose the greatest potential threats to its four statutory intermediary or more of the shares, or voting power, in objectives of: that firm, or a parent undertaking of the firm: or maintaining confidence in the UK financial system: is able to exercise significant influence over the management contributing to the protection and enhancement of stability of the firm by virtue of the acquirers shares or voting power of the UK financial system: in that company or a parent undertaking of the firm.
securing the appropriate degree of protection forconsumers: and Increases in control require the consent of the FSA when they reducing the extent to which it is possible for a regulated reach thresholds of 20%, 30% and 50% of the shares or voting business to be used for a purpose connected with power of the firm or its parent.
In order to determine whether a person or a group of persons is a controller for the purposes of FSMA, the holdings shares or Given our size and our share of the UK retail market, a major voting rights of the person and any other person acting in issue within our business which causes concern for the FSA concert, if any, are aggregated.
may have a significant impact on these objectives.
The FSA therefore maintains a close and continuous FSA conduct of business rules relationship with us, with day-to-day supervision of Aviva The FSAs Conduct of Business COB and Insurance: Conduct of conducted by a dedicated team within its Prudential and Conduct Business ICOB Rules apply to every Authorised Firm carrying on Business Units.
In practice, this means that a wide range of relevant regulated activities, and regulate the day-to-day conduct Group, regional and UK business unit senior managers have of business standards to be observed by all Authorised Persons in regular scheduled meetings with the FSA, and other meetings and carrying out regulated activities.
discussions on specific issues take place as the need occurs.
This The COB and ICOB Rules are principle based, and the scope adds up to weekly or even daily FSA interaction at UK region, and range of obligations imposed on an Authorised Firm will business unit and Group level, and the sharing of detailed vary according to the scope of its business and range of the information about the Group.
Generally speaking, however, the The FSA has also, periodically, conducted formal Advanced obligations imposed on an Authorised Firm by the COB and ICOB Risk-Responsive Operating framework ARROW reviews of Aviva Rules will include the need to classify its clients according to their to assess the level of risk posed by the Group to each of the level of sophistication, provide them with information about the FSAs objectives.
The last full risk assessment was conducted in Authorised Firm, meet certain standards of product disclosures 2011 2012. including fee and remuneration arrangements, ensure that Areas of potential risk or weakness where the FSA particularly promotional material which it produces is clear, fair and not requires Aviva to focus attention are formally set out in a Risk misleading, assess suitability when advising on certain products, Mitigation Plan RMP, with both risk assessment and RMP issues control the range and scope of advice given, manage conflicts of up-dated on an ongoing basis between each ARROW review.
interest, report appropriately to its clients and provide certain The majority of RMP actions set by the FSA after the protections in relation to client assets.
2011 2012 ARROW review have been actioned by Aviva, and the remainder are being progressed in accordance with timescales Capital and solvency rules for insurers agreed with the FSA.
The FSA rules require that a UK insurer including those within the The FSA has highlighted in its Business Plan 2012 2013 that Group must hold capital resources equal to at least the Minimum its key focus areas for 2012 2013 would be: Capital Requirement MCR.
Insurers with with-profits liabilities of delivering the regulatory reform programme: more than 500 million which is the case with Avivas withcontinuing to influence the international and European profits fund must hold capital equal to the higher of MCR and policy agenda: the Enhanced Capital Requirement ECR.
The ECR is intended to delivering financial stability by maintaining ongoing provide a more risk responsive and realistic measure of a withsupervision of firms in a period of continued fragility in profits insurers capital requirements, whereas the MCR is broadly markets including business model analysis, capital liquidity equivalent to the previous required minimum margin, and satisfies assessments, recovery and resolution planning and the the minimum EU standards.
Significant Influence Function regime: Determination of the ECR involves the comparison of two delivering market confidence and credible deterrence: and separate measurements of the Authorised Firms financial delivering on the principal FSA initiatives to improve resources requirements, which the FSA refers to as the twin consumer protection early product intervention, the peaks approach.
The two separate peaks are: Retail Distribution Review RDR and Mortgage Market the requirement comprised by the mathematical reserves Review MMR.
plus the long term insurance capital requirement the LTICR, together known as the regulatory peak: and Outside of the UK, each Aviva business is regulated by its own a calculation of the realistic present value of the insurers national regulator s. However, overseas operations are also expected future contractual liabilities together with within the remit of the FSA to the extent that they have an projected fair discretionary bonuses to policyholders, plus a interest in the systems and controls by which the Group manages risk capital margin, together known as the realistic peak.
its overseas businesses to mitigate the risk of financial shocks arising overseas flowing through to the UK.
All insurers must also carry out an Individual Capital Assessment The FSA monitors the strategy and performance of the ICA to calculate the amount of capital needed to back their Groups international businesses through its programme of business.
If the FSA decides that the final ICA amount is regular meetings and thematic reviews.
insufficient, it may draw up its own Individual Capital Guidance The FSA aims to play a leading role in the development of ICG for the firm, which can be imposed as a requirement on the both EU and international regulation.
It is, in particular, in the scope of the Authorised Firms permission.
vanguard of the movement towards risk-based insurance regulation.
Day-to-day supervision The FSA continues to place weight on the Treating The FSA takes a risk-based approach to its regulatory activity, Customers Fairly principle.
concentrating its resources on those firms and activities which it 132 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Intervention and enforcement insurance fund to cover the actuarially determined value of the The FSA has extensive powers to investigate and intervene in the insurance liabilities.
affairs of Authorised Firms and is obliged to monitor compliance Distribution of profits and with-profits business with the requirements imposed by, and to enforce the provisions For UK authorised life insurers carrying on with-profits business, of, FSMA related to secondary legislation and the rules made such as Aviva Life and Pensions UK Ltd AVLAP, the FSAs rules thereunder.
require that where a firm decides to make a distribution of surplus The FSAs enforcement powers, which may be exercised from the with-profits fund it must distribute at least the required against both Authorised Firms and Approved Persons, include percentage as defined in the FSA Handbook of the total amount public censure, imposition of unlimited fines and, in serious cases, distributed to policyholders, with the balance of the total amount the variation or revocation of permission to carry on regulated to be distributed being payable to the shareholders.
activities or of an Approved Persons status.
The FSA may also vary In addition, at least once a year the AVLAP Board must or revoke an Authorised Firms permissions to protect the interests consider whether a distribution is required to be made from the of consumers or potential consumers if the Authorised Firm has Old WPSF inherited estate.
Such a distribution will ordinarily be not engaged in regulated activity for 12 months, or if it is failing required if the level of the inherited estate of the OWPSF exceeds to meet the threshold conditions for authorisation.
The FSA has the Required Distribution Threshold as described in the further powers to obtain injunctions against Authorised Persons Reattribution Scheme of Transfer effective from 1 October 2009 and to impose or seek restitution orders where consumers have The Scheme on any such annual investigation from the third suffered loss.
Annual investigation In addition to applying sanctions for market abuse, the FSA may also be carried out to determine if a Release to shareholders has the power to prosecute criminal offences arising under FSMA can be made from the RIEESA.
Releases can only be made: and insider dealing under Part V of the Criminal Justice Act 1993, if the Reattributed Inherited Estate exceeds the Permitted and breaches of money laundering regulations.
The FSAs stated Release Threshold as defined in the Scheme: policy is to pursue criminal prosecution in all appropriate cases.
the AVLAP Board based on appropriate actuarial advice The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS including that of the With-Profits Actuary are of the opinion The FSCS is intended to compensate individuals and small that the Release will not give rise to a significant risk that the businesses for claims against an Authorised Firm where the New WPSF including the RIEESA would be unable to meet Authorised Firm is unable or unlikely to be able to meet those its obligations to policyholders and its capital requirements claims generally, when it is insolvent or has gone out of or the Old WPSF would be unable to meet its obligations to business.
policyholders: and The FSCS funding system, for the purposes of meeting FSCS following the sixth annual investigation after 1 October compensation costs, has been reviewed to take into account the 2009 or later investigation and provided that investigation replacement of the FSA by the PRA and the FCA in 2013. and investigations made in the previous 2 years determined Following this review the FSCS levy is to split into eight broad that the Reattributed Inherited Estate exceeded the classes: Permitted Release Threshold.
the deposits class: Reporting requirements the life and pensions provision class: FSA rules require insurance companies to file their audited annual the general insurance provision class: accounts, statements of financial position and life insurers annual the investment provision class: reports from the actuary performing the actuarial function with the life and pensions intermediation class: the regulator.
There is also a requirement to report the annual the home finance intermediation class: solvency position of the insurance companys ultimate parent.
the investment intermediation class: and The FSA uses the annual return to monitor the solvency i. e. the general insurance intermediation class.
the ability to meet current and future obligations such as claims payments to policyholders of the insurance company.
For general The permissions held by each firm determine into which class, or insurance business, the return is also used to assess retrospectively classes, it falls.
the adequacy of the companys claims provisions.
The directors of Restrictions on business an insurance company are required to sign a certificate, which FSA rules restrict an insurance company from carrying on any includes a statement as to whether the company has maintained commercial business other than insurance business and activities the required minimum margin of solvency throughout the year.
directly arising from that business.
Therefore, the FSA authorised The directors must also certify that the company has completed insurance companies in the Group are bound by this restriction.
its return to the FSA properly in accordance with the FSAs instructions, and that the directors are satisfied that the company Long-term assets and liabilities has complied in all material respects with the requirements set out Where a UK insurer carries on life insurance business, its longin the FSA rules.
term business assets and liabilities i. e. those assets and liabilities relating to life and health insurance policies must be segregated UK winding up rules from the assets and liabilities attributable to non-life insurance The general insolvency laws and regulations applicable to UK business or to shareholders.
Separate accounting and other companies are modified in certain respects in relation to UK records must be maintained and a separate fund established to insurance companies where direct insurance claims will have hold all receipts of long-term business.
priority over the claims of other unsecured creditors with the The extent to which long-term fund assets may be used for exception of preferred creditors, including reinsurance creditors, purposes other than long-term business is restricted by the FSA on a winding up by the court or a creditors voluntary winding up rules.
Only the established surplus, which is the excess of assets of the insurance company.
Furthermore, instead of making a over liabilities in the long-term fund as determined by actuarial winding-up order when an insurance company has been proved investigation, may be transferred so as to be available for other unable to pay its debts, a UK court may reduce the amount of purposes.
Restrictions also apply to the payment of dividends by one or more of the insurance companys contracts on terms the insurance company, as described below.
FSA rules also require and subject to conditions if any which the court considers fit.
insurers to maintain sufficient assets in the separate long-term Where an insurance company is in financial difficulties but not in Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 133 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2012 liquidation, the FSCS may take measures to secure the transfer While the FIO will have no direct regulatory authority over the of all or part of the business to another insurance company.
business of insurance, such international agreements could preFSMA provides further protection to policyholders of empt inconsistent state insurance laws.
The FIO is also required, insurance companies effecting or carrying out contracts of longamong other things, to conduct a study of how to improve and term insurance.
Unless the court orders otherwise, a liquidator modernise insurance regulation and to report to Congress.
The and or administrator must carry on the insurers business so far new law does not currently have any immediate and significant as it consists of carrying out the insurers contracts of long-term impact on the Company and the FIO is still in the process of insurance with a view to it being transferred as a going concern drafting its required report.
We will continue to monitor the to a person who may lawfully carry out those contracts.
In FIO and its activities.
carrying on the business, the liquidator administrator may agree Additionally, there is active discussion within the NAIC of to the variation of any contracts of insurance in existence when moving to a principles-based valuation system for the setting of the winding-up order is made, but must not effect any new reserves and capital for life insurance companies.
This could contracts of insurance.
change our statutory reserve and capital requirements significantly and it is not possible to estimate the impact on our financial United States condition and results of operation at this time.
During 2012 we wrote life and annuity business in the United States through Aviva USA Corporation Aviva USA, a wholly Risk-based capital owned subsidiary formed by the merger of Aviva Life Insurance The NAIC has developed risk-based capital standards for life Company of America with AmerUS which it acquired in July insurance companies as well as a model act for state legislatures 2006.
Aviva USA is domiciled in Iowa and is the holding company to enact.
The model act requires that life insurance companies for Aviva Life and Annuity Company which is licensed to conduct report on a formula-based, risk-based capital standard that they business in all states except New York and Washington D. C. calculate by applying factors to various asset, premium and In New York it operates a wholly owned subsidiary, Aviva Life reserve items.
The formula takes into account the risk Insurance Company of New York.
Aviva plc reached agreement, characteristics of a company, including asset risk, insurance risk, in December 2012, to sell Aviva USA and, subject to regulatory interest rate risk and business risk.
The NAIC designed the formula approval, the sale is expected to close during 2013. as an early-warning tool to identify potentially inadequately The US insurance industry is regulated primarily on a statecapitalised companies for the purposes of initiating regulatory by-state basis.
Individual states have authority to pass statutes, action.
The model act imposes broad confidentiality requirements adopt regulation or issue directives to regulate insurance activities on those engaged in the insurance business including insurers, within their jurisdiction.
agents, brokers and others and on state insurance departments Consequently, life insurance companies are subject to as to the use and publication of risk-based capital data.
regulation both in their domicile state as well as in each state in Any state adopting the model act gives the state insurance which they operate.
State regulation can vary from state to state.
commissioner explicit regulatory authority to require various All have laws and regulations covering the financial aspects of the actions by, or take various actions against, insurance companies insurance business, including standards of solvency, reserves, whose adjusted capital does not meet minimum risk-based capital reinsurance and capital adequacy.
In addition, most states have standards.
The Iowa Insurance Commissioner takes into account specific regulation governing licensing and the conduct of selling the NAICs risk-based capital standards to determine adequate agents as well as the approval of products and associated product compliance with Iowa insurance law.
Effective 31 December 2005, the NAIC implemented new requirements, referred to as C-3 Phase II, for calculating riskFederal initiatives based capital in connection with variable annuity products with While the National Association of Insurance Commissioners death and living benefit guarantees.
These changes did not have NAIC has no statutory powers, its members are the insurance a material effect on our US operations, and at 31 December commissioners in each state and it acts as a forum to develop and 2012, the Companys total adjusted capital under the NAICs propose model laws and regulations.
Each state then decides definition substantially exceeded Iowa standards.
whether to adopt the NAIC model laws or regulations and each state may make changes to the model laws during the adoption Canada process.
However, the models are generally widely adopted: We write property and casualty business in Canada via a number an example being the Suitability in Annuity Transactions of wholly owned companies.
Insurance business in Canada is regulated federally by the NAIC has a commitment to modernising the state-based Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions OSFI for system of insurance regulation and is pushing forward an action prudential supervision i. e. capital adequacy, solvency, etc.
OSFI plan aimed at achieving consistency of approach between states derives its powers from the federal Insurance Companies Act on a number of issues including risk management and the Canada which governs the structure and operation of federally solvency regulatory framework.
The American Council of Life incorporated insurance companies.
Insurers ACLI has, in the past, proposed an optional federal The capital adequacy of insurance companies is monitored charter OFC under which life insurers could choose to be under the Minimum Capital Test MCT, a risk-based framework federally regulated instead of state regulated.
However, the allowing for capital to be assessed on the basis of an individual OFC has not been adopted.
companys risk profile taking account of the investments held and In 2010, Congress passed a law adopting significant federal insurance business being written.
Companies have their own regulatory reforms for the financial services industry in the US.
internal MCT target that is communicated to OSFI, which is set to The new law will impose stricter prudential standards on ensure that they maintain capital in excess of 150% of the OSFI systemically significant financial companies, higher risk financial minimum requirement.
activities and introduce new mechanisms for resolving failures of There are also ten individual provincial regulators each significant financial companies.
The law requires additional stress regulating predominantly conduct of business issues such as testing and reporting on a regular basis.
In addition, a Federal policy terms and conditions, and rates and underwriting of Insurance Office FIO has been established within the Treasury companies they have licensed to write business in the province.
Department to monitor the insurance industry, co-ordinate federal policy and, along with the US Trade Representative, enter into international agreements on prudential insurance matters.
134 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Asia We operate in Asia through a network of subsidiary companies either wholly owned or established as a joint venture with a local partner.
Our business is predominantly long-term and savings business, with small general insurance and health operations.
There are wholly owned businesses in Singapore and Hong Kong.
During 2012 Aviva also operated businesses in China, India, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Korea, Indonesia and Vietnam which, depending on the nature and extent of the control exerted by Aviva, were accounted for as subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates.
Aviva plc reached agreement in 2012 to sell its business in Sri Lanka, and in January 2013 also reached agreement to sell its business in Malaysia, subject to regulatory approval.
The Asia area is made up of a number of widely differing and independent markets.
The markets tend to be at different stages in their development but each has its own regulatory structures and Aviva complies with the local regulation in each of the countries in which it operates.
Industry regulation typically focuses on financial stability, i. e. minimum capital and the basis for calculating solvency, reserves and policyholder liability.
In many of the markets regulators have the power to revoke operating licences, regulate shareholder structures and the participation in and the payment of dividends.
Asia markets are moving quickly to modernise insurance regulation with an increasing focus on governance and conduct of business.
Intellectual property Our primary brands the Aviva name and Logo are registered trademarks in the UK and are registered or pending in all other countries where Aviva has operations.
Aviva has an active programme of review of marks and watching for infringements.
There are no material infringements in the UK known to us as at the date of this report, either by the Group or third parties.
