Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 103 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Corporate Responsibility Committee report Corporate responsibility committee allocation of agenda time This Report provides details of the role of the Corporate Responsibility Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
Climate change and environment 10% CR strategy, reporting and governance 39% Committee role and responsibilities Business unit review 12% The purpose of the Committee is to set guidance and direction Stakeholder recognition and business ethics 14% Street to school programme 14% and to oversee the policies and progress of the Groups corporate Customers and employees 11% responsibility CR activities.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: Assist the Board in the development of the Groups strategy on CR related issues and monitor external developments.
Review the Groups CR, environment and climate change business standard to ensure it continues to meet the CR Strategy Performance and Risk Management Groups CR strategy and objectives: During the year the Committee reviewed and approved the Review and monitor the Groups CR risks and, working with Group CR strategy and functional plan for 2012-2014 and the Risk Committee, ensure that the Groups CR risks are monitored progress made by the Groups businesses against each properly considered: of the CR key performance indicators.
Updates were given on CR Review and approve the CR Report in the Companys programme activities such as the Street to School programme: Annual Report and Accounts and provide for an appropriate business ethics: health, safety and wellbeing: and stakeholder form of assurance: and recognition.
The Committee also focused on ensuring a Review the overall CR content contained within the Groups strengthening of CR performance across the Group through financial reports.
enhanced employee engagement, influencing key stakeholders and by further encouraging diversity and inclusion throughout the Revised terms of reference were adopted in January 2013.
The Committee continued to monitor risks relating to the responsibility of the Committee was expanded to include Groups CR activities together with associated risk mitigation providing oversight for the Board in respect of the Groups initiatives.
conduct with customers and reviewing the overall corporate Assurance governance of the Group and business standards as they relate to In respect of the 2011 reporting year, independent assurance on the culture, values and reputational risks of the Group.
The full the Groups CR and related activities and reporting was provided terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the to the Committee by Ernst & Young LLP.
For the 2012 reporting Companys website at www.
com terms-of-reference and year, PwC was appointed to provide independent assurance.
are also available from the group company secretary.
Members of the Committee were interviewed as part of the external assurance process and the subsequent report: and Committee membership and attendance managements action plan: were reviewed by the Committee to The Committee comprises independent non-executive directors assist in strengthening and setting the future direction of the CR only.
The table below shows the Committee members during the programme.
Internal Audit reported to the Committee on any year and their attendance at Committee meetings.
relevant matters from its reviews and will provide support for the Committee going forward.
Membership and attendance Number of meetings 1 Committee member attended Percentage attendance Corporate Responsibility Report During the year, the Committee approved the scope and content Gay Huey Evans Chairman 4 100% 2 Euleen Goh 4 100% of the Companys 2012 CR Report, which provides a summary of 3 Andrew Moss 2 100% the Groups CR performance in 2012.
The Report is set out on 4 Lord Sharman 2 100% pages 61 to 76 and can be found at www.
The Scott Wheway 4 100% Report will be put to an advisory vote of shareholders at the 2013 1 This shows the percentage of meetings which the Committee member attended during the year whilst a member of the Committee.
AGM and further details of the relevant resolution are set out in 2 Euleen Goh resigned from the Committee in December 2012. the Notice of AGM.
3 Andrew Moss resigned from the Committee in May 2012.
4 Lord Sharman retired from the Committee in June 2012.
Committee performance and effectiveness The Committee met on four occasions in 2012.
The group The Committee undertook an annual review of its performance company secretary or her nominee acts as the secretary to the and effectiveness which concluded that overall the Committee Committee.
The executive chairman attended all meetings of the was effective in carrying out its duties.
Committee members Committee and the group CR director, the group HR director, the identified areas for greater focus in 2013 and the Committees chief marketing and communications officer and other members remit will be extended to provide an increased focus on corporate of senior management also attended meetings by invitation.
The governance, oversight of the brand, values and reputation of the chairman of the Committee reported to the subsequent meeting Group and the Groups conduct with customers.
of the Board on the Committees work and the Board received a copy of the agenda and the minutes of each meeting of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Report Committee.
This Corporate Responsibility Committee Report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 6 March 2013.
Committee activities during 2012 The following chart shows how the Committee allocated its time during 2012, with key activities set out in more detail below: Gay Huey Evans Chairman, Corporate Responsibility Committee
