Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 125 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2012 reintroduced the Aviva Scrip Dividend Scheme.
For the 2012 final Accounting for the PUTs and PLPs as subsidiaries, joint ventures dividend, the Aviva Scrip Dividend Scheme has been withdrawn.
or other financial investments depends on the shareholdings in An interim dividend is generally paid in November of each the GPs and the terms of each partnership agreement.
A final dividend is proposed by the Companys Board after partnership is managed by a contractual agreement where the the end of the relevant year and generally paid in May.
The parties have joint control but no individual party exerts overall following table shows certain information regarding the dividends control, notwithstanding that the Groups partnership share or that we paid on ordinary shares for the periods indicated in economic interest in the PLP including its indirect stake via the pounds sterling and converted into US dollars at the noon buying relevant PUT and GP may be greater than 50%, such PUTs and rate in effect on each payment date.
PLPs have been classified as joint ventures.
Of the PLPs accounted for as joint ventures at 31 December 2012, the Groups economic Interim Interim Final Final interest exceeded 50% in respect of one partnership, The Mall dividend dividend dividend dividend Limited Partnership, in which the Group had a 50.52% per share per share per share per share Year pence cents pence cents economic interest.
In respect of these PLPs, there are no 2012 10.00 15.85 9.00 na significant contingent liabilities to which we are exposed, nor do we have any significant contingent liabilities in relation to our Guarantees, securitised assets and off-balance interests in them.
External debt raised by the PLPs is secured on sheet arrangements their respective property portfolios, and the lenders are only As a normal part of our operating activities, various Group entitled to obtain payment of both interest and principal to the companies have given financial guarantees and options, including extent there are sufficient resources in the respective PLPs.
The interest rate guarantees, in respect of certain long-term assurance lenders have no recourse whatsoever to the policyholder and and fund management products, as set out in Note 41.
These are shareholders funds of any companies in the Aviva Group.
accounted for on-balance sheet as either part of the host At 31 December 2012, we had 157 million capital commitments insurance contract or as financial instruments under IFRS.
to these PLP joint ventures.
Information on operating lease commitments can be found in Note 52 b.
Liquidity and capital resources It is standard business practice for our Group companies to Treasury function give guarantees, indemnities and warranties in connection with The treasury function of our business is managed by our disposals of subsidiaries and associates to third parties.
As of centralised treasury team, headed by the Group treasurer.
The 31 December 2012, we believe no material loss will arise in Group treasurer acts as owner of Group business standards for respect of these guarantees, indemnities and warranties.
liquidity and foreign exchange risk management within the Group Principal warranties include the accuracy and completeness of the risk governance and oversight framework.
Changes in policy statement of financial position at an agreed specified date, details require the agreement of the chief risk and capital officer.
These of outstanding litigation, regulatory matters, material contractual policies are independently implemented and monitored by each commitments, the position on tax filings and other customary of our businesses.
Our central treasury team is split into distinct matters together with any specific items identified during due functions: a Group team, which develops our overall treasury diligence.
In addition, specific clauses cover such items as strategy and our treasury team at Aviva Investors, which manages regulatory approvals and licences, the basis of calculation and monitors our treasury and cash flow positions for our holding regarding actuarial insurance liabilities, reinsurance contracts companies.
Each business unit is responsible for monitoring its and the status of employee pension plans.
Their exact terms are own cash and liquidity positions, as well as its ongoing funding tailored to each disposal and are set out in the respective sale and requirements.
It is our policy to make the majority of our purchase agreement.
Similarly, the open warranty periods, within financing arrangements at the parent company level for our which the purchaser could claim, and limits on the maximum business units, primarily through external borrowings and equity amount potentially recoverable will vary for each item covered in offerings.
This enables us to achieve the efficiencies afforded by each disposal.
A number of our business units also raise debt There are a number of outstanding claims on recent disposals, on their own behalf.
none of which are material.
There are also open claim periods on Our principal objective in managing our liquidity and capital other recent disposals on which we have neither received, nor resources is to maximise the return on capital to shareholders, expect to receive, any such claims.
We believe that there is no while enabling us to pay dividends, service our debt and our material exposure in this respect.
In the context of a financial We have loans receivable, secured by mortgages, which have services company where our working capital is largely then been securitised through non-recourse borrowings by special representative of our liquidity, we believe that our working capital purpose entities in our UK Life business, as set out in Note 24. is sufficient for our present operational requirements.
For These special purpose entities have been consolidated and additional information, see Note 56 Risk management included in the statement of financial position, as we retain the liquidity risk.
Extraordinary market conditions Limited liability partnerships classified as joint ventures Starting in mid-September 2008, the global financial markets As part of their investment strategy, the UK and certain European experienced unprecedented disruption, adversely affecting the long-term business policyholder funds have invested in a number business environment in general, as well as financial services of property limited partnerships PLP, either directly or via companies in particular.
Markets have improved but continue to property unit trusts PUT, through a mix of capital and loans.
be fragile, particularly given the Eurozone sovereign debt crisis.
The PLPs are managed by general partners GP, in which the A return to adverse financial market conditions could significantly long-term business shareholder companies hold equity stakes and affect our ability to meet liquidity needs and obtain capital, which themselves hold nominal stakes in the PLPs.
The PUTs are although management believes that we have liquidity and managed by a Group subsidiary.
capital resources to meet business requirements under current market conditions.
126 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2012 At 31 December 2012, total consolidated cash and cash access to a range of funding sources, including the banking equivalents net of bank overdrafts amounted to 23,248 million, market, the commercial paper market and the long-term an increase of 847 million over 22,401 million in 2011. debt capital markets.
We issue debt in a variety of currencies, Processes for monitoring and managing liquidity risk, predominantly sterling, euros and US dollars, based on investor including liquidity stress models, have been enhanced to take into demand at the time of issuance and management of the Groups account the extraordinary market conditions, including the impact foreign exchange translation exposures in the statement of on policyholder and counterparty behaviour, the ability to sell financial position.
various investment assets and the ability to raise incremental In May 2012, we issued $650 million of Fixed Rate Tier 1 funding from various sources.
Management has taken steps to notes callable in 2017.
In June 2012, we repaid a $300 million strengthen liquidity in light of its assessment of the impact of subordinated debt instrument at its first call date.
market conditions, such as issuing $650 million Fixed Rate Tier At 31 December 2012, our total external borrowings, 1 notes in May 2012, and intends to continue to monitor including subordinated debt and securitised mortgage loans, liquidity closely.
Of the total borrowings, 5.1 billion 2011: 5.3 billion are considered to Management of capital resources be core borrowings and are included within the Groups capital We seek to maintain an efficient capital structure using a employed.
The balance of 3.2 billion 2011: 3.2 billion combination of equity shareholders funds, preference capital, represents operational debt issued by operating subsidiaries.
This structure is consistent We also have substantial committed credit facilities available for with our risk profile and the regulatory and market requirements our use.
At 31 December 2012, we had undrawn committed of our business.
credit facilities expiring within one year of 0.4 billion 2011: In managing our capital, we seek to: 1.0 billion and 1.7 billion in credit facilities expiring after more Match the profile of our assets and liabilities, taking into than one year 2011: 1.1 billion.
Of these facilities, 750 million account the risks inherent in each business: was allocated in 2012 2011: 750 million to support our maintain financial strength to support new business growth commercial paper programme.
whilst still satisfying the requirements of policyholders, Further information on the maturity profile, currency and regulators and rating agencies: interest rate structure of our borrowings is presented in Financial retain financial flexibility by maintaining strong liquidity, statements IFRS Note 48 Borrowings.
Commercial paper is access to a range of capital markets and significant issued for terms up to 12 months and is generally reissued at unutilised committed credit lines: maturity.
The earliest repayment date for other debt instruments allocate capital efficiently to support growth and repatriate is a 650 million subordinated debt instrument with a first call excess capital where appropriate: and date of 2 October 2013 at the option of the company.
At this manage exposures to movements in exchange rates by time Aviva will have the option of repaying the debt or accepting aligning the deployment of capital by currency with our a step-up in the coupon and deferring repayment until future capital requirements by currency.
coupon dates or 2023 at the latest.
The table below presents our debt position for the periods We are subject to a number of regulatory capital tests and employ indicated: realistic scenario tests to allocate capital and manage risk.
The impact of these regulatory capital tests on our ability to transfer 2012 2011 m m capital around the Group through dividends and capital injections Core structural borrowings is discussed later in this section under the headings Sources of Subordinated debt 4,337 4,550 liquidity and Capital injections.
Debenture loans 199 199 At 31 December 2012, the Group had 21.4 billion 31 Commercial paper 603 506 December 2011: 20.8 billion of total capital employed on an 5,139 5,255 MCEV basis in our trading operations which is financed by a Operating borrowings Operational borrowings at amortised cost 1,868 1,889 combination of equity shareholders funds, preference capital, Operational borrowings at fair value 1,332 1,306 direct capital instruments, subordinated debt and internal and 3,200 3,195 external borrowings.
8,339 8,450 In 2012, the total capital employed increased by 0.6 billion.
Less: Amounts classified as held for sale 145 The increase is primarily driven by the Groups post tax profits, Total 8,194 8,450 offset by actuarial losses on staff pension schemes and the payment of the dividend.
In addition to external funding sources, we have a number of In the UK, we have raised non-recourse funding secured against internal debt arrangements in place.
These have allowed the books of mortgages.
This funding has been raised through the assets supporting technical liabilities to be invested into the pool use of special-purpose entities.
The beneficial interest in the books of central assets for use across the Group.
They have also enabled of mortgages has been passed to these special-purpose entities.
us to deploy cash from some parts of the business to others in These entities, which are owned by independent trustees, have order to fund growth.
Although intra-Group loans in nature, they funded this transfer through the issue of loan notes.
are counted as part of the capital base for the purpose of capital The value of the secured assets and the corresponding nonmanagement.
All internal loans satisfy arms length criteria and all recourse funding was 1,332 million 2011: 1,306 million.
interest payments have been made when due.
We continue to receive fees from these special purpose entities in respect of loan administration services.
Management of debt These special purpose entities have been consolidated as Aviva plc is the principal financing vehicle in our centralised we retain the residual interest in them.
The transactions and funding strategy.
Our senior debt obligations are supported by reasons for consolidation are discussed further within Financial guarantees from our principal UK non-life trading subsidiaries.
We statements IFRS Note 24 Securitised mortgages and also manage our external debt in line with rating agency limits related assets.
applicable for entities with a rating in the AA range.
We aim to maintain a balance of fixed and floating rate debt, and manage the maturity of our borrowings and our undrawn committed facilities to avoid bunching of maturities.
We aim to maintain Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 127 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Undrawn borrowings to shareholders.
While the UK insurance regulatory laws At 31 December 2012, we had 2.1 billion 2011: 2.1 billion applicable to UK Life and our other UK subsidiaries impose no undrawn committed central borrowing facilities available to us, statutory restrictions on an insurers ability to declare a dividend, provided by a range of leading international banks, all of which the rules require maintenance of each insurance companys have investment grade credit ratings.
We have allocated 750 solvency margin, which might impact their ability to pay dividends million to support the credit rating of Avivas commercial paper to the parent company.
Our other life and general insurance, and programme.
Undrawn borrowings are analysed below: fund management subsidiaries ability to pay dividends and make loans to the parent company is similarly restricted by local 2012 2011 corporate or insurance laws and regulations.
In all jurisdictions, m m when paying dividends, the relevant subsidiary must take into Expiring within one year 420 955 account its capital position and must set the level of dividend to Expiring beyond one year 1,725 1,160 maintain sufficient capital to meet minimum solvency Total 2,145 2,115 requirements and any additional target capital expected by local regulators.
These minimum solvency requirements, which are Our committed central borrowing facilities have two financial consolidated under the European Insurance Group Directive, are covenants: discussed later in this section under the heading Regulatory Borrowings excluding non-recourse indebtedness may not capital position.
We do not believe that the legal and regulatory exceed total shareholders funds.
At 31 December 2012, restrictions constitute a material limitation on the ability of our borrowings were 62% of total shareholders funds.
businesses to meet their obligations or to pay dividends to the Total shareholders funds to exceed 32% of non-life net parent company, Aviva plc.
written premiums for the previous 12 months.
At The Group has received and expects to receive proceeds on 31 December 2012, total shareholders funds were 140% completion of the disposals as disclosed in Financial statements of non-life net written premiums.
Aviva plc has established two main programmes for the Total shareholders funds are defined as the aggregate of issuance of external debt by Aviva plc.
For short-term senior debt nominal share capital of Aviva and the IFRS retained profits issuance we have a 2 billion commercial paper programme and reserves, plus the value of in-force long-term business, which allows debt to be issued in a range of currencies.
31 December 2012, the outstanding debt issued under this programme was 603 million 2011: 506 million excludes Sources of liquidity commercial paper issued by Delta Lloyd.
More details of In managing our cash flow position, we have a number of movements in debt can be found on page 126 in the sources of liquidity, including: Management of debt section.
dividends from operating subsidiaries: For longer term debt we have established a Euro Medium external debt issuance: Term Note EMTN programme.
This programme has internal debt and central assets: and documentation readily available to allow quick issuance of longfunds generated by the sale of businesses.
term debt with a variety of terms and conditions.
Debt issued under this programme may be senior debt or regulatory qualifying Aviva plcs principal sources of liquidity is dividends and liquid debt and may have a fixed or floating interest rate.
At 31 resources provided by its subsidiaries, associates and joint December 2012, the outstanding debt issued under this ventures.
The level of dividends is based on two primary factors: programme was 2,076 million 2011: 1,894 million.
the financial performance and the local solvency and capital requirements of our individual business units.
Application of funds The table below shows liquid resources provided to Group We use funds to pay dividends to our shareholders, to service our Centre from operating companies, subsidiaries, associates and debt and to pay our central Group cash flows.
joint ventures in 2012: In 2012, total cash paid by the Company as ordinary and preference dividends and coupon payments on direct capital 2012 Amounts instruments and Fixed Rate Tier 1 notes amounted to 720 received million, compared with 506 million in 2011. m In 2012, our total interest costs on central borrowings were UK life insurance 150 UK general insurance 150 317 million.
This compared with 324 million of interest paid on Canada 136 central borrowings in 2011.
Total corporate centre expenses in France 217 2012 were 136 million compared with 138 million in 2011.
Spain 68 Poland 70 An additional application of our funds is the acquisition of Other operations 153 businesses.
In 2012, cash paid for the acquisition of subsidiaries, Total 944 joint ventures and associates from continuing operations net of cash acquired amounted to 129 million, compared with cash Subsequent to the year end, the Group has taken action to paid of 114 million in 2011. improve its access to dividends from the Groups insurance and Capital injections asset management businesses by undertaking a corporate We make capital injections into our businesses where necessary to restructuring whereby Aviva Group Holdings AGH has ensure that they meet their local solvency requirements and also to purchased from Aviva Insurance Limited AIL its interest in the support development of their operations.
Capital is provided either majority of its overseas businesses.
by equity or, where a local holding company is in place, may be via Under UK company law, dividends can only be paid if a loans with the holding company subsequently injecting equity company has distributable reserves sufficient to cover the capital in the regulated operating company.
Each capital injection is dividend.
At 31 December 2012, Aviva plc itself had distributable subject to central review and approval by the Board of the relevant reserves of 3,037 million, which would have covered three years holding company and needs to meet our required internal rates of of historic dividend payments to our shareholders.
To the extent that capital injections are provided or funded largest operating subsidiary, distributable reserves, which could be by regulated entities, then we have to consider the impact on paid to Aviva plc via its intermediate holding company, are regulatory capital of the capital injection.
created mainly by the statutory long-term business profit transfer 128 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Otherwise our ability to make capital injections into our Currency Our exposures to movements in exchange rates and the businesses is not materially limited by applicable legal and regulatory restrictions.
Total capital injections into the business management of these exposures is detailed in Performance review Financial and operating performance Exchange units were 169 million and 296 million in 2012 and 2011 respectively.
Regulatory capital position Consolidated cash flows The cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at banks and in Individual regulated subsidiaries measure and report solvency based on applicable local regulations, including in the UK the hand, deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to regulations established by the FSA.
These measures are also consolidated under the European Insurance Groups Directive known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value.
IGD to calculate regulatory capital adequacy at an aggregate group level, where we have a regulatory obligation to have a For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents also include bank overdrafts, which are included in positive position at all times.
This measure represents the excess of the aggregate value of payables and other financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
regulatory capital employed in our business over the aggregate Year ended 31 December 2012 minimum solvency requirements imposed by local regulators, Net cash from operating activities excluding the surplus held in the UK and Ireland with-profit life funds.
Total net cash from operating activities increased by 2,636 The minimum solvency requirement for our European businesses is million to a 2,294 million inflow in 2012 2011: 342 million based on the Solvency 1 Directive.
In broad terms, for EU operations, outflow.
The increase is primarily due to an increase in flows this is set at 4% and 1% of non-linked and unit-linked life reserves from the net purchase sale of operating assets.
respectively and for our general insurance portfolio of business is the higher of 18% of gross premiums or 26% of gross claims, in both Net cash from investing activities cases adjusted to reflect the level of reinsurance recoveries.
For our Net cash from investing activities decreased by 93 million to major non-European businesses the US and Canada a risk charge on 15 million outflow 2011: 78 million inflow.
The decrease is assets and liabilities approach is used.
mainly a result of a decrease in cash inflows from disposal of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, partly offset by lower European Insurance Groups Directive cash used in discontinued operations.
UK Life Other funds business 2012 2011 Net cash out flow on financing activities bn bn bn bn Net cash used in financing activities decreased by 654 million to Insurance Groups Directive IGD an outflow of 1,119 million 2011: 1,773 million outflow.
The capital resource 5.2 9.2 14.4 14.1 Less: capital resources decrease is due to proceeds from the issuance of a Fixed Rate Tier requirement CRR 5.2 5.4 10.6 11.9 1 notes, and lower cash used in discontinued operations partly Insurance Groups Directive offset by higher dividend payments.
IGD excess solvency 3.8 3.8 2.2 Cover of EU minimum Net cash and cash equivalents calculated excluding UK At 31 December 2012, total consolidated net cash and cash Life funds 1.7 times 1.3 times equivalents, net of bank overdrafts, amounted to 23,248 million, a increase of 847 million over 22,401 million in 2011.
The EU IGD regulatory capital solvency surplus has increased by 1.6 billion since 31 December 2011 to 3.8 billion.
The key Currency movements over the period are set out in the following table: Our exposures to movements in exchange rates and the management of these exposures is detailed in Performance bn review Financial and operating performance Exchange IGD solvency surplus at 31 December 2011 2.2 rate fluctuations.
Operating profits net of other income and expenses 0.9 Dividend and appropriations, net of shares issued in lieu of dividends 0.7 1 Year ended 31 December 2011 Market movements including foreign exchange 1.3 Pension scheme funding 0.2 Net cash from operating activities Movement in hybrid debt 0.2 Total net cash from operating activities decreased by 2,149 UK reinsurance transactions 0.1 million to 342 million outflow in 2011 2010: 1,807 million Increase in Capital Resources Requirement 0.1 Other regulatory adjustments 0.1 inflow.
The decrease is primarily due to higher claims in the long-term business.
Estimated IGD solvency surplus at 31 December 2012 3.8 1 Market movements include the impact of equity, credit spread, interest rate and foreign exchange movements net of the effect of hedging instruments.
Net cash used in investing activities Net cash from investing activities decreased by 271 million to Capital commitments 78 million utilised 2010: 349 million utilised.
The decrease is Contractual commitments for acquisitions or capital expenditures a result of cash used in discontinued operations.
of investment property, property and equipment and intangible assets, which have not been recognised in our consolidated Net cash out flow on financing activities financial statements, are as follows: Net cash used in financing activities was 420 million higher at 1,773 million 2010: 1,353 million.
The increase is due to a 2012 2011 2010 higher repayment of borrowings during the year.
m m m Investment property 6 23 63 Net cash and cash equivalents Property and equipment 36 36 160 At 31 December 2011, total consolidated net cash and cash Total 42 59 223 equivalents amounted to 22,401 million, an decrease of 2,294 million over 24,695 million in 2010.
Contractual obligations for future repairs and maintenance on investment properties are nil 2011: nil, 2010: 1 million.
We have capital commitments to our joint ventures of 157 million
