76 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Avivas responsibilities PwC Independent Assurance Report to the The Directors of Aviva are responsible for: Directors of Aviva plc designing, implementing and maintaining internal The Directors of Aviva plc Aviva engaged us to provide controls over information relevant to the preparation of limited assurance on the information described below and set the Selected Information that is free from material out in Avivas Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: 31 December 2012. establishing objective Reporting Criteria for preparing the Selected Information: Our conclusions measuring Avivas performance based on the Reporting As a result of our procedures nothing has come to our Criteria: and attention that indicates the Selected Information for the the content of the Annual Report and Accounts 2012. year ended 31 December 2012 has not been prepared in all material respects with the Reporting Criteria.
Our responsibilities What we are assuring Selected Information We are responsible for: The selected corporate responsibility CR data for the year planning and performing the engagement to obtain ended 31 December 2012 marked with the symbol limited assurance about whether the Selected presented in the Annual Report and Accounts 2012 on pg 70.
Information is free from material misstatement, whether The scope of our work was restricted to the Selected due to fraud or error: Information for the year ended 31 December 2012 and does forming an independent conclusion, based on the not extend to information in respect of earlier periods or to procedures we have performed and the evidence we any other information in the Annual Report and Accounts have obtained: and 2012. reporting our conclusion to the Directors of Aviva.
How the information is assessed Reporting Criteria This report, including our conclusions, has been prepared We assessed the Selected Information using Avivas Reporting solely for the Directors of Aviva as a body in accordance with Criteria as set out at www.
com corporate- 1 the agreement between us, to assist the Directors in reporting responsibility reports.
Avivas corporate responsibility performance and activities.
We 2 3 Professional standards applied and level of assurance permit this report to be disclosed in the Annual Report and We have used ISAE 3000 limited level of assurance and we Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012, to enable have complied with the ICAEW Code of Ethics.
the Directors to show they have addressed their governance responsibilities by obtaining an independent assurance report Understanding reporting and measurement methodologies in connection with the Selected Information.
To the fullest There are no globally recognised and established practices for extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume evaluating and measuring the Selected Information.
The range responsibility to anyone other than the Directors as a body of different, but acceptable, techniques can result in materially and Aviva for our work or this report except where terms are different reporting outcomes that may affect comparability expressly agreed between us in writing.
The Reporting Criteria used as the basis of Avivas reporting should therefore be read in conjunction with the Selected Information and associated  LLP, statements reported on Avivas website.
Chartered Accountants, London 6 March 2013 Work done Considering the risk of material misstatement of the Selected Information, we: 1 The maintenance and integrity of Avivas website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by us does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, we accept no responsibility for any changes made enquiries of Avivas management, including the that may have occurred to the reported Selected Information or Reporting Criteria when presented on Avivas website.
CR team and those with responsibility for CR 2 We have complied with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 Assurance Engagements management and Group CR reporting: other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information issued by the IAASB, and with the applicable independence and competency requirements of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales evaluated the design of the key structures, systems, ICAEW Code of Ethics.
To comply with those standards, our work was carried out by an independent and processes and controls for managing, recording and multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists.
3 Assurance, defined by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board IAASB, gives the user reporting the Selected Information.
This included visiting confidence about the subject matter assessed against the reporting criteria.
Reasonable assurance gives more confidence than limited assurance, as a limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope in relation to two markets, the UK and Canada, and analysing a both the assessment of risks of material misstatement and the procedures performed in response to the further seven markets selected on the basis of their assessed risks.
inherent risk and materiality to the Group, to understand the key processes and controls for reporting site performance data to the Group CR team: performed limited substantive testing on a selective basis of the Selected Information at corporate head office and in relation to the UK and Canada markets to check that data had been appropriately measured, recorded, collated and reported: and assessed the disclosure and presentation of the Selected Information.
Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 77 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance In this section Chairmans governance letter 78 Board of directors 80 Group Executive 83 Directors report 85 Corporate governance report 89 Nomination Committee report 95 Audit Committee report 97 Risk Committee report 100 Corporate Responsibility Committee report 103 Directors remuneration report 104
