Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 41 41 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Information on the company Due to the size of the UK & Ireland segment, it has been split into History and development of Aviva separate Life and General Insurance segments, which undertake General long-term insurance and savings business and general insurance, Aviva, a public limited company incorporated under the laws of respectively.
Aviva Investors, our fund management business, England and Wales, provides customers with long-term insurance operates across most markets providing fund management and savings, general and health insurance, and fund management services to third-party investors and to our long-term insurance products and services.
Over the last few years we have simplified businesses and general insurance operations.
and streamlined Aviva, focusing on markets where we can produce Our business operates across three main market sectors life attractive returns.
insurance and savings: general and health insurance: and fund We are committed to serving our customers well in order management.
to build a strong, sustainable business which makes a positive contribution to society and which our people are proud to Life insurance and savings business work for.
Long-term insurance and savings business from continuing operations accounted for approximately 74% of our total Our history business based on worldwide total sales from continuing The Group was formed by the merger of CGU plc and Norwich operations for the year ended 31 December 2012.
We reported Union plc on 30 May 2000.
CGU plc was renamed CGNU plc on total long-term insurance and savings new business sales from completion of the merger, and subsequently renamed Aviva plc continuing operations of 20.6 billion and investment sales of on 1 July 2002.
4.6 billion for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Our focus CGU plc and Norwich Union plc were both major UK-based remains on growing our business profitably and improving our insurers operating in the long-term insurance business and operational efficiency so that we can fully benefit as our major general insurance markets.
Both companies had long corporate markets return to economic growth.
Hand in Hand, which was incorporated in 1696, was acquired by Commercial Union in 1905, which itself was Market position incorporated in 1861.
General Accident plc was incorporated in In the UK we are a market leader and have a market share of 1 1865.
Norwich Union plc was founded as a mutual society in 12% based on annual premium equivalent APE according to 1797 and operated as such until 1997 when it demutualised and the Association of British Insurers ABI data as at 30 September became an English public limited company.
Sales of life, investment and general insurance products in in 1998 from the merger of Commercial Union plc and General the UK represented 49% of our worldwide sales for the year Accident plc.
Further details of our position in each In 2011 and 2012 the Group has undertaken and announced market are set out in the market sections below.
a number of disposals as we have continued the process of Brands and products streamlining our business.
Further details of these can be found in We have operated under the Aviva brand globally since 2010. the sections Financial statements IFRS note 3 Subsidiaries, Our long-term insurance and savings businesses offer a broad note 18 Interests in, and loans to, joint ventures and note 19 range of life insurance and savings products.
Our products are Interests in, and loans to, associates.
split into the following categories: Pensions is a means of providing income in retirement for Business overview an individual and possibly his or her dependants.
Our Our aims and strategy pension products include personal and group pensions, In July 2012, we announced our new strategic plan which has stakeholder pensions and income drawdown.
three main objectives: Annuities is a type of policy that pays out regular amounts Narrow focus of benefit, either immediately and for the remainder of a We aim to focus on fewer business segments where we persons lifetime, or deferred to commence from a future believe we can produce attractive returns with a high date.
Immediate annuities may be purchased for an probability of success.
individual and his or her dependants or on a bulk purchase Build financial strength basis for groups of people.
Deferred annuities are asset We will achieve target economic capital levels in line with our accumulation contracts, which may be used to provide industry peers, reduce capital volatility and bring leverage benefits in retirement, and may be guaranteed, unit-linked down to a conservative level.
We announced new target or index-linked.
Protection is an insurance contract that protects the Improve financial performance policyholder or his or her dependants against financial loss We aim to deliver a higher level of revenue growth, lower on death or ill-health.
Our product ranges include term losses and claims and higher return on capital, assurance, mortgage life insurance, flexible whole life and notwithstanding the subdued economic environment in critical illness cover.
During 2012 we announced a new Bonds and savings are accumulation products with single expense reduction target of 400 million.
or regular premiums and unit-linked or guaranteed investment returns.
Our product ranges include single Our business premium investment bonds, regular premium savings plans, Overview mortgage endowment products and funding agreements.
Following the announcement in the second quarter of 2012 Investment sales - comprise retail sales of mutual fund type relating to the restructuring of the Group, the Groups operating products such as unit trusts, individual savings accounts segments were changed to align them with the new management ISAs and open ended investment companies OEICs.
The new operating segments are: UK & Ireland: Other - includes equity release and structured settlements.
France: Canada: Italy, Spain and Other: Higher growth markets and Aviva Investors.
In December we announced the sale of our United Some of our insurance and investment contracts contain a States life, savings and related internal fund management business discretionary participation feature, which is a contractual right to and this has been classified as a discontinued operation for the receive additional benefits as a supplement to guaranteed purposes of reporting financial performance.
These are referred to as participating contracts.
1 APE is a recognised sales measure in the UK and is the total of new annual premiums plus 10% of single premiums.
42 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual report and accounts 2012 General insurance and health insurance In December 2012 it was announced that the internal asset General insurance and health insurance accounted for 26% of our management operations of Aviva Investors North America would total worldwide sales for the year ended 31 December 2012.
In the be sold alongside the United States life business.
year ended 31 December 2012, we reported general and health Market position insurance net written premiums of 8.9 billion.
rd Aviva Investors was ranked 43 globally by assets under Market position management, according to the Towers Watson World 500 largest We are a leading general insurer in the United Kingdom and asset managers study 2011 ranking of asset managers by assets Canada and also have general insurance operations in France, under management.
Total worldwide funds managed by Aviva Italy, Ireland, Poland and Turkey.
We sell health products in the Investors at 31 December 2012 was 274 billion, including 38 UK, Ireland, Singapore and Indonesia.
In the year ended 31 billion relating to the United States Life and related internal asset December 2012, 52% of our total general insurance and health management operations which are classified as discontinued new business from continuing operations was written in the UK.
operations in the financial statements.
The substantial majority of this relates to Avivas insurance and savings operations.
Brands and products Our general insurance business operates under the Aviva brand Brands and products globally and concentrates on the following products: Aviva Investors operates under a single brand across our markets.
Personal lines motor, household, travel and creditor: Our business invests in most significant asset classes on behalf of Commercial lines fleet, liability and commercial institutional, pension fund and retail clients.
In the US, Aviva property insurance: Investors also own an asset management company called River Health insurance private health insurance, income Road Asset Management LLC.
protection and personal accident insurance, as well as a range of corporate healthcare products: and Developed markets Corporate and specialty risks products for large clients UK & Ireland life or where the risk is specialised.
Business overview and strategy In 2012, Aviva began combining its UK and Irish life insurance Distribution businesses under a single management structure, with the aim of Customers can buy our products through a range of distribution allowing Ireland to leverage the scale and expertise that exists in channels, including: the UK.
Direct In many of our markets, customers can buy our The UK business is a leading long-term insurance and savings products over the telephone or via the internet.
This method provider with an overall market share of 12%, based on third of distribution is most commonly available for simple, low quarter 2012 ABI returns.
The Irish business is a large life and cost products which do not require advice.
Direct sales force In some of our European and Asian Our strategy is to hold leading positions in workplace savings, markets we operate direct sales forces that only sell Avivas individual annuities and protection whilst delivering strong products and the sales forces receive commission on the margins and an Internal Rate of Return IRR in excess of the products they sell.
Groups target, overall and at a product level.
Intermediaries We offer a range of long-term insurance, Our Irish long-term business is carried out through a savings, retirement, general insurance and health insurance subsidiary, Aviva Life Holdings Ireland Limited ALHI, which is products which can be bought through an intermediary, 75% owned by Aviva and 25% owned by Allied Irish Bank such as an independent financial adviser or an insurance AIB.
ALHI holds four subsidiaries, one of which is Ark Life broker.
Intermediaries receive a commission on sales of Assurance Company Limited Ark Life which carries out Avivas products.
bancassurance business via a distribution agreement with AIB.
Corporate partnerships, bancassurance and joint ventures The original distribution agreement was renewable in 2011 but, Aviva is a corporate partner for many organisations, on 15 December 2011, AIB notified the Group that they did not including banks and other financial institutions, who wish to wish to renew it and the existing shareholders agreement offer their customers insurance products.
We have various governing ALHI was terminated.
The termination of this distribution agreements with bancassurance partners and agreement triggered the ability for both parties to exercise put joint ventures across the markets in which we operate.
In and call options that will result in the unwind of the original return for offering our products to their customers, the bank structure such that the Ark Life business returns 100% to AIB and or joint venture partners receive a commission as a the Group will purchase the 25% minority stake in ALHI.
The percentage of sales and in some cases achieve extra formal exercise of these options was approved on 17 January commission if agreed target levels of sales are met.
Certain 2012 and, as a result, the Ark Life business became held for sale agreements have a profit sharing element based on a on that date.
Completion of the transaction is subject to predetermined percentage.
In some cases, if the agreed agreement of terms with AIB and regulatory approval.
targets are not met, certain terms of the contract can be Completion is expected in the next 12 months.
Under the joint venture agreements, the cost of running the venture are often split between the partners.
Market and competition The UK industry has entered a period of significant regulatory Further details of the distribution channels specific to each market change, with the Retail Distribution Review RDR and Autoare included in the following market analysis.
Enrolment, transforming the way that long-term savings products are bought and sold.
We have been selling a full suite of RDR Fund management compliant products since September 2012 and during 2012 Aviva Investors, our fund management business, provides fund processed our first schemes under Auto-Enrolment.
We also hold management services to Avivas long-term insurance and savings, leading positions in the protection and annuities marketplaces and general insurance operations as well as to third-party which are largely unaffected by the RDR.
The main fund management operations are in the UK, The UK long-term savings market is highly competitive and we North America, Europe, Asia Pacific and the Middle East.
All sales consider our main competitors to be Standard Life, Prudential, of retail fund management products are included in our longLegal & General, and Lloyds Banking Group.
term insurance and savings business sales.
Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 43 43 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual report and accounts 2012 In Ireland, the economic environment remains challenging.
The Following significant premium rate increases in recent years in life insurance market in Ireland is largely consolidated.
We response to rising claims costs and frequencies, the UK personal consider our main competitors to be Bank of Ireland Life, Irish motor market has seen rate reductions in 2012 reflecting intense Life, Canada Life and Friends First.
Challenging conditions also apply to other UK classes of business, with rating increases Products typically limited to low single digits.
In Ireland, the market remains In the UK, we provide a comprehensive product range focused on challenging reflecting the economic downturn, increased both the consumer and corporate market with an approximate competition and market contraction of 3% in 2010 and a further 70:30 split.
The pensions and `at retirement products we offer 5% in 2011. include stakeholder and personal pensions, equity release, In the UK our main competitors are Direct Line Group, RSA, annuities, income drawdown and with-profits products.
Our The Admiral Group, AXA, Zurich, Lloyds Banking Group, Allianz annuity offerings include immediate life, enhanced, fixed-term and Ageas.
In Ireland, our competitors include RSA, AXA, Zurich annuities and with-profits pension annuities.
number of traditional life insurance products, including level-term, decreasing-term with or without critical illness, guaranteed Products whole life insurance, and guaranteed lifelong protection plans.
We provide a wide range of general insurance products both in Our savings and investment products include ISAs, investment the UK and Ireland.
In the UK we have a business mix of bonds, funds, base rate trackers, investments with guarantees approximately 60% personal lines and 40% commercial lines.
UK personal products include motor, home and travel insurance.
In Ireland, our long-term insurance and savings business offers Our UK commercial products include motor, property and liability a wide range of protection, bonds, savings and pension products.
insurance for small and medium size enterprises SMEs and the Our protection products include life insurance, mortgage larger UK Corporate and Speciality Risks market.
protection, specified illness and guaranteed and whole life cover In Ireland our products include property, motor, travel, farm products.
The pension range covers retirement and investment and business insurance and our health insurance business products including government personal retirement savings provides products for both the personal and company sector.
Distribution Distribution We have a multi-distribution strategy.
Our personal products are We have a multi-distribution strategy, which means we sell our sold directly to customers over the phone and through our products through intermediaries, corporate partners, in the websites www.
ie and workplace, and directly to customers.
We are a leading provider www.
com, via brokers and through corporate 2 in the UK intermediary market with a 12.5% share.
Our Quotemehappy insurance products are also In 2012, in the UK, we agreed an exclusive distribution deal available through price comparison websites.
For commercial with Tesco for the sale of protection products, following the insurance, we focus on broker distribution and believe that extension of our distribution agreements with Santander and independent brokers remain the best source of advice for Barclays in 2011.
We are also the provider of choice to the Royal business customers.
Bank of Scotland and other leading organisations including the In Ireland, to deliver further efficiency benefits, we closed our Post Office.
We remain committed to building on our existing network of high street branches and transferred customers to relationships and distribution partnerships as well as to growing both One Direct and strategic broker partners, which ensured our workplace and direct channels.
they retained access to local face-to-face solutions for their insurance needs.
UK & Ireland general insurance Business overview and strategy France In 2012, Aviva continued to combine its UK and Irish general Business overview and strategy 5 insurance businesses, allowing Ireland to leverage the scale and France is the fourth largest insurance market in the world.
Aviva expertise that exists in the UK.
We are a leading general insurer in France operates through two main companies: Aviva Vie and 3 both the UK and Ireland with market shares of 10.5% and Antarius JV structure with Crdit Du Nord.
Aviva France, one of 4 15.1% respectively, and have approximately 9 million customers.
the top ten insurance businesses in France, is ranked seventh in We employ around 11,000 people and operate from a number of life insurance excluding bancassurance and tenth in general locations throughout the UK and Ireland, including Norwich, insurance as measured by gross written premiums, according to Perth, Glasgow, London, Dublin and Galway.
LArgus fide lAssurance, as at 31 December 2011.
Our health We focus on personal and commercial insurance.
In the UK business has a 1.8% share of the market based on 2011 premium 3 6 we hold top three positions in all our major classes of business.
Aviva Frances strategy is to continue to diversify and 4 In Ireland we are a leader in general insurance and health grow our business profitability.
We believe our key strengths include underwriting Market excellence, claims and cost management and excellent customer The life insurance market is driven by individual savings and service.
We focus on the fundamentals of the insurance business dominated by bancassurance, which has accounted for around to maximise returns through the insurance cycle and provide 60% of the life insurance market over the past decade according stability of earnings.
We believe that the current volatility in the financial markets has affected customer confidence but that over a longer Market 5 period, multi-funds policies and unit-linked funds are the best The UK is the third largest insurance market in the world.
In 3 insurance vehicles for performance.
We believe the long-term 2011, the top four companies had a 32% share of the general insurance and savings market in France has longer-term growth insurance market.
potential due to the ageing population and the growing need for The UK and Ireland general insurance markets are cyclical in private pensions.
nature and remain very competitive, particularly in personal lines, The general insurance market in France is mature and highly where the market is highly commoditised.
For several years, price competition was high as insurers sought market share, particularly in the personal lines 2 ABI Stats Q3 2012 3 Source: Datamonitor analysis of market share based on 2011 GWP 4 Source: Irish Insurance Federation, 2011 5 New Swiss Re Sigma Study World insurance 2011 6 Source: Fdration franaise des socits d'assurance FFSA 44 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual report and accounts 2012 market.
In our opinion, the market has now entered a phase of The Canadian general insurance industry is highly fragmented price increases that currently makes up the majority of its with many small players and no dominant consumer brand.
Steady consolidation has resulted in the top five companies representing 40% of the market and the top two companies, 9 Products Intact Financial and Aviva, controlling 24% of the market.
The Aviva France provides a wide range of insurance solutions: life and rest of the industry includes several national carriers as well as long-term savings, general insurance and asset management smaller, provincially based or niche companies.
The products sold through our life Whilst direct and affinity channels are gradually increasing in channel are long-term savings, pensions and regular premium market share, the traditional broker channel accounts for over 10 products and a broad range of protection products, primarily for 65% of distribution.
In addition to the growth of direct and individuals, and with a focus on the unit-linked market.
affinity channels, insurance carriers are increasingly supporting We have a longstanding relationship with the Association and controlling distribution through investment in brokers.
Franaise dEpargne et fide Retraite AFER which is the largest retirement savings association in France with 735,000 members Products as at 31 December 2011, to manufacture and distribute the AFER The general insurance products that we provide through our savings product.
In the general insurance market our product Canadian companies are: range includes household, motor, health and legal protection Personal, home and motor insurance: products and also a range of insurance products for farms, Small and medium-size enterprise commercial insurance, craftsmen, tradesmen and small to medium sized entities and including motor, property, liability, boiler and machinery, specific products for building firms and motor fleets.
and surety: and Niche personal insurance products including holiday and Distribution park model trailers, hobby farms, boats as well as antique, Aviva France has developed a multi-distribution model combining classic and custom cars.
retail, direct and bancassurance networks through owned distribution channels, independent networks and partnerships.
Distribution Our retail networks sell through 896 tied agents, a direct sales We operate in Canada through a distribution network focused on force made up of more than 280 advisors and 700 Union approximately 1,700 independent group and retail brokers who Financiere fide France UFF consultants Aviva France also holds a distribute our core personal and commercial line products.
In majority stake in UFF and more than 1,000 active brokers in the addition, we work closely with both independent and wholly life, health and construction markets.
Direct distribution is sold owned specialty brokers to distribute specialty personal line through Eurofil for personal general insurance, Aviva Direct for products.
health and protection and Epargne Actuelle for the AFER product.
Italy, Spain and Other Eurofil is the second largest direct general insurer and Aviva Direct is Italy the leading provider of direct protection in France according to the Business overview and strategy FFSA as at December 2011.
We operate in the bancassurance Aviva Italy is the countrys sixth largest life insurer, with a market market through our partnership with Crdit du Nord, a subsidiary 11 share of 4.44% based on 2011 premiums excluding Eurovita of Socit Gnrale, selling life, savings, protection and general and is the 12th largest general insurance company with a market insurance products.
This partnership gives Aviva access to over 12 share of 1.54%.
We have approximately 2.5 million customers 1.9 million customers, as at December 2011. across both the Life and General Insurance businesses.
Aviva Italy has set up a transformation plan to navigate Canada through the current challenging economic environment and Business overview and strategy 7 Aviva Canada is the countrys second largest general insurer consolidate its business structure.
Aviva Italy aims to reinforce its business partnerships with three of the five largest Italian banks Through its distribution partners it provides a range of personal and commercial lines insurance products to nearly three million and with 500 agents.
It has an 8.4% market share and a top five position 7 Market in all major provinces.
Aviva Canada employs approximately The Italian life market is dominated by the top 10 providers 3,800 people and operates from a head office in Toronto, with 13 which represent around 79% of the total market share.
The other offices located throughout Canada.
life insurance industry in Italy reported a decline in volumes as We believe that we are well placed for continued growth and of 30 September 2012 with gross written premiums down that our success is underpinned by our two strategic priorities of by 10.2% compared to the same period in 2011, whilst the building strong broker relationships and maintaining sophisticated the general insurance segment decreased by 2.1% in the same pricing and underwriting.
We believe the transformation of our 14 period.
personal lines business over the last few years has ensured the In 2012 the Italian insurance industry went through three business is highly competitive.
We expect that continued major changes: refinement to our models will allow us to leverage this position The Italian government introduced new legislation Decreto to positively react to market opportunities.
We will continue to Monti which has led insurance companies to transform address increasing customer demand for choice, simplicity and both their product ranges and their customer relationships self-service by working with our broker partners on processes eg.
separate private area for customers on the company and technology solutions in order to help them compete with website: black box service for motor insurance: new other channels.
quotation tools : Two of the leading general insurance companies announced Market 8 As the eighth largest in the world, Canadas general insurance their merger: Unipol and Fondiaria Sai: market is established and stable.
The four largest provinces generate around 89% of total premiums with Ontario, the 9 largest, representing 48% of total Canadian premiums.
10 Axco Insurance Report for Canada 11 Associazione Nazionale fra le Imprese Assicuratrici ANIA 7 MSA Research Inc. 2011 online database.
12 ANIA as at 31 December 2011 8 New Swiss Re Sigma Study World insurance 2011 13 ANIA: www.
it PUBBLICAZIONI Premi del Lavoro diretto Italiano.
html 9 MSA Research Inc. 2011 online database 14 I VASS Istituto per la Vigilanza sulle Assicurazioni Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 45 45 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual report and accounts 2012 The insurance regulator went through a restructure and as Products We offer a wide range of bonds, savings, and protection of 1 January 2013 is reporting to the Bank of Italy.
It is now called IVASS Istituto per la Vigilanza sulle Assicurazioni.
Investment products include both unit linked and traditional plans, where profit sharing is regularly used to increase Products the policy return.
Our traditional plans include savings schemes Our long-term insurance and savings business offers a wide range and income products.
Pension savings products have valuable tax of products covering protection, bonds and savings and pensions.
We offer a flexible range of individual and group We are focussed on less capital intensive products.
We have pension plans with alternative investment choices.
We also offer reduced product guarantees and launched three new life protection products, covering both mortgages and credit loans products all with improved economic returns and reduced capital typically providing cover for the family in the event of death or consumption.
The ongoing focus is on less capital intensive products.
We have increased our share of unit-linked business and Distribution reduced our with-profit sales, to manage down our exposure to this sector.
We have been focusing to further develop our Through bancassurance partnerships we have established subsidiaries to distribute our products with each of the banks offering in protection where we are one of the market leaders.
Our general insurance business in Italy mainly provides motor as set out below: Unicorp Vida in conjunction with Unicaja since 2001: and home insurance products to individuals, as well as small commercial risk insurance, including marine insurance, to CxG in conjunction with Caixa Galicia since 2001: Caja Espaa Vida in conjunction with Caja Espaa since businesses.
In 2013 we will further develop our partnership with Banco Popolare distributing motor insurance through 2001: Caja Granada Vida in conjunction with Caja Granada since their branches.
2002: Distribution Cajamurcia Vida in conjunction with Cajamurcia since Our products are distributed through bancassurance partnerships 2007: and with UniCredit Group, Banco Popolare Group and Unione di Aseval in conjunction with Bancaja now Bankia since Banche Italiane UBI.
These partnerships give us access to more 2000 sale announced December 2012 as set out in than 5,900 branches.
In addition, we also have approximately Financial statements IFRS note 3 Subsidiaries.
5,500 sales advisers, and 600 insurance multi-mandate agents and brokers as at the end of 2012.
Aviva Vida y Pensiones distributes our products through professional intermediaries financial advisers, agents and brokers, Spain supported by a branch office network and call centres.
In 2012 we Business overview and strategy saw the start of distribution through Pelayos network of 200 Aviva Spain is the countrys fifth largest long-term insurer by gross branches and approximately 1,000 exclusive agents.
written premiums with a market share of 5% in the third quarter Our distribution relationships have enabled us to maintain our 15 of 2012.
Aviva Spain sells protection, long-term savings and position as the largest provider of individual protection products pensions, health and accident insurance through a bancassurance 17 in the market.
network based on joint ventures with six banks.
We also sell through Aviva Vida y Pensiones, the wholly-owned Aviva branded Other long-term insurance company and through our exclusive The Italy, Spain and Other segment also includes our Romanian distribution agreement with Spanish mutual insurance company pensions business, which is held for sale as at 31 December 2012, Pelayo.
our reinsurance and run-off businesses and the results of our life Our strategy in Spain is to maintain our bancassurance businesses in Hungary, the Czech Republic and Romania up until footprint and further develop our retail operations and attract the date of sale in July 2012. new partners when the opportunities arise.
In December 2012, we announced our intention to sell our share of our joint venture Higher growth markets with Aseval to Bankia S. A for 494 million.
We expect this Business overview and strategy transaction to be completed during the second quarter of 2013.
The higher growth markets segment covers our operations in nine markets in Asia as well as Poland, Lithuania, Turkey and Russia.
Market As at 30 June 2012, our Singapore subsidiary ranks fifth by The Spanish market is significantly affected by the current 18 APE according to the Life Insurance Association, providing economic climate and the financial sector continues to be under employee benefits and healthcare insurance.
In Singapore, we pressure as a result of the ongoing restructuring process and have a strong relationship with the Development Bank of mergers taking place.
Any opportunities arising from these will be Singapore DBS.
considered by Aviva on their merits.
In relation to distribution In China, through our 50% joint venture with COFCO Ltd, we agreements with bancassurance partners, Aviva is protected are ranked in the top five among the foreign life insurers in terms financially within our contracts with Spains savings banks the 19 of APE.
We have a presence in 12 provinces and over 50 cajas from any detrimental affect arising from these mergers.
Due to regulatory changes in bancassurance, we are The top positions in the long-term life insurance market are developing alternative distribution channels to reach high net dominated by bank-owned or bank-insurer joint ventures, with worth customers.
the overall bancassurance channel accounting for more than 74% In India, with a distribution network of 140 branches, we 16 of gross written premiums at the end of 2011 in the Spanish life operate in partnership with the Dabur Group through a 26% insurance market.
interest in Aviva Life Insurance Company India Ltd.
Tighter Customers in Spain are accustomed to receiving advice regulations on unit-linked products are driving an industry shift through banking channels, and we continue to use our towards traditional products such as endowment and health relationship with our partners to capitalise on this whilst policies.
As at 31 August 2012, we ranked ninth among the developing our retail agents and broker distribution network.
17 ICEA at 30 September 2012 15 Investigacin Cooperativa entre Entidades Aseguradoras y Fondos fide Pensiones ICEA.
18 Life Insurance Association 16 ICEA in the publication Canales fide Distribucin - Estadstica 2011.
19 APE data released by National Insurance Industry Communication Club 46 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual report and accounts 2012 private life insurance companies in India based on APE according Distribution 20 Across Higher growth markets we operate a multi-distribution to the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority IRDA.
In Asia we are focused on creating franchise value through strategy.
In Singapore, we have a core bancassurance relationship with DBS Bank.
In China and South Korea, we distribute the organic growth.
Increasing the value of our new business remains our first priority.
We are achieving this through scale benefits and majority of our products through bancassurance and IFAs.
In Hong Kong, India and Malaysia, bancassurance is the main by focusing our product mix on higher margin products.
As of 30 June 2012, our Polish life operation is the fourth distribution channel.
We are investing in other channels, such as direct marketing, to diversify our sources of revenue.
largest overall life insurer in Poland including JV Life, with a market share of 7% based on total premium income according Outside of Asia, the direct sales force and bancassurance is 21 the main distribution channel for most of the Polish group and is to the Polish Financial Supervision Authority KNF.
Our product strategy for pensions in Poland is to retain our status as one of the made up of 2,200 tied insurance agents.
Our biggest relationship is a joint venture with Bank Zachodni WBK a subsidiary of Banco market leaders in terms of assets and customers.
We have updated our pay and bonus structure for our sales force to link Santander that sells both life and general insurance products 23 through the banks network of over 620 branches.
We also cocompensation directly with the value generated by the sale.
We also operate in Turkey offering both general insurance operate with independent insurance agencies and brokers.
Our mutual funds are also sold in brokerage houses and our individual and life products and Russia life operations.
Russia is held for sale at 31 December 2012 and we products are supported by call centre and website sales.
We also have a direct platform internet and call centre for distribution of announced the disposal in February 2013. motor insurance.
In Turkey, we operate through a multi-channel Market distribution framework consisting of bancassurance, direct sales We believe the fundamentals of the Asian markets are strong.
force, corporate sales, agencies, telemarketing and brokers.
The Asian Development Bank predicts GDP growth for emerging In Russia we focus on bancassurance, where we sell through 22 markets in Asia of 7.2% in 2012.
Despite inflationary pressures, 21 banks and through brokers.
we believe Asias strong domestic demand and intra-regional trade is likely to sustain this growth momentum, with China and Aviva Investors India driving the overall trend.
We expect Asia to be the fastest Business overview and strategy growing region for life insurance globally, with the potential for Aviva Investors was established in 2008 when the Aviva Group 15-20% average market growth per annum over the next combined all of its major fund management components into a decade.
We believe that South East Asia in particular offers one single global fund management business.
As at 31 December of the highest insurance margins in the world.
By strengthening 2012, we had 274 billion in assets under management including our multi-channel distribution capability as well as managing 38 billion relating to the United States Life and related internal our product portfolio for margin and profit, we believe we asset management operations which are classified as discontinued are well-positioned to continue delivering strong growth in operations in the financial statements.
Aviva Investors offers a franchise value.
range of investment management services, most notably in the Outside of Asia, the Polish market for protection products UK, Europe, the US and Asia Pacific.
has seen significant growth since 1999, although penetration Our largest clients are the long-term insurance, savings, and rates remain relatively low according to KNF statistics.
We expect general insurance businesses of Aviva, to whom we provide the insurance market in Turkey to continue to grow as its bespoke asset management services across a broad spectrum of economy matures.
We provide external clients with bespoke segregated solutions Products or offer access to a variety of fund ranges.
Our principal target Our Asian businesses offer a range of protection, bonds and clients for the larger segregated solutions tend to be large savings and pension products, including universal life, pension funds and financial institutions such as insurance participating and non-participating endowments, unit-linked companies and banks.
single and regular premium life insurance, other savings and Our strategy is to grow our share of higher-margin, external pensions products and a range of accident and health business, offering client-focused solutions and products to our insurance products.
customers across our international network.
Outside of Asia, our life business in Poland provides a broad range of unit-linked, annuities and bonds and savings products Products and distribution and health insurance.
For institutions we offer group life Our products cover a broad range of asset classes.
In Europe, insurance and employee pension programmes, which are both we have a range of SICAVs open-ended collective investment unit-linked products.
Our pension business offers a standard schemes, which are domiciled in France, Luxembourg and product for all customers as part of the privately managed second Poland.
These funds have different share classes depending on pillar pensions market.
We offer general insurance products to the size and type of investor.
Our traditional distribution model both commercial entities and individuals in Poland.
For institutions for these funds focuses on wholesale distributors, asset allocators we offer selected commercial lines risks.
For individuals we offer and small to mid-size institutional investors.
home, accident and travel insurance, which are primarily sold by In the UK, we largely sell segregated mandates and specialist tied agents, as well as motor insurance, which is sold primarily funds to pension schemes, local authorities and insurance through our direct operation.
In Russia, we sell a wide range of companies.
We also supply products to the retail and wholesale products including personal and group life as well as personal markets, principally through UK domiciled equity, bond and real accident policies.
In Turkey, we sell life and savings products estate funds.
These are promoted to investors via IFAs, fund including unit-linked pensions, supplemented by protection platforms, fund supermarkets and discretionary asset managers.
insurance and other savings products.
Our Turkish general In addition, we have a range of pooled pension funds which are insurance operations sell personal motor, household, commercial aimed at the smaller pension fund market.
These funds are property, small and medium size enterprises, personal accident, normally defined benefit schemes and tend to be advised by marine and travel insurance.
in ADMINCMS cms frmGeneral List.
xls 23 Bank Zachodni WBK: http: indywidualni.
pl kontakt  bankomatow wyszukiwarka 22 Asian Development outlook 2011 update, December 2011. .
html Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 47 47 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual report and accounts 2012 We manage hedge funds in the UK and the US.
These funds are Delta Lloyd Delta Lloyd is a financial services provider in the Netherlands and generally registered offshore and are promoted to institutional clients, family offices and wealth managers.
They include both Belgium, operating in the life insurance and pensions, general insurance, fund management and selected banking markets.
fund of fund and single strategy funds across fixed interest and convertibles markets.
In the US we also have an asset The Group ceased to control Delta Lloyd on 6 May 2011 and its results for 2011 up to that date and prior years are management company called River Road Asset Management LLC.
We also have a range of specialist property funds.
These funds presented as discontinued operations.
As explained in Financial Statements IFRS note 3 are targeted at specialist real estate buyers and large institutions mostly pension funds and local authorities, and provide real Subsidiaries, and Financial Statements IFRS note 19 Interests in, and loans to, Associates, for the period from 7 May estate solutions to a wide range of risk appetites, ranging from secure income generating funds to leveraged growth funds.
2011 to 5 July 2012, the Group had an associate interest in Delta Lloyd.
From 6 July 2012, following a further selldown, the We have six money market funds, domiciled in Dublin and Paris, addressing the sterling and euro money market segments.
Groups stake was treated as a financial investment.
The Groups share of Delta Lloyds results as an associate and its These funds are sold by a specialist sales team and target corporate treasury functions.
interest in Delta Lloyd as a financial investment are both included in other Group activities within continuing operations.
Discontinued operations In January 2013, the Group sold its remaining stake in Delta Lloyd.
United States Business overview and strategy On 21 December 2012, the Group announced that it had agreed to sell its United States life operations, consisting of our United States life and annuities business Aviva USA and the related asset management operations of Aviva Investors North America, to Athene Holding Ltd.
Completion of the sale is expected in 2013.
As the disposal will result in the loss of a major geographical area of operations, previously presented as United States in the segmental reporting note, the results of Aviva USA for all periods presented in the income statement have been classified as a discontinued operation.
Aviva USA has been classified as held for sale in the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2012.
Market Aviva USA is a leading provider of fixed indexed life insurance and fixed indexed annuities in the USA.
com, as of 30 September 2012, Aviva USA is ranked first in the market for the sale of fixed indexed life products with a 14% market share, and second for the sale 24 of fixed indexed annuities with a 13% market share.
Products Aviva USA offers both protection and savings products, with traditional fixed as well as indexed accumulation options that pay interest based on the movement of a market index.
Depending on such movement, indexed policies can deliver higher returns than traditional fixed products, especially when interest rates are low.
Indexed products also serve to protect the customers investment and provide a guaranteed income even when the market is down.
Aviva USA also offers a range of optional extras or `riders that can be added to policies to meet customised individual needs.
In the savings market, Aviva USAs fixed annuity portfolio offers tax-advantaged savings opportunities and protection against the risk of outliving ones assets.
Some of these products include a guaranteed lifetime withdrawal benefit that allows customers to make guaranteed minimum withdrawals from their annuity for the entirety of their lives.
Distribution Aviva USA uses a multi-channel distribution strategy by focusing on more than 50 key distribution partners.
Its distribution channels include career marketing organisations, independent marketing organisations, brokerage general agents and personal producing agents.
Its network covers all 50 states with agents largely contracted through key distribution partners.
