124 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2012 which they charge fees based on the level of funds under Related party disclosures management.
The main UK scheme holds investments in GroupRelated party transactions managed funds and insurance policies with other Group For more information relating to related party transactions, companies, as explained in note 47 e iii.
including more information about the transactions described The related parties receivables are not secured and no below, please see Financial Statements IFRS Note 59 Related guarantees were received in respect thereof.
The receivables will party transactions.
be settled in accordance with normal credit terms.
Details of Subsidiaries guarantees, indemnities and warranties provided on behalf of related parties are given in note 51 g. Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
Loans to joint ventures We make loans to our property management joint ventures to Key management compensation The total compensation to those employees classified as key fund property developments which we undertake with our joint venture partners.
Movements in these loans may be found in management, being those having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, Financial Statements IFRS Note 18 Interests in, and loans to, joint ventures.
Total loans at 31 December 2012 and at the including the executive and non-executive directors is as follows: end of each of the last three financial years are shown in the 2012 2011 2010 table below: m m m Salary and other short-term benefits 4.7 6.7 8.1 2012 2011 2010 Post-employment benefits 1.9 1.7 1.6 m m m Equity compensation plans 4.8 5.9 6.4 Loans to joint ventures 92 100 375 Termination benefits 1.5 0.7 Other long term benefits 0.4 2.8 2.5 Total 13.3 17.8 18.6 Dividend data The Company has a policy to pay a progressive dividend with Various directors and key management of Aviva may from time to reference to growth in cash flows and earnings.
Under UK time purchase insurance, asset management or annuity products, company law, we may only pay dividends if the company has from Aviva Group companies in the ordinary course of business distributable profits available.
Distributable profits are on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and accumulated, realised profits not previously distributed or security requirements, as those prevailing at the time for capitalised, less accumulated, unrealised losses not previously comparable transactions with other persons.
written off based on IFRS.
Even if distributable profits are Apart from the disclosed transactions discussed above and available, we pay dividends only if the amount of our net assets is in the Governance section of this report, no director had an not less than the aggregate of our called-up share capital and interest in shares, transactions or arrangements that requires undistributable reserves and the payment of the dividend does disclosure under applicable rules and regulations.
not reduce the amount of our net assets to less than that aggregate.
Other related parties As a holding company, the Company is dependent upon The Group received income from and paid expenses to other dividends and interest from our subsidiaries to pay cash dividends.
related parties from transactions made in the normal course of Many of the Companys subsidiaries are subject to insurance business.
Loans to other related parties are made on normal regulations that restrict the amount of dividends that they can arms length commercial terms.
Services provided to other related parties Historically, the Company has declared an interim and a final dividend for each year with the final dividend being paid 2012 2011 2010 in the year following the year to which it relates.
Subject to the Income Receivable Income Receivable Income Receivable earned at year earned at year earned at year restrictions set out above, the payment of interim dividends on in year end in year end in year end m m m m m m ordinary shares is made at the discretion of our Board, whilst payment of any final dividend requires the approval of the Associates 47 Joint ventures 23 103 23 125 18 375 Companys shareholders at a general meeting.
Preference shares Employee are irredeemable and dividends on preference shares are made at pension the discretion of our Board.
schemes 12 6 13 9 10 2 The Company pays cash dividends in pounds sterling, 35 109 36 134 75 377 although the articles of association permit payment of dividends on ordinary shares in other currencies and in forms other than In addition to the amounts disclosed for associates and joint cash, such as ordinary shares.
If dividends on ordinary shares held ventures above, at 31 December 2012 amounts payable at yearby the American Depositary Shares ADS depositary are paid in end were nil, and expenses incurred during the period were pounds sterling, the ADS depositary will convert the pounds 5 million.
sterling that it receives on behalf of the ADS holders into US Transactions with joint ventures in the UK relate to the dollars according to the prevailing market rate on the date that property management undertakings, the most material of which the ADS depositary actually receives the dividends.
Our interest in these joint ventures For the 2007 final dividend and previous final and interim comprises a mix of equity and loans, together with the provision dividends, shareholders on record were provided with the of administration services and financial management to many of opportunity to elect to receive dividends in the form of newly them.
Our UK life insurance companies earn interest on loans issued ordinary shares through the Aviva Scrip Dividend Scheme.
advanced to these entities, movements in which may be found in For the 2008 interim dividend, the Aviva Scrip Dividend Scheme note 18 a. was replaced by a dividend reinvestment plan DRIP.
For those Our fund management companies also charge fees to these shareholders participating in the DRIP, the Company paid a cash joint ventures for administration services and for arranging dividend, which was then used to buy existing shares on the open external finance.
For the 2008 final dividend, Aviva withdrew the DRIP and Our UK fund management companies manage most of the assets held by the Groups main UK staff pension scheme, for
