66 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Developing a high performance culture Attracting and retaining talent In 2012, we recognised that sustainable performance and As a global financial services organisation we recognise our role in competitive differentiation would be achieved by building a values attracting, developing and retaining talent within our workforce based culture.
Creating an inspiring vision and strategy that in order to deliver our strategic priorities, and ensure that we enables individuals to bring their full selves to work, through the create an engaging and high performance orientated culture, that alignment of their personal and organisational values is a critical potential employees want to join and where our employees want leadership role.
We started our journey with an all employee to stay to develop their careers.
Through this we now understand our Delivering on our strategic imperatives requires a compelling employees personal values and beliefs, which we can look to vision and strong leadership which harnesses the energy, harness in order to build greater organisational commitment.
dedication and belief of all our employees.
At Aviva we believe A high performance culture relies on strong leadership and the that everyone has a role in creating and contributing to our alignment of organisational structures, systems and processes.
culture, although our senior leaders will undoubtedly set the tone.
In light of this, we have aligned our performance management, Supported by a strong global HR function Aviva has a clear reward and leadership development programmes to our purpose to bring to life our employee promise in order to deliver desired values.
At the heart of our approach As we move forward, the journey will be led from the are the fundamental principles of: top of the organisation, with senior leadership engagement Differentiating and rewarding our top performers critical to the delivery of a high performance ethic and Collaborating, encouraging innovation and seeking to do organisational success.
things once, globally Developing our internal capability through appropriate Focusing on transition points for our leaders stretch opportunities Critical to the high performance culture we seek, is the capability Building an emerging talent pipeline, and of our leaders who need to be decisive, agile, inclusive, and Taking personal accountability innovative.
In 2012, we refreshed our leadership development strategy In 2012, we have continued to advance our people agenda by in partnership with Oxford Sad Business School.
In building maintaining one global approach to talent management, leadership capability, Avivas main focus is on development at key performance management, leadership, and embarking upon transition points in the leaders career.
We believe that successful enabling a values-driven culture to be at the heart of everything leadership transitions, measured through shorter time to we do.
performance and value-added effort, are increased when leaders are supported in their transition through appropriate learning and Essential learning development opportunities.
All employees within the UK business are required to complete Together with the global Front Line Manager Programme and nine modules of essential learning on annual basis.
This training our senior management group induction, we are helping our covers the essential elements of working for Aviva and includes leaders to continually grow and stay relevant in our changing health and safety, financial crime, wellbeing and business ethics world, reaching high performance in as short a time as possible.
This programme not only delivers training in a consistent way to all employees, it allows for system reminders Employee wellbeing and management information.
We are gradually rolling out this Providing a safe and healthy environment for employees, essential learning package to other markets, with Aviva Investors contractors, customers and visitors remains a priority across Aviva.
and Aviva France coming online in 2013.
Whilst we have well established policies and systems in place to ensure health, safety and minimise risks, we aim to create a Employee promise supportive working environment that encourages our employees Within the context of a challenging year, we have maintained an to perform at their best whilst finding the right balance between employee engagement of 68% globally, and seen improvements work and home life.
To help our employees manage their health in our employees sense of pride in working at Aviva, 75% 2011: and wellbeing we have developed various flexible working 72% our employees propensity to recommend our products and practices and wellbeing initiatives.
This continues to build our services, 72% 2011: 70% and their ability to manage an organisational health which is critical to our businesses appropriate work life balance, 76% 2011: 67%.
Some of the options available include, part-time Moving forward, our focus will be on enabling Aviva to working, home working, flexible hours, career breaks, employee achieve its strategic priorities and vision by: assistance programmes, fitness centres, discounted health club Developing a high performance culture, driven by living our memberships and subsidised travel and bike checks for organisational values and taking action when behaviours are commuters.
not aligned We continuously review our approach to health, safety and Ensuring there is a direct relationship between an wellbeing and during 2013 we will be developing a more employees performance and their reward integrated wellbeing approach to provide excellent services to Developing our leadership capability, particularly at the point our employees, strengthen our focus on mental health in the of key transitions workplace and improve our organisational health insight.
Ensuring our employees are able to thrive, through appropriate engagement and wellbeing programmes, and Continuing to ensure that our talent pipeline support both our capability and diversity ambition, whilst contributing positively to the governments wider youth employment agenda.
Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 67 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Diversity and inclusion increase in the number of employees contributing through payroll In addition to delivering a range of initiatives in 2012, we also giving, totalling 939,176.
This increase in participation is refreshed our approach to inclusion.
There are three themes significant because we know it demonstrates pride in working to our approach: for Aviva.
Careers: we want to be the employer of choice for our We have continued to improve our measurement approach in people such that they choose to invest their working lives recording our inputs and outputs more accurately, in order to with us demonstrate the wider benefit of our investment and to support Capability: we want our leaders to have the skills and the continuous improvement of our programmes.
capabilities required to build high-performing teams in a Aviva has a clear track record of working with field experts in diverse business environment community development across the public and charity sector.
We Culture: we want to be most recommended, not only by recognise the importance of our partnerships with organisations our customers but also by our people.
To do that, we need such as the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human a culture and work environment that builds pride among Rights, UK Athletics, Save the Children, Consortium for Street our people Children, and Oxfam to enable us to develop and share best practice programmes and to work effectively in areas of This allows flexibility around local business related priorities while community advocacy.
This partnership work helped us to develop creating a model for aligning agendas to a common framework.
our Child Safeguarding guidelines as an aid to employees working Being respectful of each others differing backgrounds, or volunteering with children on Avivas behalf.
cultures, needs and views is key.
Our diversity and inclusion We recognise the mutual benefit of our community practices remain aligned with the United Nations Universal development activity: our employees feel engaged and proud, our Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour communities benefit and our brand reputation is enhanced.
In addition, our global Street to School Corporate Responsibility standard includes a set of minimum Avivas Street to School programmes help young people move requirements for all Aviva businesses with regard to diversity, away from the street and into education and training.
We focus equality, and human rights.
Our Employee Promise Survey is one on education because we know that education is insurance.
way that we confirm that our commitment to diversity and Street to School has now helped over 649,000 children inclusion is reflected in the way we work.
In 2012, 76% of around the world, exceeding our five-year target in just three employees reported that Aviva had an environment where people years.
Since the programme started in 2009 we have invested from diverse backgrounds can succeed.
We continue to take a over 13 million in cash and in-kind donations.
We commit at special interest in gender diversity, because it is an area that is least 50% of our community development budget to Street relevant in all our global markets and the business case for gender to School.
balance in leadership is indisputable.
Globally, women are a 2012 saw us increase the depth and breadth of our Street to majority of Avivas population at 54%.
The percentage of women School work.
We have continued to create innovative cause in senior management has improved to 22% 2011: 20%, the related marketing opportunities.
In the UK a child runs away from gender balance on our Group Executive stands at 25% and 24% home and into danger every five minutes.
Aviva, Railway Children of the board were women during 2012.
We remain committed to and Mumsnet have created an online space that helps parents achieving 25% female board composition by the end of 2015. talk to their children about this difficult subject and find guidance.
Our employee network groups make an important For every interaction on the Mumsnet site, we are donating 2 to contribution to the organisation and in the community.
Most Railway Children to help vulnerable young people at risk on notable of these are the Womens Network and Aviva Pride.
improved our ranking to 32nd 2011: 98th on the Stonewall In Indonesia we have created a partnership with PLAN UK to Workplace Equality Index.
This result reflects our continuing work in conjunction with the Ministry of Social Affairs raising efforts to develop an inclusive environment for all of our people.
awareness of birth registration for street children.
The Ministry have identified that around 230,000 children in street situations Community development in Indonesia.
The project aims to register 1,500 children living or We know that a sustainable business must make a real working on the streets over a two year period.
contribution to the society it operates in.
As well as providing We have also stepped up our advocacy, supporting the employment to 31,211 people we also provide peace of mind to International Day for Street Children and delivering a pioneering our 38 million customers.
partnership with the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights.
Our approach to community development is based on The report we co-sponsored on the rights of children working building partnerships across three main strategic themes of our and or living on the street was welcomed by the Human Rights business: education, life trauma and financial literacy.
We are now actively working with our actively contributing to the Millennium Development Goals and partners to turn the reports recommendations into global action.
we demonstrate our commitment to being at the leading edge of Over the next few years we want to help drive real change in the addressing environmental, social, and governance issues through cause and act as a catalyst to inspire others to join us in raising our UN Global Compact LEAD membership.
awareness of the issues and ensuring children involved with the Globally, we contributed over 11 million in cash, gifts instreet have the same rights and opportunities as all children, kind, project and volunteering costs to community development especially their right to education.
in 2012, a 12% decrease from 2011 2011: 12.4 million a reduction due to the reducing scale of our business and a shift in Community projects our global marketing strategy.
Our contribution is magnified by The other half of our community development approach can be the wider investment we leverage together with our stakeholders found in the following examples: such as employee fundraising.
Employees are allocated three days Aviva was one of the first companies to sign up to the volunteering leave per year and in 2012 we built our volunteering Oxfam 365 Alliance.
This emergency fund supports relief offering into our HR systems.
This takes advantage of the skills operations and helps Oxfam respond to humanitarian development that can be gained, as well as the value contributed disasters where public funding may be limited.
Thanks to to our communities, and embeds the CR Standard further in to this alliance, 6.5 million people facing 27 emergency our day to day work.
In 2012, 18% of employees took part in situations across the globe were reached in 201112 volunteering equating to 56,357 hours.
