62 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility Aviva aims to be trusted, respected, sustainable and recognised During 2012 we have considered our material issues and our for making a real contribution to society.
Our corporate strategy through the lens of our key stakeholder groups.
We responsibility strategy supports these aims.
Providing peace of understand that: mind is our social purpose and central to our overall business To be the most recommended insurer customers tell us our strategy.
Aviva recognises, as an insurer that we have a values are key.
We must demonstrate responsibility and fundamental part to play in society in enabling business growth, integrity, sharing our social purpose and the information by providing protection and in tackling global issues such as they need to enable them to make the right choices climate change.
In this report we highlight how we are addressing To be an investment of choice investors tell us that the issues that are material to our business and help us address companies with transparent and well managed issues in society as a whole.
We focus on trust and transparency, environmental, social and governance ESG issues deliver attracting and retaining talent, environment and climate change, higher performance and community development.
The report that follows contains To be the employer of choice for our people employees tell a summary of the progress and performance of our corporate us that if we create an environment where they feel they responsibility strategy, aligned to these material issues, in 2012. can make a difference, can thrive and be proud of what A more detailed review is available online at we stand for then they are more likely to deliver high www.
com  reports performance, exceptional customer service and develop their The highlights below are directly related to our key career with us performance indicators and give a snapshot of our performance To be a partner of choice, with superior service, during 2012. responsiveness and innovation partners tell us to keep influencing product and service design to encourage Highlights from 2012 include: customer behaviour change, in a way that demonstrates Helped over 649,000 children since 2009 through our Street we are experts at managing risk to School campaign.
Community investment of 11 million including cash, in kind We believe that when corporate responsibility is embedded in donations, and skills based volunteering.
the business, it drives trust and gives a sustainable competitive One of the top 4 global organisations in the FTSE4Good, advantage, creating differentiation and market penetration.
nd Silver in the DJSI SAM Yearbook, and ranked 32 in the During 2012 we have continued our journey towards truly Stonewall equality index.
In the execution of our Maintained employee engagement at 68%, increased strategy we seek to enable the whole Aviva business to embed employee pride by 3% to 75%.
sustainability considerations into business strategy, processes, Reduced our carbon footprint by 12% on a relative basis.
products and services and the way we manage risk.
Our corporate responsibility strategy is underpinned by a Our corporate responsibility strategy globally consistent corporate responsibility Business Standard.
We Our business of insurance has underpinned the development of have continued the roll out of our framework and tools to equip market economies, enabling business growth and building more the business and unlock innovation in a sustainable way.
Finally, resilience into peoples lives.
In addition to the social benefits of we have created a new structure with an enhanced role for increased insurance penetration we seek to deepen our impact on corporate responsibility business partners to work even more society through the way we invest the talent of our people, as closely with the leadership of our markets and functions.
These well as financial resources.
things help all of us at Aviva to turn this strategy into meaningful Avivas approach to corporate responsibility is a key pillar of action and the kind of socially and commercially valuable our business strategy.
It underwrites our ability to deliver on our outcomes described in this report.
promises to our customers and to extend the positive contribution we make to society.
As a responsible corporation we deal with matters in society relevant to our business.
We therefore focus on: being trusted and transparent: demonstrating our sustainability to our stakeholders attracting and retaining the right people by creating a work environment that inspires pride and that enables people to give of their best controlling our environmental and climate impacts and influencing the actions of others acting responsibly in our communities, considering the impact of what we do Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 63 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Opportunities during 2013 Stakeholder communications and engagement As the transformation of Aviva continues we will focus on the Open dialogue with our stakeholders helps us to define priorities contribution corporate responsibility can make to building the and shape our approach.
By being open and transparent about company's financial strength and resilience, reducing risk and what we do and how we run our business we believe we volatility, and improving earnings performance.
demonstrate a high degree of integrity.
This in turn, helps the Avivas focus on core business and high performance has process of continuing to build trust in Aviva for all of our been helpful in setting our 2013 corporate responsibility strategy.
We report here about our engagement with Whilst our material issues remain unchanged we have refreshed investors and governments, as well as our senior leadership our priorities to make sure all our activity is aligned to the participation on external forums.
Engagement with our business strategy.
This means ensuring robust risk management employees is discussed under Attracting and retaining talent, and and compliance, protecting the progress and leadership we our customer engagement is covered in our Customer section.
have delivered and focusing investment on programmes that Key to this is the way that we report our corporate create maximum measurable shared value for our stakeholders.
We prepare standIt also means paying attention to how we can deliver these alone detailed annual reports for the Carbon Disclosure Project, outcomes in the most efficient and effective way in our capital UN Global Compact, ClimateWise, and Principles for Responsible constrained markets.
As well as providing a narrative corporate These developments have strengthened our commitment to responsibility report we prepare an Accounting for Sustainability the embedding of sustainability across the business as core to the statement using the Connected Reporting Framework to way we do business.
demonstrate the costs associated with our energy, natural As we shape our business for long-term success we are also resource use and waste management.
We also use this statement conscious of the value our expertise can bring within the wider to demonstrate the financial impacts of our community debate.
We remain committed to taking a lead role where investment and customer advocacy commitments.
The appropriate and to learn from and collaborate with others as we Accounting for Sustainability statement is provided on page 72. seek a secure and sustainable future for all.
We are committed to providing full disclosure to investors We aspire to upper-quartile performance for financial services and as such respond to EIRIS, SAM, Sustainalytics and Vigeo for in our employee promise survey, notably in those areas that relate inclusion in the FTSE4Good, Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, to leadership and engagement.
This year, following significant Ethibel and ECPI indices.
This year we have again been ranked organisational change, we did not meet our target.
We recognise as one of the top four companies in the FTSE4Good ESG ratings.
the need to focus our attention on this in 2013 and remain We hold a similarly high position in the STOXX ESG Global committed to our aspirations.
As a large investor we engage with companies to promote Governance transparent and effective governance and engagement among Aviva has a well-established governance structure providing the companies we invest in.
We have supported the development strong leadership and direction.
Our Corporate Responsibility of good governance in the UK and beyond for many years, and Committee is chaired by non-executive director, Gay Huey Evans, we take our own stewardship responsibilities seriously, complying and comprises two other non-executive directors, Scott Wheway with all the principles of the Financial Reporting Councils UK and Euleen Goh.
Ms Goh retired at the end of 2012.
In particular, we use proxy voting to challenge The Committee reviews strategy and policy, receives market poor management approaches and to protect the value of and functional reports four times a year and approves this report.
While we aim to support the companies we invest In 2012, it received a report from all market groups and paid close in, we intervene strongly where we believe more sustainable attention to the embedding environmental, social and governance practices should be implemented.
issues into our mainstream investment practices as well as our We know that our investors want us to be open and clear policy against investing in cluster munitions manufacturers.
The about our future strategy.
We believe this includes commentary Committee also received reports from the IT and procurement on our sustainability practices, which aims to help us become the teams, as well as reviewing the health, safety and wellbeing most trusted, respected and sustainable insurance company, strategy.
The Corporate Responsibility Committees report can be recognised for making a real contribution to society.
We found on page 103. encourage companies, especially publicly listed and large The Aviva Board receives both annual and ad hoc updates on companies, to consider integrating sustainability information corporate responsibility strategy, activities and progress.
Our into their reporting cycle.
We encourage industry, interested corporate responsibility programme is regularly on the agenda at governments and relevant stakeholders with the support of the executive management committees.
The group and market CEOs United Nations system, as appropriate, to develop models for best have corporate responsibility key performance indicators included practice and facilitate action for the integration of sustainability in their role profiles.
10% of all senior managers bonuses are reporting.
Aviva has shown longstanding leadership within targeted on leadership and engagement Employee Promise Principles for Responsible Investment PRI, where Paul Abberley Survey scores.
sits on the Advisory Council, and Sustainable Stock Markets.
In addition Aviva provided a significant contribution to the UN Global Compact input and recommendations for the Rio 20 Summit regarding sustainability reporting.
The Aviva convened Corporate Sustainability Reporting Coalition were successful in securing text in the outcome document and are now keen to continue UN collaboration to see implementation.
