20 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Market focus UK & Ireland life and pensions UK operating profit 887m 2011: 917m Our health business performed strongly, with net UK long-term sales, including investment written premiums up 12% at 528 million 2011: sales, 12,140m 2011: 12,943m 473 million.
We were voted Health Insurance UK life new business IRR 18% 2011: 15% Company of the Year for the third year in David Barral succession at the 2012 Health Insurance Awards.
CEO UK & Ireland life Insurance Aviva is the UKs leading life insurer.
In the UK Aviva has been campaigning for a long time to life business, operating profit was down 3% to bring greater transparency to the annuity market 887 million although on an underlying basis this to encourage customers to shop around on the In 2012, despite improved by 2% in the year.
We improved our life open market to get the best annuity for their difficult economic new business IRR to 18% reflecting our focus on retirement.
Aviva does not differentiate its pricing conditions, we improving profitability and capital allocation.
between internal and external customers, and we improved the This improvement was a result of the UK life welcome the FSAs thematic review of annuities.
profitability and businesss focus on capital efficiency, including The UK industry is entering an uncertain period capital efficiency the withdrawal from large-scale bulk purchase as an unprecedented level of regulatory change of our business annuities and other products, pricing actions on takes effect, including the Retail Distribution whilst maintaining core products, cost savings and retention.
This Review, Auto-Enrolment and Gender Directive.
a strong trading resulted in a 20% increase in operating capital We are fully prepared and well-placed to benefit performance in generation to 662 million.
from the changes, with both a broad product our core products.
Despite difficult market conditions, long-term range and extensive distribution network.
sales, excluding bulk purchase annuities, were The integration of Avivas Irish life business is up slightly at 11,953 million.
This was driven progressing well, but Ireland remains a difficult by a strong performance in our core markets market and profitability is not yet at acceptable of at retirement annuities and equity release levels.
Ireland operating profit was down 89% and protection where we grew sales respectively at 5 million and sales were down 31% at 632 by 12% and 20%, which offset a reduction million due to the closure of our joint venture in bond sales.
We continued to expand our with AIB from 31 March 2012.
Excluding this joint distribution footprint, including an exclusive venture, operating profits were up 156% to five year agreement with Tesco to distribute 23 million and sales rose 9% to 530 million.
There in times of difficulty When Tracy Harrison-Greens husband Andrew died suddenly aged just 43 an Aviva life insurance policy was a great help during a very difficult time.
A 10 a month decreasing term policy that the couple took out when they married in 2003 automatically paid off their entire mortgage.
Tracy, from York, says that buying the policy was the best financial decision she ever made.
It meant that during a period of great personal tragedy, she didnt need to worry about finding the money to secure the roof over her head.
Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 21 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Market focus continued UK & Ireland general insurance UK general insurance operating profit In UK commercial, the market remains of 448m 2011: 433m excluding RAC challenging for brokers and customers, due UK combined operating ratio of 98% to the ongoing economic conditions.
We 2011: 98% excluding RAC are focusing on improving our processes to Robin Spencer UK net written premiums of 4,062m ensure we provide commercial customers with CEO, UK & Ireland general insurance 2011: 4,110m excluding RAC insurance cover at an acceptable price and our shareholders with a good return on their capital.
Aviva is the leading general insurer in the UK.
We are focused on further improving our Solid results in the Although sales were lower, total like for like customer service.
We have strengthened UK, with satisfying operating profit increased slightly, demonstrating our underwriting disciplines and invested in progress being our focus on disciplined underwriting to maintain pricing, risk selection and customer and broker made to integrate profitability ahead of volumes.
We delivered a UK facing systems.
In 2012 customer advocacy and transform our general insurance COR of 98% despite the fact scores improved as we achieved an 18 point Irish business.
that 2012 was the second wettest year on record.
improvement in our Relationship Net Promoter Our operating performance remains our Score and we reduced the number of complaints received by almost 30%.
Brokers number one priority, with an increasing focus on broker management, pricing analytics, cost also recognised our excellent customer service control and capital allocation.
by voting us Insurance Times General Insurer These results highlight the strength of our of the Year, for the second year running.
diversified portfolio and our risk selection, which We continue to develop innovative insurance has delivered good profitability in UK personal solutions such as Aviva Drive, a smartphone lines with combined operating ratios of 97% app which helps us to tailor insurance prices to and 93% in motor and homeowner respectively.
We also launched Fast We have seen further modest growth in the UK Track, an online trading platform which provides motor market where we now have nearly 2.5 brokers with the facility to quote and buy million customers.
This represents an increase online in under five minutes.
of more than 250,000 customers since the During the year, we further restructured start of 2012 driven by the success of our our Irish general insurance business to improve Quotemehappy and multicar offerings.
Additional actions to make further further developing our profitable homeowner improvements continue in 2013. business, assisted by a new partnership deal with insurance broker Gallagher Heath.
An Olympic effort When summer storms caused floods in the UK, Aviva was there to help.
On two days of particularly bad weather in June we helped over 2,500 customers.
Two weeks later, after more floods, we contacted customers who had previously claimed to see if they had suffered further damage and needed assistance.
We helped the City of Newcastle Gymnastics Academy when they were completely devastated by floods, and lost almost every piece of Olympic training kit.
Within 24 hours, our loss adjusters were on the scene and arranged a speedy interim payment.
We also provided free cover at a temporary location to ensure the 800 gymnasts could maintain their fitness levels.
22 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Market focus continued Europe France Aviva Italy is the sixth-largest business in the Aviva Life operating profit 335m 2011: 323m Group.
In 2012 operating profit increased despite with new business IRR 11% 2011: 11% a fall in GDP and market volatility.
We have taken and long-term savings sales 3,638m positive steps to maintain profitability putting in 2011: 4,047m place various initiatives in our life and GI businesses David McMillan General insurance and health operating which have improved our performance.
CEO, Aviva Europe profit 95m 2011: 144m with net written Life profitability improved due to our focus premiums of 1,002m 2011: 1,016m and on products that are less capital intensive and Despite difficult combined operating ratio of 95% 2011: 90% the result has been a favourable change in our economic conditions product mix.
in continental Europe, Aviva France, the third-largest business in the General insurance profitability improved through the strength of our Aviva Group, produced a solid performance with pricing actions and disciplined claims management.
life insurance back operating profit of 422 million 2011: 471 million.
General insurance sales were 8% lower than the book has allowed Life operating profit increased, and, although previous year on a local currency basis.
us to deliver a steady sales were 4% lower on a local currency basis, set of results.
we outperformed the individual life market, Spain which fell 10% over the course of the year.
Life Life operating profit 215m 2011: 216m new business IRR was flat.
Life new business IRR of 21% 2011: 23% General insurance sales rose by 6% on a local Long-term savings sales of 1,295m 2011: currency basis, due to an increase in both policy 1,926m volumes and rates.
Although general insurance profits were down compared to the previous Aviva Spain is the countrys fifth largest long-term year, the combined operating ratio remained insurer by gross written premiums.
protection, long-term savings and pensions, health Over the course of the year we increased and accident insurance both directly and through our customer base to 3.2 million and received bancassurance networks.
several awards for both our life and general On a constant currency basis operating profit insurance products.
increased by 7%, while life and pensions sales have decreased by 28%.
A substantial part of this Italy reduction has been the result of management action Life operating profit 159m 2011: 140m focusing on the efficient use of capital.
The business with new business IRR 12% 2011: 12% has focused on retaining highly profitable protection business, while developing capital efficient products, Long-term savings sales 1,971m including unit linked savings.
In December, we reached a General insurance profit 20m 2011: settlement with Bankia to transfer to them our entire loss of 35m with NWP of 357m 2011: holding in Aseval, a Spanish life insurance company.
416m and COR of 100% 2011: 114% Helping customers when disaster strikes When two earthquakes struck the northern Italian region of Emilia Romagna in May forcing more than 45,000 people to leave their homes we were there to help.
To make sure that all our customers were properly insured in difficult circumstances we extended the deadline for late payments on general insurance policies from 15 to 45 days and awarded late payment interest on life policies.
Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 23 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Market focus continued Poland We continued to improve our distribution and Life operating profit 153m 2011: 167m our bancassurance agreement with Santander Life new business IRR 20% 2011: 24% provides us with a strong source of revenue so Long-term savings sales 373m 2011: 487m that we now have a 10% share of the individual life insurance market.
Aviva is Polands fourth largest life insurer.
A combination of regulatory changes, adverse Turkey foreign exchange movements and the impact In Turkey, our life and general insurance of the economic environment resulted in lower businesses generated an IFRS operating loss life insurance sales in 2012.
Even so, we focused of 22 million 2011: 9 million loss.
In life on becoming more efficient and our profitability insurance we serve 2 million customers and are in this market remained strong with an IRR of well positioned to benefit from our relationship 20%.
with partner Akbank TAS, and their related banks, Citibank AS and Burgan Bank AS.
Protection sales through our bancassurance channel were up by more than 50% compared to 2011.
Putting life insurance to work Stomil Sanok, a Polish rubber products company, has over 1,700 employees and all of them are covered by Avivas group life insurance.
We have a service point on the companys premises where dedicated insurance advisors are available every day to assist employees with claims.
Family benefits are a characteristic of life insurance contracts in Poland and when an employee has a baby Aviva representatives visit the family at home and work out which benefits they are entitled to.
Canada IFRS operating profit of 276m 2011: 254m The Canadian insurance business, unlike Combined operating ratio of 93% 2011: 95% many other businesses in the Group is mostly Net written premiums of 2,176m 2011: intermediated: however we continue to address 2,083m increasing customer demand for choice, simplicity and self-service by working with our brokers to Maurice Tulloch President and CEO, Aviva is Canadas second-largest general insurer.
help them compete with other channels.
Aviva Canada The business delivered a good financial result Aviva Canada is committed to strong distribution with a strong increase in profit.
This performance relationships and maintained high satisfaction was due to pricing sophistication, underwriting scores among its broker partners in 2012.
Our underwriting discipline, improved retention and strong Customer service has also improved further.
Our strength and underlying growth in new business.
We also claims Net Promoter Score is 47, a strong result.
commitment to maintained a profitable mix of personal and We delivered a strong underwriting result in our broker partners commercial lines business.
personal lines due to our disciplined underwriting gives us a strong We use predictive analytics to enhance our and lower claims frequency.
Our efforts to market position.
underwriting capabilities and further research transform and improve the profitability of the and development is underway to enhance our commercial lines business continued as we pricing for weather-related perils.
initiated actions to address underperforming segments.
Hurricane Sandy looking after customers on both sides of the Atlantic As those affected by Hurricane Sandy came to terms with its impact, our teams in Canada and the UK were busy making sure Avivas customers got the help and support they needed.
The teams worked together and took a proactive approach using the media, Avivas websites and social media sites like Twitter and Facebook, to make sure customers had access to travel advice and assistance.
Aviva also automatically extended customers policies to give them 14 days extra cover and peace of mind until they arrived home safely.
24 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Market focus continued Asia Singapore China Life operating profit 65m 2011: 52m In China, bank interest rates remain high making Life new business IRR 25% 2011: 31% our savings products less attractive.
We have Long-term savings sales 817m 2011: 724m therefore shifted our focus towards the sale of protection products.
Khor Hock Seng Aviva is a top five life insurer in Singapore CEO, Aviva Asia with over half a million customers, and one India of the biggest providers of employee benefits In India, despite regulatory changes creating I am very much and healthcare insurance.
Long-term savings uncertainty in the market, we extended our looking forward sales increased 28% on the previous year with distribution agreement with Indusind Bank, to working with bancassurance sales and sales of retirement Indias leading private sector bank.
We also our teams and products contributing significantly to this launched an online sales portal for protection partners to realise growth.
Online customers now account for the potential of Our 11-year relationship with DBS, Singapores 14% of new customers acquired and 4% of Aviva in Asia.
largest bank, continues to go from strength to new business premium in India.
Life operating profit and value of new business were up significantly on the previous year driven by strong protection sales and increased scale.
Making retirement planning simple We know that many customers worry that planning for retirement might be complicated, so in 2012 Avivas Singapore business launched a retirement plan specifically designed to be as simple as possible its called My Retirement.
All of the documentation is written in straightforward language and the product itself provides a capital guarantee, with guaranteed returns.
It is designed to be simple, safe and sure.
Aviva Investors Operating profit 42m 2011: 53m was 42 million 2011: 53 million with lower Net funded external sales 1.7bn with a performance fees partially offset by cost savings further 0.2bn of committed but from the strategic review.
unfunded sales 2011: 3.6bn Investment performance was ahead of target Paul Abberley 69% of institutional funds performed above on both benchmark and peer group measures.
Interim CEO, Aviva Investors benchmark where a benchmark exists with We maintained or improved client satisfaction, 68% of funds ahead of peer group meeting or exceeding our targets on all client surveys in 2012.
Net sales fell year-on-year as We have delivered In a challenging investment environment Aviva a result of the refocus of our product offering.
a solid set of results Investors operating profit on a continuing in a challenging basis which excludes contribution from asset and competitive management activities undertaken for Aviva USA environment, with the business ahead of target on all key financial metrics.
An integrated response to sustainability As a long-term investor, Aviva Investors recognises the positive impact that embedding long-term sustainability into a business strategy can have on shareholder value.
In 2012 Aviva Investors began to integrate the consideration of environmental, social and governance ESG issues on all the asset classes in which it invests.
This includes appointing ESG champions on our investment desks.
Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 25 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Performance review In this section Financial and operating performance 26 Selected consolidated financial data 40 Information on the company 41 Organisational structure 48 Analysis of investments 50 Contractual obligations 55 Risk and capital management 56 Basis of preparation 60
