Governance: The Board of Directors 1.
He was later awarded the Chevening The Boards principal duty is to Mr Janin was involved with engagements in Scholarship, granted by the British Council, promote the long-term success the retail, asset management and corporate to study at the Cass Business School of City of the company by directing banking sectors that included every aspect University, London, where he obtained his management in creating and of organisational practice such as design, Master of Science Degree in Banking and delivering sustainable shareholder leadership, governance, performance International Finance in 2004. value.
The Board sets the Groups enhancement and transformation.
Before strategic direction and provides joining McKinsey & Company, Mr Janin 3.
David Morrison leadership and guidance through worked for Chase Manhattan Bank now JP Senior Independent oversight and review.
The Board Morgan Chase in New York and Paris, and Non-Executive Director Procter & Gamble in Toronto.
Outside of the is accountable for ensuring that, David Morrison was appointed as the senior Group, Mr Janin serves as counsel to chief independent non-executive Director of BGH as a collective body, it has the executive officers of both for-profit and on 24 October 2011 and was elected by appropriate skills, knowledge non-profit organisations, and continues to shareholders on 1 June 2012.
Mr Morrison is and experience to perform its provide consulting services to McKinsey & also a member of BGHs Audit, Remuneration role effectively.
He also serves as a director of and Nomination Committees.
Mr Morrison is responsible for leadership E-Search Vision and Telemedinvest.
In 2009, also serves as Vice-Chairman of the Banks of the Board and ensuring its while serving as member of the French Supervisory Board and member of the effectiveness on all aspects Institute of Directors IFA, Mr Janin authored Banks Audit and Remuneration Committees, of its role.
a position paper on the responsibilities of the positions he has held since 2010. board of directors with respect to the design The Boards non-executive Prior to joining the Supervisory Board of and implementation of a companys strategy.
the Bank in 2010, Mr Morrison worked for Directors are independent of Mr Janin holds an MBA from York 28 years at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, where management.
Their role is to University, Toronto and a joint honours he served as Managing Partner of the firms advise and constructively challenge degree in Economics and Accounting continental European offices.
His practice management and monitor its from McGill University, Montreal.
focused on advising public companies in a success in delivering the agreed transactional context, from mergers and strategy within the risk appetite 2.
Irakli Gilauri acquisitions to capital raisings.
Key banking and control framework set by the Chief Executive Officer clients he advised include Banco Espirito Board.
In order to discharge its Irakli Gilauri was appointed as an executive Santo in Portugal and Germanys development duties effectively, the Board is Director of BGH on 24 October 2011 and bank KfW Mr. Morrison served on the board was elected by shareholders on 1 June 2012. of directors of KfWs finance subsidiary for supplied in a timely manner with Mr Gilauri has served as Chief Executive 20 years.
In 2008, he became founding information in a form and of a Officer of BGH since his appointment in 2011 executive director of the Caucasus Nature quality appropriate to do so.
and also serves as Chief Executive Officer of Fund, a charitable trust fund dedicated to the Bank, a position held since May 2006. nature conservation in Georgia, Armenia Since the incorporation of BGH in Mr Gilauri is also Chairman of BGHs and Azerbaijan.
Mr. Morrison is the author October 2011, there have been no Executive Committee, Chairman of the of several publications on securities law resignations of Board members Supervisory Board of Aldagi BCI and a related topics, and has been recognised or appointments to the Board.
member of the Supervisory Board of the as a leading lawyer in two jurisdictions, following subsidiaries of the Bank: BG Germany and France.
Galt & Taggart Holdings and Chairman Mr Morrison graduated from Yale College m2 Real Estate.
Mr Gilauri also serves as the Neil Janin was appointed as Chairman in 1974, received his Law degree from CEO of m2 Real Estate.
of BGH on 24 October 2011 and was University of California Los Angeles, elected by shareholders on 1 June 2012.
Prior to his appointment as Chief Executive and was a Fulbright scholar at the He serves as Chairman of BGHs Board Officer of the Bank, Mr. Gilauri served as University of Frankfurt.
and Nomination Committee as well Chief Financial Officer of the Bank from as a member of BGHs Remuneration 2004, as part of the new management team 4.
Mr Janin also serves as tasked to restructure the Bank.
Mr Gilauri is Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Supervisory Board a career banker, having started his career at Al Breach was appointed as an of the Bank and a member of the Banks EBRD after a brief experience of working at independent non-executive Director Remuneration Committee, positions the National Bank of Georgia.
As a banker of BGH on 24 October 2011 and was he has held since 2010. at EBRDs Tbilisi and London offices for elected by shareholders on 1 June 2012. four years, his work experience included Mr Breach serves as Chairman of BGHs Prior to joining the Bank in 2010, Mr Janin was transactions involving debt and private Remuneration Committee and is a a director of McKinsey & Company, based in equity investments in Georgian companies.
member of BGHs Nomination Committee.
He was employed by McKinsey Mr Breach also served as a member of the & Company for over 27 years, from 1982 until Mr Gilauri received his undergraduate degree Banks Supervisory Board and Chairman in Business Studies, Economics and Finance of the Banks Remuneration Committee, from the University of Limerick, Ireland, in positions he has held since 2010.
68 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 5.
Mr Breach runs Furka Advisors, a SwissMs Loikkanen currently also serves as a 7.
Kakhaber based asset management firm, is a significant director of East Capital Explorer Investments KahaKiknavelidze shareholder in Gemmstock Growth Fund AB, RDF AG, EEDF AG, Laomar Ltd, Locko Independent Non-Executive Director and is the co-founder of The Browser.
com, Bank CJSC, Locko Invest CJSC, Probusiness Kaha Kiknavelidze was appointed as a-web-based curator of current affairs writing, Bank CJSC, Morgan & Stout CJSC and AKI an independent non-executive Director established in 2008.
He also serves on the Bank CJSC.
of BGH on 24 October 2011 and was board of Vostok Nafta Investment Ltd. and She holds a Masters degree in Economics elected by shareholders on 1 June 2012.
In January 2003, Mr Breach and Business Administration from the Mr Kiknavelidze also serves as a member joined Brunswick UBS later UBS Russia Helsinki School of Economics.
of BGHs Audit and Nomination Committees.
as Chief Economist, and later additionally Mr Kiknavelidze also serves as a member became Head of Research and MD until 6.
Allan Hirst of the Banks Supervisory Board and October 2007.
From 1998 to 2002, Mr Independent Non-Executive Director Audit Committee, positions he has held Breach was Russia and FSU economist Allan Hirst was appointed as an independent since 2008. at Goldman Sachs, based in Moscow.
non-executive Director of BGH on 24 October Mr Kiknavelidze is the managing partner Mr Breach obtained an MSc in Economics 2011 and was elected by shareholders on of Rioni Capital Partners LLP, the investment from the London School of Economics and 1 June 2012.
Mr Hirst serves as Chairman management company, a company he a degree in Mathematics with Philosophy of BGHs Audit Committee and a member founded in 2007.
Mr Kiknavelidze has over from Edinburgh University.
Mr Hirst 15 years of experience in the equity markets, also serves as a member of the Banks including serving as Executive Director of UBS 5.
Hanna-Leena Hanna Supervisory Board, a position he has held where he supervised the Russian oil and gas since 2006, and as Chairman of the Banks Loikkanen research team.
Prior to joining UBS, he spent Audit Committee, a position he has held Non-Executive Director eight years at Troika Dialog, initially covering since 2010.
Hanna Loikkanen was appointed as a metals and mining and the utilities sectors non-executive Director of BGH on 24 October Prior to joining the Bank, Mr Hirst was and later, as deputy head of research and 2011 and was elected by shareholders on employed by Citibank N. A. for nearly associate partner, leading the oil and gas 1 June 2012.
Ms Loikkanen serves as a 25 years until his retirement in February team.
Mr Kiknavelidze started his career member of BGHs Nomination Committee 2005.
At Citibank, he led the Banks at the Bank as a Financial Manager in 1994. and has served as a member of the Banks expansion into Central and Eastern Europe, Mr Kiknavelidze received his undergraduate Supervisory Board since 2010.
From 1999 to degree in Economics with honours from the 2004, Mr Hirst served as President and Ms Loikkanen has over 18 years of Georgian Agrarian University in Tbilisi, Georgia Managing Director of ZAO Citibank Russia, experience in working with financial and received his MBA from Emory University with oversight over the banks operations in institutions in Russia and Eastern Europe.
Prior to moving to Russia, Mr Hirst She has been the Chief Representative and worked in various senior capacities at Head of the Private Equity team at East 8.
Ian Hague Citibank, including as division executive in Capital, a Swedish asset management Non-Executive Director the Middle East and Indian Sub-continent company in Moscow, since November 2007.
Ian Hague was appointed as a nonand as division executive responsible for Ms Loikkanen previously held the position of executive Director of BGH on 24 October establishing the banks network in Central Country Manager and Chief Executive Officer 2011 and was elected by shareholders and Eastern Europe.
Mr Hirst additionally at FIM Group in Russia, a Finnish investment on 1 June 2012.
Mr. Hague is a member serves as non-executive director of the bank, where she was responsible for setting of BGHs Nomination Committee and Financial Services Volunteer Corps and up and running the Banks brokerage and has served as a member of the Banks Phico Therapeutics.
He is also a member corporate finance operations in Russia.
Supervisory Board since 2004. of Executive Committee of the Board of Before joining FIM Group, Ms Loikkanen the FSVC.
Mr. Hague is the Managing Partner and worked for Nordea Finance for four years in co-founder of Firebird Management LLC, various management positions in Poland, the Mr. Hirst received an MBA from University a New York-based investment fund since Baltic States and Finland.
Earlier in her career, of Texas.
Prior to this, he worked for the Ms Loikkanen worked for Merita Bank in St. United Nations Secretariat.
Mr. Hague Petersburg as Chief Representative as well currently also serves as a Director for as SEB in Moscow.
Global Gold, NBD Bank, SDM Bank, Elise Holdings, Lexik Holdings, Amber Trust and Amber Trust II.
Mr. Hague received his undergraduate degree from Wesleyan University in 1983 and was awarded a Masters degree from Monterey Institute of International Studies.
He has also conducted graduate work at Columbia Universitys Harriman Institute.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 69
