Governance: Directors Report On 20 December 2011, in connection with the introduction Principal Activities and Business Review of BGH as the new holding company for the Group, BGH BGH is the holding company for the Group.
The Group issued a Prospectus detailing the tender offer of one BGH operates globally and is principally engaged in the core ordinary share for each ordinary share of Bank of Georgia, businesses of retail banking, corporate banking, asset and whether held in the form of an ordinary share or a global wealth management as well as the synergistic businesses depositary receipt, in connection with an application for of insurance and healthcare and affordable housing.
admission to the premium listing segment of the Official We are required to present a fair review of our business List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the during the financial year ended 31 December 2012, our London Stock Exchange.
position at year-end and a description of the principal The tender offer was successful, and admission to the risks and uncertainties that we face.
This review enables Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the shareholders to assess how the Directors have performed London Stock Exchange took place on 28 February 2012. their duties under the Companies Act 2006.
Upon the first issue of BGH shares to existing holders, The Directors Report and the accompanying Consolidated the one subscriber share and 50,000 redeemable shares Financial Statements have been drawn up from the date of were acquired by the BGH for nil consideration and incorporation of BGH 14 October 2011 to 31 December 2012. cancelled, resulting in a share capital of 35,909,383 The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements are ordinary shares, with a nominal value of 6.00 each.
prepared as if the Group is a continuation of the pre-existing BGH capitalised the full amount standing to the credit group of companies with the Bank as its ultimate parent.
The of the merger reserve and applied the sum so capitalised in comparative financial statements as at and for the years issuing Class A shares credited as fully paid to the holders ended 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 are that who validly accepted the tender offer.
The Class A shares of the group of companies consolidated with the Bank as were non-voting, not entitled to any profit or assets or its ultimate parent.
return of capital in the event of winding up and could be The information required for the business review and redeemed without prior notice from BGH.
certain other disclosers can be found in this Directors Following admission, the Directors applied to the High Report and the following sections of the Annual Report, Court of Justice of England and Wales to undertake which are incorporated in this Directors Report: a reduction of capital in order to create distributable Chairmans statement: pages 2 to 5 reserves for BGH.
On 20 March 2012, the Court Order approving the reduction of capital was registered with Group Chief Executives Review: pages 22 to 23 the Registrar of Companies and the nominal value of Strategy: pages 14 to 15 each of the ordinary shares in the capital of BGH was reduced from 6.00 to 0.01 and the reduction Market review: pages 18 to 19 of capital created distributable reserves of approximately Key performance indicators: pages 24 to 27 299.5 million for BGH.
At the same time as the registration of the capital reduction, BGH redeemed and cancelled Business review Overview of financial results: all Class A shares and, as a result, BGHs ordinary shares pages 28 to 35 represented and continue to represent 100% of the total Segment discussions: pages 36 to 45 issued share capital of BGH.
Risk management: pages 56 to 65 On a show of hands, each member present at our general meeting has the right to one vote.
On a poll, each member Risks and uncertainties: pages 46 to 55 is entitled to one vote for every ordinary share held.
Corporate Governance Report: pages 73 to 76 Persons with direct or indirect interests in BGH shares or Directors Report on Remuneration: pages 80 to 89 the ability to exercise voting rights over at least 10%, 25% or 50% or such other percentages as a regulatory authority Articles of Association may determine from time to time of the shares in any BGHs Articles of Association may only be amended by regulated Group company, must notify BGH as well as a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
satisfy and comply with all regulatory requirements, as The Articles of Association are available onBGHs described in BGHs Articles of Association.
co. uk en corporate-governance The Directors are not aware of any agreements Share Capital between holders of BGHs shares that may BGH was incorporated on 14 October 2011 company result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on number 07811410.
At incorporation, the issued and fully voting rights.
No person has any special rights of control paid-up capital was 50,001, comprised of one subscriber over BGHs share capital and all issued shares share and 50,000 redeemable shares.
92 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information BGH may, by ordinary resolution, upon the recommendation As a result of the Banks strong financial performance and of the Board, capitalise all or any part of an amount standing condition, BGH, as a controlling shareholder of the Bank to the credit of a reserve or fund to be set free for distribution has approved an annual dividend of GEL 1.5 on 5 April provided that amounts from the share premium account, 2013 for the year ended 31 December 2012, which will capital redemption reserve or any profits not available for be paid by the Bank to its shareholders including BGH in distribution should be applied only in paying up unissued May 2013.
The BGH Board has recently recommended an shares to be allotted to members credited as fully paid and annual dividend of GEL 1.5 payable in Sterling, which is no unrealised profits shall be applied in paying up debentures subject to shareholders approval at the AGM.
If approved of BGH or any amount unpaid on any share in the capital it is intended that the dividend will be paid in sterling on of BGH.
19 June 2013 to shareholders on the UK register of members at the close of business in the UK 6:00 pm At the 2012 AGM, BGH was granted authority by London time on 7 June 2013. shareholders to purchase up to 10% of BGHs issued share capital.
In 2012, no ordinary shares were purchased by Powers of Directors BGH.
This authority will expire at this years AGM.
As such, The Directors may exercise all powers of BGH subject to a special resolution is proposed in the Notice of AGM applicable legislation and regulation and BGHs Articles of seeking shareholder approval to renew this authority.
At the 2012 AGM, the Directors were also given the Conflicts of Interest power to allot ordinary shares in BGH up to an amount In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Directors approximately equal to two-thirds of the issued share have adopted a policy and procedure for the disclosure and capital of BGH excluding treasury shares.
This authority authorisation if appropriate of conflicts of interest, and will expire at this years AGM.
As such, an ordinary these have been followed during 2012. resolution is proposed in the Notice of AGM seeking shareholder approval to renew this authority.
Appointment and Retirement of Directors The appointment and replacement of Directors is In addition, at the 2012 AGM, the Directors were given governed by BGHs Articles of Association, the Code, the power to issue shares up to the equivalent of 5% the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The of BGHs issued share capital, including shares held Articles may only be amended by a special resolution in treasury, on a non-pre-emptive basis to ordinary of the shareholders.
As such, a special resolution is proposed in the Notice of The Board has the power to appoint additional Directors AGM seeking shareholder approval to renew this authority.
or to fill a casual vacancy amongst the Directors.
Under the Articles of Association, any such Director holds office Detailed explanatory notes to these resolutions will be only until the next AGM and may offer himself herself for set out in the Notice of AGM mailed to shareholders on or re-election.
The Articles of Association also require that about 18 April 2013 and available on BGHs website at each AGM at least one-third of the Directors retire by http:www.
co. uk en investors rotation.
The retiring Directors are eligible to stand for Other than the above, we have no current intention of re-election.
We note that the Corporate Governance Code issuing further share capital and no issue will be made recommends that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies which would effectively alter control of BGH without prior should be subject to annual re-election.
We abide by this approval of shareholders in a general meeting.
recommendation and, as a result, we will all stand for re-election at the AGM.
Results and Dividends BGH may by ordinary resolution declare dividends Directors Remuneration provided that no such dividend shall exceed the amount Directors fees are determined by the Board from time to recommended by BGHs Directors.
The Directors may also time.
Directors fees as distinct from any salary, remuneration pay interim dividends as appearto be justified by the profits or other amount payable to a Director pursuant to other of BGH available for distribution.
provisions of the Articles of Association or otherwise may not exceed 750,000 per annum in aggregate or such higher As BGH is a holding company, BGH relies primarily amounts as may from time to time be determined by ordinary on dividends and other statutorily and contractually resolution of BGH.
The fees paid to the Directors pursuant permissible payments from its subsidiaries to generate to their letters of appointment are shown on page 87 of this revenues necessary to meet its obligations and pay Annual Report.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 93 Governance: Directors Report continued Directors Interests Community Investment The Directors beneficial interests in ordinary shares of BGH We are committed to building a sustainable business as at 31 December 2012 are shown on page 87 of this and a more sustainable society, and recognise our Annual Report.
responsibility to invest in the communities in which we operate.
We made a total investment of GEL 1.4 million Indemnity in charities, sponsorships, community organisations Subject to applicable legislation, every current and former and causes across our footprint during the year.
Director or other officer of BGH other than any person engaged by the company as auditor shall be indemnified Creditor payment policy by BGH against any liability in relation to BGH, other than The Group is committed to maintaining good commercial broadly any liability to BGH or a member of the Group, relationships with its suppliers.
The Bank is responsible or any criminal or regulatory fine.
for agreeing, and then bringing attention to, terms and conditions with its suppliers.
The Groups policy is to pay Related Party Transactions creditors in accordance with agreed terms and conditions, Details of related party transactions are set out in provided the supplier has complied with them.
BGH is a Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements holding company and does not trade.
Therefore, it is not on page 174 of this Annual Report.
considered meaningful to give a number of days purchases outstanding for BGH as at 31 December 2012.
Significant Contracts and Agreements At no time during the year did any Director hold a material Code of Conduct and Ethics interest in any contracts of significance with BGH or any The Board has adopted a Code of Conduct and Ethics subsidiary of the Group.
BGH is not party to any significant relating to the lawful and ethical conduct of the business, agreements that would take effect, alter orterminate supported by the Groups core values.
The Code of following a change of control of BGH.
Conduct has been communicated to all Directors and employees, all of whom are expected to observe high Political donations standards of integrity and fair dealing in relation to The Group did not make any political donations or customers, staff and regulators in the communities expenditures during 2012. in which the Group operates.
Our Code of Conduct is available on our website http: www.
co. uk en Major Interests in Shares The following table lists shareholders with voting rights of corporate-governance more than 3% as of 31 December 2012 and 31 March 2013.
Environmental and Social The 31 March 2013 information has been derived from source available to BGH, primarily through regulatory filings.
Responsibility Policy The Board has adopted an Environmental and Social The respective regulatory filings by shareholders are Responsibility Policy, which aims to ensure that high available on the BGH website: http: bogh.
co. uk en standards of responsible business are maintained and announcements  pressthat an effective control framework is in place.
This policy releases and the London Stock Exchange website: http: focuses on our operational impact, sustainable finance www.
Our Environmental and Social Responsibility Policy is available on our website http:www.
co. uk en  policies As of 31 March 2013 As of 31 December 2012 No of Voting % of Voting No of Voting % of Voting Shareholder Rights Rights Rights Rights Firebird Group of Funds 2,762,921 7.69% 2,852,921 7.94% Royal Bank of Canada 2,018,159 5.62% 2,414,414 6.72% East Capital Group of Funds 1,997,661 5.56% 6,328,417 17.62% European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 1,817,503 5.06% 1,817,503 5.06% International Finance Corporation 1,817,503 5.06% 1,817,503 5.06% Templeton Asset Management Ltd. 1,804,440 5.02% 1,808,940 5.04% Wellington Management Company 1,748,609 4.87% Prosperity Capital Management 1,078,817 3.00% Others 21,942,587 61.11% 17,790,868 49.56% Total 35,909,383 100.00% 35,909,383 100.00% 94 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information d prepare the financial statements on the going concern Annual General Meeting basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Our AGM will be held at 10:00 am London time on Company will continue in business.
Thursday, 23 May 2013 at Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, 65 Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HS.
Details of the We are also responsible for keeping adequate business to be conducted at the AGM are contained in accounting records that are sufficient to show and the Notice of AGM.
explain BGHs and the Groups transactions, to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position Going Concern of BGH and the Group and to enable us to ensure that the The Groups business, together with the factors likely to financial statements and the Directors Remuneration affect its future development, performance and position Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as are described in the Business review Overview of regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of financial results, segment discussions, principal risks and the IAS Regulation.
uncertainties of this Annual Report on pages 28 to 55.
We have further responsibility for safeguarding the The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity assets of BGH and the Group and for taking reasonable position and borrowing facilities are described in the Risk steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and Management on pages 56 to 65.
In addition Note 27 to the other irregularities.
Consolidated Financial Statements includes details of the Groups financial instruments and its risk profile.
We are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of BGHs website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom A description of the Groups risks and risk management governing the preparation and dissemination are also outlined in the Risks and Uncertainties and Risk of financial statements may differ from legislation in Management sections on pages 46 to 65. other jurisdictions.
The Group has considerable financial resources to meet Directors Responsibility Statement its financial needs.
The Directors believe that the Group is Each of the us listed in the Board of Directors section well positioned to manage its risks successfully in the of this Annual Report confirms that to the best of current uncertain economic environment.
his her knowledge: After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable a the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements, expectation that BGH and the Group have adequate resources prepared in accordance with International Financial to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Reporting Standards as adopted by the European future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, basis in preparing the accompanying Consolidated financial position and profit or loss of BGH and the Financial Statements.
Group as a whole: and Statement of Directors Responsibilities b the Directors Report includes a fair review of the We are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the development and performance of the business and accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in the position of BGH and Group as a whole, together with accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that law requires us to prepare financial statements for each they face.
Under the law, we have elected to prepare In accordance with section 418 2 of the Companies the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in Act 2006, each of us that held office at the date of the accordance with International Financial Reporting approval of this Directors Report confirms that, so far as Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of applicable law.
which BGHs auditors are unaware and each of us has Under company law, we must not approve the taken all reasonable steps to ascertain any relevant audit accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements unless information and ensure that the Group statutory auditors we are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the are aware of such information.
state of affairs of the Group and BGH and of the profit or Statement of Compliance loss of the Group and BGH for that period.
As BGH is listed on the London Stock Exchange, we In preparing the accompanying Consolidated Financial comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code, save Statements, we are required to: for Section D. 1.1, which is described in greater detail in the Directors Remuneration Report of this Annual Report.
a select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: By order of the Board b make judgements and estimates that are reasonable andprudent: c state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, subject toany material departures disclosed and explained in Kate Bennett Rea, on behalf of KB Rea Ltd. the financial statements: and Company Secretary 10 April 2013 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 95 Contents Independent Auditors Report: To the members of Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 97 Financial Statements: Standalone statement of financial position 98 Consolidated statement of financial position 99 Consolidated income statement 100 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 102 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 103 Consolidated statement of cash flows 104 Notes to consolidated financial statements 1.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 111 4.
Significant Accounting Judgements and Estimates 125 5. Business Combinations 126 6.
Amounts Due from Credit Institutions 134 9.
Other Assets and Other Liabilities 148 17.
Amounts Due to Credit Institutions 150 19.
Net Fee and Commission Income 154 22.
Salaries and Other Employee Benefits, and General and Administrative Expenses 156 25.
Fair Values of Financial Instruments 169 29.
Maturity Analysis of Financial Assets and Liabilities 172 30.
Capital Adequacy 176 Additional Information: Abbreviations 177 Glossary 178 Shareholder information 180 96 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Independent Auditors Report: To the members of Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC We have audited the financial statements of Bank of Georgia the parent company financial statements have been Holdings PLC for the year ended 31 December 2012 which properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted comprise the Standalone statement of financial position, by the European Union and as applied in accordance Consolidated statement of financial position, Consolidated with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and income statement, Consolidated statement of comprehensive the financial statements have been prepared in accordance income, Consolidated statement of changes in equity, with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, Consolidated statement of cash flows and the related notes as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the 1 to 31.
The financial reporting framework that has been IAS Regulation.
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Opinion on other matters prescribed by Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the the Companies Act 2006 European Union and, as regards the parent company In our opinion: financial statements, as applied in accordance with the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be provisions of the Companies Act 2006. audited has been properly prepared in accordance with This report is made solely to the companys members, as the Companies Act 2006: and a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the the information given in the Directors Report for the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so financial year for which the financial statements are that we might state to the companys members those matters prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do Matters on which we are required to not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the report by exception company and the companys members as a body, for our We have nothing to report in respect of the following: audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Respective responsibilities of directors you if, in our opinion: and auditor adequate accounting records have not been kept by the As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have Statement set out on page 95, the directors are responsible not been received from branches not visited by us: or for the preparation of the financial statements and for being the parent company financial statements and the part of satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or accordance with applicable law and International Standards certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to law are not made: or comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards we have not received all the information and explanations for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts the directors statement, set out on page 95, in relation to and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give going concern: reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent review: and companys circumstances and have been consistently applied certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant on directors remuneration.
accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial Andrew McIntyre statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material Senior statutory auditor misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor for our report.
London Opinion on financial statements 10 April 2013 In our opinion: Notes: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, 31 December 2012 and of the Groups profit for the year the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have then ended: occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the Group financial statements have been properly the website.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and European Union: dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 97
