Overview: Our strategy Delivering against our strategy Strategic pillar Measure 2012 performance Outlook 1.
Maintain its leading Market share by assets Strongly positioned to 36.7% position in the growing maintain the leading position 2011: 35.6% and still underpenetrated on the Georgian market Georgian banking market 2.
Focus on profitable Return on Average Equity Maintain ROAE of c. 20% 19.1% growth ROAE through profitable growth 2011: 18.3% 3.
Increase the portfolio Net loan book growth Capitalise on superior 18.2% while maintaining distribution and cross 2011: 10.6% asset quality selling opportunities coupled with the Banks prudent risk management policies to achieve high quality growth 4.
Continue prudent Cost of funds Well positioned to attract 7.3% liability management low cost deposits through 2011: 8.0% by means of optimising its strong franchise in cost of funds and Georgia and key selected diversification of the international markets funding base through representative offices while maintaining superior access to capital on international markets 5.
Focus on advancing Cost Income Ratio Intensify shift to efficient 44.4% payment systems and IT and cost effective 2011: 48.5% investments: increase payment systems through operational efficiency electronic channels 6.
Achieve growth and Contribution of non-interest Further develop non- 43.0% capture synergies in income to total revenue banking businesses to 1 2011: 41.5% the Georgian insurance, increase non-interest healthcare and affordable income contribution to housing sectors group revenue 7. Dividend policy Dividend per share Maintain a dividend payout 2 GEL1.5 ratio in the 25-40% range 2011: GEL 0.7 1 Adjusted for one-off gain from Belarusian currency hedge in 2011.
2 The Board intends to recommend dividend per share of GEL 1.5 for 2013 at the 2013 AGM.
14 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information K R L O S W E T P E N R E E M N I O Our business model A strategy for growth The Group aims to capitalise on the growing Georgian economy and underpenetrated banking sector CORPORATE through its superior franchise, BANKING access to capital and well managed business model coupled with corporate governance that meets the standards for a premium listed CROSS-SELLING STRONG NETWORK FRANCHISE company on the LSE.
Our business model The Group runs a fully integrated UNIQUE business model, capitalising on its WELL DEVELOPED ASSET & RETAIL LARGE SCALE & superior franchise, access to capital, ELECTRONIC EXPOSURE WEALTH BANKING DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS MANAGEMENT largest scale through its distribution NETWORK TO GEORGIA networks and unmatched local expertise to constantly identify new revenue streams and efficiency generating services.
EXPERIENCED UNMATCHED MANAGEMENT LOCAL EXPERTISE TEAM The Bank is well capitalised with a solid balance sheet and generates INSURANCE & AFFORDABLE solid profitability, providing steady HEALTHCARE HOUSING return to shareholders equity, aiming to pay dividends regularly.
For more information about the market overview see Pg 18 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 15 U, M D N L I A S R T B I N E G N O The Executive Management team drives the business through thought leadership Bank of Georgias management team consists of western educated professionals with in-depth local knowledge and extensive global banking experience.
Our executive management team, alongside our dedicated employees, has a proven track record of delivering sound performance for our customers, shareholders and communities we operate in.
Every day, the Banks 3,734 employees are working to provide exceptional service to make sure customers have the products and advice they need.
For more information on our Executive Management team see Pg 70 Bank of Georgias banking business standalone.
16 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 17
