Governance: Management of the Group 1.
Archil Gachechiladze Chief Executive Officer Deputy CEO, Finance Deputy CEO, Corporate Banking Prior to joining the Group in October 2012 as Before joining the Group in October 2009, See details on page 68.
Chief Financial Officer, Nikoloz served for Archil worked at Lehman Brothers Private five years as CEO of the largest insurance Equity in London.
Archils nine years company in Georgia, Aldagi BCI.
Fromexperience in the financial services sector 2005 until 2007, Nikoloz served as CEO of includes Salford Equity Partners US$350 My Family Clinic.
Nikoloz managed several million fund with offices in London, Moscow, World Bank Health development projects.
Belgrade and Tbilisi, EBRD in Tbilisi and He has 10 years experience in healthcare London, as a Senior Financial Analyst at management and insurance.
He graduated KPMG Barents in Tbilisi, and as a Team from Tbilisi State Medical University and Leader for the World Banks CERMA Project received his masters degree in International in Tbilisi.
Archil is a CFA Charterholder Health Management from Imperial College and a member of the CFA Society in the London, Tanaka Business School.
He received an MBA with distinction from Cornell University and undergraduate degrees in Economics 3.
Mikheil Gomarteli and Law from Tbilisi State University.
Deputy CEO, Retail Banking Mikheil joined the Group in 1997 and has Archil will assume Deputy CEO, Asset 18 years of retail banking experience.
Having and Wealth Management responsibilities developed his career at Bank of Georgia, from May 2013.
Mikheil is responsible for Bank of Georgias retail banking business, a position he has held since February 2009.
Mikheils various senior management positions include Co-Head of Retail Banking, Head of Business Development, Head of Strategy and Planning, Head of Branch Management and Sales Coordination, Head of Branch Management and Marketing and Head of Banking Products and Marketing.
Mikheil received his degree in Economics from Tbilisi State University.
70 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 5.
Irakli Burdiladze Deputy CEO, Legal Deputy CEO, Affordable Housing Deputy CEO Avto joined the Group as General Legal Irakli joined the Group in 2006 and prior to Deputy CEO, Asset and Counsel in March 2007 and was appointed his appointment as Deputy CEO in June Wealth Management as Deputy CEO, Legal in July 2008.
Avtos 2010, Affordable Housing, served as COO Vasil joined the Group in August 2008 experience within the Group includes eight and CFO of the Bank.
Prior to joining the as Head of Structured Products, before mergers and acquisitions in the Georgian Bank, Irakli served as CFO of the GMT becoming Head of Wealth Management financial sector, two international acquisitions, Group, a leading real estate developer in 2009 and his appointment as Deputy two IPOs including the premium listing on and operator in Georgia.
As CFO, Irakli was CEO in June 2011.
Vasil has a range of the London Stock Exchange in 2012 and responsible for the Groups capital raising experience across the financial services the listing of Bank of Georgia GDRs on the efforts and transaction structuring.
Irakli sector both in Georgia and internationally.
London Stock Exchange in 2006, where he received a graduate degree in International Prior to returning to Georgia in 2008, acted in the capacity of adviser to the first Economics and International Relations from Vasil worked for four years at Pictet Asset IPO from Georgia.
Before joining the Group, the Johns Hopkins University School of Management in London and Geneva as Avto was a partner at Begiashvili & Co. Advanced International Studies and an Head of the Investment Risk Unit, and later Limited, a leading Georgian law firm, where undergraduate degree in International as a Senior Investment Manager in the he acted as the Banks external legal advisor Relations from the Tbilisi State University.
Balanced and Quantitative Investment from 2004.
Before that, Vasil held various degrees in law and international economic 9.
Murtaz Kikoria positions at the EU-TACIS Counterparty relations from Tbilisi State University and CEO, Aldagi BCI Fund, the Georgian Investment Centre received a graduate degree LLM in Murtaz was appointed as CEO of Aldagi and World Bank Tbilisi Water Project.
International Business Law from Central BCI in October 2012.
Murtaz joined the Vasil received a Masters degree in finance European University, Hungary.
Avto is also a Group in August 2008 and has served in with distinction from the London Business member of the BGH Executive Committee.
various managerial positions within the School and an undergraduate degree in Group including Deputy CEO, Finance, applied mathematics and computer 7.
Sulkhan Gvalia Deputy CEO in charge of Compliance: sciences from Tbilisi State University.
Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer Deputy CEO in charge of Investments and Vasil is also a designated Financial Risk Sulkhan joined the Group in January 2005 Strategic Projects and the Acting CEO of Manager by the Global Association of as Deputy CEO, Risk following the Banks BG Bank Ukraine.
Murtaz has also held the Risk Professionals.
acquisition of TUB, a mid-sized bank in position of Chairman of the Bank Audit Vasil will leave Bank of Georgia in May 2013.
Prior to joining the Group, Archil Gachechiladze will assume Asset has almost 21 years of banking experience Murtaz served as a Senior Banker at EBRD.
holding management positions in risk, credit His 20 years of banking career includes the finance, strategy and treasury.
His experience position as Head of Banking Supervision includes 11 credit risk management years and Regulation at the National Bank of and 15 years credit committee membership.
Murtaz Sulkhan received his undergraduate law received an undergraduate degree from degree from Tbilisi State University.
Tbilisi State University in Economics, specialising in Finance and Credit.
Sulkhan will assume Deputy CEO, Corporate Murtaz also serves as a member of Banking responsibilities from May 2013. the Supervisory Board of BG Bank.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 71
