20 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 Report of the Directors The directors present their report and the audited financial b Investment objectives and policy statements for the Group for the year ended 31 October 2012.
The Companys objectives are to achieve long term asset growth in excess of the FTSE All-Share Index and regular Business Review dividend growth in excess of the increase in the Retail Prices The following review is designed to provide information Index.
To achieve these objectives the Companys investment primarily about the Companys business and results for the policy is to invest its assets in a portfolio primarily composed year from 1 November 2011 to 31 October 2012.
The business of international equities.
The portfolio is broadly diversied by review should be read in conjunction with the Chairmans both geography and sector in order to reduce investment risk.
Statement on pages 3 and 4 and the Portfolio Review on The Manager has the exibility to invest in any geographic pages 5 to 18, which gives a detailed review of the investment region and has no set limits on individual country or sector activities for the year and an outlook for the future.
exposures, although the Board regularly monitors the Companys investments and the Managers investment a Status activity.
The Manager primarily employs a bottom up value The Company is incorporated in England and Wales and based investment process to identify suitable opportunities domiciled in the United Kingdom registered number and pays particular regard to cash generation and dividends.
It traded throughout the year.
It is an investment company as dened in Section 833 of the Companies Act While the Company will mainly invest in international equities 2006 and operates as an investment trust in accordance with there is the exibility to invest in debt securities, such as Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
It was convertibles, corporate bonds or sovereign debt, if it is required to seek HM Revenue & Customs approval of its deemed that these will, at a particular time or for a particular status as an investment trust under the above-mentioned period, enhance the performance of the Company in the Section 1158 every year up to and including 1 November pursuit of its objectives.
The use of any derivative instruments 2011.
Approval of the Companys status as an investment such as financial futures, options and currency hedges will trust has been received in respect of the year ended only be for the purposes of efficient portfolio management.
31 October 2011 although this approval is subject to there The Company will not invest more than 15% of its investment being no subsequent enquiries under Corporation Tax Self portfolio in any single investment on acquisition, nor will it Assessment.
The directors are of the opinion that the invest more than 15% of its investment portfolio in any other Company has continued to conduct its affairs in a manner UK listed investment trusts or investment companies.
that will enable it to continue to gain such approval.
For years beginning on or after 1 November 2012 approval will be by The Company will at times borrow money, both short and way of a one-off application in advance.
The Company long term, in order to enhance performance.
The draw down intends to make the one-off application for investment trust of borrowings may be in currencies other than Sterling, status during the year ending 31 October 2013 and will provided that the borrowings do not exceed the assets in that conduct its affairs in order to maintain this status.
The gearing range is between 0% and Company is liable to corporation tax on its net revenue profits 20% and gearing will not exceed 20% of net asset value at but is exempt from corporation tax on capital gains if it has the time of draw down of the relevant borrowings.
complied at all times with Section 1158.
The Company has The Company achieves an appropriate spread of investment no employees.
risk principally through a broadly diversied portfolio which at The Company is not a close company.
At The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs so 31 October 2012 the largest single investment was BP which that its investments fully qualify for a stocks and shares accounted for 2.77% of total investments, while the top 25 component of an ISA.
holdings totalled 29.4% of total investments.
Investment risk The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 21 Report of the Directors continued may be further reduced through the use of currency hedging, The Company also has two debentures, details of which foreign borrowings and derivatives.
can be found in note 16 on page 49.
Information regarding the Companys investment exposures Gearing can be found on page 18, and performance attribution Gearing is calculated by dividing total assets less cash and against our composite benchmark is contained on page 17. cash equivalents by equity shareholders funds, Further information regarding investment risk and activity x 100.
There was gearing of 3.9% at 31 October 2012 throughout the year can be found in the Managers Review 2011: 3.2%.
Future developments c Financial review While the future performance of the Company is dependent, Assets to a large degree, on the performance of international Total net assets at 31 October 2012 amounted to financial markets, which, in turn, are subject to many 526,214,000 compared with 496,331,000 at 31 October external factors, the Boards intention is that the Company 2011 and the net asset value per ordinary share increased will continue to pursue its stated investment objectives in by 6.2% from 446.9p to 474.5p.
accordance with the strategy outlined earlier.
Further Revenue comments on the outlook for the Company for the next 2012 2011 % Change twelve months are set out in both the Chairmans Statement on pages 3 and 4 and the Portfolio Review on pages 5 to 18.
Net assets as at 31 October 526.2m 496.3m 6.2 Going Concern Revenue return for The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to the year 15.4m 13.3m 15.8 adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial Dividend payable per statements as the assets of the Company consist mainly of share for the year 13.33p 12.70p 5.0 securities which are readily realisable and, accordingly, that Dividend the Group has adequate financial resources to continue in The final dividend, if approved by shareholders at the operational existence for the foreseeable future.
AGM, will be paid on 28 February 2013 to shareholders on d Performance measurement and key performance the register at 1 February 2013.
The Companys shares go indicators ex-dividend on 30 January 2013.
In order to measure the success of the Company in meeting Payment of Suppliers its objectives and to evaluate the performance of the It was the payment policy for the financial year to Manager, the directors take into account the following key 31 October 2012 to obtain the best possible terms for all performance indicators see page 1 : business and, therefore, there is no single policy as to the Performance measured against the Benchmark terms used.
In general the Company agrees with its The Board reviews and compares, at each meeting, the suppliers the terms on which business will take place and performance of the portfolio as well as the net asset value it is the Companys policy to abide by such terms.
There and share price for the Company and its benchmark.
were no trade creditors at 31 October 2012 2011: nil.
Discount to Net Asset Value NAV Borrowings At each Board meeting, the Board monitors the level of the The Board has in place a facility which allows the Company Companys discount premium to NAV and reviews the to borrow as and when appropriate.
At 31 October 2012 the Company had a committed short term facility of 30m.
average discount premium for the Companys relevant The facility is subject to regular review.
Association of Investment Companies AIC sector.
22 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 Report of the Directors continued The Board considers the use of share buy-backs to enhance The Manager was eligible for a fee based on the degree of shareholder value.
During the year 145,000 shares were outperformance, calculated on the basis of the average net asset value total return over a rolling three year period purchased.
The Company publishes a NAV per share gure on a daily basis through the ofcial newswire of the compared to a composite index representing in equal London Stock Exchange.
This gure is calculated in proportions the FTSE All-Share Index and the FTSE World ex UK Index.
accordance with the AIC formula.
The payment of a performance fee was subject to an Performance against the Companys peer group outperformance hurdle rate of 1.5% per annum.
In addition to comparison against the benchmark and various indices, the Board also considers the performance For the first 1% of outperformance in excess of the hurdle of its AIC peer group at each Board meeting.
rate, a performance fee of 0.15% of average gross assets was paid, and in respect of each further 1% of Ongoing Charges outperformance, a fee of a further 0.2% of average gross The ongoing charges are a measure of the total expenses assets up to a maximum performance fee in any one year of incurred by the Company, including those charged to 0.55% of average gross assets, so that the maximum total fee capital, expressed as a percentage of the average payable in any one year was 0.85% of average gross assets.
shareholders funds over the year.
The ongoing charges, before borrowing costs, amounted to 0.42% 2011: No performance fee was paid if either the Companys net 0.40% of the assets of the Company.
No performance fee asset value or its share price was lower at the end of the was paid during the year.
The Board regularly reviews the financial year than at the end of the previous financial year.
ongoing charges and monitors all Company expenses.
No performance fee was paid if in any financial year e Related party transactions distributable income plus revenue reserves was lower than the Other than the relationship between the Company and its gross dividends payable in the previous financial year.
No Directors, the provision of services by Henderson is the only performance fee was payable in respect of the year ended related party arrangement currently in place.
Other than the 31 October 2012 last paid in 2007. fees payable by the Company in the ordinary course of From 1 January 2013, the Company has simplied its fee business there have been no material transactions with this arrangements by abolishing the performance fee and related party which has affected the financial position or increasing the management fee rate.
For the period 1 January performance of the Company in the financial year.
2013 to 31 October 2013 the management fee will be f Custody arrangements charged at a rate of 0.40% of the average value of net assets Global custody services are provided by BNP Paribas Securities on the last day of October in each of the two preceding years Services.
Subject to Hendersons overall performance and the Boards approval, from 1 November g Management arrangements 2013 the management fee rate will increase to 0.45%.
Investment management, accounting, company secretarial and administrative services are provided to the Group by The notice period for termination of the management wholly owned subsidiary companies of Henderson Group plc contract is six months.
Under the terms of the management contract: During the year under review the Manager used certain To 31 December 2012 the basic annual management fee was services which were provided by or paid for by various 0.30% per annum of the average gross assets on the last day brokers.
In return it placed business, which may have included of October of the preceding two years.
transactions relating to the Company, with these brokers.
