The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2012 19 Directors Richard Brewster Richard Burns Richard Killingbeck Matthew Thorne Peter Sullivan Susan Inglis Richard Brewster FCA Chairman was appointed as a Matthew Thorne FCA, MA Audit Committee Chairman director in 1991 and became Chairman in 2005.
Having was appointed as a director in 2008.
Mr Thorne is an adviser qualied as a Chartered Accountant he has spent over 30 to the Consensus Business Group.
He was Group Finance years in industry.
From 1983 he was Chief Executive officer of Director of McCarthy & Stone plc and also Investment Director D. S. Smith plc until 1991 when he became Chief Executive of Beazer plc.
A Chartered Accountant, he has significant officer of Jarvis Porter plc until 1998.
Since then he has taken experience as a finance director, predominantly in the an interest in a number of private equity investments both as property sector.
He is the former Chairman of Peter Sullivan was appointed a director in February BlackRock Smaller Companies Trust plc.
He was formerly executive director and CEO Hong Richard Burns was appointed a director in 2006.
He is a Kong at Standard Chartered Plc, also responsible for former joint senior partner of Baillie Gifford & Co and former operations in Japan, The Philippines, Australia and the joint fund manager of Monks Investment Trust plc.
He is also a venture in China.
He is currently a non-executive director of non-executive director of EP Global Opportunities Trust plc, Axa China Region, Techtronic Industries, JPMorgan Indian Euronova European Smaller Companies Fund, JPMorgan Investment Trust plc and Chairman of Healthcare Locums Indian Investment Trust plc, Mid Wynd International HCL and was previously Chairman of Cenkos Securities plc.
Investment Trust plc and Standard Life Equity Income Trust Susan Inglis was appointed as a director on 1 November plc.
From 1999 to 2006 he was a director of the AIC.
A qualied lawyer, Ms Inglis was a partner, and head Richard Killingbeck Senior Independent Director was of the funds and financial services group, at Shepherd & appointed as a director in 2003.
He has been involved in the Wedderburn, a leading Scottish law rm.
In 1999 she was a financial services industry for 25 years, initially as a fund founding partner of Intelli Corporate Finance, an advisory manager and latterly in a number of senior management boutique rm focusing on the asset management and roles, at Singer & Friedlander Investment Management and investment company sectors which was acquired by Canaccord Close Brothers.
During his career he has been based primarily Genuity in 2009.
Ms Inglis is currently Managing Director in London, but has also spent part of this time in New York.
Corporate Finance at Cantor Fitzgerald Europe, having held Currently he is Chief Executive officer and Head of Private the same position at Canaccord Genuity until its merger with Wealth Management at WH Ireland Group plc.
previously a Managing Director of Credit Suisse UK Private Member of the Management Engagement Committee Bank.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nominations Committee Management Alex Crooke Tim Stevenson Antony Gifford Mike Kerley Michael Wood-Martin Wendy King The portfolio is managed by Alex Crooke who is engaged full time in investment management.
He is assisted by Tim Stevenson Europe, Antony Gifford North America, Michael Kerley Pacic ex-Japan and Michael Wood-Martin Japan.
Wendy King acts as the Company Secretary and is the representative of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, the corporate secretary to the Company.
