Directors report Principal Activities and Business Review Profit and dividends Barclays is a major global financial services provider engaged in retail The loss for the financial year, after taxation, was 236m 2011: banking, credit cards, corporate and investment banking and wealth 3,951m profit.
The final dividend for 2012 of 3.5p per share will be management, with an extensive international presence.
The Group operates paid on 15 March 2013 to shareholders whose names were on the through branches, offices and subsidiaries in the UK and overseas.
Register of Members at the close of business on 22 February 2013.
With the interim dividends totalling 1.0p per ordinary share, paid in June, September and December 2012, the total distribution for 2012 is 6.5p 2011: 6.0p per ordinary share.
The interim and final dividends for The Directors are required to set out in this report a fair review of 2012 amounted to 793m 2011: 728m.
the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2012 and of the position of the Group at the end of Board of Directors the financial year and a description of the principal risks and The names of the current Directors of Barclays PLC, along with their uncertainties facing the Group known as a Business Review.
biographical details, are set out on pages 67-69 and are incorporated The purpose of the Business Review is to enable shareholders to into this report by reference.
Bob Diamond, Alison Carnwath and assess how the Directors have performed their duties under Marcus Agius left the Board with effect from 3 July 2012, 24 July 2012 section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 to promote the success and 31 October 2012 respectively.
Sir David Walker, Antony Jenkins and of the Company.
The information that fulfils the requirements Tim Breedon joined the Board on 1 September 2012, 30 August 2012 of the Business Review can be found in this report and the and 1 November 2012 respectively.
There were no other changes to following sections of the Annual Report, which are incorporated Directors in 2012.
Diane fide Saint Victor was appointed as a Director into this report by reference.
Pages Appointment and retirement of Directors Group Chief Executives review 8-9 The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed by the What we want to be 10-11 Companys Articles of Association the Articles, the UK Corporate How we will get there 12-13 Governance Code the Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related How we create value 14 legislation.
The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution of Business review 16-23 the shareholders.
Group Finance Directors review 24-25 Financial review 197-224 The Board has the power to appoint additional Directors or to fill a Key performance indicators 198-201 casual vacancy amongst the Directors.
Under the Articles, any such Citizenship 30-31 Director holds office only until the next AGM and may offer himself People 71 herself for re-election.
The Articles also require that at each AGM at Risk management 26-27, and 313-343 least one-third rounded down of the Directors retire by rotation.
The Risk factors 108-115 retiring Directors are eligible to stand for re-election.
The Code recommends that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies should be Other information that is relevant to the Directors Report, and subject to annual re-election, and all Directors will stand for election or which is incorporated by reference into this report, can be re-election at the 2013 AGM with the exception of Sir Andrew located as follows: Likierman, who having served on the Board for nine years, will retire at the 2013 AGM and will not offer himself for re-election.
Pages Likely future developments 4-23 Directors indemnities Employee involvement 71 The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance Policy concerning the employment of 71 which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its Directors.
In addition, qualifying third party indemnity provisions as disabled persons Financial instruments 252-270 defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were in force during the course of the financial year ended 31 December 2012 for the Remuneration policy, including details of 72-103 benefit of the then Directors and, at the date of this report, are in force the remuneration of each Director and for the benefit of the Directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities Directors interests in shares which they may incur or have incurred in connection with their Corporate governance report 37-103 duties, powers or office.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares 346-349 Restrictions on the transfer of securities 346-349 Creditor payment policy Restrictions on voting rights 346-349 Barclays policy follows the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills Prompt Payment Code, copies of which can be obtained from the Prompt Payment Code website at www.
The trade creditor payment days for Barclays Bank PLC for 2012 were a 38 days 2011: 37 days.
This is an arithmetical calculation based on the Companies Act regulations and does not necessarily reflect our practice, nor the experience of any individual creditor.
Note a The 2011 figure is restated as the figure reported in the 2011 Directors Report did not include data from all business divisions.
62 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Essential contracts or arrangements Political donations The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the UK or There are no persons with whom the Group has contractual or other the rest of the EU nor did it make any political donations to political arrangements that are considered essential to the business of the Group.
parties or other political organisations, or to any independent election candidates, or incur any political expenditure during the year.
Absa Contracts of significance Group Limited, in which the Group has a majority stake, made Barclays provided BlackRock, Inc. with customary warranties and donations totalling 185,666 in 2012 2011: 224,158 in accordance indemnities in connection with the sale of Barclays Global Investors BGI with its policy of making political donations to the major South African to BlackRock, Inc. in 2009.
Barclays continued to provide indemnities in political parties as part of their Democracy Support Programme.
The respect of certain of BGIs fully collateralised securities lending activities Group made no other political donations in 2012. until 30 November 2012 and will continue to provide support in respect of certain BGI cash funds until December 2013.
In accordance with the US Federal Election Campaign Act, Barclays provides administrative support to a federal Political Action Committee Research and development PAC in the USA funded by the voluntary political contributions of In the ordinary course of business the Group develops new products eligible Barclays employees.
The PAC is not controlled by Barclays and and services in each of its business divisions.
all decisions regarding the amounts and recipients of contributions are guided by a steering committee comprised of eligible contributors.
Share capital Contributions to political organisations reported by the PAC during the Share capital structure calendar year 2012 election cycle totalled $63,564 2011 $43,436.
The Company has Ordinary Shares in issue.
The Companys Articles also allow for the issuance of Sterling, US Dollar, Euro and Yen preference Charitable donations shares preference shares.
No preference shares have been issued as at Barclays provides funding and support to over 8,500 charities, 28 February 2013 the latest practicable date for inclusion in this report.
voluntary organisations and social enterprises ranging from small local Ordinary shares therefore represent 100% of the total issued share capital organisations, such as Bikeworks, which provides disadvantaged young as at 31 December 2012 and at 28 February 2013.
Details of the movement people in London with training to help them develop key skills to find in Ordinary Share capital during the year can be found in Note 32 on employment in the cycling industry, to international organisations such page 289. as CARE International.
The Group committed 32.1m in support of the community in the UK 2011: 30.3m, including charitable donations of On 31 October 2008, Barclays PLC issued, in conjunction with a 22.5m 2011: 22.6m.
Further information on our community simultaneous issue of Reserve Capital Instruments issued by Barclays involvement can be found on pages 30-31.
Bank PLC, warrants the Warrants to subscribe for up to 1,516.9 million new Ordinary Shares at a price of 1.97775.
As at 31 December Environment 2012 there were unexercised Warrants to subscribe for 379.2 million In 2011 we launched the Barclays Climate Action Programme a Ordinary Shares.
On 13 February 2013 Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank four-year plan which focuses on addressing environmental issues PLC announced that they had entered into an agreement with where we believe we have the greatest potential to make a difference.
Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs International the The Programme focuses on managing our own carbon footprint and Warrantholders pursuant to which the Warrantholders had agreed to reducing our absolute carbon emissions, developing products and exercise in aggregate 379.2m outstanding Warrants.
As a consequence services to help enable the transition to a low-carbon economy, and of this agreement no other Warrants remain outstanding.
Details of managing the risks of climate change to our operations, clients, changes to the share capital structure which have taken place since the customers and society at large.
We invest in improving the energy year end are detailed in Note 46 Events After the Balance Sheet Date.
efficiency of our operations and offset the emissions remaining through the purchase of carbon credits.
We also have a long standing commitment to managing the environmental and social risks associated with our lending practices, which is embedded into our Credit Risk processes.
A governance structure is in place to facilitate clear dialogue across the business and with suppliers around issues of potential environmental and social risk.
More details may be found on our website at www.
We are currently preparing for the forthcoming mandatory carbon reporting regulations coming into force in April 2013, requiring all UK companies listed on the London Stock Exchange to disclose their global emissions in the Directors Report.
We are awaiting the publication of the finalised requirements of the legislation by the UK Government but do not foresee any significant challenges in adhering to the new regulation.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 63 Directors report continued Exercisability of rights under an employee share scheme Powers of the Directors to issue or buy back the Companys shares Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs operate in connection with certain of The powers of the Directors are determined by the Companies Act 2006 the Groups Employee Share Plans Plans.
The trustees of the EBTs and the Companys Articles.
The Directors are authorised to issue and may exercise all rights attached to the shares in accordance with their allot shares, and to repurchase shares subject to annual shareholder fiduciary duties other than as specifically restricted in the relevant Plan approval at the AGM.
Such authorities were granted by shareholders at governing documents.
The trustees of the EBTs have informed the the 2012 AGM.
It will be proposed at the 2013 AGM that the Directors Company that their normal policy is to abstain from voting in respect of be granted new authorities to allot and buy-back shares.
the Barclays shares held in trust.
The trustees of the Global Sharepurchase EBT and UK Sharepurchase EBTs may vote in respect of Repurchase of shares Barclays shares held in the EBTs, but only as instructed by participants The company did not repurchase any of its Ordinary Shares during in those Plans in respect of their Parternership shares and when 2012 2011: none.
As at 28 February 2013, the Company had an vested Matching and Dividend shares.
The trustees will not otherwise unexpired authority to repurchase Ordinary Shares up to a maximum vote in respect of shares held in the Sharepurchase EBTs.
Special rights Change of control There are no persons holding securities that carry special rights with Warrants issued by Barclays PLC provided that if there is a change of regard to the control of the Company.
control of Barclays PLC following a takeover bid, Barclays PLC must so far as legally possible use all reasonable endeavours to cause the Substantial shareholders corporation which then controls Barclays PLC to execute a deed poll Substantial shareholders do not have different voting rights from those providing that holders of the Warrants shall have the right during the of other shareholders.
Information provided to the Company by period in which the Warrants are exercisable to exercise the Warrants substantial shareholders pursuant to the Financial Services Authoritys into the class and amount of shares and other securities and property FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR is published via a receivable upon such a takeover by the holders of the number of Ordinary Regulatory Information Service and is available on the Companys Shares as would have been issued on exercise of the Warrants had such website.
As at 31 December 2012, the Company had been notified Warrants been exercised immediately prior to the completion of such under Rule 5 of the DTR of the following holdings of voting rights in takeover.
The Warrants contained provisions for the adjustment of the its shares.
gross number of Ordinary Shares in the event of the occurrence of certain dilutive events including, amongst others, extraordinary dividends, bonus % of total voting issues, alterations to the nominal value of Ordinary Shares and rights Number of rights attaching to issues.
All outstanding Warrants were excercised on 13 February 2013. a Person interested Barclays Shares issued share capital His Highness Sheikh Mansour There are no other significant agreements to which the Company is a b Bin Zayed Al Nahyan 858,546,492 7.02 party that are affected by a change of control of the Company following c Qatar Holding LLC 813,964,552 6.65 a takeover bid.
There are no agreements between the Company and its d BlackRock, Inc. 805,969,166 7.06 Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or e Legal & General Group plc 480,805,132 3.99 employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
f The Capital Group Companies Inc 371,944,325 3.04 Risk management and internal control The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that management maintain an effective system of risk management and internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Barclays is committed to operating within a strong system of internal control that enables business to be transacted and risk taken without exposing itself to unacceptable potential losses or reputational damage.
Notes a The percentage of voting rights detailed above was calculated at the time of The Group Internal Control and Assurance Framework GICAF is the the relevant disclosures made in accordance with Rule 5 of the DTR.
overarching framework that sets out Barclays approach to internal b Total shown comprises 1 758,437,618 shares that are legally owned by governance.
It establishes the mechanisms and processes by which the PCP Gulf Invest 3 Limited, which is wholly owned by Nexus Capital Investing Board directs the organisation, through setting the tone and Limited NCIL.
NCIL is in turn wholly owned by Abu Dhabi International expectations from the top, delegating its authority and monitoring United Investments LLC, which is in turn wholly owned by His Highness Sheikh Mansour Bin Zayed Al Nahyan HHSM : and 2 100,108,874 cashcompliance.
The purpose of the GICAF is to identify and set minimum settled options referencing ordinary shares that are legally owned by Yas requirements in respect of the main risks to achieving the Groups Capital Limited YCL, which is, in turn, wholly owned by HHSM.
YCL has no strategic objectives and to provide reasonable assurance that internal right to acquire or exercise any voting rights in Barclays PLC.
Following an controls are effective.
The key elements of the Groups system of internal increase during February 2013 in issued share capital to which voting rights are control, which is aligned to the recommendations of The Committee of attached, the Company was notified on 4 March 2013 that, in aggregate, HHSM Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission COSO, are set is indirectly interested in 783,509,699 ordinary shares, comprising 758,437,618 shares held by PCP Gulf Invest 3 Limited and 25,072,081 cash-settled options out in the risk control frameworks relating to each of the Groups Key referencing ordinary shares held by YCL, representing 6.09% of total voting Risks and in the Group operational risk framework.
As well as rights attaching to issued share capital.
incorporating our internal requirements, these reflect material Groupc Qatar Holding LLC is wholly-owned by Qatar Investment Authority.
wide legal and regulatory requirements relating to internal control and d Total shown includes 8,003,236 contracts for difference to which voting rights assurance.
The GICAF is reviewed and approved on behalf of the Group are attached.
e Legal & General Group plcs interest is held by Legal & General Assurance Chief Executive by the Group Governance and Control Committee at Pensions Management Limited.
The Board Risk Committee also reviews the GICAF f The Capital Group Companies Inc CG holds its shares via CG management annually.
On 30 January 2013, the Company was notified that CG was interested in 492,653,250 shares, representing 4.02% of total voting rights attaching to issued share capital.
64 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Controls over financial reporting Effectiveness of internal controls The Directors review the effectiveness of the system of internal control A framework of disclosure controls and procedures is in place to support the approval of the Groups financial statements.
An internal control compliance certification process is conducted throughout the Group in support of this review.
Key controls Technical Review Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups financial reports and disclosures to ensure that they have been subject are also assessed on a regular basis for both design and operating effectiveness.
Issues arising out of business division risk and control to adequate verification and comply with legal and technical requirements, and reports its conclusions to the Disclosure Committee.
assessments are considered to identify pervasive themes.
Where appropriate, individually significant issues or those affecting more The Disclosure Committee, which is chaired by the Group Finance Director, considers the content, accuracy and tone of the disclosures, than one business division may be categorised as having Group level significance and are reported to the Board Audit Committee via reporting its conclusions to the Group Executive Committee and the Board Audit Committee, both of which review its conclusions and the Group Governance and Control Committee.
The Board Audit Committee monitors resolution of any identified control issues provide further challenge.
Finally, the Board reviews and approves results announcements and the Annual Report for publication and of Group level significance through to a satisfactory conclusion.
In addition, regular reports are made to the Board Audit Committee ensures that appropriate disclosures have been made.
This governance process is in place to ensure both management and the Board are given by management, internal audit and the finance, compliance and legal functions covering in particular financial controls, compliance sufficient opportunity to review and challenge the Groups financial statements and other significant disclosures before they are made and other operational controls.
It also provides assurance for the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director when providing certifications as required Risk management and internal control framework under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and recommended by the Processes are in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the Turnbull Guidance.
significant risks facing the Group in accordance with the guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council the Throughout the year ended 31 December 2012, and to date, the Group has operated a system of risk management and internal control which Turnbull Guidance.
These processes include an attestation procedure which requires all significant processes and identified material risks to provides reasonable assurance of effective and efficient operations covering all controls, including financial and operational controls and be assessed and recorded, together with the related key controls by the Heads of Divisions, Businesses and Functions.
As part of this, specific compliance with laws and regulations.
consideration is given to relevant information, including as a minimum, legal entities: any open control issues: any outstanding internal and Managements report on internal control over financial reporting external audit findings: regulatory reviews and any outstanding Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate regulatory compliance matters: compliance with Group level policies: internal control over financial reporting.
Internal control over financial records of operational incidents and loss risk events: experience of all reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the principal types of fraud: and any other material control-related matters that have executive and principal financial officers to provide reasonable been raised either by management or via independent external review.
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the The status of any remediation in connection with these matters is also preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes considered.
The results of this attestation procedure were reported to in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS the Board Audit Committee in February 2013, when it was noted that as adopted by the European Union and the International Accounting although several of the Group Key Risk Owner attestations received refer Standards Board IASB.
to outstanding control design operating effectiveness issues, these had all been assessed against risk appetite and none of these had prevented Internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures the Heads of Divisions, Businesses or Functions from providing a that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, Turnbull statement.
All these issues had identified remediation tasks and accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: attributed timescales for resolution or timescales being determined.
provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance The Board regularly reviews these processes through its principal Board with IFRS and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in Committees.
Regular risk reports are made to the Board covering risks accordance with authorisations of management and the respective of Group significance including credit risk, market risk, funding risk, Directors: and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or operational risk and legal risk.
The Board Risk Committee receives timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of assets reports covering the Principal Risks as well as reports on risk that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
measurement methodologies and risk appetite.
Further details of risk management procedures are given in the Risk management section on Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent pages 313-343. limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are As discussed in the Risk management section of the Annual Report a subject to the risk that internal controls may become inadequate number of matters were public during the course of 2012 which related because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance to failings in the design and or operation of certain controls other than with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Whilst the matters were disclosed in 2012, the failings giving rise to those issues occurred in prior periods.
Management has reviewed the specific control processes impacted and concluded that these are now designed and operating effectively.
Areas of ongoing control remediation are not considered to constitute material control failings.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 65 Directors report continued Management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control over The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts on pages 231-311, financial reporting as of 31 December 2012.
In making its assessment, and the additional information contained on pages 116-195, the Group management has utilised the criteria set forth by COSO.
Management has used appropriate accounting policies, supported by reasonable concluded that, based on its assessment, the internal control over judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which financial reporting was effective as of 31 December 2012.
Our independent they consider to be applicable have been followed.
registered public accounting firm has issued a report on the Groups internal control over financial reporting, which is set out on page 230.
Having taken all the matters considered by the Board and brought to the attention of the Board during the year into account, the Directors The system of internal financial and operational controls is also subject are satisfied that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, to regulatory oversight in the UK and overseas.
Further information is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information on supervision by the financial services regulators is provided under necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, Supervision and Regulation in the Risk review section on pages 190-195. business and model.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and There have been no changes in the Groups internal control over the Group keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by this accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and report which have materially affected or are reasonably likely to which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the materially affect the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
Going concern The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the The Groups business activities and financial position, the factors likely Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation to affect its future development and performance, and its objectives and and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation policies in managing the financial risk to which it is exposed and its capital in other jurisdictions.
are discussed in the Business Review and Risk Management section.
The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are The Directors have assessed, in the light of current and anticipated reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
economic conditions, the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business for The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the a The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable going concern basis for preparing accounts.
set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Barclays PLC and the Disclosure of information to auditor undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Each Director confirms that, so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are b The management report, which is incorporated into the Directors Report on pages 62-66, includes a fair review of the development unaware and that each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of and performance of the business and the position of Barclays PLC and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Directors Responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with By order of the Board the Auditors report set out on page 229, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
Lawrence Dickinson The Directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 to prepare Company Secretary accounts for each financial year and, with regards to Group accounts, 5 March 2013 in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors have prepared individual accounts in accordance with IFRS as adopted by Barclays PLC the EU.
The accounts are required by law and IFRS to present fairly the Registered in England, Company No.
48839 financial position of the Company and the Group and the performance for that period.
The Companies Act 2006 provides, in relation to such accounts, that references to accounts giving a true and fair view are references to fair presentation.
66 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
