Governance Board of directors Executive directors Andrew Horton Martin Bride Adrian Cox Andrew Horton aged 50 was Martin Bride aged 49 is Adrian Cox aged 41 was appointed chief executive on 1 group finance director, having appointed to the board on 6 September 2008.
Martin December 2010 and heads up joined Beazley in June 2003 began his career in insurance the specialty lines division.
Prior to in 1985 and took up his first Prior to joining Beazley in June that he held various financial role as a finance director in 2001, Adrian was at General positions within ING, NatWest 1996.
He trained as a general Re for eight years, writing both and Lloyds Bank and was the insurance actuary, before treaty and facultative chief financial officer for the pursuing a career in the business.
Since 2001 his UK wholesale banking division composite insurance sector responsibilities have included of ING immediately prior to with Aviva and Zurich Financial the casualty treaty portfolio, joining Beazley.
His experience the SME and large risks a chartered accountant with spans personal and portfolios, before being Coopers and Lybrand in 1987. commercial lines general promoted to head of specialty insurance, the London market, lines in 2008. life insurance and asset management in both the UK and France.
Jonathan Gray Neil Maidment Clive Washbourn Jonathan Gray aged 59 Neil Maidment aged 50 is the Clive Washbourn aged 52 is served as head of the groups chief underwriting officer of the head of the groups marine property division from 1992 to the group.
Neil has 28 years of division.
He continues to lead Lloyds experience.
He joined years experience in the the groups open market Beazley in 1990 and was marine insurance industry and property underwriting team.
appointed to the board in actively underwrites marine Jonathan has 35 years of 1993.
In 2011 he was elected hull, marine liability and experience at Lloyds.
to the board of the Lloyds marine war risks.
member of the LMA Marine Committee and chairman of the Joint War Committee.
Beazley 60 Annual report 2012 Governance Non-executive directors Padraic OConnor Dennis Holt George Blunden Gordon Hamilton Dennis Holt aged 64 was George Blunden aged 60 was Gordon Hamilton aged 67 Padraic OConnor aged 63 is chairman of the Irish Stock appointed chairman on 27 appointed on 1 January 2010. retired as a senior audit March 2012.
He has more He is the senior independent partner in Deloitte & Touche Exchange and a non-executive director of Rabobank, JP than 40 years experience in director.
He is currently LLP after more than 30 years, financial services markets.
He chairman of Charity Bank and principally involved with listed Morgan Bank Dublin Ltd and a number of other companies.
was formerly a main board chairman of Raglan HA.
He multi-national company audits executive director at retired as senior vice president and major forensic He was managing director of NCB Group between 1991 and LloydsTSB 2000-2001, chief and director from assignments.
He is currently a executive of AXA UK and a AllianceBernstein Ltd in non-executive director of a 1999, prior to which he was chief economist at the rm.
member of AXAs Global December 2009.
He had number of companies, executive committee 2001- previously been chief including the South African Before joining NCB, Mr OConnor worked at the 2006.
He has been a vice executive of Union plc, and a listed Barloworld and the chairman of the Association of director of SG Warburg London listed Petra Diamonds Department of Finance and the Central Bank of Ireland.
He British Insurers and deputy Securities, Seccombe, and Northamber.
chairman of Bank of Ireland.
Marshall and Campion plc and holds primary and postgraduate degrees in He is currently chairman of Meridian Investment Liverpool Victoria.
economics from University College Dublin.
Vincent Sheridan Ken Sroka Rolf Tolle Vincent Sheridan aged 64 is Ken Sroka aged 60 was Rolf Tolle aged 65 was currently a non-executive appointed to the board on 12 appointed to the board on 6 director of FBD Holdings plc, November 2010.
He joined the Mercer Ireland Limited, formerly head of product board of Beazley Furlonge Canada Life Assurance Ireland development at Zurich Financial Limited in June 2010.
He Limited and a number of other Services, retiring in 2008. retired as franchise companies.
He retired as chief During his 15 years at Zurich performance director at executive of Vhi Healthcare in Financial Services, he created Lloyds in December 2009 2008 and, prior to that, was and directed Zurichs financial after nearly seven years in the group chief executive of the lines business in North America role, during which time he was Norwich Union Insurance and, more recently, he focused widely credited for establishing Group in Ireland for ten years on the development of specialist a new and successful from 1991 to 2001.
He is a products in North America as partnership between the past president of the Institute president and CEO of Zurich Corporation of Lloyds and the of Chartered Accountants in North American Specialties market.
Prior to that, he Ireland and a former director Division products included served as chief underwriting of the Irish Stock Exchange.
environmental, excess liability, officer of Faraday Group, professional liability, financial General Res Lloyds insurance lines, healthcare, political risk and reinsurance operation.
Prior to joining Zurich in 1993, Mr Srokas career included roles at Chubb, AIG and USF&G.
