Business review Performance by division Political risks & contingency A profitable year with a combined ratio of 52% and international expansion.
$1 16.6m Gross premiums written Portfolio mix Terrorism 43% Political 29% Contingency 28% Gross premiums written $m 150 Adrian Lewers 2011 Head of political risks & contingency 120 90 2010 60 2009 30 2008 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Beazley 30 Annual report 2012 130.2 127.6 100.9 102.5 116.6 Business review We have continued to invest in our London based underwriting and claims teams.
But we also took steps in 2012 to broaden our access to business that we do not normally see at Lloyds.
The political risks & contingency division of Beazley known as In April, we relocated one of our underwriters, who had the political & contingency group, or PCG recorded a successfully established our political risks underwriting successful year, with a combined ratio of 52% 2011: 79% on presence in Singapore, to Paris.
France has long had its own gross premiums of $116.6m 2011: $102.5m.
Under the specialist political risks market, supported by a number of leadership of Adrian Lewers, PCG continued to expand its brokers who do relatively little business with London.
We believed geographic footprint in Europe and the US.
there was room for a new insurer in the French market, offering a robust product and rapid turnaround on broker submissions.
The division focuses on three main lines of business: political The initial response to our service offering has been very risks and trade credit insurance, a longstanding specialism of positive.
the Lloyds market: terrorism insurance: and event cancellation insurance, which forms the core of our contingency book.
Rates In May, we recruited a senior gure, Ann Russell-Cook, in the on renewal business decreased by 1% in 2012 across PCG as a Asian political risk and structured trade credit market in our whole relative to 2011.
Singapore ofce to assume underwriting responsibility for our political risk and trade credit business in Asia.
She is supported Premium growth remained challenging to achieve in an by the team, who continue to underwrite standalone terrorism environment characterised by subdued economic activity most and contingency business for the region.
In Australia, our of our insureds are located in Europe or the United States and Brisbane ofce continues to develop our local contingency tight credit, factors that have had an impact on both our political business.
On the plus side, the banks that finance exports and international investments are more In the US, we are moving forward on two fronts.
We expanded inclined to encourage borrowers to purchase political risks cover our US political risks presence in 2012 with the hiring of a new as well as to purchase credit insurance for their own interests.
Matthew joins Lila Rymer, who began underwriting in New York in 2010.
And in January of this Against this background, claims experience has been generally year, a senior member of our contingency team, Christian benign, with the exception of protracted wet weather in the UK Phillips, relocated from our London ofce to Philadelphia.
and, latterly, superstorm Sandy which both affected our Christian will initially be underwriting event cancellation, contingency account.
Our political account, which experienced non-appearance, prize indemnity and weather business locally in increased trade credit claims in the aftermath of the global the US on a non-admitted basis, with the aim of adding more financial crisis and was conservatively reserved at the time, admitted capabilities during 2013 other than for weather continued to see significant recoveries against these claims in coverage, which is already available on an admitted basis under line with our expectations.
In 2012, this contributed to releases a pre-existing coverholder arrangement.
across PCG of $33.1m from prior year held reserves.
Looking forward, we do not expect profitable growth will be easy In November we welcomed Yera Patel from specialty lines as to come by.
But with our expanded geographic footprint, and head of PCG claims.
Yeras extensive experience in specialty with continued enhancements to our products and service lines, and the US in particular, adds depth to the PCG claims standards, we believe it is achievable.
service as we seek to expand our political risks, trade credit and contingency underwriting locally in the US.
London remains the worlds leading centre for risks of this kind and for comparably large and complex political risks.
We expect this to remain the case and have continued to invest in our London based underwriting and claims teams.
