Quick read About us For a condensed view of this annual report please read the next ten pages.
Who we are Our vision and key dierentiators Beazley plc is the parent company of our global specialist Beazleys vision is to become, and be recognised as, the insurance businesses, operating since 1986, with over 840 highest performing specialist insurer.
people based in the UK, US, France, Norway, Germany, Ireland, Singapore, Hong Kong and Australia.
Beazley is a proud We measure our progress towards achieving our vision by a participant in the Lloyds market, the largest and oldest variety of financial metrics, set out on pages 2 and 3 of this insurance market in the world.
Through the Lloyds broker report.
But these metrics are underpinned by a business model network and the markets trading licences, we are able to access that has stood the test of time and an environment that makes a wide range of insurance and reinsurance business from working at Beazley challenging and enjoyable.
Combined with around the world.
Many of the lines of business we underwrite, our focus on talent management, this has enabled Beazley to such as marine and energy, political risks and contingency, were attract and retain people who rank among the best insurance pioneered at Lloyds.
Beazley manages five Lloyds syndicates: syndicates 2623 and The components of our business model are described in detail 623 underwrite a broad range of insurance and reinsurance elsewhere in this report.
To summarise: business worldwide: syndicate 3623 focuses on personal accident and sports insurance along with providing reinsurance Diversied business: For our shareholders, Beazley aims to to Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. in the US: 3622 is a deliver sector leading returns on equity with relatively low dedicated life syndicate: and 6107, the special purpose volatility.
The key to this performance over time is the balance syndicate, writes reinsurance business.
of Beazleys portfolio across specialist classes driven by different cycles.
This enables us to target an average combined We also underwrite business directly in the US admitted market ratio of 90% with low volatility and to underwrite more premium through Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. an admitted carrier and have more invested assets per dollar of capital than licensed to write in all 50 states.
We are market leaders in many of our chosen lines of business.
Entrepreneurial spirit: Our open, collegial and collaborative We write a diversied portfolio which includes: culture means our clients and brokers interact with life, accident & health life, personal accident and sports: entrepreneurial underwriters who give straight answers and marine energy, hull, cargo, liability, war and aviation: make decisions quickly.
political risks & contingency: property commercial and private: Strong partnerships: Strong broker relationships are the reinsurance insurance of insurance companies covering lifeblood of our business.
In the past two years, Dan Jones and risks such as hurricanes and other natural catastrophes: and his broker relations team have focused on deepening our specialty lines insurance for professional and management relationships with brokers around the world.
clients alike, we offer stable cover, year after year, in our core lines of business even through the deepest troughs of For more information on our diversied portfolio please refer to market cycles.
Further information on our key dierentiators is set out on pages 12 and 13.
Beazley 4 Annual report 2012 Quick read We are proud there are many dierent personalities from widely varying backgrounds working at Beazley its what has made our business what it is today.
Our people We know its our international team of 847 people that makes How were rewarded us successful.
Our people are experts in what they do, using We want Beazley to be a place that high performing people their specialist knowledge and skills to deliver for our customers, want to join and stay at.
We offer benets that are hard to nd brokers and shareholders.
We go to great lengths to listen to our at other companies and that are valued by our people.
Our aim colleagues and nd out what matters to them, so we can make is always to be fair and to recognise Beazley, team and sure we are attracting and developing the people we need to individual performance in our recognition and reward initiatives.
grow our business profitably from launching a sabbatical policy this year and creating engaging spaces for our people to work in, Our remuneration policy is set by the remuneration committee to offering stimulating work and keeping our entrepreneurial and is governed by two guiding principles: spirit alive.
alignment to shareholder interests: and performance of the group.
Were constantly thinking ahead to develop capabilities and insights that go way beyond the here and now.
This year our We offer the following incentive initiatives: people completed an average of 2.95 days per person of long-term incentive plans LTIPs these represent learning and development that not only increased their skills performance linked share options which are dependent on the and knowledge but also supported their personal development.
group achieving pre-dened financial targets: performance related pay PRP allocated to underwriters We are proud there are many different personalities from widely based on the profitability of their portfolios: and varying backgrounds working at Beazley its what has made enterprise bonus pool a discretionary annual bonus our business what it is today.
Our vision is to keep attracting and determined by group performance and distributed both in developing people with different experiences, backgrounds and cash and shares.
lifestyles, with different skills and perspectives to join and lead our business a workforce that mirrors the diversity of our customers and the communities where we work around the Further details of the world.
remuneration policy is set out on page 69.
We like to do things that bring us together and at the same time help our communities whether thats helping children with their reading in our local schools, growing or wearing moustaches to support Movember and mens health causes, or climbing mountains to raise much needed funds for Alzheimers sufferers and their carers.
Being Beazley We share a set of values professionalism, integrity, eectiveness and dynamism which unite us and define how we do things.
Meet our people Beazley Annual report 2012 5 Quick read About us Number of employees Continents covered 847 4 Number of locations 24 Our people There is an honest sense of collaboration here.
Many companies talk about it, but Beazley lives it.
Jana Ratnajothy Specialty Lines Underwriter Ive been working here for five years.
The company has grown a lot in that time, but it In Beazleys marine claims remains a very friendly department I am able to place to work.
channel my experience into Rebecca Prince a team that bubbles with Ac tuary youthful enthusiasm.
Kelvin Euridge Ma rine Surveyor Beazley 6 Annual report 2012 Quick read We want Beazley to be a place that high performing people want to join and stay at.
We oer benets that are hard to nd at other companies and that are valued by our people.
There is the chance to get involved and give back to the communities where we work, which is important to me.
Lenny Cerase S trategic Sourcing Manager There is a friendly, productive and honest culture here, open to The people and new ideas and culture here at Beazley suggestions.
are definitely what Andreas Bergler make it the company R einsurance Underwriter it is and an enjoyable place to work.
Olivia Staord G lobal Financial Reporting Manager Beazley Annual report 2012 7
