Business review Performance by division Specialty lines 14% increase in premiums fuelled by rate increases and growing demand for our products.
$808.4m Gross premiums written Portfolio mix Professions 22% Small business 19% Management liability 19% Technology, media 19% and business Healthcare 13% Treaty 7% Crime 1% Gross premiums written $m Adrian Cox 800 Head of specialty lines 600 400 200 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 The specialty lines division, representing 43% of the groups notably North American medical malpractice liability and gross premiums, enjoyed a successful year, with rates rising demand has been constrained in the eurozone, we see further across our portfolio by 3% 2011: a decline of 1%, the first such growth opportunities in the year ahead.
Fuelled in part by rate rises and in part by growing demand for our products, premiums increased Prior year releases made a smaller contribution to our by 14% to $808.4m in 2012 2011: $711.2m.
profitability in 2012 than in recent years, falling to $51.5m 2011:$61.8m.
With our long experience of claims and Our underwriting and claims teams offer management liability, underwriting cycles and strong focus on cycle management, we professional liability and medical malpractice insurance to a have continued to reserve consistently through the downturn.
wide range of professions and companies across with world, with a strong focus on the US market.
In many cases these are lines Beazleys specialty lines division has long had a strong focus on of business that we have written for a very long time: US business, whether underwritten at the Beazley box at Lloyds professional liability policies for US lawyers and architects and or, since 2005, locally by our underwriters in the United States.
engineers were first written in 1986, the year Beazley was This focus continued in 2012, when 77% of our business derived founded.
But we also made steady progress in internationalising our business, leveraging the Lloyds markets Markets for many of these lines of business began to show signs licences and authorisations to trade in more than 75 countries of stress in 2012, as continued low investment returns and around the world.
rising claims trends put pressure on insurers margins.
A number of insurers pulled out of lines of business or re-underwrote their books.
Although competition remains intense in some lines Beazley 36 Annual report 2012 753.5 754.2 744.0 711.2 808.4 Business review In addition to diversication by product and geography, we also diversify our portfolio by the size of risks we insure.
One important source of growth for us is the opportunity to Our markets are constantly changing and product innovation is export products and solutions that have proved successful in critical to our ability to meet our clients needs and to partner one market usually the US to others.
In 2012, we launched a successfully with brokers.
We launched a variety of new products new international data breach product, building on the success in 2012, including, in February, Beazley Bridge an innovative of our agship US product, Beazley Breach Response.
solution enabling US multinational corporate clients to secure Our offering in the data breach market is differentiated in two robust D&O cover, through a single insurance contract, for important ways.
First, we have focused on bringing together executives outside the United States.
The product simplies the expert service providers to help clients address the fast moving task for brokers, who would otherwise normally have to challenge of managing a data breach effectively and maintaining coordinate the issuance of separate policies for each covered customer confidence: in 2012 we established a dedicated territory and ensure that premium taxes are assessed and paid business unit in the US, BBR Services, to coordinate the for each policy.
See pages 22 and 23 for information on other provision of these services.
Secondly, as a pioneer in this innovations we introduced in 2012. market, we have acquired deep experience of the wide variety of data breaches that can occur handling more than 450 Beazley remains the largest insurer of D&O business in the breaches to date.
London market and we continued to invest in our global underwriting team, both in London and the US, in 2012.
We Demand for this expertise and our product grew signicantly have been reducing for some years our exposure to the lower outside the US as the prospect of new regulations from layers of cover for small and midcap companies, as we have Australia to the European Union increase the pressure on been concerned over their exposure to the recession and to organisations to notify customers swiftly in the event of a data merger and acquisitions claims claims alleging that an breach.
Already, the reputation risk for companies that acquisition was unfair to the target groups shareholders, which mishandle a data breach is high, as a number of high prole have proliferated.
These trends manifested themselves strongly incidents have shown.
We have added new clients across the in 2012, and this has been the single most important factor EU, South America and Asia and are planning for strong growth behind the rate rises on this book after a long period of in 2013.
Another line of business that has proved very intense competition.
successful in the US and offers growth potential outside the US is medical malpractice for hospitals.
We insure many of the best Caution also characterises our approach to two of our oldest and run hospitals in the US, partnering closely with hospital most important professional liability lines: cover for lawyers and management to raise quality and patient safety standards in for architects and engineers A&E.
We saw premium rates ways that also tend to reduce claims costs over time.
We believe increase slightly in 2012 for both large law rms and large A&E there are many hospitals in Europe that would welcome a similar design rms, both of which we insure in London.
We currently relationship with their insurers.
insure more than half of the top 50 A&E design rms as ranked by Engineering News-Record.
Locally in the US we also insure Overall, our healthcare team had a good year.
In addition to many smaller design rms on an admitted basis: we expect this offering medical malpractice to hospitals and directors & ofcers portfolio to grow in 2013.
D&O cover to healthcare organisations, we are also a leading provider of miscellaneous medical liability cover for a wide array Strong broker relationships remain essential to the success of of healthcare service providers.
In March, we extended our our business.
We were delighted to provide, once again, strong product range further, offering a new healthcare regulatory support to the Andrew Beazley Broker Academy at Lloyds in liability policy to protect US policyholders against claims brought 2012 an important Lloyds market initiative to offer high by, or on behalf of, governmental entities.
potential young US brokers insights into the expertise and capabilities that London offers.
Eight specialty lines underwriters In addition to diversication by product and geography, we also addressed the Academy during the brokers week in London.
diversify our portfolio by the size of risks we insure.
Our global private enterprise team offers smaller insureds access to the expertise and service standards enjoyed by our larger clients, with products specifically adapted to their needs.
In 2012, we released a version of our US data breach product, BBR Select, for rms with revenues of less than $10m, which has proved very popular.
