Quick read Our key differentiators Beazley is dierentiated less by the measures we take to secure competitive advantage than by the way we implement these measures.
All insurers aim to assemble a diversied portfolio of risks: indeed, Lloyds is an attractive place in which to do business Diversied business partly because an insurer at Lloyds can assemble a diversied portfolio, sourced by the London markets brokers, quite quickly.
But our approach goes well beyond diversication by line of business.
For example, our business is a balance of short-tail, meaning that claims usually emerge within a year of the policys inception, and medium-tail, which means that claims on average take up to six years to crystallise fully.
For us entrepreneurial spirit has a very specic meaning, a meaning that guides us in evaluating new hires to our underwriting teams around the world.
We look for individuals who have a strong sense of ownership for the business that they underwrite and are willing indeed keen to be accountable for their underwriting decisions.
And we look for individuals who have a broad understanding of the ways in which economic, political and social changes can impact their book.
Entrepreneurial spirit Our third area of differentiation strong partnerships is also claimed by many.
But for us, it is the reciprocity of the relationships with both brokers and clients that matters.
Strong partnerships with clients are based on the expectation that Beazley will be prepared to provide continuity of coverage over the years.
Our clients understand that, for us to deliver on this expectation, we need to charge a fair premium to cover the risk even if, for a time, a competitor may be willing to write the same risks at an uneconomic rate.
By adopting this approach, we have been able to provide clients with reliable cover year after year.
Strong partnerships Beazley 12 Annual report 2012 Quick read Strong partnerships with clients are based on the expectation that Beazley will be prepared to provide continuity of coverage over the years.
What we said What we did The future At Beazley, diversication has been Hired an experienced team A well diversied and balanced book of deliberately and carefully built into our to begin underwriting aviation business protects Beazley against claims insurance and reinsurance portfolio in a business in London spikes in any one business line and helps variety of ways.
We diversify by geography, to optimise capital efficiency.
In 2013, by class of business, by size of risk, and we are making good use of the capital Launched a new data breach by the speed with which the cost efficiency of the Lloyds platform, issuing insurance product for small rms in of claims emerges.
a special dividend to shareholders US with less than $10m in revenue while leveraging our debt capacity and maintaining the financial exibility to Began, in early 2013, to underwrite develop growth opportunities.
smaller scale contingency business locally in the US Entrepreneurial spirit is something we Expanded our underwriting team in During the course of 2013 a series of value highly.
Through our history we have London to capitalise on opportunities workshops will be held in the UK and US to found that the greatest success comes in UK and French market for growth help underwriters commercialise promising from taking highly motivated and of data breach insurance new business ideas, aligning technological, experienced individuals and giving regulatory and marketing expertise behind them the tools and resources to develop high potential products and services.
Expanded our marine piracy book their business.
and develop kidnap & ransom solution for clients The success of our business depends Expanded our broker relations team In 2013 we will be exploring new ways to on strong client relationships.
In our to Texas and Florida to strengthen strengthen still further our relationships reinsurance business, for example, 80% our relationship development in the with broking rms that present exceptional of our top 20 clients have been with us for southern US, and added a full-time growth opportunities.
role in London to do the same in London and Europe Our broker relationships are also critically important to us.
Understanding the needs Reduced our US intermediary of brokers and maximising the ow of appointments to focus efforts on profitable business are key to the success most productive relationships of all our underwriters.
