Directors Report The Directors present the annual report and financial statements of Objective and investment policy the Company and its subsidiary for the year ended 31 December The Companys investment objective is to provide a diversi ed 2012. investment in quoted mining and metal securities worldwide, actively managed with the objective of maximising total returns.
Up Business Review to 10% of the gross assets of the Company and its subsidiary, The following business review is designed to provide information BlackRock World Mining Investment Company Limited the Group, primarily about the Companys business and results for the year may be invested in physical metals and up to 10% of the assets may ended 31 December 2012.
The business review should be be invested in unquoted investments.
No material change will be read in conjunction with the Investment Managers Report on made to the investment objective without shareholder approval.
pages 6 to 11, which gives a detailed review of the year and an outlook for the future.
It is intended that the Group will normally be fully invested, which means at least 90% will be invested in stocks, shares and Principal activity physical metals.
However, if such investments are deemed to be The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
Its overvalued, or if the Investment Manager nds it dif cult to identify principal activity is portfolio investment and that of its subsidiary, attractively priced opportunities for investment, then up to 25% of BlackRock World Mining Investment Company Limited, is the portfolio may be held in cash or cash equivalents.
Risk is spread investment dealing.
by investing in a number of holdings, many of which themselves are diversi ed companies.
Status of the Company In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has conducted its The Group may also occasionally utilise derivative instruments such affairs during the year under review, and subsequently, so as to as options, futures and contracts, if it is deemed that these will, at a qualify as an investment trust for the purposes of Chapter 4 of Part particular time or for a particular period, enhance the performance 24 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Company has been treated of the Group in the pursuit of its objectives.
It is the Boards policy as approved as an investment trust by HM Revenue & Customs that the aggregate exposure to such derivatives does not exceed HMRC for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Company has 10% of the gross assets of the Group.
also received approval from HMRC on the basis of an application made under Regulation 5 of the Investment Trust Approved Although investments are principally in companies listed on Company Tax Regulations 2011 for investment trust status for all recognised stock exchanges, the Company may invest up to 10% accounting periods starting on or after 1 January 2012.
This is of its gross assets in unquoted investments.
As at 31 December subject to the Company continuing to meet the eligibility conditions 2012, the Company held four unquoted investments.
Unquoted in section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the ongoing investments can prove to be more volatile than listed investments.
requirements for approved companies in Chapter 3 of Part 2 The four investments, Australian Energy Corporation, African Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
Minerals Warrants, Ivanplats and the Marampa royalty contract, are considered to be suf ciently illiquid to be held at Directors The Company is registered as an investment company as fide ned valuation.
The Company is also permitted to enter into stock in section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as such.
The Company is not a close company within the meaning of the provisions of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and, as the Directors It is the Boards current policy that the Company will not invest in are non-executive, has no employees.
any holding that would represent more than 10% of its gross assets at the time of acquisition.
In addition, while the Company The Companys shares are eligible for inclusion in the stocks and may hold shares in other listed investment companies including shares component of an Individual Savings Account.
investment trusts, the Board has agreed that the Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in other UK listed Continuation of the Company investment companies.
As agreed by shareholders in 1998, an ordinary resolution for the continuance of the Company is proposed at each Annual General The Groups accounts are maintained in sterling.
The Company has a strong investment record, providing investments are denominated and quoted in currencies other than excellent returns to shareholders, and the Directors recommend sterling, the Group does not intend to employ a hedging policy that shareholders vote in support of the Companys continuation.
against uctuations in exchange rates.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2012 19 Directors Report continued Information regarding the Companys investment exposures is Key performance indicators contained within the ten largest investments on pages 12 and 13, At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of the investments listing on pages 14 to 16, and portfolio analysis performance measures to assess the Companys success in on page 17.
Further information regarding investment risk and achieving its objectives.
Amongst others, the key performance activity throughout the year can be found in the Investment indicators KPIs used to measure the progress and performance of Managers Report.
the Company over time and which are comparable to those reported by other investment trusts are as follows.
Gearing 2012 2011 The Investment Manager believes that tactical use of gearing can add value from time to time.
This gearing is typically in the form of Net asset value 685.75p 742.86p an overdraft and or short term loan facility, which can be repaid at Share price 586.50p 631.50p any time.
Discount to net asset value 14.5% 15.0% Revenue earnings per share 21.78p 14.71p The level and bene t of gearing is discussed and agreed with the Ongoing charges 1.4% 1.3% Board regularly.
The Investment Manager generally aims to be fully Ongoing charges excluding interest costs and performance fees as a % of average invested and in the past gearing has not exceeded 15% of the shareholders funds.
In order to provide greater exibility for future royalty transactions, the Board has allowed for gearing to increase The Board monitors the above KPIs on a regular basis.
Additionally, to 25% of net assets, the limit as stipulated in the Companys it regularly reviews a number of indices and ratios to understand the Prospectus and Articles of Association.
At the financial reporting impact on the Companys relative performance of the various date, net gearing stood at 7.1% of shareholders funds 2011: 2.5%.
components such as asset allocation and stock selection.
For further details refer to note 14 on page 50.
During the year, the Companys shares traded at a discount to NAV Performance of between 9.3% and 18.4%, ending the year at 14.5%.
To enable the In the year to 31 December 2012, the Companys net asset value Board to take action to deal with any overhang or shortage in the NAV per share decreased by 5.0% compared with a fall in the market, it seeks approval from shareholders each year to buy back HSBC Global Mining Index of 2.4% and the Companys share price and issue shares.
fell by 4.1% all percentages calculated in sterling terms with income reinvested.
Principal risks The key risks faced by the Company are set out below.
The Board Results and dividends con rms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating The consolidated loss for the year was 64,031,000 2011: loss of and managing the principal risks, as summarised below.
378,628,000 of which 38,614,000 2011: 26,099,000 is revenue pro t. The results for the Group are set out in the X Performance risk The Board is responsible for deciding the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on page 38. investment strategy to ful l the Companys objectives and monitoring the performance of the Investment Manager.
An It is the Boards intention to distribute the maximum dividend inappropriate strategy may lead to underperformance against possible in terms of earnings each year.
The Directors recommend the benchmark index.
To manage this risk the Investment the payment of a final dividend of 14.00p per share in respect of Manager provides an explanation of signi cant stock selection the year ended 31 December 2012 2011: 14.00p per share decisions and the rationale for the composition of the which, together with the interim dividend of 7.00p per share investment portfolio.
The Board monitors and mandates an 2011: nil, makes a total of 21.00p per share in respect of the year adequate spread of investments, in order to minimise the risks ended 31December 2012 2011: 14.00p.
The dividend will be associated with particular countries or factors speci c to paid on 2May 2013 to shareholders on the register of members at particular sectors, based on the diversi cation requirements close of business on 8 March 2013. Dividend payments for the year inherent in the Companys investment policy.
The Board also ended 31 December 2012 including the interim dividend amount receives and reviews regular reports showing an analysis of the to 37,230,000 2011: 24,820,000.
Companys performance against the HSBC Global Mining Index and other similar indices, including the performance of major Derivative transactions companies in the sector.
Past performance is not necessarily a Details of the Groups derivative transactions are given in the guide to future performance and the value of your investment in Investment Managers Report on page 11 and in note 18 on the Company and the income from it can uctuate as the value pages52 to 59.
At 31December 2012 there were three of the underlying investments uctuate.
20 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc X Income dividend risk The amount of dividends and future X Resource risk The quality of the investment management dividend growth will depend on the Companys underlying team employed by the Investment Manager is a crucial factor in portfolio.
Any change in the tax treatment of the dividends or delivering good performance and the loss by the management interest received by the Company including as a result of of key staff could affect investment returns.
The Investment withholding taxes or exchange controls imposed by jurisdictions Manager has training and development programs in place for its in which the Company invests may reduce the level of employees and its recruitment and remuneration packages are dividends received by shareholders.
The Board monitors this developed in order to retain key staff.
risk through the receipt of detailed income forecasts and considers the level of income at each meeting.
X Market risk Market risk arises from volatility in the prices of the Companys investments.
It represents the potential loss the X Regulatory risk The Company operates as an investment trust Company might suffer through realising investments in the face in accordance with Chapter 4 of Part 24 of the Corporation Tax of negative market movements.
In addition, it should be noted Act 2010.
As such, the Company is exempt from capital gains that the location of the companies in which the Company tax on the sale of its investments.
The Investment Manager invests and shares in the mining sector can prove to be volatile monitors investment movements, the level and type of forecast and therefore present a greater degree of risk.
Changes in income and expenditure and the amount of proposed dividends general economic and market conditions in certain countries, to ensure that the provisions of Chapter 4 of Part 24 of the such as interest rates, exchange rates, rates of in ation, Corporation Tax Act 2010 are not breached and the results are industry conditions, competition, political events and trends, tax reported to the Board.
The Company must also comply with the laws, national and international con icts, economic sanctions provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and, as its shares are and other factors can also substantially and adversely affect the admitted to the Of cial List, the UKLA Listing Rules, the securities and, as a consequence, the Companys prospects Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Prospectus Rules.
The Board considers asset allocation, stock A breach of the Companies Act 2006 could result in the selection and levels of gearing on a regular basis and has set Company and or the Directors being ned or the subject of investment restrictions and guidelines which are monitored and criminal proceedings.
A breach of the UKLA Listing Rules could reported on by the Investment Manager.
The Board monitors result in the Companys shares being suspended from listing, the implementation and results of the investment process with which in turn would breach the requirements of Chapter 4 of the Investment Manager.
Part 24 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Board relies on the services of its professional advisers and its Company X Financial risk The Companys investment activities expose it to Secretary to ensure compliance with all relevant regulations.
a variety of financial risks that include market price risk, foreign The Company Secretary has stringent compliance procedures currency risk, interest rate risk and liquidity and credit risk.
in place and monitors regulatory developments and changes.
Further details are disclosed in note 18 on pages 52 to 59, together with a summary of the policies for managing these X Operational risk In common with most other investment trust risks.
companies, the Company has no employees.
The Company therefore relies upon the services provided by third parties and X Gearing risk The Company has the power to borrow money is dependent on the control systems of the Investment gearing and does so when the Investment Manager is Manager and the Companys other service providers.
The con dent that market conditions and opportunities exist to security, for example, of the Companys assets, dealing enhance investment returns.
However, if the investments fall in procedures, accounting records and maintenance of regulatory value, any borrowings will magnify the extent of this loss.
All and legal requirements, depend on the effective operation of borrowings require the approval of the Board and gearing levels these systems.
These have been regularly tested and monitored are discussed by the Board and the Investment Manager at and an internal controls report, which includes an assessment each meeting.
of risks together with procedures to mitigate such risks, is prepared by the Investment Manager and reviewed by the Audit & Management Engagement Committee at least twice a year.
The custodian, The Bank of New York Mellon International Limited BNYM, a subsidiary of The Bank of New York Mellon, BNP Paribas Securities Services the Administrator and the Investment Manager also produce regular Service Organisation Reports SOC 1 or AAF 01 06 Reports, which are reviewed by their reporting accountants and give assurance regarding the effective operation of controls.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2012 21
