Directors Report continued X Third party risk The Company has no employees and the No penalty on termination of the investment management contract Directors have all been appointed on a non-executive basis.
would be payable by the Company in the event that six months The Company must therefore rely upon the performance of written notice is given to BlackRock.
There are no provisions third party service providers to perform its executive functions.
relating to payment of fees in lieu of notice.
In particular, the Investment Manager, the Administrator, the Registrar, the Custodian and their respective delegates, if any, The Investment Manager, BlackRock Investment Management UK will perform services that are integral to the Companys Limited, is a subsidiary of BlackRock, Inc. which is a publicly traded operations and financial performance.
The Company, and where corporation on the New York Stock Exchange operating as an appropriate the Investment Manager, undertake extensive due independent rm.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. has a diligence prior to the appointment of any third party service signi cant economic interest in BlackRock, Inc. PNC Financial provider in order to mitigate this risk.
Terms of appointment are Services Group, Inc. is also a US public company.
agreed in advance and service level agreements are put in place with providers to ensure that a high level of service is provided.
BNYM is the custodian of the Companys assets.
The BNYM fee is Failure by any service provider to carry out its obligations to the payable at rates depending on the number of trades effected and Company in accordance with the terms of its appointment, to location of securities held.
The custodian agreement is subject to exercise due care and skill, or to perform its obligations to six months notice by either party.
the Company as a result of insolvency, bankruptcy or other causes could have a material adverse effect on the Companys Appointment of the Investment Manager performance and returns to holders of ordinary shares.
The The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of termination of the Companys relationship with any third party investment management services to the Company on an ongoing service provider, or any delay in appointing a replacement for basis and a formal review is conducted annually.
The Board such service provider, could materially disrupt the business of believes that the continuing appointment of the Investment the Company and could have a material adverse effect Manager, on the terms disclosed previously, is in the interests of on the Companys performance and returns to holders of shareholders as a whole.
As part of the annual review the Board considered the quality and Social and community issues continuity of the personnel assigned to handle the Companys As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social or affairs, the investment process and the results achieved to date.
However, the Company believes that it The specialist nature of the Companys investment remit is, in the is in shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and Boards view, best served by the Natural Resources team at governance factors when selecting and retaining investments.
BlackRock, who have a proven track record in successfully investing Details of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment in the mining sector.
Change of control Future prospects There are no agreements which the Company is party to that might The Boards main focus is to maximise total returns.
The future be affected by a change of control of the Company.
performance of the Company is much dependent upon the success of the investment strategy and, to a large degree, on the Voting policy performance of financial markets.
The outlook for the Company in The exercise of voting rights attached to the Companys portfolio the next twelve months is discussed in both the Chairmans has been delegated to the Investment Manager, whose voting Statement on page 5 and the Investment Managers Report on policy states: page11.
X we intend to vote at all shareholder meetings of companies in Investment management and administration which our clients are invested.
In cases where there are BlackRock provides management services to the Company under a signi cant obstacles to voting such as share-blocking or contract terminable on six months notice.
BlackRock also acted as requirements for a power of attorney, we will review the the Secretary and Administrator of the Company throughout the resolutions to assess the extent of the restrictions on voting year.
BlackRock receives an annual management fee of 1.3% of against the potential bene ts: gross assets.
Where the Company invests in other investment or cash funds managed by BlackRock, any underlying fee is rebated.
22 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
