By September the US economy had also started to deliver positive M&A activity economic surprises and combined with a third round of quantitative As mentioned earlier, the year started with a signi cant deal in the easing QE this led to investor optimism over the outlook for 2013. mining space as Glencore announced a friendly merger with Of particular note from a commodity standpoint is the growing Xstrata.
The friendly nature of this deal was not to last and during impact of the shale gas revolution on industry and manufacturing in the year the deal seemed at risk of failing numerous times owing to the US.
The petrochemicals industry has been revitali sed and the the perceived poor terms for Xstrata minorities, unease about the fertilizer industry has also been boosted by a low cost and low risk management retention package and the arrival of a new activist source of energy.
The implications for the coal market in the US and shareholder in the form of the Qatar Investment Authority.
However, further a eld have been profound.
In 2008 the US produced by the year end, Glencore had improved the ratio for Xstrata 1.063billion tonnes metric of coal source US EIA Quarterly minorities, shareholders had voted the deal through without the Coal report : in 2011 this fell to 993 million tonnes and the controversial retention package and almost all of the regulatory annualised rate for the first three quarters of 2012 was down to approvals had been received.
The deal is now expected to close 927 million tonnes.
The decline has been a function of power during the first quarter of 2013 and the end result for the producers switching from coal to low cost natural gas.
Exports of Company is that the combined company is expected to become its thermal coal increased from the US as producers looked to other largest holding.
Although this had a negative impact on global coal prices, especially in the Atlantic market, a lack of port capacity in the US In addition to the Xstrata merger, the sector was extremely busy will limit supply from this market in the short to medium term.
The deals that impacted the Company Access to large amounts of low cost power in the US via cheap were mixed in their returns.
First Quantums hostile bid for Inmet gas should give domestic industry a competitive advantage and impacted the portfolio positively and we are hopeful that the two improve overall performance of the economy in the long term.
companies will nd a way to work together to complete this deal.
By contrast, the management of Freeport McMoRan shocked investors It would be remiss of us not to mention leadership changes this by deciding to announce a diversi cation away from copper into oil year.
At the start of 2012 there was signi cant uncertainty around and gas.
Not only was the deal a surprise to the market, but one of this issue and the impact it may have on economic policies for the the assets being purchased is in part owned by the board members US and China.
In the end these events passed without any serious of Freeport.
The combination of these factors led to a signi cant fall upset, as President Obama was re-elected in the US and the in Freeports share price and it has since failed to participate fully in transition of power in China seems to have gone smoothly.
the bounce in the sector during the last few weeks.
We are hopeful that Freeport management might engage with their shareholders Commodity exposure in the Company in 2012, as in the previous and review the deal but the probability is very low due to the way in couple of years, was focused on copper and the bulk commodities.
which the deal is structured.
As mentioned earlier, the signi cant exposure to iron ore hurt the portfolio during the middle of the year and it was only from the start Despite being focused on completing the Xstrata deal, Glencore of Q4 that lost performance started to be recouped.
In addition, the stuck to its strategy of opportunistically growing its business.
They slowdown in the world economy hurt demand for industrial minerals managed to increase their stake in Kazzinc to just under 70% and causing prices for zircon, ilmenite and rutile to fall during the year.
completed a deal to buy Viterra which should lead to a step change After the excellent returns from this area in 2011, the Company in scale for their agricultural commodity trading business.
retained exposure to these commodities based on the world class nature of the assets we are exposed to and the high probability of There were a variety of smaller deals during the year.
These medium term demand recovery.
ranged from strategic acquisitions Chinese companies bidding for Discovery Metals, Sundance Resources and Talison Lithium, restructuring deals Vedantas re nancing, and divestments of non-core assets the sale by BHP Billiton of the Ekati diamond operation to Harry Winston, Richards Bay Minerals to Rio Tinto, the Yeelirrie uranium project to Cameco and the East Browse oil and gas project to CNOOC: Rio Tinto also sold their stake in Palabora.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2012 7
