Ivanplats formerly known as Ivanhoe Nickel & Platinum Outlook and strategy for 2013 The company has two key projects: Kamoa, a copper project in the Despite the large risks remaining in Europe we cannot help but feel DRC, and Platreef, a platinum project in South Africa.
After many that many of the macro events that impacted returns during the last years as a private company Ivanplats was listed during October few years are behind us.
Whilst we are not forecasting the end of 2012.
The Company enjoyed a material uplift in value as a result of these types of markets, we see grounds for cautious optimism and the IPO and we look forward to the company working to unlock believe that the sector will suffer less at the hands of macro events further value from these high quality projects.
and respond better to the improving fundamentals.
Fixed income securities The US economy has consistently beaten expectations during the During the last few years the decision to invest in natural resource last few quarters whilst Chinese growth looks to have stabilised at a debt securities has been core to the Companys rapid growth in level which is healthy for commodity demand.
Market conditions during 2012 allowed us to deploy is one of improved global growth versus that of only six months ago.
further capital into this area at attractive rates of return.
New On the supply side, the producers look set to reinvest less money holdings in bonds issued by Banro, Inmet, African Minerals and into new supply, which should support fundamentals in the medium Allied Nevada have all enhanced the yield of the overall portfolio of term.
Cost savings now appear a priority for the larger groups and debt instruments.
This has led to a 28% increase in income from companies have taken advantage of the demand for low risk this area.
securities to extend their debt maturity pro le.
In this environment pro t margins should be under less pressure from cost in ation and As banks remain cautious with their capital and investors focus on returns could be enhanced by management taking favourable lower risk equities, the mid cap section of the mining sector is still decisions for shareholders.
unable to access capital as easily as it once could.
This should present further opportunities for the Company but at this stage of We are also seeing signs that investors are growing weary of owning the cycle the easy returns such as those made from investments in safe-haven xed income securities and the probability of a rotation 2009 and 2010 are unlikely to be repeated.
Therefore we will need into higher risk assets, such as equities, is increasing we note the to be increasingly judicious with our capital.
second highest ow into equity mutual funds ever during the first week of 2013.
The Company is positioned to bene t from such a Derivatives activity trend given the exible nature of its gearing and the high level of The Company sometimes holds positions in derivatives contracts exposure to growth companies.
We continue to search for new with virtually all the activity focused on selling either puts or calls investment opportunities, not only in the traditional area of equities, in order to increase or decrease position sizes.
These derivative but we are also looking to add new royalties to the portfolio.
positions, which are small in comparison with the size of the Company, usually have the effect of obliging us to buy or sell stock Evy Hambro and Catherine Raw or futures at levels we believe are attractive.
During 2012 we BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited focused on writing short dated calls in order to reduce some of 19 February 2013 our larger equity positions and take advantage of market volatility.
The income generated by such option writing enables us to maximise the potential exit price from a position.
At the end of 2012 we had a number of derivatives positions in the portfolio all of which expired in January.
Gearing At 31 December 2012, the Company had gearing amounting to 101 million.
For the most part, this has been drawn down against the higher yielding mining company corporate debt portfolio and to fund the purchase of the London Mining Royalty.
Gearing, which can be drawn down or repaid at any time, is used in the portfolio to take tactical advantage of market volatility and opportunities as well as enhance overall returns during the medium to long term.
Once again the reduced risk appetite of banks around the world continues to present numerous investment opportunities especially in the mid-size part of the market.
With this in mind, it is likely that we could end up using the full capacity of our debt facilities during the year.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2012 11
