No shares were repurchased during the year.
At 31 December Resolution 9 Continuation of the Company as an investment 2012, the Companys issued share capital was 177,287,242 trust ordinary shares, excluding 15,724,600 shares held in treasury.
The ordinary resolution to be proposed will seek shareholders The latest authority to purchase ordinary shares for cancellation or authority that the Company shall continue in being as an to be held in treasury was granted to the Directors on 19 April 2012 investment trust.
The Directors are proposing that their authority to buy back shares be renewed at the forthcoming Annual Resolution 10 Directors Remuneration General Meeting.
At present, Article 81 of the Companys Articles of Association which relates to Directors remuneration sets an aggregate limit of Treasury shares 125,000 per annum on the non-executive Directors fees.
The The Board has determined that up to 10% of the Companys issued Board is proposing as an ordinary resolution that the aggregate limit shares may be held in treasury and may be subsequently cancelled on Directors fees, which has been unchanged since the Companys or sold for cash in the market.
This would give the Company the incorporation in 1993, be revised to 250,000.
Full details of the ability to reissue shares quickly and cost ef ciently, thereby fees paid to Directors are set out in the Directors Remuneration improving liquidity and providing the Company with additional Report on page 28. exibility in the management of its capital base.
The Board currently intends only to authorise the sale of shares from treasury at prices It is considered necessary to increase the aggregate limit on at or above the prevailing net asset value per share plus costs of Directors fees to provide for the appointment of additional the relevant sale.
This should result in a positive overall effect on Directors should it be decided to make new appointments at some shareholders if shares are bought back at a discount and then sold future time.
It would also provide for an overlap of Directors upon at a price at or above the net asset value per share plus costs of retirement and replacement in accordance with the Companys the relevant sale.
A rise in the aggregate limit would also facilitate any future increase in Directors fees in relation to their wider In the interests of all shareholders, the Board will continue to keep responsibilities, reputational risk and time commitments, to ensure the matter of treasury shares under review.
that the remuneration of the Directors is suf cient to attract and retain Directors with suitable knowledge and experience, and to Articles of Association respond to market trends.
Any amendments to the Companys Articles of Association must be made by special resolution.
Resolution 11 Authority to allot shares The Directors may only allot shares for cash if authorised to do so Annual General Meeting by shareholders in general meeting.
This resolution seeks authority The following information to be discussed at the forthcoming for the Directors to allot shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal Annual General Meeting is important and requires your amount of 443,218 which is equivalent to 8,864,362 ordinary immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt about the action shares of 5p each, and represents 5% of the current issued share you should take, you should seek advice from your capital excluding treasury shares.
The Directors will use this stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other authority when it is in the best interests of the Company to issue financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and shares for cash.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of next Markets Act 2000 as amended.
years Annual General Meeting, unless renewed prior to that date at an earlier general meeting.
If you have sold or transferred all of your ordinary shares in the Company, you should pass this document, together with Resolution 12 Authority to disapply pre-emption rights any other accompanying documents, including the form of By law, Directors require speci c authority from shareholders proxy, at once to the purchaser or transferee, or to the before allotting new shares or selling shares out of treasury for cash stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to transfer was effected, for onward transmission to the their holdings.
Resolution 12 empowers the Directors to allot new purchaser or transferee.
shares for cash or to sell shares which are held by the Company in treasury, otherwise than to existing shareholders on a pro-rata Resolutions relating to the following items of special business will basis, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 443,218 which is be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
equivalent to 8,864,362 ordinary shares of 5p each and 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital, excluding treasury shares, as at the date of this notice.
Unless renewed at a general meeting prior to such time, this authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2014.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2012 25
