Investment Managers Report continued Energy commodities change in strategic focus.
We applaud such strategic moves and hope Coal markets faced multiple headwinds in 2012.
In the case of that others will start to follow suit.
Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton were the thermal coal, the rise of shale gas as a cheaper and cleaner two largest holdings in the Company during the year.
alternative to coal for power generation in the US meant signi cant volumes that would normally go into this market were redirected At the other end of the scale Anglo American -20.4% continued to into the export market.
Combined with strong growth in Indonesian disappoint with further large capital cost increases at their Minas coal exports, this had a negative impact on prices which averaged Rio project in Brazil and constant negative news ow from their over 20% lower year-on-year despite record imports of thermal coal platinum division.
Possibly as a result of this the Board of Anglo into China.
Coking coal prices closed the year down over 40% as American has opted to appoint a new CEO in the form of Mark the tightness in the market resulting from the supply-side impact of Cutafani from AngloGold.
Having been well positioned with regards severe weather in Australia eased at the same time as demand from to Anglo American for most of the year the Company either held no steel producers weakened on the back of subdued steel demand Anglo American or very small amounts in a convertible, we are out of China and the rest of the world.
The Company is overweight watching to see what steps he might be able to take to unlock value the producers of premium coking coal, such as Teck Resources, in the group.
and underweight producers of thermal coal, particularly in the US.
The scarcity of high quality coking coal assets leads us to believe In Brazil, Vale appears also to be embarking on a new strategy that pro t margins for producers are well supported: unlike for following the change in management last year.
International thermal coal where we see margins at risk from unconventional gas expansion plans are being reigned in and non-core assets either production growth, initially in the US but over the longer term closed or sold.
In Canada, Teck Resources continues to be elsewhere in the world.
disciplined, sticking to organic growth and increased payments back to shareholders during the year.
Uranium prices deteriorated for a second year in a row, down over 16% year-on-year.
Japans nuclear capability remained almost The main event during 2012 was the battle to put Glencore and entirely off-line for 2012 with only two out of a possible 48 operable Xstrata together.
At the year end it looked highly likely that this goal reactors restarted post the Fukishima disaster, and as such there will be achieved and as a result the combined company would was no shortage of uranium in the market.
The recent electoral become the largest holding in the Company.
We expect the victory of the pro-nuclear Liberal Democratic Party in Japan does management team from Glencore to set about generating value suggest that capacity is increasingly likely to be brought back on from the merger in a rapid fashion.
This is likely to be achieved by line in coming years.
2013 could also see a signi cant change to freeing up cash as a result of reassessing capital expenditure plans uranium markets with the end of the US-Russia Highly Enriched and aggressively hunting for cost savings as a result of the takeover.
This HEU is derived from the Given this background, we are very comfortable with the likely dismantling of Russian nuclear weapons and constitutes a combined company becoming the largest holding in the Company.
meaningful percentage of global supply.
There is much speculation as to the impact this will have on prices were this source of supply As mentioned previously, iron ore markets were volatile during the to be permanently withdrawn from the market.
Exposure to iron ore both directly and indirectly held back the see markets remaining in balance: however, with the ramp up of performance of the Company but, as the year ended, positive Chinas nuclear power generation over the next few years momentum was clearly returning to iron ore markets.
Key growth fundamentals do look to be improving.
As such, whilst current names such as Fortescue, African Minerals, Atlas Iron and London exposure is low, we continue to monitor the sector closely.
Mining should bene t from the improving market conditions and start to reverse some of the losses generated in 2012.
Diversi ed mining companies and industrial commodities Pre-IPO or illiquid investments During 2012 the diversi ed mining companies produced a range of Marampa Royalty Contract The Company completed the returns.
BHP Billiton 13.4% and Rio Tinto 12.4% were the purchase of a 2% revenue related royalty calculated on any iron ore leaders as they offered lower risk exposure to the sector and were sales over the life of the mine from London Mining Plcs Marampa the first to react to shareholder pressure for improved capital mine in Sierra Leone, its first investment in a mining royalty.
Evidence for this is clear following the decision by BHP to royalty is payable quarterly in arrears calculated on the amount defer major capital projects such as the Olympic Dam copper receivable at the relevant point of sale, currently calculated with project, the Outer Harbour development at Port Hedland, Peak reference to the net freight on board price received from sales of Downs coal expansion and the Jansen potash project.
Rio Tinto iron ore in Sierra Leone terms similar to that of the existing royalty appears to have gone even further offering not only project deferral payable to the government of Sierra Leone.
The Company received but a clear goal to cut US$5 billion of operating costs by the end of its first royalty payment in the fourth quarter.
Payments will initially 2014 and cut exploration by US$1 billion.
The surprise replacement be small owing to the gradual ramp up to full capacity but we of the companys CEO in January with a safe pair of hands in the expect these to increase markedly post 2014 as production goes form of the head of the companys iron division reinforces this first to 5mtpa and then to 9m tpa.
10 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
