From 2004 all information is prepared under IFRS as set out in note 2 on pages 42 to 45.
Performance from launch on 15 December 1993 to 31 December 2012 1200 1000 800 600 400 200 0 Dec 93 Dec 94 Dec 95 Dec 96 Dec 97 Dec 98 Dec 99 Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 BlackRock World Mining Trust NAV per share HSBC Global Mining Index income reinvested income reinvested Sources: BlackRock and DataStream.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2012 3 Price rebased to 100 Chairmans Statement Overview The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 14.00p Global economic conditions continued to be challenging during the per share for the year ended 31 December 2012 2011: 14.00p, year under review, with little or no respite for investors.
Uncertainty which together with the interim dividend of 7.00p per share 2011: across all major economic regions conspired to keep growth weak, nil, makes a total dividend of 21.00p per share 2011: 14.00p be it the presidential election and looming scal cliff in the US, representing an increase of 50% on the previous year.
The dividend the Chinese leadership transition, or ongoing economic and will be paid on 2 May 2013 to shareholders on the register of political volatility in Europe.
In aggregate, the world economy members on 8March 2013. remained sluggish throughout 2012 and has yet to shake off the fallout from the deep global recession of 2008 - 2009.
Discount The Board pays close attention to the level at which the Companys Against this background, the Companys net asset value NAV shares trade compared to net asset value and has actively sought decreased by 5.0% compared with a fall of 2.4% in the Companys to manage this via a number of different routes.
The Companys benchmark index: the Companys share price fell by 4.1% all discount has narrowed and currently stands at 13.5% on a cum percentages calculated in sterling terms with income reinvested.
income NAV and 11.4% on a capital only NAV.
In common with previous years, your Board will endeavour to work with the Performance to 31 December 2012 Investment Manager in order to manage the discount as effectively as possible and will consider share repurchases in the market if the Three Five discount widens signi cantly.
One year years years Net asset value per share: Regulatory changes capital only -7.7% 3.6% -14.7% A wave of regulatory initiatives is on the horizon, threatening to with income reinvested -5.0% 8.0% -9.1% change the market landscape in the EU dramatically.
Two of Ordinary share price: the key initiatives will have a signi cant impact on the investment capital only -7.1% 6.6% -10.5% trust sector.
with income reinvested -4.1% 11.9% -3.5% HSBC Global Mining Index : From 1 January 2013, the implementation of the Financial Services capital only -5.0% -9.0% -7.3% Authoritys FSAs Retail Distribution Review RDR means that with income reinvested -2.4% -3.4% 2.5% advisers will have to charge directly rather than receiving commissions from the funds in which their clients invest.
Adjusted for exchange rates relative to sterling.
Investment trusts should now be on a level playing eld with their open ended counterparts such as unit trusts.
We hope that, over Since the year end, the Companys NAV has risen by 1.5% time, more investors will see the attraction of investing in compared with an increase of 2.4% in the benchmark index.
investment trusts which have the ability to gear to enhance overall returns and which, unlike open ended funds, are a quoted security Revenue return and dividend which can be readily traded in the stock market.
In addition, as part The Companys revenue return in 2012 has been substantially of the FSAs platform review which will be implemented in 2014, it is enhanced, outstripping the record return that was generated in the proposed that investment trusts will be on the same footing as previous year.
Ordinary dividends from mining companies in the open ended funds as payments from funds to platforms are also portfolio rose by 14% year-on-year and payments from xed income likely to be prohibited.
investments increased by 28% compared with 2011.
The Boards initiative to reallocate the investment management fee and finance costs 75% to capital and 25% to revenue previously allocated 100% to the revenue account also had a positive impact on the revenue available to return to shareholders.
The Manager has also optimized income generation through exposure to xed income securities and option writing.
In addition, on 30 July 2012 the Company purchased a 2% revenue related royalty over London Minings Marampa iron ore mine in Sierra Leone.
Although payments were small during this period they are expected to increase as production ramps up.
4 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc In the context of the implementation of RDR, it is worth noting that Annual General Meeting the shares are designed for private investors in the UK, including The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at retail investors,  private clients and 11.30a.
m. on Thursday, 25 April 2013 at the of ces of BlackRock, institutional investors who seek income and the potential for capital 12 Throgmorton Avenue, London EC2N 2DL.
Details of the growth from investment in global markets and who understand and business of the meeting are set out in the Notice of Meeting on are willing to accept the risks of exposure to equities.
When pages 65 to 68 of this Annual Report.
The Investment Manager assessing the suitabilityof the shares, private investors should also will also make a presentation to shareholders on the Companys consider consulting an independent financial adviser who progress and the outlook for the mining sector.
specialises in advising on the acquisition of shares and other securities before acquiring shares.
Naturally, investors should also Outlook be capable of evaluating the risks and merits of an investment in Although many of the structural issues arising from the financial the Company and should always have suf cient resources to bear crisis remain unresolved, market sentiment has improved markedly any loss that may result.
This process started with a more purposeful approach from the European Central Bank, which in the summer The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the Directive managed to prevent a potential funding crisis in the European seeks to reduce potential systematic risk by regulating alternative periphery from destabilizing the Eurozone.
It has been supported investment fund managers AIFMs which fall within the category of further by the progress recently made towards resolving the US alternative investment funds.
The Directive focuses on how scal cliff.
Better news on economic growth from both the US and alternative investment funds conduct business, how they disclose China has also been supportive.
and use leverage, and how they appoint key service providers.
The implementation of the Directive will require all investment trusts to In the mining sector, the more dif cult operating environment of appoint an AIFM or become an AIFM themselves and also to recent years, as well as the high pro le write-downs by the large appoint an independent depositary.
The latter is likely to ful l a UK diversi ed miners, have prompted management teams across broader role than that currently performed by the custodian and will the sector to adopt a more rigorous approach to capital allocation.
be obliged to ensure that companies comply with the relevant rules To date we have seen an encouraging wave of announcements on portfolio composition and diversi cation.
We expect the regarding operating cost savings and moves to curtail capital implementation of the Directive to be effective from 22 July 2013, spending on marginal projects, in addition to a renewed focus on although it is currently anticipated that the FSA will permit a shareholder distributions.
Combined with sustained demand, transitional period of one year within which UK AIFMs must seek particularly from China, this should act to support a healthy authorisation.
The Board will be taking independent advice on the operating environment for the sector over the next few years.
consequences for the Company and will inform shareholders once we have decided on the most appropriate course of action.
A W Lea 19 February 2013 Articles of Association Statutory rules governing investment trusts have been amended recently and, as a result of these changes, there is no longer a requirement for a companys Articles to prohibit the distribution as a dividend of surpluses arising from the realisation of investments.
Accordingly, the Board no longer considers it appropriate to have such a prohibition in the Articles and will therefore be seeking shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to remove it.
The Board believes this will give the Company greater exibility in the longer term but at present there are no plans to make use of such powers.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2012 5
