Directors Anthony W Lea appointed 29 July 2005 Colin A M Buchan appointed 25 July 2001 Chairman Chairman of the Audit & Management Engagement is chairman of The Emerging Africa Infrastructure Fund, a Committee and Senior Independent Director non-executive director of BSI Group and The Of ce of Fair Trading, is a non-executive director of Standard Life plc, Environcom Ltd, and a trustee of the RAF Benevolent Fund.
He was the finance The Fettes Foundation, Regent Acquisitions Limited, TTT Moneycorp director of Anglo American plc in London from 1999 to 2005, one Limited and the Scottish Chamber Orchestra.
He was Global Head of the worlds leading mining and natural resources companies.
He of Equities at UBS Warburg and a member of the Group was also a non-executive director of AngloGold Ashanti Limited, at Management Board of UBS AG until his retirement in March 2001. the time the worlds second largest gold producer, and fide Beers Investments SA.
David W Cheyne appointed 1 June 2012 is vice chairman Europe, Middle East and Africa of Moelis & Ian C S Barby appointed 1 December 2003 Company and a consultant at Linklaters where he was senior is non-executive chairman of Eco n Water & Power Opportunities partner from 2006 to 2011 and a partner from 1980.
Throughout plc and INVESCO Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment his career at Linklaters he played a central role in a wide range of Trust plc, and a non-executive director of Pantheon International corporate transactions, including M&A deals, joint ventures, Participations PLC, Schroder Income Growth Fund PLC and otations and general corporate finance work.
In particular, he Madagascar Oil Limited.
He was managing director of Merrill Lynch advised on a number of large mining transactions.
Investment Managers now BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited Investment Trusts division until 2003.
Oliver A G Baring appointed 4 November 2004 is chairman of Mwana Africa PLC and First Africa Group Holdings Limited, as well as holding directorships in Robert Fox Limited, Tilley International plc and Ferrexpo plc, and is a council member of the Sentient Group, a private equity mining fund.
All the Directors are non-executive.
The Board as a whole constitutes the Audit & Management Engagement Committee.
18 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
