Investment Managers Report Portfolio performance The Company was most impacted by the fall in the iron ore price 2012 was a year of signi cant change for the mining sector as from a high of US$149.4 tonne in April to a low of US$86.7 tonne management teams started the process of reigning in capital in September.
The combination of a recovery in supply, following expenditure in the face of continued cost pressures and generally weaker production in the first quarter and destocking by steel range-bound commodity prices.
Combined with general fears makers in China, took prices below the cost of marginal supply in around major macro events, this led to another poor year for the third quarter.
Exposure to early stage producers of the returns with the mid and small cap companies nding life the commodity was particularly painful for the Company, as the fall in hardest.
With the Companys assets generally invested in the price led to concerns over their ability to fund their capital higher growth sectors relative to the benchmark, this held back requirements.
The iron ore price recovered sharply in the fourth returns for the year as a whole.
For the calendar year 2012, the quarter however, as Chinese steel producers returned to the market Companys undiluted net asset value NAV and share price fell and the commodity actually ended 2012 up year-on-year.
Other by 5.0% and 4.1% respectively, in sterling terms with income commodities fared better with prices for metals such as copper and reinvested.
In capital only terms, the NAV fell by 7.7% and the gold generally trading above where they started the year.
By comparison, the HSBC Global Mining Index this did not stop share prices falling in line with those of other in sterling terms fell by 5.0% on a capital only basis and 2.4% commodity producers as investor pessimism took hold over the with income reinvested.
In addition, shareholders began to voice their doubts over the ability of company management teams in the sector to reinvest Mining sector overview cash wisely given the recent spate of poor M&A deals and Just as in 2011, the year started strongly with share prices boosted associated subsequent writedowns and this added further by expectations of a Chinese and US economic recovery.
This was downward pressure to valuations.
driven by better than expected economic data during January, as well as an overall positive set of Q4 production numbers for the Chinas economy has again been of prime focus for commodity leading mining companies.
In early February, after much media markets given its dominance in both metal and bulk commodity speculation, Glencore announced plans for a merger of equals with demand it now accounts for between 40%-60% of demand in Xstrata which in hindsight marked the peak for share prices during nearly all of these markets.
In March, Premier Wen Jiabao cut the the year.
From this point onwards economic data deteriorated and governments GDP growth target to 7.5% from 8% an annual goal fears over the outcome of key macro events heightened.
Investor that had been in place since 2005 and followed this with rhetoric anxiety over the US debt ceiling, the US presidential election, the about moving towards a more consumption-driven rather than European debt crisis, Chinese economic growth and the countrys investment-led economy.
The market interpreted this negatively as leadership change all combined to push commodity and share it indicated that the government was prepared to accept a slower prices lower.
rate of economic growth before implementing any stimulus measures.
The economic growth rate did slow markedly in the second and third quarters and whilst the government did not repeat HSBC Global Mining Index the type of scal stimulus seen in 2009, several monetary policy steps were taken: bank reserve ratios were cut three times and in 120 July the one year lending rate was also cut.
Against this backdrop, 115 Chinese commodity consumers destocked for the first nine months 110 105 of the year.
In the fourth quarter, demand accelerated as inventories 100 dropped below average levels and economic data points turned 95 more positive.
90 85 80 Dec 11 Feb 12 Apr 12 Jun 12 Aug 12 Oct 12 Dec 12 Source: DataStream, rebased to 100 at the start of the year.
6 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
