Gold & precious metals We have recognised for a number of years now the challenges The gold price registered its twelfth consecutive annual gain in facing the gold sector, and in particular the larger gold producers, 2012.
The metal rose 5.6% in US Dollar terms and also made gains and therefore the Companys underweight to the North American in all key currencies with record highs achieved in both Euros and majors and the South African producers has been a core theme in Swiss francs.
This positive performance disguises what was a the portfolio.
In 2012 this positively contributed to relative turbulent year for the gold price which fell to a low of US$1,541 oz performance, whilst the Companys exposure to the high quality, in May before recovering to a peak of US$1,791 oz by October.
low cost Mexican silver-gold producer, Fresnillo, and its parent This large trading range was the result of signi cant swings in the company, Industrias Penoles, was the largest single contributor to gold futures markets net long position, as well as the con icting positive relative performance.
forces of weaker jewellery demand out of India versus continued strength in demand from China, the of cial sector and physically Having dropped below the gold price in the second half of 2011, backed ETFs.
The first half of the year was characterised by an the platinum price failed to break back above gold in 2012.
This absence of drivers for gold: in ationary pressures abated, there was was despite a tumultuous year for the South African platinum no signi cant monetary stimulus and we saw a contraction of global industry.
The companies have long-suffered from labour unrest as a liquidity.
As we moved into the second half of the year the gold price result of signi cant unionisation of their workforce, high rates of was supported by governments across the world acting to stimulate in-country in ation and dif cult working conditions.
Tensions their economies either through printing money such as a third between members of the established National Union of round of QE in the US or through encouraging lending via cutting Mineworkers NUM and its emerging rival, the Association of interest rates and bank reserve ratios in China.
The spot silver price Mineworkers and Construction Union AMCU, saw the frequency outperformed the gold price year-on-year, rising 10.6% in US Dollar and severity of strike action within the platinum industry increase.
terms: however, the average price was down by nearly 12% This culminated in the death of 47 people in August as a wild-cat compared with golds 6% increase for the year.
strike at Lonmins Marikana operation triggered violent confrontations between South African police and striking As in 2011, the gold mining sector underperformed the gold price.
As a consequence, strike action spread throughout This can be explained both by what we believe to be temporary the mining industry and more broadly across the South African factors such as the low risk appetite of financial markets, but also economy as a whole.
Tensions have eased for the moment but we by more structural challenges for companies operating in the gold expect labour relations to remain an area of concern for the sector.
These include declining grades at existing operations, cost platinum sector in the foreseeable future.
in ation, delays in bringing on new production and a lack of exploration success.
The resultant pressures upon margins, It is no coincidence that in the midst of this upheaval the top four disappointing production growth and a loss of faith in company platinum producers all saw a change in CEO.
Like the gold industry, management have all contributed to the lacklustre performance of we hope this will open the door to real change within the platinum the shares.
There are however signs that change is afoot.
In January, Anglo Platinum, which represents approximately November, we saw Gold Fields announce the long-awaited 40% of world platinum production, announced the findings of a separation of the companys more mature South African operations much-anticipated review of its operations.
The company announced into the separately listed Sibanye Gold.
In addition, five out of ten of its intention to cut production by around 20% in order to improve the largest gold producers have either changed or announced a the overall pro tability of its business and better match the demand change of CEO within the last twelve months.
We suspect that the outlook for platinum going forward.
The company now faces a new generation of management has the mandate to make the challenging road ahead as it has to implement this strategy and dif cult decisions that their predecessors failed to, such as lowering deal with the socio-political fallout resulting from the consequent overly aggressive production forecasts, divesting non-core assets 14,000 job losses.
We hope the company has the discipline to and cancelling the development of marginal projects.
The persevere with the plan as outlined and await more detail, but companies are now increasingly focused on operational delivery, ultimately it should potentially improve the economics for the all-in costs, per-share metrics and the importance of servicing industry as a whole.
their investor bases for example dividend payments in the sector have doubled since 2010.
Those companies that are able to prove The Company reduced its exposure to the platinum producers over to the market this volte-face is permanent and not just rhetoric the previous year and had no holding in Lonmin: therefore these should outperform.
events did not have a signi cant impact on the relative performance of the portfolio.
In fact, the Company was able to take advantage of the serious financial distress Lonmin found itself in by late 2012, earning a fee for underwriting part of its US$817 million rights issue in December.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2012 9
