Directors Report continued Directors indemnity As at 13 February 2013, the Company had received noti cation of In addition to Directors and Of cers Liability Insurance cover, the the following interests in 3% or more of the voting rights attaching Companys Articles of Association provide, subject to the provisions to the Companys issued share capital.
of applicable UK legislation, an indemnity for Directors in respect of Holding % costs incurred in the defence of any proceedings brought against them by third parties arising out of their positions as Directors, in City of London Investment which they are acquitted or judgement is given in their favour.
The Management Company Limited 19,565,499 11.0 Company has entered into Deeds of Indemnity with each of the BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited 12,745,111 7.2 Directors individually which are available for inspection at the Investec Wealth & Management Ltd 11,054,726 6.2 registered of ce of the Company and will be available at the Annual Lazard Asset Management LLC 10,672,352 6.0 General Meeting.
1.0% held on behalf of the BlackRock Investment Trusts Savings Plan and ISA.
Con icts of interest The Articles of Association re ect the codi cation of certain No other shareholder has noti ed an interest of 3% or more in the directors duties arising from the Companies Act 2006 and in Companys shares up to 19 February 2013. particular the duty for Directors to avoid con icts of interest.
The Board has put in place a framework for Directors to report Donations con icts of interest or potential con icts of interest which it The Company made no political or charitable donations during believes has worked effectively during the year.
All Directors are the year.
required to notify the Company Secretary of any situations where they considered that they had a direct or indirect interest, or duty Payment of suppliers that con icted or possibly con icted, with the interests of the It is the policy of the Company and its subsidiaries to settle all Company.
All such situations were reviewed by the Board and duly investment transactions in accordance with the terms and authorised.
Directors were also made aware that there remains a conditions of the relevant market in which it operates.
Suppliers of continuing obligation to notify the Company Secretary of any new goods and services are generally paid within 30 days of the date of situation that may arise, or any change to a situation previously any invoice.
The Company has no trade creditors.
It is the Boards intention to continue to review all noti ed situations on an annual basis.
Share capital and share repurchases Full details of the Companys share capital are given in note 16 on Directors Remuneration Report page 51.
Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 27 and 28. the date of this report are given in note 17 to the Notice of Annual An ordinary resolution to approve this report will be put to members General Meeting on page 68.
The ordinary shares carry the right to at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
receive dividends and have one voting right per share.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights of the shares or on the transfer of Substantial share interests shares, and there are no shares that carry speci c rights with As at 31 December 2012, the Company had received noti cation of regard to the control of the Company.
the following interests in 3% or more of the voting rights attaching to the Companys issued share capital.
Shares may be repurchased when, in the opinion of the Directors, the discount appears high or wider than the peer group average and Holding % shares are available in the market.
The main objective of any buy City of London Investment back should be to enhance the net asset value per share of the Management Company Limited 19,565,499 11.0 remaining shares and to reduce the absolute level and volatility of BlackRock Investment Management any discount to net asset value at which shares may trade.
Although UK Limited 12,973,301 7.3 the Investment Manager initiates the buy backs, the policy and Investec Wealth & Management Ltd 10,931,200 6.2 parameters are set by the Board and reviewed at regular intervals.
Lazard Asset Management LLC 10,395,544 5.9 The Company intends to raise the cash needed to finance the 1.1% held on behalf of the BlackRock Investment Trusts Savings Plan and ISA.
purchase of ordinary shares either by selling securities in the Companys portfolio or by short term borrowing.
24 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
