X we will vote in favour of proposals which we expect to enhance Directors shareholder value, and on routine issues where we are The Directors of the Company on 31 December 2012, and their supportive of a companys management: interests in the ordinary shares of the Company, are shown in the table below.
X we will vote against proposals which we believe may damage 31 December 1 January shareholders rights or economic interests: and 2012 2012 X we will abstain on proposals where we wish to indicate to the A W Lea 6,000 6,000 company issues over which we have some concerns.
I C S Barby 25,000 25,000 O A G Baring 3,000 In all situations the economic interests of our clients will be C A M Buchan 24,000 24,000 paramount.
D W Cheyne 4,000 Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2012.
Further details of the Investment Managers Proxy Voting and Engagement Principles may be found at www2.
com global home aboutus proxyvoting.
All of the holdings of the Directors are bene cial.
No changes to these holdings had been noti ed up to the date of this report.
During the year, the Investment Manager voted at 74 general meetings on behalf of the Company.
At these meetings the The Companys Articles of Association require that one third of Investment Manager voted in favour of most resolutions, as should Directors retire by rotation each year and that each Director shall be expected when investing in well-run companies, but voted retire and seek re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
against 25 management resolutions and abstained from 11.
The Board may also appoint Directors to the Board but any Director Most of the votes against were in respect of resolutions to approve so appointed must stand for election by shareholders at the next the remuneration report, particularly in relation to executive Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Articles of remuneration packages where there was no clear link between pay Association.
Directors are also required to retire if they have served and performance, board composition where there was a perceived more than nine years on the Board, but then may offer themselves lack of independence, lack of disclosure, or antitakeover devices.
A total of 680 proposals were voted on during this period.
At the 2013 Annual General Meeting, in accordance with the Going concern provisions of the Articles of Association, Mr Cheyne will retire and The Directors, having considered the nature and liquidity of the offer himself for election, having been appointed as a Director on portfolio, the Companys investment objective on page 1 and the 1June 2012.
Mr Barby and Mr Buchan will also retire and offer Groups projected income and expenditure, are satis ed that the themselves for re-election, both in accordance with retirement by Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence rotation and having served nine years as Directors of the Company.
for the foreseeable future and is nancially sound.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year financial statements.
The Group is able to meet all of its liabilities in which a Director of the Company is or was materially interested from its assets and the ongoing charges are approximately 1.4% of and which is or was signi cant in relation to the Companys net assets.
None of the Directors has a service contract with the Company.
No Director is entitled to compensation for loss of of ce on the takeover of the Company.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2012 23
