BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company DIRECTORS The Company has five Directors, all are non-executive and held office throughout the reporting year and all Directors remain in office as at the date of this report.
Richard Crowder, Chairman aged 63 holds a range of non-executive directorships and consultancy appointments.
Having worked as an Investment Manager with Ivory & Sime in Edinburgh and as a Head of Investment Research with W. I. Carr in the Far East, he undertook a wide range of responsibilities for Schroders in London and the Far East, culminating in the role of Managing Director for Schroders Singapore associate.
Having then worked as Chairman of Smith New Court International Agency and Director of Smith New Court Plc, Mr Crowder was the founding Managing Director of Schroders Channel Islands subsidiary from 1991 until he became a non-executive Director in 2000.
He is resident in Guernsey.
Andrew Dodd aged 41 is a principal, executive committee member and board member of BlueCrest.
He is also a director of AllBlue Limited, BlueCrest BlueTrend Limited and several of the Underlying Funds and a member of the AllBlue Committee which is responsible for portfolio allocations within AllBlue Limited.
He joined BlueCrest in 2006 after a 13 year career at Goldman Sachs where he specialised in advising insurance, banking and asset management clients with respect to mergers and acquisitions, capital markets, structured finance and asset liability management.
He holds a BA in Philosophy, Politics and Economics from Oxford University.
He is resident in Switzerland.
The Directors considers that Mr Dodds membership of the Board provides the Board with important knowledge of the detailed operations and risks of BlueCrest, AllBlue and the Underlying Funds.
As Chief Financial Officer of BlueCrest Mr Dodds day to day interests are broadly aligned with those of the Board, without the conflict of interests which could otherwise be present if he were, for instance, on the trading desk at BlueCrest.
Mr Dodd abstains from voting on any matter in connection with AllBlue or BlueCrest and has waived all fees in connection with his appointment to the Company.
Jonathan Hooley, Chairman of Audit Committee aged 57 retired as the senior partner of KPMG in the Channel Islands on 30 September 2007.
His career with KPMG spanned some 30 years.
He was a tax partner with KPMG for over 20 years, firstly in London where he was an international tax partner specialising in banking and other financial sector work and subsequently in Guernsey where he has been responsible for advising a large number of investment funds.
Mr Hooley is a Chartered Director, Chartered Accountant and a Chartered Tax Adviser.
He is a non-executive director of F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited.
He is also a Jurat of the Royal Court of Guernsey.
12 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company DIRECTORS continued Paul Meader, Senior Independent Director aged 47 is an independent director of a number of investment management companies and investment funds.
He was, until recently, Head of Portfolio Management for Collins Stewart based in Guernsey, having previously held the role of Chief Executive of Corazon Capital Group which was acquired by Collins Stewart in 2010.
Mr. Meader has 26 years experience in financial markets in London, Dublin and Guernsey following senior positions in portfolio management and trading, with particular expertise in fixed income investments.
Prior to joining Corazon he was Managing Director of Rothschilds Swiss private-banking subsidiary in Guernsey.
Mr Meader is a Chartered Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Securities & Investments and is past Chairman of the Guernsey International Business Association, of the International Bankers Association and of the Guernsey Investment Managers & Stockbrokers Association.
John Le Prevost aged 61 is the Chief Executive Officer of Anson Group Limited and Chairman of its two operating subsidiaries Anson Fund Managers Limited the Companys Administrator and Secretary and Anson Registrars Limited the Companys Registrar.
He has spent 30 years working in offshore trusts and investment business during which time he was Managing Director of County NatWest Investment Management Channel Islands Limited, Royal Bank of Canadas mutual fund company in Guernsey and Republic National Bank of New Yorks international trust company.
He is a director of a number of companies associated with Anson Groups business as well as being a non-executive director of Thai Prime Fund Limited and is a trustee of the Guernsey Sailing Trust.
