BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Directors present their Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012.
The Company The Company is a self-managed closed-ended investment company incorporated in Guernsey on 21 April 2006 with an unlimited life.
The Company has three classes of Shares in issue, being Sterling Shares, Euro Shares and US Dollar Shares.
All three classes of Shares have been admitted to the Official List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities.
The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
Investment Objective and Investment Policies The investment objective and policy of the Company is as stated on page 5.
Shareholder Information The Company announces the confirmed net asset value of each share class on a monthly basis and a commentary on the investment performance of AllBlue is provided by BlueCrest.
The estimated net asset value of each share class is announced weekly to a Regulatory Information Service.
The daily market closing prices of Shares are available on Reuters, Bloomberg and on-line on the internet.
A copy of the Registration Document, Summary Note and Securities Note of the Company can be found at www.
All Shares may be dealt in directly through a stockbroker or professional adviser acting on an investors behalf.
The buying and selling of Shares may be settled through CREST.
The Companys register of shareholders is maintained by Anson Registrars Limited in Guernsey and they can be contacted on 44 0 1481 711301.
Results and Dividends The results for the year are set out in the Statement of Comprehensive Income on pages 38 and 39.
In accordance with the Investment Objective the Directors did not declare any dividends during the year under review and the Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend as at the date of this report.
Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive, as shown on pages 12 and 13 all held office throughout the reporting year and all Directors remain in office as at the date of signature of these Financial Statements.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company, nor are any such contracts proposed.
22 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The interests of the Directors in the Shares of the Company as at the date of signature of these Financial Statements are as follows: Director Number and Class of Shares Mr Andrew Dodd 329,165 Sterling Shares Mr John Le Prevost 62,034 Sterling Shares Mr Jonathan G Hooley 409,664 Sterling Shares Mr Paul Meader 29,163 Sterling Shares Mr Richard Crowder 92,775 Sterling Shares Related Party Transactions Anson Fund Managers Limited is the Administrator and Secretary of the Company, Anson Registrars Limited is the Registrar, Transfer Agent and Paying Agent of the Company and Anson Administration UK Limited is the UK transfer Agent of the Company.
Mr Le Prevost is a Director and controller of Anson Fund Managers Limited, Anson Administration UK Limited and Anson Registrars Limited.
Other than the above-mentioned interests, none of the Directors, nor any persons connected with them, had a material interest in any of the Companys transactions.
Andrew Dodd is a principal, executive committee member and board member of BlueCrest.
He is also a director of AllBlue Limited and several of the Underlying Funds and a member of the AllBlue Committee which is responsible for portfolio allocations within AllBlue Limited.
Substantial Shareholdings The Directors have been notified of the following substantial interests in the Companys relevant share capital as at the date of this report.
Number of % of Name Voting Rights Voting Rights Rathbone Brothers Plc 52,698,189 9.36 BlackRock Inc 48,348,497 8.59 Quilter & Co Ltd 32,943,033 5.85 Weiss Asset Management LP 29,818,745 5.30 Schroders Plc 29,530,195 5.25 Cazenove Capital Management Limited 29,108,951 5.17 23 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Net Asset Value The Net Asset Value for accounting purposes of the Companys Shares, including all distributable reserves as at 31 December 2012 was GBP 1.7929 Sterling Shares, EUR 1.7298 Euro Shares and USD 1.7130 US Dollar Shares.
The Companys net asset value is based on valuations of unquoted investments.
In calculating the net asset value and the net asset value per Share of the Company, the Administrator relies on the net asset values of the shares in AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged supplied by the administrator of each fund.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are required to prepare Financial Statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for that year.
In preparing those Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Law.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Corporate Governance Statement of Compliance with the AIC Code of Corporate Governance In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
7 the Company is required to comply with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A copy of the UK Corporate Governance Code is available for download from the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
24 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The Board of the Company has considered the principles and recommendations of the Association of Investment Companies the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to an investment company.
With effect from 1 January 2012 the Company is also required to comply with the Guernsey Financial Services Commission Financial Sector Code of Corporate Governance the GFSC Code.
As the Company reports under the AIC Code it is deemed to meet the requirements of the GFSC Code.
The Board has undertaken to evaluate its corporate governance compliance on an on-going basis.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive: executive directors remuneration: and the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these provisions not relevant to the position of the Company, being a self-managed investment company.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Company has complied with all Principles of the AIC Code and conforms with all detailed recommendations subject to the following explanations.
The Board comprises five non-executive Directors all of whom are independent with the Chairman being independent on appointment for the purposes of Principle Two of the AIC Code and Listing Rule 15.2.
12A except for Mr Dodd, who is a member of the Board of the investment manager of AllBlue Limited and Mr Le Prevost, who is a director and controller of the i Administrator and Secretary, ii Registrar and iii Transfer Agent of the Company.
Biographies of the Directors appear on pages 12 and 13, demonstrating the wide range of skills and experience they bring to the Board and highlights of the specific key skills and experience are included on page 31.
In accordance with Principle Five of the AIC Code the following details all other public company directorships and employments held by each Director and shared directorships of any commercial company held by two or more Directors: 25 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Richard Crowder Absolute Alpha Fund PCC Ltd Aviva Investors Alternative Funds PCC Better Capital PCC Limited FF&P Alternative Strategy PCC Limited FF&P Global Property Fund PCC Limited FF&P Enhanced Opportunities Fund PCC Limited FF&P Venture Funds PCC Limited Japan Residential Investment Company Limited Pantheon International Participations Plc Rufford & Ralston PCC Limited Jonathan Hooley F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Paul Meader Guaranteed Investment Products 1 PCC Limited non-executive directorship with John Le Prevost ICG-Longbow Senior Secured UK Property Debt Investments Ltd John Le Prevost Close Assets Fund Limited Guaranteed Investment Products 1 PCC Limited non-executive directorship with Paul Meader Harewood Structured Investment PCC Limited Thai Prime Fund Limited Andrew Dodd BlueCrest BlueTrend Limited 26 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The Board meets at least four times a year to consider the business and affairs of the Company for the previous quarter.
Between these quarterly meetings the Board keeps in contact by email and telephone as well as meeting to consider specific matters of a transactional nature.
All directors have complete direct access to the Secretary and the Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that there are good information flows both within the Board and between Committees and the Board.
Additionally the Board holds strategy meetings with its relevant advisors in attendance as appropriate.
The Directors are kept fully informed of investment and financial controls and other matters that are relevant to the business of the Company and should be brought to the attention of the Directors.
The Directors also have access, where necessary in the furtherance of their duties, to professional advice at the expense of the Company.
During the year under review the Board met nine times.
Of those nine meetings four were quarterly board meetings and five were ad hoc meetings held at short notice to deal with specific matters.
The Directors attendance is summarised below: Director Quarterly Board Meetings Ad hoc Meetings Richard Crowder 4 of 4 4 of 5 Andrew Dodd 4 of 4 4 of 5 Jonathan Hooley 4 of 4 4 of 5 Paul Meader 4 of 4 4 of 5 John Le Prevost 4 of 4 3 of 5 Letters of appointment for non-executive Directors do not set out a fixed time commitment for board duties as the Board considers that the time required by Directors may fluctuate depending on demands of the Company and other events.
Therefore it is required that each Director will allocate sufficient time to the Company to perform their duties effectively and expected that each Director will attend all quarterly Board meetings and meetings of Committees of which they are a member.
The Chairman has confirmed that he considers the performance of each director to be effective and that each director demonstrates continued commitment to their role.
Audit Committee An Audit Committee has been established consisting of Mr Hooley, Mr Meader and Mr Crowder, Mr Dodd and Mr Le Prevost are entitled to attend.
Mr Hooley has been appointed as Chairman.
During the year under review the Audit Committee met three times and all members of the Committee attended all meetings.
27 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The Audit Committee has regard to the Guidance on Audit Committees published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012.
The Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, the annual and half-yearly reports and Financial Statements, the auditors remuneration and engagement, as well as the auditors independence and any non-audit services provided by them.
The Audit Committee will consider arranging for the external audit contract to be tendered in 2016 being 10 years from the initial appointment with the aim of ensuring a high quality and effective audit.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice annually, shortly before the Board meets to consider the Companys half-yearly and annual financial reports, and reports to the Board with its deliberations and recommendations and also has an annual planning meeting with the Auditor.
The Audit Committee operates within clearly defined terms of reference based on the ICSA recommended terms and provides a forum through which the Companys external auditors report to the Board.
The Audit Committee receives information from the Companys service providers with the majority of information being directly sourced from the Secretary, Administrator and the external auditors.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available from the Companys website.
The Audit Committee considers the nature, scope and results of the Auditors work and reviews annually prior to providing a recommendation to the Board on the re-appointment or removal of the Auditor.
When evaluating the external auditor the Committee has regard to a variety of criteria including industry experience, independence, reasonableness of audit plan, ability to deliver constructive criticism, effectiveness of communication with Board and the Companys service providers, quality control procedures, management of audit process and added value beyond assurance in audit opinion.
Auditor independence is maintained through limiting non-audit services to tax reporting and audit-related work that falls within defined categories, for example the verification of the Companys calculations in respect of a C share conversion.
All engagements with the Auditor are subject to pre-approval from the Audit Committee and fully disclosed within the Annual Financial Report for the relevant period.
A new lead audit partner is appointed every five years and the Audit Committee ensures the Auditor has appropriate internal mechanisms in place to ensure its independence.
Christopher Matthews has been appointed lead audit partner during 2012.
The Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys external auditors be proposed to shareholders at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
28 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Each year the Board examines the Audit Committees performance and effectiveness, and ensures that its tasks and processes remain appropriate.
Key areas covered included the clarity of the Committees role and responsibilities, the balance of skills among its members and the effectiveness of reporting its work to the Board.
The Board is satisfied that all members of the Committee have relevant financial experience and knowledge and ensure that such knowledge remains up to date.
Regarding process, members noted that fulfilling the Committees remit had led to lengthy meetings, but at the same time they recognized a wish to extend in detail into specific topics.
The Board has sought to allow for this by arranging for meetings of the Audit Committee several days prior the Board meeting where the findings of the Committee will be reported.
Overall the Board considered the Audit Committee had the right composition in terms of expertise and has effectively undertaken its activities and reported them to the Board during the year.
The Audit Committee has no significant issues which it wishes to report.
Management and Remuneration Committee A Management and Remuneration Committee has been established consisting of Mr Meader, Mr Hooley and Mr Crowder.
Mr Dodd and Mr Le Prevost are entitled to attend all meetings of the Committee.
Mr Meader has been appointed as Chairman.
The function of the Management and Remuneration Committee is: a to ensure that the Companys contracts of engagement with the Administrator and other service providers are operating satisfactorily so as to ensure the safe and accurate management and administration of the Companys affairs and business and are competitive and reasonable for the shareholders and to make appropriate recommendations to the Board: b to monitor and assess the appropriate levels of remuneration for all Directors: and c to ensure that the Company complies to the best of its ability with applicable laws and regulations and adheres to the tenet of generally accepted codes of conduct.
During the year under review the Management and Remuneration Committee met once and all members attended this meeting.
The chairmanship of the Audit and the Management and Remuneration Committees is reviewed annually by the Chairman.
In addition, each Directors performance is assessed annually by the Chairman and the performance of the Chairman is assessed by the Senior Independent Director together with the remaining Directors.
29 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The remuneration of the Directors is reviewed on an annual basis and compared with the level of remuneration for directorships of other similar funds.
All Directors receive an annual fee apart from Mr Dodd who has waived all fees in connection with his appointment of the Company and there are no share options or other performance related benefits available to them.
The Board is committed to an evaluation of its performance being carried out every year.
In accordance with Principle Seven of the AIC Code an externally facilitated evaluation of the Board took place in the preceding financial year and is expected to be repeated in 2014.
The 2011 external valuation confirmed that the Company observes high standards of corporate governance and the Board confirms that there are no outstanding recommendations from this evaluation.
During the year under review the Board evaluated its performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors without identifying any points of concern.
Nomination Committee A Nomination Committee has been established consisting of Mr Crowder, Mr Meader, Mr Hooley, Mr Le Prevost, Mr Dodd with Mr Crowder being appointed as Chairman of this Committee, except when the Committee considers any matter in connection with the Chairmanship in which case the Committee will elect another Chairman.
Given that the Board consists solely of non-executive directors, each of whom are members of the Committee, the Board does not consider the Chairman being a member of the Committee to be inappropriate.
The function of the Nomination Committee is to ensure that the Company goes through a formal process of reviewing the balance, independence and effectiveness of the Board, identifying the experience and skills which may be needed and those individuals who might best provide them and to ensure that the individual has sufficient available time to undertake the tasks required.
When considering the composition of the Board Directors will be mindful of diversity, inclusiveness and meritocracy.
The outside directorships and broader commitments of Directors are also monitored by the Nomination Committee.
The Board had undertaken the aforementioned formal review of the balance, independence and effectiveness of the Board therefore the Nomination Committee did not meet.
The Board concluded it did not have any objection to the current commitments of its members, including the shared directorship listed above, on page 26 and that no changes to the composition of the Board were required.
Should this view change the Nomination Committee would have regard to the Boards Diversity Policy that when recruiting Directors, a comparative analysis of candidates qualifications and experience, applying pre-established clear, neutrally formulated and unambiguous criteria will be utilised to determine the most suitable candidate for the specific position sought.
A review of the skills and experience of the existing Board members is outlined below: 30 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Director Key Skills and Experience Richard Crowder Wide knowledge of investment management as well as broad Chairman experience of non-executive directorship, chairmanship and executive directorship in quoted and unquoted companies.
Paul Meader An experienced portfolio manager with in-depth knowledge Senior Independent Director of private wealth management and institutional asset management.
Long term experience of asset allocation, fixed income and hedge funds.
Significant financial services, fund management, regulatory and non-executive director experience.
Jonathan Hooley Wide-ranging knowledge of audit, financial reporting, financial Chairman of Audit Committee services, tax together with substantial financial and nonexecutive directorship experience.
John Le Prevost Extensive knowledge of investment company administration, regulation, listing rules, corporate structuring and substantial non-executive director experience of listed companies in the UK and the Far East.
Andrew Dodd Extensive knowledge and experience of hedge funds, asset liability management, capital markets, financial management and risk analysis.
All Directors put themselves forward for re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
On 3 August 2012, the most recent AGM, shareholders re-elected all Directors of the Company.
The Board believes that changes to its composition, including succession planning for the Chairman or other Director, can be managed without undue disruption to the Companys operations.
To date no Director of the Company has resigned.
Directors are able and encouraged to provide statements to the Board of their concerns and ensure that any items of concern are recorded in the Board minutes and the Chairman encourages all Directors to present their views on matters in an open forum.
The Board is also scheduled to consider the tenure of Directors once any Director has been appointed to the Board for a continuous period of nine years: this is currently scheduled to occur in 2015 for Messrs Crowder, Meader and Le Prevost.
Whilst the Board is of the view that directors can continue in certain circumstances beyond a tenure of 9 years, thereafter such Directors will be subject to increasing scrutiny as to their effectiveness and independence.
31 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Internal Controls and Risk Management Review The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board confirms that there is an on-going process for identifying, evaluating and monitoring the significant risks faced by the Company.
The Board carries out an annual review of internal controls of itself and service providers, which are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the foreseeable risks to which it is exposed, which could have an impact on the Company.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement and loss.
The Company has put in place arrangements with AllBlue and BlueCrest as appropriate for the Company to receive weekly estimated net asset values and estimated and final monthly net asset values in relation to AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged, together with certain factsheets produced on each fund and other administrative information and reports.
The purpose of these arrangements is to ensure that the Directors have sufficient information to enable them to monitor the Companys investments in AllBlue.
In addition, the appointment of Andrew Dodd to the Board, together with his alternate director, allows the Board immediate direct access to senior representatives of the BlueCrest group to discuss issues and receive information on matters which may impact Shareholders.
The Board on a semi-annual basis conducts a full review of the Companys risk management systems including consideration of a risk matrix which covers various areas of risk including corporate strategy, accuracy of published information, compliance with laws and regulations, relationships with service providers and investment and business activities.
The Board considers that the Company has adequate and effective systems in place to identify, mitigate and manage the primary risks to which the Company is exposed.
The Company is a self-managed investment company with no separate investment manager accordingly no fees are payable to an investment manager.
BlueCrest is the investment manager of AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged.
Administration and Secretarial duties for the Company are performed by Anson Fund Managers Limited.
The Board considers that the systems and procedures employed by the Administrator and by provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal controls is in place.
32 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The Directors of the Company clearly define the duties and responsibilities of their agents and advisors.
The appointment of agents and advisers is conducted by the Board after consideration of the quality of the parties involved and the Board monitors their on-going performance and contractual arrangements.
The Board has also specified which matters are reserved for a decision by the Board and which matters may be delegated to its agents and advisers.
Specific matters reserved exclusively for the decision of the Board include all matters concerning the acquisition and realisation of shares in underlying investments, the authorisation of conversions between share classes, the variation of terms on which an overdraft facility is used to finance operating costs and the invocation of any premium or discount mechanisms.
Bribery The Directors have undertaken to operate the business in an honest and ethical manner and accordingly take a zerotolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
The key components of this approach are implemented as follows: The Board is committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all its business dealings and relationships.
The Company will implement and enforce effective procedures to counter bribery.
The Company requires all its service providers and advisors to adopt equivalent or similar principles.
Internal Audit There is no internal audit function.
As all of the Directors are non-executive and all of the Companys administration functions have been delegated to independent third parties, the Audit Committee considers that there is no need for the Company to have an internal audit function.
However, this matter is reviewed periodically by the Audit Committee which then presents an annual recommendation to the Board accordingly.
Dialogue with Shareholders All holders of Shares in the Company have the right to receive notice of, and attend, all general meetings of the Company, during which the Directors are available to discuss issues affecting the Company, and the Directors also meet periodically with major shareholders.
The Directors are always available to enter into dialogue with shareholders and make themselves available for such purpose whenever required.
The Senior Independent Director can also be contacted by shareholders, through the Secretary, if they have any concerns.
The Annual General Meeting also provides a forum for shareholders to raise any queries or concerns directly with the Board in person.
The Investment Manager of AllBlue and Jefferies Hoare Govett and Dexion Capital Plc, the Companys Corporate Brokers, meet regularly with the Companys major shareholders and reports are provided at least quarterly to the Board of Directors on those shareholders views about the Company and any issues or concerns they might have.
33 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The Board regularly reviews the Companys share register at its formal meetings to monitor the shareholder profile and the Board is implementing measures to ensure that information is presented to its Shareholders in a fair, balanced and understandable manner.
In the autumn of 2012 the Company sought the views of a sample range of shareholders regarding the nature and structure of communication and information.
The Board has reviewed these findings and as a result asked one of the Directors, Paul Meader, to devote some additional time to reviewing and improving the information provided and to initiating dialogue with a wider shareholder base.
The result of this process will be seen during 2013.
Mr Meader was paid an additional fee of 15,642.65 during 2012 for the work undertaken in this regard, which the Board believes is an appropriate level of remuneration for the work undertaken.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Auditor Ernst & Young LLP have been the Companys Auditor since its incorporation and the lead audit partner is currently Chris Matthews.
Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as Auditor.
A resolution proposing its reappointment will be submitted at the Companys forthcoming general meeting.
During the year under review the Auditor provided German taxation publication services to the Company and received fees amounting to 5,824.
This engagement did not require any consultation or advice to be provided by the Auditor.
No other non-audit services were provided by the Auditor.
34 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Going Concern Whilst it is not currently anticipated that continuation votes will need to be put to any class of shareholders of the Company in the future, the Board cannot be certain that the requirement for one or more continuation votes will not be triggered and, if continuation votes were triggered, it cannot be confirmed that any or all of such continuation votes would be passed.
Notwithstanding such uncertainty, the Financial Statements are prepared on the going concern basis in light of the Boards assessment of: shareholders appetite to continue their investments in the Company: and the expectation of the Directors that the Company will continue for the foreseeable future.
By order of the Board Jonathan Hooley Director 30 April 2013 35
