Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited accounts for the Financial Instruments and Risk Management 52 week period ended 30 September 2012.
The comparative Disclosures regarding financial instruments are provided within the figures are for the 53 week period ended 30 September 2011. Business Review and note 26 to the financial statements.
Note 26 also contains details of risks and risk management.
Principal Activity The principal activity of Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC and its Corporate Governance subsidiaries the Group is that of Investment Management.
The The Corporate Governance Report on pages 22 to 25 forms part of principal activity of Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC the Company the Directors Report.
is that of a holding company.
Directors The Directors are listed on page 2.
Biographies of the Directors are Branches given on pages 14 and 15.
Operations are carried out in the UK, Channel Islands and Republic of Ireland.
Details of branches are set out on page 93.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Review of the Business and its Future Development Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Accompanying this Directors Report are the Business Review, Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code, the Companies Corporate Governance Report, Risk Committee Report, Audit Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles themselves may be Committee Report and Directors Remuneration Report.
amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of Directors are described in the Corporate Governance Report on A review of the business and its future development is set out in the page 22. Business Review.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out in the Risk Committee Report.
Directors Interests in Shares and Substantial Shareholdings The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company are set Results and Dividends out on page 35 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The interests The results of the Group are set out in detail on page 42.
The of substantial shareholders and Directors are set out on page 92.
Company paid a final dividend and an interim dividend during the period, as detailed in note 14 to the financial statements.
A final Directors Indemnities dividend of 3.6 pence per ordinary share is proposed and if The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions approved, will be payable on 8 April 2013 to shareholders on the for the benefit of its Directors during the period and these remain in register at close of business on 8 March 2013. force at the date of this report.
Capital Structure Substantial Shareholdings Details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital, As at 30 November 2012 the Company had been notified in together with details of the movements therein are set out in note accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency 28 to the financial statements.
This includes the rights and Rules of the interests shown below in the voting rights of the obligations attaching to shares and restrictions on the transfer of Company since 30 November 2011. shares.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry Interest in % of no right to fixed income.
ordinary share Name Date shares capital There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the Royal London Asset Management Limited 24 02 2012 7,447,768 3.01% transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions Norges Bank 16 03 2012 10,001,352 4.04% of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors Aberforth Partners LLP 04 04 2012 11,949,100 4.83% Kames Capital 24 09 2012 10,009,416 4.01% are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in Annual General Meeting note 28.
Shares held by EES Trustees International Limited abstain The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 12 noon on from voting.
Under the rules of the Groups Share Incentive Plan 22February 2013 at Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle BDSIP, shares are held in trust for participants by Equiniti Share Street, London, EC2R 8JB.
The Notice of Meeting will be sent to Plan Trustees Limited the Trustee.
Voting rights are exercised by shareholders in January 2013.
It will set out all changes in the the Trustees on receipt of the participants instructions: if no such interests of each Director in the Company that occur between instruction is received by the Trustees then no vote is registered.
10November 2012 and the last practicable date before the issue No person has any special rights of control over the Companys of the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
share capital and all issued shares are either fully or nil paid.
Purchase of Own Shares The Company has over the last three year period, issued a total of At the Annual General Meeting on 24 February 2012 shareholders 9.5% of its issued share capital of ordinary shares in relation to the approved a resolution for the Company to make purchases of its acquisition of businesses client relationships.
own shares to a maximum number of 24,759,654 ordinary shares.
This resolution remains valid until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting on 22 February 2013.
As at 4 December 2012 the Directors had not used this authority.
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 Directors Report continued Employees For the purposes of training, career development and promotion, all The average number of persons, including Directors, employed by employees are treated on equal terms with other employees.
the Group and their remuneration, is set out in note 7 to the financial statements.
Disabled Employees Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully Employment Policies considered, bearing in mind the aptitude of the applicant Our employees are vital to the continued success of the Group.
In the event of employees becoming disabled every The Group and our employees are committed to treating our effort is made to ensure that their employment within the Group clients fairly.
continues and that appropriate training is arranged and suitable equipment is supplied in order that they can continue in their role.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and Employees are encouraged to identify with, and to become promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be involved with, the financial performance of the Group and service to identical to that of other employees.
clients by extensive profit sharing arrangements, as described more fully in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Employees also have Benefits the opportunity to participate in the Groups Share Incentive Plan The Group is proud of the attractive benefits available to BDSIP.
To encourage participation the Group awards one matching share for every Partnership share purchased up to the employees.
All employees are allowed to participate in our interest value of 20.
Employees free loan facility in respect of an annual season ticket for travelling of the Group currently own approximately 25% of the Group.
In addition, all staff have the option of joining our private medical insurance scheme.
The Group has recently launched the Ride2work scheme for all employees which aims to Communication make cycling to work a more attractive method of commuting, by Communication with our employees is essential.
The Group has an offering significant tax savings on the cost of a bicycle and Internal Communications Team who ensures that employees have accessories, as well as the health benefits from regular exercise.
all the information they need in both their professional capacity and The scheme was only launched in August and already 4% of as valued members of the Group.
They ensure that information is employees have chosen to participate.
disseminated by the most appropriate method to engage everyone in enhancing morale and productivity.
Employees are kept informed of and consulted regularly on key issues affecting them and the The Group offers a flexible benefits package for senior staff which Group either by electronic means or on a face to face basis as includes permanent health insurance and a company car facility.
In addition, management accounts are widely distributed.
The Group recognises the need for an appropriate work life balance for employees which not only improves morale within the Group, Training and Development but helps to retain employees.
The continuing development of our people through professional sponsorship and regular training remains a priority for the Board.
We are pleased to report a low employee turnover see Business The Training and Competence team, through a network of Regional Review.
Training Managers, provides ongoing support for all individuals by giving access to a wide range of learning activities presented by Employee Assistance Programme highly qualified trainers as well as increasingly using more flexible We understand there may be times when employees need methods such as e-learning.
Everybody has the opportunity to specialist advice on employment, personal, financial or legal identify any training needs with their line manager through the matters.
To support them and their immediate families we provide development review process, and the training team provides robust them with free access to a confidential 24 hour helpline, where they support for a range of continuing professional development CPD can speak with specialist information consultants and counsellors.
The Director responsible for Training and Development throughout the financial year was Ben Speke.
Pensions All permanent employees are invited to join the senior staff pension The Brewin Dolphin Graduate Trainee Scheme continues to provide scheme after successful completion of their probation period.
Other a structured and wide ranging programme for new entrants to than those employees participating in our Total Remuneration Investment Management.
The scheme provides the opportunity to Package which is a flexible benefits package for senior staff maximise the individuals experiences in the Group and seeks to members of the senior staff pension scheme receive an employer increase their knowledge and skills.
contribution of 6% of gross salary into the scheme.
Equal Opportunities Charitable and Political Donations The Group has a strong commitment to maintaining a working The Group made charitable donations of 101,720 during the environment based on equality and diversity.
All employment period 2011: 195,677, to local and national charities serving the decisions are made irrespective of colour, race, age, nationality, communities across which the Group operates.
No political ethnic or national origin, sex, mental or physical disabilities, marital donations were made during the period 2011: nil.
For employees who may have a disability, the Group ensures where possible that procedures and equipment are in place to aid them.
Most of our branches across the country support Our branches across the Group have supported a range of local charities and also sponsored events in their regions including the fundraising events for local and national charities, raising a Abergavenny Food Festival, the Marlborough International Jazz combined total of 115,207.
Highlights include our second year of Festival and the Cholmondeley Pageant of Power an event featuring organising a London to Paris cycle ride in aid of Leukaemia and racing cars and bikes, power boats and aerobatic displays.
Lymphoma Research, with a number of Brewin Dolphin staff and sporting celebrities taking part.
We held a charity auction in Creditor Payment Policy London and hosted a gala dinner in Birmingham in aid of the same It is the Groups policy to settle all of its trading transactions on the charity.
We were also the main sponsor of a charity concert in agreed settlement date: this policy extends to other trade creditors Nottingham in aid of When You Wish Upon a Star, which helps to whose terms are normally 28 days.
On average, creditors were grant the wishes of terminally ill children.
Other fundraising activities paid within 11 days in 2012 2011:10 days.
included an employee travelling to Gambia to help villagers with a building project, a 60 mile journey through the Scottish Highlands Environmental and Ethical Matters by canoe, cycle and on foot and a river run along the length of the The Group believes firmly in the importance of conducting its Thames which was the equivalent of running seven marathons in business in a responsible and sustainable way, sensitive to the seven days.
developing needs and expectations of society at large.
Sarah Soar is the Director responsible for environmental matters.
The Company has a policy of matching the fundraising efforts of our employees up to a specified limit and of contributing to the The Board has reviewed areas where there may be environmental appeals of our charity clients.
risk from direct actions by the Group.
This risk is considered to be minimal, as in all cases the Groups offices are located in large Support for charitable causes has also formed an important part of towns and its activities are desk based.
Nearly all the premises are the activities we have organised throughout the year for marking leasehold and our landlords are encouraged, when replacing our 250th anniversary.
All staff were allocated a 250 day to equipment or for the services that they supply to us, to ensure that engage in a team activity of their choice, with many electing to help environmental issues are considered.
a local charity either by volunteering or by making a donation.
We are also setting up a charitable foundation to complement our The Groups major suppliers mainly provide market data and ongoing support for good causes.
This will be combined with a computer hardware and software.
Our external consultants that we re-launch of our Give As You Earn scheme, through which staff can work with seek to minimise our computer footprint through support their chosen charity.
The Group will make a contribution to virtualisation or consolidation of services wherever possible.
the foundation each month based on the number of staff who Replacement of equipment is in accordance with this policy.
Grants will be made from the foundation Obsolete computer equipment is passed to Euro Recycling who with the aim of helping smaller scale local projects.
provide a fully compliant WEEE service which adheres to the EU Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive WEEE Community Policy Directive.
The Directive aims to minimise the impact of waste The Group encourages its employees to give something back to electrical and electronic goods on the environment, by increasing their local communities.
We continue to be involved with the Young re-use and recycling and reducing the amount of WEEE going to Professionals Forum a networking channel for young business land fill.
people via our North East and Edinburgh branches.
Many of our Divisional Directors provide director and trustee services to charities The impact of the travel undertaken by our employees in the course on a pro bono basis, while we have a Group-wide policy of of their duties is shown in the following table: overall our CO 2 providing work experience placements for students in our emissions were for the 52 week period to 30 September 2012: branches.
We are also planning to use our charitable foundation to support staff volunteering activities.
Tonnes Summary CO2e Sponsorship Air 552 As part of our 250th anniversary celebrations we sponsored a show Rail 174 garden at the RHS Chelsea Flower Show.
The Brewin DolphinRoad 742 themed garden, which was designed by Cleve West, was awarded a 1,468 gold medal and the prestigious award of Best Show Garden.
The Group also sponsored a number of other sporting and cultural The data has been collected for all our branches, and calculated in organisations and events across the country including Durham accordance with the guidelines set out in DEFRA Guidance on How County Cricket Club, the Cheltenham Cricket Festival and the Irish to Report GHG Emissions.
The Group continues to sponsor the Scottish Schools Cup rugby competitions, which have grown to encompass a The Group has videoconferencing facilities across all its branches number of tournaments for boys and girls.
We supported several and the use of such is actively encouraged, to improve our face to sailing events during the year including the Scottish Series sailing face collaboration and reduce our travel costs, carbon footprint and regatta, the Jersey Regatta and the Royal Southern Yacht Clubs achieve a better work-life balance for those who had previously had 175th Anniversary Regatta.
We also embarked on a sponsorship of the need to travel frequently.
The ICT training team continue to the Commodores Cup sailing championship, the leading international Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19 Directors Report continued conduct the majority of their training via a virtual training room For those invested in collective funds, we are able to utilise the called Webex, again, this has significantly reduced the number of in-house expertise of our Brewin Dolphin Fund Research Team who actual branch visits by the team.
The Group will continue to monitor are able to screen, research and monitor the range of specialist its CO emissions.
ethical unit or investment trusts on an ongoing basis.
2 Recommendations are made based upon the underlying ethical The majority of our paper used is from sustainable sources and is considerations, performance and a wide range of other criteria.
produced in accordance with the Forest Stewardship Council and where possible the materials used are made up of 50% recycled Health and Safety and 50% virgin wood fibre for our reports, client reports, letterhead The Group has a Health and Safety at Work Policy which is and marketing materials.
We are looking to increase the utilisation reviewed annually by the Board.
The Group Board Executive of recycled paper for printing and photocopying across the Group.
Director responsible for health and safety throughout the financial The Company makes every effort to improve its environmental year was Ben Speke.
footprint through the encouraged use of double sided printing, electronic communication both to and from its clients and internally The Group is committed to the health and safety of its employees, by the widespread use of the intranet and email communication.
clients, subcontractors and others who may be affected by our Recycling of paper, toners and printer cartridges is encouraged work activities.
The Group evaluates the risks to health and safety across the Group.
Our printer and manufacturing mill remain in the business and manages this through an effective Health and environmentally accredited and are certified according to ISO Safety Management System.
Our printers are carbon neutral.
Through its confidential paper recycling program, The Group provides necessary information, instruction, training and the Group has recycled over 371,000 kgs during the period the supervision to ensure that employees are able to discharge their equivalent of saving 7,423 trees.
The Health and Safety Management System used by the Group ensures compliance with all applicable legal and The Groups environmental policy is on our website.
regulatory requirements and internal standards and seeks, by continuous improvement, to develop health and safety performance.
The Groups overall investment policy is solely concerned with obtaining the best return for clients, based upon the principal of Auditor protecting and enhancing the economic interests of our clients.
It is Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this also important for consideration to be given to the personal annual report confirms that: preferences of our private clients and the specific policy criteria of our charity and institutional clients in relation to ethical, t so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit environmental and social governance issues.
information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and We offer a range of ethical screening services alongside our t the Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have portfolio management, in order to ensure that a clients individual taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of preferences in terms of ethical criteria can be upheld.
In order to any relevant audit information and to establish that the provide this, we subscribe to the research services of EIRIS, the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Ethical Investment Research Service, a leading provider of independent research in this area.
This allows clients to select a This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance number of areas they may wish to avoid or positively select, with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006. empowering investors to align their ethics with their financial investment objectives.
Such an approach screens the investment Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office universe and identifies stocks that are suitable for inclusion in their as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at portfolio and those that should be excluded.
Fund managers the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
thereafter consult the list provided when identifying appropriate investment opportunities.
In early 2012, the Company further committed to deepening our By order of the Board use of the screening research by bringing direct access to the Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC no.
2685806 facility in-house, based within our core Research Department.
This enables us to respond quickly and directly to the increasingly Angela Wright complex requirements of some of our clients.
For those clients Secretary seeking screening according to some of the most commonly- 4 December 2012 requested criteria, we have further enhanced the range of negative exclusion or positive inclusion criteria that we automatically assess and make available at investment managers desks throughout Brewin Dolphin, via its extensive research intranet site.
20 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Clyde Cruising, sponsor Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ed by Brewin Dolphin 21
