Board of Directors Lynn Ruddick ` Ian Russell ` Chairman was appointed in 2008.
He was appointed as a Director was formerly Chief Executive in 2004 and Chairman in of Scottish Power plc.
She is is currently non-executive Chairman of Fidelity Special Chairman of Johnston Press Values plc, a non-executive plc, Remploy Ltd, and the director of City of London Investment Group plc, Advanced Power AG advisory board, a nonBlackrock Frontiers Investment Trust plc and executive director of British Polythene Industries plc Standard Life UK Smaller Companies Trust plc, a and The Mercantile Investment Trust plc, and an member of the Investment Committees of The adviser to the Clyde Bergemann Power Group.
Pearson Group Pension Plan and Western Provident Association, and Chairman of the WPA Pension Scheme and the Scottish & Newcastle Pension Jimmy West ` Scheme.
She was previously a Managing Director of Senior Independent Director Merrill Lynch Investment Managers where she was appointed in 1995 and headed the companys investment trust business was formerly a Managing unit.
Director of Lazard Brothers and Co Ltd and Chief James Long ` Executive of Lazard Asset was appointed in 2006.
He is Chairman of New City High He was formerly Director Yield Fund Ltd, Deputy Chairman of Canaccord of Risk and Compliance Genuity Ltd, and a non-executive director of for AstraZeneca Europe, JPMorgan Income & Capital Trust plc, Aberdeen Corporate Finance Director Smaller Companies High Income Trust plc and of Inchcape plc and UK Select Trust plc.
He is Chairman of Associated Managing Director, Asia and Emerging Markets, for British Foods Pension Fund Ltd. the ESAB Group.
He is Chairman of JPMorgan Member of the Audit Committee Asian Investment Trust plc.
Member of the Management Engagement and Remuneration Committee James MacLeod ` ` Member of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee was appointed in 1998 and was a partner of Ernst & Young and its predecessor firms for 25 years until his retirement in 1998.
He is a non-executive director of Scottish Investment Trust plc and is a Chartered Accountant.
