Report of the Directors The Directors submit the Annual Report and Investment Policy Accounts of the Company for the year ended The Company invests worldwide in companies 30 September 2012. which F&C Investment Business Limited FCIB or the Managers, believe will generate a combination Results and Dividends of long-term growth in capital and income for The results for the year are set out in the attached shareholders.
The Company has not set maximum exposures for First, second and third interim dividends, each of any geographical regions or sectors.
However, the 1.442p per Ordinary Share, were paid on 5 April, greater part of the Companys investments will 6 July and 5 October 2012 respectively.
The Board normally be UK equities.
The Company also invests recommends a final dividend for the year of 1.786p per Ordinary Share payable on 31 January 2013 to in other countries or regions and in a portfolio of shareholders on the register at close of business on corporate bonds.
It would normally be expected that 28 December 2012. most of the Companys investments will be equities and equity-related securities including corporate Principal Activity and Status bonds.
However, the Company is not prohibited The Company company number: SC 3721 is a from investing in other types of securities.
No public limited company and an investment company individual company exposure in the portfolio may in terms of the Companies Act 2006.
It has been exceed 10 per cent of the Companys total assets at approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an the time of investment.
The Company will not investment trust for tax purposes for previous years normally invest more than one per cent of its total up to and including the year ended 30 September assets in unlisted securities at the time of 2011.
In consequence, the Company is not liable to investment.
The Directors intend to ensure that the Company continues as an investment trust.
No more than 10 per cent of the Companys total The Company is required to comply with company assets may be invested in aggregate in other listed law, the rules of the UK Listing Authority, UK closed-ended investment companies unless such Financial Reporting Standards, and its Articles of investment companies themselves have published Association.
investment policies to invest no more than 15 per cent of their total assets in other closed-ended Capital Structure investment companies, in which case the limit is The Companys capital structure is set out on 15 per cent.
The Company may use derivatives, principally, but Business Review not exclusively, for enhancing portfolio returns and The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall efficient portfolio management, that is to reduce, stewardship of the Company, including investment transfer or eliminate investment risk in its and dividend policies, corporate strategy, gearing, investments, including protection against currency corporate governance procedures and risk risks or to gain exposure to a specific market.
Biographical details of the Directors, all of whom are non-executive, can be found on The Company uses gearing to enhance income and page 19.
The Company has no executive Directors capital returns over the long term and may borrow in or employees.
The Companys Articles Objective of Association contain a borrowing limit equal to the The Companys investment objective is shown on value of its adjusted total of capital and reserves.
However, equity gearing see definition on page 2 20 British Assets Trust plc would not normally be expected to exceed 20 per with the Companys financial instruments are contained in note 18 to the accounts.
Other risks faced by the Company include the Investment of Assets following: At each Board meeting, the Board considers compliance with the Companys investment policy External events such as terrorism, and other investment restrictions during the protectionism, inflation or deflation, economic reporting period.
An analysis of the portfolio on shocks and recessions, regulatory changes and 30 September 2012 is contained in note 9 to the movements in interest rates and exchange rates accounts and in the Managers Review on pages could affect share prices in particular markets.
The 50 largest investments are shown on Investment and strategic incorrect strategy, pages 15 and 16.
The Companys borrowings are asset allocation, stock selection and the use of described in notes 11 and 12 to the accounts.
gearing could all lead to poor returns for shareholders.
Strategy Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could lead As part of its strategy, the Board has contractually to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange delegated the management of the investment listing, financial penalties, or a qualified audit portfolio, and other services, to the Managers.
Loss of investment trust status could lead The investment strategy employed by the Managers to the Company being subject to tax on capital in meeting the investment objective focuses on gains.
asset allocation, in particular between UK and Operational failure of the Managers accounting overseas equities, corporate bonds, cash and systems or disruption to the Managers business, gearing, coupled with active stock selection.
The or that of third party service providers, could lead selection of investments is based on analyses of, to an inability to provide accurate reporting and amongst other things, market positioning and monitoring, leading to a loss of shareholders competitive advantage, financial strength and confidence.
As part of this process the Financial inadequate controls by the Managers Managers are cognisant of the Companys or third party service providers could lead requirement for an above average level of investment to misappropriation of assets.
accounting policies or failure to comply with The Companys performance in meeting its accounting standards could lead to misreporting objectives is measured against key performance or breaches of regulations.
Breaching bond and indicators as set out on the following page.
Reviews loan covenants or being unable to replace of the Companys returns during the financial year, maturing borrowing facilities could lead to a loss the position of the Company at the year end, and of shareholders confidence and financial loss for the outlook for the coming year are contained in the shareholders.
Chairmans Statement on pages 3 to 5 and the The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these Managers Review on pages 7 to 14, both of which risks through continual review, policy setting and form part of this Business Review.
It also Principal Risks and Risk Management regularly monitors the investment environment and The Companys assets consist mainly of listed the management of the Companys investment securities and its principal risks are therefore marketportfolio.
Investment risk is spread through holding a related.
The Company is also exposed to currency wide range of securities in different countries and risk in respect of overseas markets in which it industrial sectors.
Detailed explanations of the risks associated portfolio was made up of 617 investments in Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 Report of the Directors continued 37 different countries.
The Managers make use of Directors third party risk systems to monitor investment risk The Directors who held office during the year and and the Board receives quarterly risk reports.
The their interests in the shares of the Company at the Board applies the principles detailed in the internal year end were: control guidance issued by the Financial Reporting 2012 2011 Ordinary Ordinary Council.
Details of the Companys internal controls Shares Shares are described in more detail on page 26.
Lynn Ruddick Beneficial 35,144 34,788 Shareholder Value Non-Beneficial 4,411 3,719 The Board and Managers recognise the importance James Long Beneficial 14,928 14,227 of both marketing and share buy-backs in enhancing shareholder value.
In terms of marketing, James MacLeod Beneficial 35,000 35,000 the Managers offer a range of private investor Non-Beneficial 9,500 9,500 savings schemes, details of which can be found on page 53.
In addition, meetings are held regularly Ian Russell Beneficial 20,000 20,000 with current and prospective shareholders and Jimmy West Beneficial 38,400 12,000 stockbroking analysts covering the investment trust sector.
Share buy-backs, which will only be carried out at a discount to the net asset value per share, Since 30 September 2012, Lynn Ruddick and can help reduce the volatility of the discount, James Long have acquired beneficial interests in a enhance the net asset value per share for continuing further 85 shares and 144 shares respectively.
shareholders and provide an enhancement to the Lynn Ruddick has acquired a non-beneficial interest revenue return per share.
Communication of up-toin a further 132 shares.
There have been no other date portfolio information is made through the changes in the interests of the Directors in the Companys website.
Ordinary Shares of the Company between 30 September 2012 and 26 November 2012.
Key Performance Indicators No Director had an interest in the Companys The Board uses a number of performance measures 6.25 per cent Bonds 2031 during the year ended to assess the Companys success in meeting its 30 September 2012 or has acquired an interest objectives.
The key performance indicators are as since the year end.
follows: As explained in more detail in the Corporate Net asset value per share total return against the Governance Statement on pages 23 to 25, the benchmark index.
Board has agreed that all Directors will retire Discount of share price to net asset value per annually.
Accordingly, all five Directors will retire at share.
the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer Revenue earnings and dividends per share.
The biographies of all the Directors are contained on page 19.
Ongoing charges as a percentage of the Companys net asset value.
The Board confirms that, following the evaluation A historical record of these indicators is contained in process set out in Corporate Governance below, the Ten Year Record on page 18. the performance of each of the Directors seeking re-election continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Board Charitable Donations therefore believes that it is in the interests of During the year the Company made donations to shareholders that these Directors are re-elected.
22 British Assets Trust plc No Director has a contract of service with the There have been no changes notified in respect of Company or any interest in any contract to which the above holdings, and no new holdings notified, the Company is a party.
In addition to any power of since the end of the year.
removal conferred by the Companies Acts, the Company may by special resolution remove any Management Director without notice.
FCIB provides management and secretarial services to the Company.
Directors Deeds of Indemnity The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity During the year, the Board reviewed the in favour of each of the Directors.
The deeds give appropriateness of the Managers appointment.
In each Director the benefit of an indemnity to the carrying out its review the Board considered the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 past investment performance of the Company and against liabilities incurred by any of them in the the capability and resources of the Managers to execution of their duties and the exercise of their deliver satisfactory income growth and investment powers.
A copy of each deed of indemnity is performance.
It also considered the standard of available for inspection at the Companys registered other services provided which include company office during normal business hours and will be secretarial, accounting and marketing.
available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Following this review, the Directors are satisfied with the Managers ability to deliver satisfactory income Conflicts of Interest growth and long term investment performance and Each Director has a statutory duty to avoid a with and the quality of other services provided.
It is situation where he or she has, or could have, a the Directors opinion that the continuing direct or indirect interest which conflicts, or may appointment of the Managers on the terms agreed conflict, with the interests of the Company.
is in the interests of shareholders.
A Director will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter has been authorised by the Board A summary of the terms of the management in accordance with the Companys Articles of agreement is contained in note 3 to the accounts.
The Board has approved a protocol for identifying Corporate Governance Statement and dealing with conflicts and has resolved to Shareholders hold the directors of a company conduct a review of actual or possible conflicts at responsible for the stewardship of that companys least annually.
No conflicts or potential conflicts affairs.
Corporate governance is the process by were identified during the year.
which a board of directors discharges this responsibility.
The Companys arrangements in Substantial Interests in Share Capital respect of corporate governance are explained in On 30 September 2012 the Company had received this section of the Report of the Directors.
notification of the following voting rights under the The Company is required to comply with, or to FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules : explain its non-compliance with, the relevant Number of Ordinary Shares Percentage provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code Held Held issued by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC in June 2010 which can be found at AXA Investment www.
The Association of Investment Managers SA 40,362,177 13.9 Companies issued its own Code of Corporate F&C Asset Management 18,945,342 6.5 Governance in October 2010 the AIC Code, Legal & General Group 11,694,807 4.0 which can be found at www.
co. uk and which Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23 Report of the Directors continued has been approved by the FRC as it addresses all that each Director is independent in character and the principles of the UK Corporate Governance that there are no relationships or circumstances Code as well as setting out additional principles and which are likely to affect his or her judgement.
recommendations on issues which are of specific The Board subscribes to the view expressed in the relevance to investment trusts.
The Board considers AIC Code that long-serving Directors should not be that reporting against the principles and prevented from forming part of an independent recommendations of the AIC Code provides better majority.
It does not consider that the length of a information to shareholders than the UK Corporate Directors tenure reduces his or her ability to act Governance Code on its own.
The Boards policy on tenure is that Throughout the year, the Company complied with continuity and experience are considered to add the recommendations of the AIC Code and the significantly to the strength of the Board and, as relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance such, no limit on the overall length of services of any Code.
Since the Company has no employees and all of the Companys Directors, including the Chairman, Directors are non-executive, the provisions of the UK has been imposed, although the Board believes in Corporate Governance Code on the role of a chief the merits of periodic and progressive refreshment executive and on Directors remuneration, except in of its composition.
so far as they apply to non-executive Directors, are The basis on which the Company aims to generate not relevant to the Company and are not reported value over the longer term is set out in its objective, on further.
investment policy and strategy as contained within The Board has considered the amendments to the the Business Review on pages 20 and 22.
A UK Corporate Governance Code which apply to management agreement between the Company and accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October the Managers sets out the matters over which the 2012 and has included some additional disclosures Managers have authority and the limits beyond in this statement in order to reflect the changes.
It is which Board approval must be sought.
All other the intention of the Board that the Company will matters, including corporate strategy, investment comply fully with the amended code throughout the and dividend policies, gearing, corporate year ending 30 September 2013. governance procedures and risk management are reserved for the approval of the Board of Directors.
The Board consists of five independent nonThe Board receives full information on the executive Directors.
Lynn Ruddick is the Chairman Companys investment performance, assets, and Jimmy West is the Senior Independent Director.
liabilities and other relevant information in advance All the Directors have been issued with letters of of Board meetings.
appointment, which are available upon request.
The Board has agreed that all Directors will retire The Managers, in the absence of explicit instructions annually and, if appropriate, seek re-election.
The from the Board, are empowered to exercise biographies of all the Directors are contained on discretion in the use of the Companys voting rights.
During the year the performance of the All shareholdings are voted at all meetings Board, committees and individual Directors was worldwide where practicable in accordance with the evaluated through an interview-based process led Managers own corporate governance policy, which by the Chairman.
This process involved discussions is to seek to maximise shareholder value by between the Chairman and individual Directors and constructive use of votes at company meetings and feedback from the Chairman to the Board and by endeavouring to use their influence as investors individual Directors.
The performance of the with a principled approach to corporate governance.
Chairman was evaluated in the same way by the Environmental factors are, where appropriate, taken Senior Independent Director.
The Board believes into consideration with regard to investment 24 British Assets Trust plc decisions on behalf of the Company.
The Board Management Engagement and Remuneration notes the Managers statement of compliance with Committee the UK Stewardship Code issued by the Financial The Management Engagement and Remuneration Reporting Council in July 2010, which can be Committee, chaired by Lynn Ruddick, comprises the found on its website at www.
com full Board and reviews the appropriateness of the ukstewardshipcode.
Managers continuing appointment, together with the terms and conditions thereof, on a regular Much of the Boards corporate governance basis.
In addition to total return performance, the responsibilities are discharged through the Audit, Managers are also judged in relation to management Management Engagement and Remuneration, and of the revenue account, quality of the fund Nomination Committees.
These Committees all management and administration teams, commitment operate within clearly defined written terms of to their investment trust business, strength of reference which are available upon request at the relationships with shareholders and the Companys registered office.
appropriateness of the management contract, including fees.
As stated in the Directors Remuneration Report on Audit Committee page 29, the full Board determines the level of The Audit Committee is chaired by James Directors fees and accordingly there is no separate MacLeod and comprises all of the Directors except Remuneration Committee.
the Chairman of the Board, Lynn Ruddick.
The duties of the committee include reviewing the Nomination Committee Annual and Interim Accounts, the system of internal The Nomination Committee, chaired by Lynn controls, and the terms of appointment of the Ruddick, comprises the full Board and is convened auditor, Ernst & Young LLP E&Y, together with for the purpose of considering the appointment of its remuneration.
It is also the forum through which additional Directors as and when appropriate.
Any the auditor reports to the Board of Directors.
It appointments to the Board are based on merit, meets at least twice yearly including at least one but in considering appointments, the Nomination meeting with the auditor.
E&Y has confirmed that it Committee also takes into account the ongoing is independent of the Company and has complied requirements of the Company and the need to have with relevant auditing standards.
a balance of skills, experience, independence, diversity, including gender, and knowledge of the The Audit Committee also reviews the terms under Company within the Board.
No new Directors were which the auditor is appointed to perform non-audit appointed during the year, but whenever there are services, which amounted to 5,000 for the year new appointments these Directors receive an ended 30 September 2012 2011: 5,000 and were induction from the Managers on joining the Board.
for the provision of taxation services and certification All Directors receive other relevant training, of a bond compliance certificate.
The committee collectively or individually, as necessary.
The considers the provision of these services to be cost Nomination Committee did not meet during the year.
effective and not to compromise the objectivity or independence of E&Y.
The Audit Committee During the year ended 30 September 2012 there continues to be satisfied with E&Ys performance as were six Board meetings, two Audit Committee auditor and has recommended its re-appointment to meetings and one Management Engagement and the Board.
All meetings were fully attended.
A description of the main features of the Companys Individual Directors may, at the expense of the internal control and risk management systems is Company, seek independent professional advice on contained on page 26.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25 Report of the Directors continued any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of key functions carried out by the Managers and other their duties.
The Company maintains appropriate service providers, the individual activities undertaken Directors and Officers liability insurance.
within those functions, the risks associated with each activity and the controls employed to minimise those risks.
A residual risk rating is then applied.
The Going Concern test matrix is regularly updated and the Board is In assessing the going concern basis of accounting, provided with regular reports highlighting all material the Directors have had regard to the guidance changes to the risk ratings and confirming the action issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
They which has been, or is being, taken.
A formal annual have considered the current cash position of the review of these procedures is carried out by the Company, the availability of the revolving advance Audit Committee and includes consideration of facility, compliance with the bond and loan internal control reports issued by the Managers and covenants, and forecast revenues for the current other service providers.
The Directors have also taken into account the Companys investment policy, which is Such review procedures have been in place described on pages 20 and 21 and which is subject throughout the financial year and up to the date of to regular Board monitoring processes, and is approval of the Annual Report, and the Board is designed to ensure that the Company is invested in satisfied with their effectiveness.
These procedures mainly liquid, listed securities.
The Company retains are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk title to all assets held by its custodian and has and, by their nature, can only provide reasonable, agreements relating to its borrowing facilities.
but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
At each Board meeting the Note 18 to the accounts sets out the financial risk Board monitors the investment performance of the profile of the Company and indicates the effect on Company in comparison to its stated objective, the its assets and liabilities of falls and rises in the value benchmark index, and against comparable of securities, market rates of interest and changes in investment trusts.
The Board also reviews the exchange rates.
Companys activities since the last Board meeting to ensure that the Managers adhere to the agreed The Directors believe, in the light of the controls and investment policy and approved investment review processes noted above and bearing in mind guidelines and, if necessary, approves changes to the nature of the Companys business and assets, the guidelines.
that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable The Board has reviewed the need for an internal future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going audit function.
The Board has decided that the concern basis in preparing the accounts.
systems and procedures employed by the Managers, including their internal audit function, Internal Control which are reported on by a firm of external reporting The Board is responsible for the Companys system accountants, provide sufficient assurance that a of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
sound system of internal control, to safeguard the The Board has therefore established an ongoing Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit process designed to meet the particular needs of function specific to the Company is therefore the Company in managing the risks to which it considered unnecessary.
is exposed, consistent with the internal control guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Relations with Shareholders The process relies principally on the Managers The Company places great importance on existing risk-based approach to internal control communication with shareholders and welcomes whereby a test matrix is created which identifies the 26 British Assets Trust plc their views.
The Managers hold meetings with the value per share.
The Directors consider that the Companys largest shareholders and report back to authorisations proposed in resolutions 11 and 12 are the Board on these meetings.
The Chairman and necessary to retain flexibility, although they do not other Directors are available to meet shareholders.
intend to exercise the powers conferred by these The Annual General Meeting of the Company authorisations at the present time.
provides a forum, both formal and informal, for shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares Directors and Managers of the Company.
The notice The Company did not purchase any Ordinary Shares for the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, to be for cancellation during the year ended 30 September held in London on 29 January 2013, is set out on 2012. pages 54 to 56.
The Annual Report and Notice of Annual General Meeting are sent to shareholders at Resolution 13, as set out in the notice of the Annual least 20 working days before the Meeting.
General Meeting, seeks renewal of the Companys share buy-back authority.
The renewed authority to make market purchases will be in respect of a Financial Instruments maximum of 14.99 per cent of the issued Ordinary The Companys financial instruments comprise its Shares of the Company on the date of the passing investment portfolio, bonds, bank loan, foreign of the resolution approximately 44 million Ordinary exchange currency contracts, cash balances and Shares.
The price paid for shares will not be less debtors and creditors that arise directly from its than the nominal value of 25p per share nor more operations such as sales and purchases awaiting than the higher of i 5 per cent above the average settlement and accrued income.
The financial risk closing price on the London Stock Exchange of an management objectives and policies arising from its Ordinary Share over the five business days before financial instruments and the exposure of the the shares are purchased and ii the higher of the Company to risk are disclosed in note 18 to the last independent trade and the highest current accounts.
independent bid on the London Stock Exchange.
This power will only be exercised if, in the opinion of the Directors, a purchase will result in an increase in Directors Authority to Allot Shares net asset value per share of the remaining shares The Directors are seeking authority to allot shares.
and is in the interests of shareholders.
Any shares Resolution 11 will, if passed, authorise the Directors purchased under this authority will be cancelled or to allot new shares up to an aggregate nominal held in treasury for future re-issue at a premium to amount of 7,277,807, being 10 per cent of the the prevailing net asset value per share.
This total issued shares on 26 November 2012. authority will expire on the earlier of 29 July 2014 Resolution 12 will, if passed, authorise the Directors and the conclusion of the next Annual General to allot new shares up to an aggregate nominal Meeting of the Company.
amount of 3,638,903, being 5 per cent of the total issued shares on 26 November 2012, for cash without first offering such shares to existing Disclosure of Information to the Auditor shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
The Directors confirm that, so far as each of them is These authorities will continue until the earlier of the aware, there is no relevant audit information of expiry of 15 months from the passing of the which the Companys auditor is unaware and the resolutions and the conclusion of the next Annual Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to General Meeting.
The Directors will only allot new have taken as Directors in order to make themselves shares pursuant to these authorities if they believe it aware of any relevant audit information and to is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of do so and will not result in a dilution of net asset that information.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27 Report of the Directors continued Auditor Creditor Payment Policy Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to The Companys payment policy is to settle continue in office as auditor and a resolution investment transactions in accordance with market proposing its re-appointment will be submitted at practice and to ensure settlement of supplier the Annual General Meeting.
invoices in accordance with stated terms.
The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year end.
Individual Savings Accounts The Companys shares are qualifying investments for Individual Savings Accounts.
It is the intention of the By order of the Board Directors that the Company will continue to conduct G R Hay Smith its affairs to satisfy this requirement.
Secretary 80 George Street Edinburgh EH2 3BU 26 November 2012 28 British Assets Trust plc
