Managers Review Introduction The Eurozone crisis has continued to impact banks My first year as lead fund manager of the Company and governments.
Bank capital buffers have has been an eventful and at times challenging one.
increased, lending has been curtailed and central The economic environment has been deteriorating banks have provided ample liquidity through a for much of the year but the concerted interventions succession of orchestrated programmes.
of global central banks and other policy makers Government austerity measures to address budget have more than offset this, leading to a period of deficits have also been imposed.
The aggregate positive equity returns.
Our focus has remained on impact on economic growth of all these measures seeking to achieve a total return in excess of the however has meant projected deficits as a share of composite benchmark index whilst managing the GDP have not reduced significantly.
revenue account to enable an above average level of With this backdrop, whilst the United States has dividend to be maintained.
been resilient, global economic growth has, not surprisingly, been lacklustre.
The biggest change in expectations amongst major economies over the Review of the Year year has arguably been in China where the transition In the year to 30 September 2012, the Companys to a new generation of leaders has been prolonged net asset value total return was 17.3 per cent, which and complex.
The retiring party leaders have been compares to a return of 17.3 per cent for its determined not to repeat the over stimulus of 2009 composite benchmark index which changed to to support near term growth through excessive 80 per cent FTSE All-Share Index and 20 per cent investment in fixed assets.
FTSE World Ex UK Index on 1 October 2011.
These economic and political uncertainties have One of the key objectives of the changes made at the meant companies have retained their strong balance beginning of the year was to return the Company to a sheets, reluctant to initiate material capital position where the revenue account could cover the investment programmes.
The predicted increase in annual dividend cost.
A combination of the changes merger and acquisition activity has therefore been we made in the underlying portfolios, a higher than somewhat more limited than we anticipated.
expected value of non-recurring dividends, and With this inauspicious background it is therefore underlying dividend growth from the investments has notable that returns from both equity and credit .
markets have actually been very healthy.
At 30 September 2012 the Company had gearing, The combination of these factors has meant that net of cash, of 16.4 per cent comprising equity global equity markets are now somewhat more gearing of 2.9 per cent and 13.5 per cent invested expensive than a year ago, with the MSCI World Index now being valued at a multiple around 12 in fixed interest securities.
times consensus forward earnings compared to When reviewing the outlook statement from our around 10 times at the end of the last financial year Managers Review last year many of the issues Source: Morgan Stanley.
In other words, the identified were indeed highly influential in the returns in the last year have been principally due to performance of global equity markets over the an upward revaluation of equities and dividends ensuing months.
rather than actual earnings growth.
Local Stockmarket Total Returns Year to 30 September 2012 Currency FTSEAll-ShareIndex 17.2% 17.2% FTSEWorld exUK Index 17.8% 22.1% FTSEAll-World exUK Index 17.4% 21.7%  13.2% 17.3% Source:Datastream Annual Report and Accounts 2012 7 Managers Review continued Asset Allocation Asset Allocation The asset allocation of the Company is shown in the table below: 30 September 2012 30 September 2011 ShareShareBenchmark holders Total holders Total 30.09.12 Funds Assets Funds Assets Asset Class %%%%% UK Equities 80.0 75.2 62.2 79.3 63.9 Overseas Equities Global High Yield ex UK 19.3 16.0 17.8 14.4 Emerging Markets 8.4 7.0 7.8 6.3 Total Overseas Equities 20.0 27.7 23.0 25.6 20.7 Total Equities 100.0 102.9 85.2 104.9 84.6 Corporate Bonds 13.5 11.2 15.6 12.6 Net Current Assets 3.6 2.8 Gearing 16.4 20.5 Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 comprising equity gearing of 2.9 per cent 2011: 4.9 per cent and 13.5 per cent in corporate bonds 2011: 15.6 per cent As highlighted in last years Annual Report we made funds throughout the period.
Allocations to UK some changes to the portfolio at the beginning of equities were commensurately lower than the October to reflect the new benchmark and to benchmark, particularly during the course of the final generate a higher yield from the Global ex UK nine months of the year.
In January we increased weightings The aggregate impact of these asset allocation modestly in the emerging markets portfolio and then decisions over the year was modestly negative as held this overweight position to varying degrees over Global Emerging Market indices underperformed the the remainder of the year.
The allocation to the broadly similar performance of the FTSE All-Share Global ex UK portfolio was increased in March in Index and the FTSE World ex-UK Index although the belief that after the strong gains of the first half this was more than offset by positive stock of the financial year the high income bias of this selection.
Global credit indices delivered similar total portfolio would be more suited to our expectation of returns to the composite benchmark.
a potentially more volatile second six months.
We maintained the holdings in the Corporate Bond Equity gearing at year end, at 2.9 per cent, was portfolio at a little over 10 per cent of shareholders somewhat lower than during the year as a whole.
8 British Assets Trust plc Portfolio Reports UK Equities Major Holdings Market %Total Company Sector Valuem Investments BP Oil&Gas 14.1 3.2 RoyalDutchShell Oil&Gas 13.5 3.0 GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals&Biotech 12.4 2.8 BHPBilliton Mining 12.3 2.8 HSBC Banking 11.3 2.5 Vodafone Telecommunications 9.9 2.2  Tobacco 9.6 2.2 StandardChartered Banking 8.8 2.0 AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals&Biotech 8.2 1.8 Centrica Gas, Water&Multiutilities 7.5 1.7 The UK portfolio generated a total return of 17.0 per process.
The impact on commodity prices has been cent compared with a return of 17.2 per cent from acute particularly in bulk commodities such as iron the FTSE All-Share Index.
The UK equity market generated strong returns At the company specific level, the portfolio during the year, broadly matching the FTSE World benefitted from the takeover of two of its holdings ex UK Index despite the ongoing weakness in the WSP Group and Cove Energy.
This is a testament to the international including support services group i-Energizer, Lloyds nature of the companies listed on the UK market.
Banking Group, mezzanine finance provider Intermediate Capital, Lloyds insurer Beazley and There have, however, been sharp gyrations in Xstrata all added to absolute and relative risk appetite throughout the period as investors performance.
The biggest detractors were financials have in turn rewarded resilient consumption growth our holding in Man Group generated particularly and then developed market risk within the financial disappointing returns.
Financials have been the largest single contributor as a result of the reduced perception Major changes in the portfolio over the year included of risks in the Eurozone and the direct benefits increasing the holdings in financials and reducing of the liquidity programmes.
Consumer stocks holdings in perceived expensive and typically less such as food producers, beverage and household economically sensitive stocks, including companies products companies have also been very strong within the consumer staples sector.
diversified the portfolio, reducing our weightings in The worst performing major sector during the year the very largest companies in the UK equity market.
The slowdown in the Chinese economy This will ensure we are less reliant on any individual coupled with tighter credit conditions led to both companys dividends to generate our future income lower aggregate demand and a severe destocking requirements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9 Managers Review continued Global High Yield ex UK Equities Major Holdings Market %Total Company Sector Valuem Investments Enel ElectricUtilities 1.2 0.3 Lilly Eli &Co Pharmaceuticals&Biotech 1.2 0.3 LinkREIT  1.2 0.3 ZurichInsuranceGroup Non-LifeInsurance 1.1 0.2   1.1 0.2 DeutscheTelekom  1.1 0.2 TATTSGroup Travel&Leisure 1.1 0.2 PitneyBowes TechnologyHadware&Equipment 1.1 0.2 Total Oil&Gas 1.1 0.2   1.1 0.2 The Global High Yield ex UK portfolio generated a underweight position in the US which performed total return of 6.6 per cent compared with a return well given the robust domestic economy and of 17.4 per cent from the FTSE All-World ex UK overweight allocations to Japan and Taiwan which Index.
have large export exposures to the slowing Chinese markets were detrimental.
This portfolio has continued to be managed using a quantitative investment process and aims to provide Additionally, there were negative contributions from dividend income in excess of the FTSE All-World ex several companies that exhibited a common theme UK Index.
While the portfolio generated a positive the fear of deep cuts in dividends.
For some absolute return and the level of investment income companies, like Nokia, these fears turned out to be met our expectations, the modest total return in the justified, but for others like Chubu Electric Power, context of the wider market was disappointing.
The which was also a poor performer, the dividend cut radical introduction of unconventional monetary was modest.
stimulus increased risk appetite, which was Given the negative effect of these company specific detrimental to the defensive high dividend yield issues on performance, we modified the portfolio nature of our strategy.
construction process towards the end of the year.
At the sector level, an overweight allocation to higher Further changes have been enacted since the year yielding utilities hurt in particular and, albeit to a end enhancing the quality of the companies in the lesser extent, an underweight allocation to financials portfolio and hence the certainty of the dividends we was also a negative factor.
At the country level an expect to receive.
10 British Assets Trust plc Emerging Markets Equities Major Holdings Market %Total Company Sector Valuem Investments SamsungElectronics TechnologyHardware&Equipment 1.6 0.4 BancoBradesco Banking 1.3 0.3 Industrial&ComercialBankofChina Banking 1.3 0.3  TechnologyHardware&Equipment 1.3 0.3 ChinaMobile  1.0 0.2 HDFCBank Banking 0.9 0.2 Vale Mining 0.8 0.2  ElectronicEquipment 0.8 0.2 HyundaiMotor Automobiles 0.8 0.2 Sberbank Banking 0.7 0.2 The Emerging Markets portfolio generated a total to our position in the internet company Tencent return of 18.9 per cent compared with a return of which is dominant in search, gaming and on-line 13.2 per cent from the MSCI Emerging Markets advertising.
Shares sold from the portfolio included China Investor confidence increased modestly over the Petroleum, on fears of earnings downgrades given year as central banks in developed markets rethe lack of policy change on retail fuel prices, and affirmed that the accommodative policies of low the Korean satellite broadcaster KT Skylife, as a interest rates and quantitative easing QE would be slowdown in new subscribers made management in place for an extended period.
Given their better targets for 2012 look overly ambitious.
economic profile, solid budget positions and more We continue to believe that the strategic long term robust earnings picture, emerging equities were able case for emerging markets remains strong.
On a to benefit, despite clear evidence of slowing 12 month view we expect further positive returns in economic growth in the economies of China, Brazil these markets, and foresee performance to be in line and India.
with expectations for earnings growth.
This is In a difficult economic environment, our emphasis projected to be in the 12-15 per cent range, although has been on companies with strong managements, these estimates have been falling in recent months.
solid franchises and good earnings visibility.
One The turmoil in Europe continues to be the main risk, such company which we purchased was the South with events in Spain, Greece and Portugal likely to African based retailer Shoprite, as its shares trigger further volatility in global markets.
With this appeared attractively valued given its track record of backdrop we will stick with our strategy of investing excellent shareholder returns.
Another purchase was in high quality companies which exhibit balance Ecopetrol, a high-quality Colombian oil exploration sheet strength, such as our largest holding, Samsung company which we believe will demonstrate strong Electronics.
The countries in which we are finding the growth in its production of oil.
In China, we added best ideas are Brazil, India, Thailand and Turkey.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11 Managers Review continued Corporate Bonds The corporate bond portfolio generated a total return in the lower tiers of investment grade bonds.
We of 17.8 per cent over the year compared with a increased the allocation towards non-financials but return of 13.6 per cent from investment grade bonds only marginally more than has been true of the as measured by the Merrill Lynch All Sterling Nonmarket as a whole.
Gilts Index and 24.6 per cent from high yield bonds In terms of our outlook, the effects of the financial as measured by the Merrill Lynch European crisis will be with us for a number of years.
In Currency High Yield Index.
particular, we believe austerity will continue to The primary objective of the corporate bond portfolio dampen economic growth and central banks, is to supplement the Companys income.
This is including the Bank of England, will need to continue achieved by investing in a diversified portfolio of both to provide support to markets to manage inevitable investment grade and high yield bonds.
We aim to bouts of volatility.
These factors suggest that low deliver a total return over time which is comparable interest rates will remain a feature of markets into with the return we can expect from equities and the medium term.
This is a positive backdrop for above the cost of the Companys borrowings.
Both demand for corporate bonds, especially whilst they of these aims have been achieved in the last year.
offer significantly higher returns than government bonds.
Indeed, we have seen many instances where As with equity markets the dominating factors current demand from investors for new issuance by affecting performance of corporate bonds this year companies wishing to lock in low borrowing rates have been the evolution of the banking and has far outstripped supply.
This imbalance may sovereign debt crises in the Eurozone and the remain for some time and has been exacerbated by unconventional policy measures undertaken to the provision of alternative funding to banking manage them.
The deterioration of economic growth institutions leading to them tendering for their forecasts in Europe in particular has also been a existing bonds.
However, notwithstanding this positive outlook for The combination of these factors has supported credit markets, we do not expect future annual lower yields in the perceived safe haven bonds on a returns to match those we have witnessed this year.
global basis in both the corporate and government markets.
Risk appetite has, however, increased somewhat during the period as a result of a Distribution of Corporate Bond Portfolio progression of measures, particularly those undertaken by the ECB, to reduce the tail risk of % defaults by peripheral European governments.
50 New issuance has been rife in the windows of 42.0 opportunity provided by central bank interventions, 40 particularly in the US but also in mainland Europe.
32.2 Issuance by UK corporates has been more muted.
30 26.0 24.4 At the sectoral level the most striking feature has 22.1 20.2 been the net redemptions of outstanding credit by 20 16.4 banks as they have accessed cheaper finance elsewhere.
The portfolio, which typically holds 10 7.3 instruments of varying durations and seniority in 5.3 2.5 terms of their relative credit rating within the 0.9 0.7 0.0 0.0 0 companys capital structure, has benefited from its Government BBB Below Cash AAA AA A BBB exposure to these financials this year.
Credit Rating Portfolio Benchmark Our investment approach did not change over the year and the credit risk is mostly concentrated 12 British Assets Trust plc Overall Outlook and long term solvency, to have a more positive There is an argument that our outlook could simply long term future.
We still see a sustainable solution reiterate the comments we made last year.
Global as requiring either peripheral countries to exit the economic growth remains subdued with market Euro or a full fiscal and political union.
The recent forecasts for 2013 having fallen steadily over the broad accord around banking supervision is a course of the year from around 3.5% in September necessary first step towards deeper integration as it 2011 to closer to 2.5% at the end of September begins to break the linkage between individual 2012.
Expectations for growth in the US and sovereign credit risk and their respective banking Japanese economies have been broadly stable over sectors.
the period at between 1.5% and 2%.
The Chinese outlook has been deteriorating as depressed exports The area of potentially greatest interest will be how to Europe coupled with inaction ahead of leadership the new Chinese leadership looks to take the change have dampened demand.
European and UK country forward in the coming years.
There is a clear growth expectations fell steadily throughout the requirement to foster consumption as opposed to period.
the greater focus hitherto on fixed asset investment.
The increasing role of private sector enterprise and Looking forward through 2013, however, some of communication through social and other media in these specific uncertainties should become clearer.
the economy makes authoritarian central control harder at a time of increasing plurality of both With presidential elections out of the way the political opinions and personal aspirations.
This domestic investment outlook for US companies will transition, which coincides with the rapid ageing of become clearer and more positive, assuming the population, represents both a material threat to, political agreement can be reached to mitigate the and opportunity for, long term Chinese prosperity.
immediate impact of tax and spending cuts that Managing this transition will be a major challenge are due to expire in January 2013 the so called and will impact on many aspects of the global fiscal cliff.
The US housing market has shown economy given the importance of China in the early signs of improvement.
Consulting Group report highlighted that a combination of factors, including the devaluation of In the UK, the government is likely to remain under the US dollar, wage inflation elsewhere in the world pressure to find ways to increase economic growth and lower energy costs as a result of shale gas without veering too far off its deficit reduction production, are combining to make the US more strategy, for example through accelerated competitive internationally and to leave it with a infrastructure investment and revised and less materially better private sector outlook.
The economically detrimental spending cuts.
commitment to extended central bank stimulation, Encouragement to the wider banking sector to for so long as unemployment remains high, will increase lending will also remain in place, despite reinforce these conditions and bolster the the confusing and at times apparently contradictory confidence of US companies in particular to invest, messages from regulators around the need for both organically and through buying other further deleveraging and increased capital businesses.
The burgeoning budget deficit certainly requirements.
needs to be resolved, but, as we are seeing in Europe, it is far easier to achieve this with a The prospects for near term dividend growth from growing economy than a shrinking one, assuming companies remain positive given their strong the political will is there.
balance sheets, shareholder pressure to return cash regularly and the still robust earnings.
However, if In the Eurozone, progress is being made, supported the earnings outlook deteriorates dividend growth by the actions of the ECB, although we would still will be reduced.
Looking forward we will endeavour expect bouts of turbulence in the months ahead.
to balance the total return objective with our desire The fact remains, however, that the region needs to return to sustainable and progressive income economic growth, an increase in competitiveness growth for the Company.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Managers Review continued After the upward revaluation of equities which has Against other asset classes, however, equities generated positive returns over the last year, if the continue to offer excellent value.
If the near term current path of profit expectations continues on a challenges described above can be overcome this downward trajectory, the immediate outlook for should lead to better returns for equity investors over markets may be less rewarding.
The subdued the medium term.
We regard the long term outlook quantum, and higher volatility, of equity market with cautious optimism.
returns in recent years may keep many potential investors on the sidelines, but there has been Phil Doel anecdotal evidence of asset allocators increasing Investment Manager their equity weightings which is encouraging.
F&C Investment Business Limited 26 November 2012 14 British Assets Trust plc
