06 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 Investment Portfolio The top ten equity investments make up 45% of the portfolio, with underlying businesses across a diverse range of sectors and regions.
Ten largest equity investments Vivendi Nature of business Media & Telecoms Conglomerate Cost 97.4m Valuation 74.2m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets less current liabilities 9.2% A French telecommunications and media conglomerate that trades on a discount of over 30% to the sum-of-its-parts.
Vivendi owns stakes in companies operating in the music, games, television, films and telecommunications industries.
Copyright Vivendi Orkla Nature of business Investment Holding Company Cost 60.6m Valuation 52.5m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets less current liabilities 6.5% A Norwegian conglomerate operating in the branded consumer goods, aluminium and energy sectors.
A streamlining of the business may narrow the discount to estimated NAV which stood at over 20% at year end.
Copyright Orkla Jardine Strategic Holdings Nature of business Investment Holding Company Cost 5.3m Valuation 41.7m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets less current liabilities 5.2% Jardine Strategic, controlled by Jardine Matheson, trades on a 36% discount to an attractive collection of Asian listed companies, including Hong Kong Land, Dairy Farm and Mandarin Oriental.
Copyright Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group Photography George Apostolidis Jardine Matheson Holdings Nature of business Investment Holding Company Cost 18.7m Valuation 41.5m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets less current liabilities 5.1% The other Singapore listed company in the Jardine control chain.
Jardine Matheson trades on a discount of 29% and owns 82% of Jardine Strategic which, in turn, owns 55% of Jardine Matheson.
Jardine Strategic has the higher discount but Jardine Matheson is more liquid with a higher dividend yield.
Copyright The HongKong Land Company, Limited Aker Nature of business Investment Holding Company Cost 28.6m Valuation 35.7m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets less current liabilities 4.4% A Norwegian conglomerate whose interests range from oil and gas exploration to seafood processing.
The company was trading on a 41% discount to estimated NAV at year end.
Copyright Aker Solutions 07 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 Investor AB A Nature of business Investment Holding Company Cost 22.7m Valuation 29.7m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets less current liabilities 3.7% A Swedish industrial holding company that owns significant shareholdings in major public multinational companies as well as private companies mostly in the healthcare sector.
Investor takes an active ownership role in many of the companies and was trading on a 36% discount to estimated NAV at the end of the year.
Copyright Atlas Copco Groupe Bruxelles Lambert Nature of business Investment Holding Company Cost 31.3m Valuation 27.5m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets less current liabilities 3.4% The listed Belgian holding company of Albert Frre trades on a 27% discount to its NAV.
Its holdings include French blue chip listed companies.
Copyright GDF SUEZ Sofina Nature of business Investment Holding Company Cost 24.7m Valuation 24.1m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets less current liabilities 3.0% A Belgian holding company that invests predominately in listed assets across a diverse range of sectors.
The company was trading on a 42% discount to estimated NAV at year end.
Copyright Sofina Granite Real Estate Nature of business Real Estate Investment Company Cost 16.2m Valuation 19.5m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets less current liabilities 2.4% Granite is a Canadian based real estate company engaged in the ownership and management of predominantly industrial properties in Canada, the United States, Mexico and Europe.
Trading to a 13% discount, it is notably cheaper than peers.
Granites conversion to REIT status, and its strong balance sheet and low leverage offer scope for an increased dividend pay-out to drive a re-rating.
Copyright Granite Real Estate Nexen Nature of business Oil & Gas Company Cost 17.7m Valuation 19.1m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets less current liabilities 2.4% Nexen Inc. is a Canadian-based upstream oil and gas company responsibly developing energy resources in some of the worlds most significant basins including Western Canada, the UK North Sea, the Gulf of Mexico and offshore West Africa.
At the year end, the company was subject to a takeover bid from CNOOC.
