22 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for Reviews of the Companys NAV performance during the year in the year ended 30 September 2012. comparison to the benchmark the Companys key performance indicator, are contained in the Chairmans Statement on pages 04 and 05 and the Status Investment Managers Review on pages 08 to 15.
The Company is registered as a public limited company under the Companies Acts and is an investment company under Section 833 of Principal risks the Companies Act 2006.
It is a member of the Association of Investment The principal risks facing the Company are market risk and foreign Companies.
Market risk arises from uncertainty about future movements in, principally, equity and bond markets, which are themselves influenced The Company has been approved as an investment company under by a number of factors including economic conditions and interest rates.
Sections 1158 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the year ended There is a further risk that the performance of the Companys portfolio fails 30 September 2011.
The Directors are of the opinion, under advice, that to match the performance of the markets generally, and its benchmark the Company has conducted its affairs so as to be able to obtain approval specifically.
Foreign exchange risk arises if there are falls against sterling as an investment company for the year ended 30 September 2012.
An in the currencies in which the Companys investments are denominated.
application for Approved Investment Trust status under the new investment These risks are managed by the Board and the Manager mainly by way trust tax regulations, which apply to the Company from 1 October 2012 of portfolio diversification, regular investment review, strategic discussion, has been made.
and consideration of currency exposures.
The Company is a qualifying company for the purposes of Stocks & Shares The principal risks are examined in more detail in note 18 in the Notes to Individual Savings Accounts.
Investment Objective, Policy, Restrictions and Business Review Further risks which can impact on performance are a loss of key personnel The objective of the Company is to achieve capital growth through a especially within the investment management team : regulatory principally focused portfolio of investments, particularly in companies whose shares breaches of either UKLA Listing Rules or Section 1159 of the Corporation stand at a discount to estimated underlying net asset value.
Tax Act 2010 and failure of systems or controls.
In managing these risks the Company reviews staffing and activity levels of the Investment Manager Investments are principally in companies listed on recognised stock and Administrator at least annually to ensure that there are adequate exchanges in the UK and or overseas, which may include investment qualified staff capacity available, and in particular requires the Investment holding companies, investment trusts and other companies, the share Manager to notify promptly the Board of any changes in senior staff.
prices of which are assessed to be below their estimated net asset value The Company also reviews the systems of the Investment Manager and or intrinsic worth.
Although listed assets make up the bulk of the portfolio Administrator as part of its half yearly compliance checks.
the Company may also invest in unlisted assets with the prior approval of the Board.
The shares of Investment Trusts frequently trade at a discount to their published net asset value.
The Board seeks to manage the risk of any The Company generally invests on a long-only basis but may hedge widening of the discount by regularly reviewing the level of discount at exposures through the use of derivative instruments and may also hedge which the Companys shares trade, and it will, if necessary and its foreign currency exposures.
appropriate, limit any significant widening through measured buybacks of shares.
There are no geographic limits on exposure, as the Company invests wherever it considers that there are opportunities for capital growth.
The value of the Companys shares will additionally be subject to the Risk is spread by investing in a number of holdings, many of which interaction of supply and demand, prevailing net asset values and the themselves are diversified companies.
The share price will accordingly be subject to unpredictable fluctuations and the Company cannot guarantee The Company will not invest in any holding that would represent more that the share price will appreciate in value.
than 15% of the value of its total investments at the time of investment.
Potential investments falling within the scope of the Companys investment objective will differ over the course of market cycles.
The number of holdings in the portfolio will vary depending upon circumstances and opportunities within equity markets at any particular time.
The Company may gear its assets through borrowings which may vary substantially over time according to market conditions but which will not exceed twice the nominal capital and reserves of the Company.
23 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 Results and Dividends Group profit for the year was 75,894,000 which included a profit of 24,050,000 attributable to revenue 2011: loss of 76,959,000 which included a profit of 18,405,000 attributable to revenue.
The profit for the year attributable to revenue has been applied as follows: Company Group 000 000 Revenue available for dividends 24,053 24,050 Interim dividend of 2.00p per Ordinary Share paid on 5 June 2012 3,201 3,201 Recommended final dividend payable on 7 January 2013 to Shareholders on the Register as at 7 December 2012 ex dividend 5 December 2012 : Final dividend of 7.50p per Ordinary share 11,857 11,857 Special dividend of 3.50p per Ordinary share 5,533 5,533 3,462 3,459 Directors The Directors of the Company are listed on pages 20 and 21.
All served In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Nigel Rich and throughout the period under review with the exception of Nigel Rich and Susan Noble, having been appointed by the Board subsequent to the last Susan Noble who were appointed as non-executive Directors in March Annual General Meeting, will retire and stand for election by shareholders.
John May retired from the Board on 15 December 2011.
The beneficial interests of the current Directors and their connected Rosamund Blomfield-Smith has asked not to stand for re-election at the persons in the securities of the Company as at 30 September 2012 are set forthcoming AGM.
In accordance with the recommendations of the AICs out below: Code of Corporate Governance Principle 3, all of the remaining Directors of the Board will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for re-election, with the exception of Nigel Rich and Susan Noble who offer themselves for election.
Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares Loan Stock Loan Stock 30 9 12 1 10 11 30 9 12 1 10 11 Strone Macpherson 40,000 40,000 Steven Bates 20,000 20,000 Rosamund Blomfield-Smith 3,100 3,100 John May 6,900 Susan Noble 3,402 Andrew Robson 2,800 2,800 Nigel Rich 8,000 Includes a non-beneficial interest in 5,000 Ordinary Shares held in a Trust, of which John May is a Trustee, for the benefit of his children.
John May retired as a Director on 15 December 2011.
Subsidiary Companies There were no changes to the above interests between the year end and The Company owns one active dealing subsidiary, BEST Securities the date of this report.
No Director was a party to or had an interest in any Limited.
In the year to 30 September 2012, BEST Securities Limited made contract or arrangement with the Company.
Information on the appointment of Directors and their compensation for loss of office, as required by the Takeover Directive, is given on page 56.
24 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 Report of the Directors continued The Investment Manager Asset Value Investors Limited is the Companys appointed Investment The Company has adopted the Morningstar Investment Trust Global Manager the Manager, engaged under the terms of an Investment Growth Index as the benchmark against which the Companys Management Agreement the IMA effective from 1 October 2003 and performance is measured.
varied with effect from 1 October 2008.
The IMA is terminable by one years notice from either party, other than for cause.
The Manager has Corporate secretarial services are provided by Phoenix Administration complied with the terms of the IMA throughout the year to 30 September Services Limited Phoenix pursuant to an Agreement dated 17 December 2012.
The Agreement with Phoenix continues until terminated by either party on giving not less than six Under the IMA the Manager is entitled to a base management fee of months written notice.
The fee paid to the Manager under the IMA is 0.60% of the net assets of the Company at the end of the preceding reduced by the amount paid to Phoenix for corporate secretarial services.
Phoenix Administration Services Limited charge the Company for corporate secretarial services, the Manager then refunds Interests in Share Capital this fee by deducting it from their base management fee of 0.60%.
Information on the structure, rights and restrictions relating to share capital, A performance fee of 6% is also payable for any outperformance in the as required by the Takeover Directive, is given on pages 18 and 19. net asset value on a total return basis over the benchmark at the year end, with a cap on aggregate fees of 1% of net assets of the Company At 30 September 2012 and 31 October 2012 the following holdings per annum.
Any underperformance or outperformance in excess of the representing more than 3 per cent of the Companys issued share capital cap is carried forward for use in the next 3 years fee calculations, had been reported to the Company: after which it shall lapse.
Number held at Percentage held at Number held at 30 September 2012 30 September 2012 31 October 2012 Rothschild Bank AG 8,893,417 5.62% 9,071,317 HSBC Global Asset Management UK Limited 8,678,297 5.48% 8,453,096 Brewin Dolphin Limited 8,601,411 5.43% 8,510,672 Alliance Trust Savings Limited 7,032,320 4.44% 6,972,171 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 5,313,099 3.35% 5,180,922 Auditor Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a Resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to re-appoint them as Auditor and authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration for the ensuing year.
25 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 Special Business at the Annual General Meeting Corporate Governance The Listing Rules and the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules Resolution 11 - Authority to allot Shares Disclosure Rules of the UK Listing Authority require listed companies The Directors seek to renew the general and unconditional authority to allot to disclose how they have applied the principles and complied with the up to 23,685,996 Ordinary Shares of 10p each, representing approximately provisions of the corporate governance code to which the issuer is subject.
14.99% of the issued Ordinary Share capital excluding shares held in The provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code issued treasury.
The Directors would only exercise this authority if they by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in June 2010 are applicable for considered it to be in the best interests of the Company generally.
The related Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in October Resolution 12 - Authority to issue Shares outside of pre-emption rights 2010 provides specific corporate governance guidelines to investment The Directors seek to renew the authority to allot, other than on a pretrusts.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations emptive basis, Ordinary Shares including the grant of rights to subscribe of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for, or to convert any securities into Ordinary Shares up to a maximum for investment Companies AIC Guide.
The FRC has confirmed that AIC of 7,900,599 Ordinary Shares, being approximately 5% of the Ordinary member companies who report against the AIC Code and who follow Shares excluding shares held in treasury currently in issue, and to transfer the AIC Guide for Investment Companies will be meeting obligations in or sell Ordinary Shares held in treasury.
The Directors would only exercise relation to the UK Code and associated disclosure requirements of the this authority if they consider it to be advantageous to the Company.
Resolution 13 - Share Buy-Back Facility The AIC Code can be viewed at This Directors seek to renew the authority to make market purchases http: www.
co. uk files technical AICCode.
pdf of up to 23,685,996 Ordinary Shares in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act and Listing Rules representing approximately 14.99% The UK Code can be viewed at of the issued Ordinary Share capital excluding shares held in treasury at http: www.
cfm the date of this Report.
Ordinary Shares bought back may be held in treasury for cancellation or sale at a future date rather than being cancelled The Board considers that reporting against the principles and upon purchase.
The Directors would not exercise the authority granted recommendations of the AIC Code and the AIC Guide which incorporates under this Resolution unless they consider it to be in the best interests the UK Code provides shareholders with full details of the Companys of Shareholders e. g. resulting in an increase in net asset value per Share.
The UK Code includes provisions relating to the role of the chief executive and of the executive directors remuneration.
However, as all the Directors are non-executive, these provisions are not applicable.
The UK Code also sets out the case for establishing an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, the Board considers that an internal audit function is not relevant to the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2012 the Company complied with the provisions of the AIC Guide and AIC Code other than for the following matters and any exceptions detailed in the schedule below reporting on the Companys compliance with the AIC Codes Principles: the Board did not have a nominated senior independent non-executive Director.
However, at a meeting in November 2012 it was agreed that Steven Bates would assume this role.
owing to the short timeframe between the Companys financial year end and the publication of this Report, the Company is not able to meet the UK Codes provision E. 2.4 that the Notice of the AGM and related papers be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
26 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 Report of the Directors continued The Principles of the AIC Code The AIC Code is made up of twenty-one principles split into three sections covering: - The Board - Board Meetings and relations with the Investment Manager - Shareholder Communications The Board AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 1.
The Chairman should be The Chairman, Strone Macpherson, was independent of the Investment Manager at the time of his appointment independent.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman, the Directors, the Investment Manager and the Companys other third party service providers.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and is responsible for ensuring that all Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
A majority of the Board should be The Board consists of six non-executive Directors, each of whom is independent of the Investment Manager.
No member of the Board is a Director of another investment company managed by the Companys investment manager, nor has any Board member been an employee of the Company, its investment manager or any of its service providers.
Strone Macpherson is Chairman of Close Brothers Group plc, the ultimate parent of Winterflood Securities Limited which acts as the Companys Corporate Broker for a retainer of 25,000 per annum paid by the Company.
Strone Macpherson and Andrew Robson, both non-executive directors of JPMorgan Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc, are fully aware of their fiduciary duties to act in the best interests of the Company and the Board does not consider these non-executive appointments compromise their ability or judgement as Directors of the Company.
Susan Noble is a director of Alliance Trust PLC.
Alliance Trust Savings Ltd, which is a subsidiary of Alliance Trust PLC, provides savings and investment plans on a non-discretionary basis.
Directors should be submitted All Directors will submit themselves for annual re-election by shareholders.
This year Rosamund Blomfield-Smith for re-election at regular intervals.
has asked not to stand for re-election.
Nigel Rich and Susan Noble stand for election, having been appointed Nomination for re-election should since the AGM in 2011. not be assumed but be based on disclosed procedures and The individual performance of each Director standing for re-election is evaluated annually by the remaining continued satisfactory performance.
members of the Board and, if considered appropriate, a recommendation is made that shareholders vote in favour of their re-election at the AGM.
The Board should have a policy The Board, meeting as the Nomination Committee, considers the structure of the Board and recognises the need on tenure, which is disclosed in the for progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Board does not have a formal policy requiring that directors should stand down after a fixed period.
It considers that a long association with the Company and experience of a number of investment cycles can be valuable to its deliberations and does not compromise a Directors independence.
The terms and conditions of the Directors appointments are set out in letters of engagement which are available for inspection on request at the registered office of the Company and at the AGM.
27 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 5.
There should be full disclosure of All of the Directors are resident in the UK and their biographical details, set out on pages 20 and 21 of this Report, information about the Board.
demonstrate the wide range of skills and experience that they bring to the Board.
Details of the Boards Committees and their composition are set out on pages 31 and 32 of this Report.
The Board considers that as it is comprised of non-executive Directors it is not necessary to establish a separate Remuneration Committee.
Whilst the whole Board considers Directors remuneration, the Chairman will absent himself from the discussion on his remuneration.
The Board should aim to have a The Nomination Committee conducts annually a skills audit to enable the Board to identify any skill shortages to balance of skills, experience, length be filled by new Directors.
of service and knowledge of the company.
When considering new appointments, the Board reviews the skills of the Directors and seeks to add persons with complementary skills or who possess the skills and experience which fill any gaps within the Boards knowledge or experience and who can devote sufficient time to the Company to carry out their duties effectively.
The experience of the current Directors is detailed in the biographies of the Directors, set out on pages 20 and 21 of this Report.
The Company is committed to ensuring that any vacancies arising are filled by the most qualified candidates and recognises the value of diversity in the composition of the Board.
When Board positions become available as a result of retirement or resignation, the Company will be focused on ensuring that a diverse group of candidates is considered.
The Board should undertake The Board, meeting as the Nomination Committee, has formalised a process to evaluate its own performance a formal and rigorous annual and that of its Chairman annually.
The Chairman leads the assessment which covers the functioning of the Board evaluation of its own performance as a whole and the effectiveness of the Board Committees.
Where necessary the Chairman discusses the and that of its committees and responses with each Director individually.
The Chairman absents himself from the Boards review of his individual directors.
effectiveness as the Company Chairman.
During 2011 an independent review of the Board was undertaken, the results of which were considered by the Board.
The Board has agreed that an independent review of the Board be commissioned regularly.
The review considered the Boards objectives and how the contributions made individually and collectively to Board meetings helped the Company to achieve its objectives.
The Boards strengths and weaknesses were considered and different methodologies to address risks and opportunities were identified.
The Board is satisfied that the structure, mix of skills and operation of the Board continue to be effective and relevant for the Company.
Director remuneration should The Board periodically reviews the fees paid to the Directors and compares these with the fees paid by the reflect their duties, responsibilities Companys peer group and the investment trust industry generally, taking into account the level of commitment and the value of their time spent.
and responsibility of each Board member.
Details on the remuneration arrangements for the Directors of the Company can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 56 and in note 3 to the Accounts.
As all of the directors are non-executive, the Board considers that it is acceptable for the Chairman of the Company to chair meetings when discussing Directors' fees.
The Chairmans remuneration is determined by the Board in his absence.
The Board periodically takes advice from external independent advisers on Directors remuneration.
All Directors own shares in the Company.
No stock options or other performance-related elements have been awarded.
28 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 Report of the Directors continued The Board continued AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 9.
The independent Directors The Nomination Committee is comprised of the whole Board which has a majority of independent directors and, should take the lead in the subject to there being no conflicts of interest, all members of the Committee are entitled to vote on candidates appointment of new Directors and for the appointment of new Directors and on recommending for shareholders approval the Directors seeking the process should be disclosed re-election at the AGM.
Directors should be offered New appointees to the Board are provided with a full induction programme.
The programme covers the relevant training and induction.
Companys investment strategy, policies and practices.
The Directors are also given key information on the Companys regulatory and statutory requirements as they arise including information on the role of the Board, matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference for the Board Committees, the Companys corporate governance practices and procedures and the latest financial information.
It is the Chairmans responsibility to ensure that the Directors have sufficient knowledge to fulfil their role and Directors are encouraged to participate in training courses where appropriate.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of a Company Secretary through its appointed representative which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring good information flows between all parties.
The Chairman and the Board Principle 11 applies to the launch of new investment companies and is therefore not applicable to the Company.
should be brought into the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
Board Meetings and relations with the Investment Manager 12.
Boards and managers should The Board meets regularly throughout the year and a representative of the Investment Manager is in attendance operate in a supportive, co-operative at each meeting and most Committee meetings.
The Chairman encourages open debate to foster a supportive and open environment.
and co-operative approach for all participants.
The primary focus at regular The Board has agreed a schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
This includes board meetings should be a review establishing the investment objectives, strategy and benchmarks, the permitted types or categories of investments, of investment performance and the markets in which transactions may be undertaken, the level of permitted gearing and borrowings, the amount associated matters, such as gearing, or proportion of the assets that may be invested in any category of investment or in any one investment, and the asset allocation, marketing investor Companys treasury and share buyback policies.
relations, peer group information and industry issues.
The Board, at its regular meetings, undertakes reviews of key investment and financial data, revenue projections and expenses, analyses of asset allocation, transactions and performance comparisons, share price and net asset value performance, marketing and shareholder communication strategies, the risks associated with pursuing the investment strategy, peer group information and industry issues.
The Audit and Management Engagement Committees of the Board respectively, review the Companys risk matrix and the performance and cost of the Companys third party service providers.
Boards should give sufficient The Board is responsible for strategy and has established a predetermined annual programme of agenda items attention to overall strategy.
under which it reviews the objectives and strategy for the Company at each meeting.
In addition to the regular board meetings the Board meets specifically on one additional day each year to focus on strategy and any other issues that require in-depth attention.
29 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 Board Meetings and relations with the Investment Manager continued AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 15.
The Board should regularly The Management Engagement Committee meets twice a year.
It reviews annually the performance of the review both the performance of, Investment Manager, particularly against that of the benchmark, the Morningstar Investment Trust Global Growth and contractual arrangements with, Index.
The Committee considers the quality, cost and remuneration method including the performance fee of the the manager or executives of a service provided by the Investment Manager against its contractual obligations and the Board receives regular self-managed company.
reports on compliance with the Investment Restrictions which it has set.
It also considers the performance analysis provided by the Manager.
In view of the level of data available from independent service providers, and the appraisal undertaken by the Board, the Board does not consider an independent appraisal of the managers service to be necessary.
The Audit Committee reviews the Managers compliance and control systems in operation insofar as they relate to the affairs of the Company and the Board undertakes periodic reviews of the arrangements with and the services provided by the Custodian, to ensure that the safeguarding of the Companys assets and security of the shareholders investment is being maintained.
The Board should agree policies The Investment Management Agreement between the Company and the Manager sets out the limits of the with the manager covering key Managers authority beyond which Board approval is required.
The Board has also agreed detailed investment operational issues.
guidelines with the manager which are considered at each Board meeting.
A representative of the Manager attends each meeting of the Board to address questions on specific matters and to seek approval for specific transactions which the manager is required to refer to the board e. g. investing in unquoted investments.
The Board has delegated discretion to the Investment Manager to exercise voting powers on its behalf, other than for contentious or sensitive matters which are to be referred to the Board for consideration.
The Board has reviewed the Investment Managers Stewardship Policy, which includes its Corporate Governance and Voting Guidelines, and which is published on the Investment Managers web-site: www.
Reports on commissions paid by the Manager are submitted to the Board regularly.
Boards should monitor the level The Board considers any imbalances in the supply of and the demand for the Companys shares within the of the share price discount or market and takes appropriate action when considered necessary.
premium if any and, if desirable, take action to reduce it.
The Board considers the discount or premium to NAV of the Companys share price at each Board meeting and reviews the changes in the level of discount or premium and in the share price since the previous Board meeting and over the previous twelve months.
At each meeting the Board reviews reports from the investment managers marketing department on marketing and shareholder communication strategies.
It also considers their effectiveness as well as measures of investor sentiment and any recommendations on share buy-backs.
The Board should monitor and The Management Engagement Committee reviews, at least annually, the performance of all the Companys third evaluate other service providers.
party service providers, including the level and structure of fees payable and the length of the notice period, to ensure that they remain competitive and in the best interests of shareholders, as well as reviewing service providers anti-bribery and corruption policies to address the provisions of the Bribery Act 2010.
The Audit Committee reviews reports from the principal service providers on compliance and the internal and financial control systems in operation and relevant independent audit reports thereon.
30 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 Report of the Directors continued Shareholder Communications AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 19.
The Board should regularly A detailed analysis of the substantial shareholders of the Company is provided to the Directors at each board monitor the shareholder profile of meeting.
Representatives of the Manager regularly meet with institutional shareholders and private client asset the company and put in place a managers to discuss strategy and to understand their issues and concerns and, if applicable, to discuss system for canvassing shareholder corporate governance issues.
The results of such meetings are reported at the following Board meeting.
views and for communicating the Boards views to shareholders.
Regular reports from the Companys broker are submitted to the Board on investor sentiment and industry issues.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Chairman, or any other member of the Board may do so by writing to the Company, for the attention of the Company Secretary at the Registered Office.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM, where they are given the opportunity to question the Chairman, the Board and representatives of the Investment Manager.
The Investment Manager will make a presentation to Shareholders covering the investment performance and strategy of the Company at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors welcome the views of all Shareholders and place considerable importance on communications with them.
The Board should normally take All substantive communications regarding any major corporate issues are discussed by the Board taking into responsibility for, and have a direct account representations from the Manager, the Auditor, legal advisers, stockbroker and Company Secretary.
involvement in, the content of communications regarding major corporate issues even if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
The Board should ensure that The Company places great importance on communication with shareholders and aims to provide them with a full shareholders are provided with understanding of the Companys investment objective, policy and activities, its performance and the principal sufficient information for them to investment risks by means of informative Annual and Half Year reports and Interim Management Statements.
understand the risk reward balance This is supplemented by the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the to which they are exposed by Companys shares.
The Annual Report provides information on the Managers investment performance, portfolio risk and operational and compliance issues.
Further details on the risk reward balance are set out in the Report of the Directors under Principal Risks on page 22 and in note 18 to the Accounts.
The Investment Portfolio is listed on pages 16 and 17.
co. uk, is regularly updated with monthly factsheets and provides useful information about the Company including the Companys Financial Reports and Announcements.
31 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 Board Committees Audit Committee The Board has agreed a schedule of matters specifically reserved for The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year and since the decision by the full Board subject to which the Board has delegated retirement of John May in December 2011 comprises the whole Board specific duties to Committees of the Board which operate within written being independent Directors.
All members of the Committee have recent terms of reference.
Phoenix Administration Services Limited acts as and relevant financial experience.
Company Secretary to each Committee.
No persons other than the Committee members are entitled to attend at Committee meetings unless The Audit Committees main functions are: formally invited by the Committee.
Copies of the terms of reference for To monitor the internal financial control and risk management systems Board Committees are available from the Company Secretary.
on which the Company is reliant: To consider whether there is a need for the Company to have its own Management Engagement Committee internal audit function: The Management Engagement Committee meets at least twice each year To monitor the integrity of the half-year and annual financial statements and since the retirement of John May in December 2011 comprises the of the Company by reviewing and challenging, where necessary, whole Board being independent Directors.
The main functions of the the actions and judgements of the Investment Manager: Committee are to define the terms of the Investment Management To meet with the independent Auditor of the Company to review their Agreement, ensuring that they follow good industry practice, are proposed audit programme of work and the subsequent Audit Report competitive and are in the best interests of shareholders.
The Committee and to assess the effectiveness of the Audit process and the levels monitors the Managers compliance with the terms of the Investment of fees paid in respect of both audit and non-audit work: Management Agreement and the Managers performance.
The Committee To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, also reviews the services and performance of the Companys other thirdre-appointment or removal of the Auditor, and to negotiate their party service providers.
A review of the Investment Manager and the other remuneration and terms of engagement on audit and non-audit work: service providers undertaken during the year, concluded that the services To monitor and review annually the external Auditors independence, provided to the Company were satisfactory and that the Agreements objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
entered into with them were operating in the best interests of the shareholders.
The Audit Committee has approved and implemented a policy on the engagement of the auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into Nomination Committee account the recommendations of the Accounting Practices Board and The Nomination Committee comprises the whole Board and convenes does not believe there to be any impediment to the Auditors objectivity to undertake the annual appraisal of the performance of the Board, its and independence.
All non-audit work to be carried out by the Auditor Committees and the Directors and to propose the re-election of the must be approved by the Audit Committee in advance.
The cost of nonDirectors, each of whom will retire at the Annual General Meeting.
audit services provided by the Auditor for the financial year ended 30 It also meets to consider the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
September 2012 was 23,000 2011: 17,000 as detailed in note 3 to Candidates for nomination may be sourced from outside of the Company the accounts and is not material in nature in the context of these accounts.
using third party search and selection services as well as potential The Committee confirms that the non-audit work undertaken by the candidates known to Directors through their extensive knowledge Companys independent Auditor satisfies and does not compromise the of the industry.
tests of the Auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
The Board has agreed to follow the recommendations of the AIC Code Principle 3 that the Directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to The Committee is responsible for ensuring that suitable internal control annual re-election by shareholders.
Accordingly, at the forthcoming AGM, systems are designed and implemented by the third party service providers all the Directors of the Board will retire with the exception of Rosamund to the Company to prevent and detect fraud and error and is also Blomfield-Smith, who has asked not to stand for re-election this year, Nigel responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of such controls.
The Board Rich and Susan Noble who will stand for election by shareholders, having confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and been appointed by the Board subsequent to the last Annual General managing the significant risks faced by the Company in line with the Meeting.
Financial Reporting Councils Internal Control: Guidance to Directors the Turnbull guidance and the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees published in December 2010.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Report, and accords with the guidance.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and policies by which these risks are managed.
The risks of any failure of such controls are identified in a Risk Matrix which is regularly reviewed by the Board and which identifies the likelihood and severity of the impact of such risks and the controls in place to minimise such risks occurring.
32 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 Report of the Directors continued The following are the key components which the Company has in place Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy to provide effective internal control: The Company has adopted an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and has The Board has agreed clearly defined investment criteria, which specify reviewed the statements regarding compliance with the Bribery Act 2010 levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on compliance with by the Companys Investment Manager and key service providers.
these criteria are regularly reviewed by the Board: Henceforth these statements will be reviewed regularly by the Management The Investment Manager and Administrator prepare forecasts and Engagement Committee.
management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its performance: Creditor Payment Policy The contractual agreements with the Investment Manager and other The Companys payment policy is to settle investment transactions in third party service providers, and adherence to them are regularly accordance with market practice and to ensure settlement of supplier reviewed: invoices in accordance with stated terms.
The Company did not have The Investment Managers Compliance Officer continually reviews the any trade creditors at the year end 2011: Nil.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities Internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
They do not eliminate the risk of Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable failure to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can only provide United Kingdom law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors reasonable and not absolute assurance against mis-statement or loss.
to prepare Group and Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare Group financial As neither the Company nor the Group has any employees, the Company statements in accordance with those International Financial Reporting does not have a whistleblowing policy and procedure in place.
The Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS and have elected to prepare the Company delegates its main functions to third party providers, each of parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
They are also whom report on their policies and procedures to the Audit Committee.
responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report includes information required by the Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Environmental, Social and Community Issues The Company considers it a primary duty to act in the best financial The Group and Company financial statements are required by law and interests of its shareholders and to achieve good financial returns consistent IFRS to present fairly the financial position of the Group and Company with an acceptable level of risk.
The Company recognises that non-financial and the financial performance and cash flows of the Group and Company issues, such as social and environmental issues, can have an economic for the relevant period.
The Companies Act 2006 Act provides, in relation impact and that any company run in the long term interests of its to such financial statements, that references in the relevant part of that Act shareholders will need to manage effectively relationships with its to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their employees, suppliers and customers, to behave ethically and to have achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing the Group and Company regard to the environment and society as a whole.
The Company has no financial statements the Directors are required to: employees.
It is a minority shareholder in its underlying investments and select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently in invests in a variety of regions with varying degrees of political and corporate accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changing in Accounting governance standards.
This limits the extent to which it can influence Estimates and Errors: environmental, social and community issues.
The Investment Manager will make judgements and estimates which are reasonable and prudent: bear environmental, social and community issues in mind as part of its state whether the financial statements have been prepared in investment decision making.
Where the Board deems an issue to be of compliance with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed importance or sensitivity it may, through the investment manager, use its and explained therein: voting rights and contact with senior executives of an investee company provide additional disclosures where compliance with the specific to make its views known.
requirements of IFRS are considered to be insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, events and conditions Stewardship Policy on the financial position and performance: and In principle, the Board delegates investee company communication prepare financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is and voting to the Investment Manager, to be managed as part of the inappropriate to presume that the Group or Company will continue in investment management process.
The Board has reviewed the Investment business.
Managers Stewardship Policy, which includes its Corporate Governance and Voting Guidelines, and is published on the Investment Managers web-site: www.
33 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 Financial statements of the Company are published on the Companys Declaration website at www.
The Directors are responsible for The non-executive Directors listed on pages 20 and 21, being the ensuring the maintenance and integrity of the information relating to the persons responsible, hereby confirm to the best of their knowledge: Company published on this website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom that the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group: and the Management Report which comprises the Chairmans Statement The Directors are also responsible for ensuring that the Company complies and the Investment Managers Review includes a fair review of the with the provisions of the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Rules and development and performance of the business and the position of the Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority which, with regard to Group together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties corporate governance, require the Company to disclose how it has applied that the Group faces.
the principles, and complied with the provisions, of the corporate governance code applicable to the Company.
By Order of the Board Disclosure of information to the Auditor Phoenix Administration Services Limited The Directors who held office at the date of approval of the Report of the Corporate Secretary Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit 12 November 2012 information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all of the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to Registered Office: make himself aware of any relevant audit information and establish that Springfield Lodge the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Colchester Road Chelmsford, Essex CM2 5PW Going Concern The Directors have carefully reviewed the Companys current financial resources and the projected expenses of the Group for the next 12 months.
On the basis of that review and as the majority of net assets are securities which are traded on recognised stock exchanges, the Directors are satisfied that the Companys resources are adequate for continuing in business for the foreseeable future and that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements on a going concern basis.
