08 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 Investment Managers Review During the year, the Companys NAV rose by 10.3%, compared with an increase of 13.8% in the benchmark Morningstar Global Growth Index both on a total return basis.
While value investing as a strategy has been out of favour for the last couple of years, we may now be seeing the early signs of a shift in sentiment as evidenced by our outperformance of the index over the second half of the year and after the period end.
With the weighted average discount remaining towards the wider end of its historical range, there are good prospects for further discount narrowing and outperformance.
Overview of AVIs Investment Philosophy British Empire is managed by Asset Value Investors Ltd AVI The aim of AVI is to deliver superior returns while minimising risks.
AVI specialises in investing in securities that for a number of reasons may be selling on anomalous valuations.
AVIs investment philosophy is to: Invest in companies trading on discounts to net asset value.
Our focus is to find listed companies that own assets such as listed securities, property, cash and other businesses.
We then estimate the value of all those assets.
After deducting any liabilities such as debt or pension liabilities, we arrive at an estimate of net asset value for that company.
We will consider investing in companies where the discount between the current share price and our estimate of the value of that business is wide.
The types of company we typically find include investment holding companies, conglomerates, closed end funds and property companies.
Our approach to investment naturally leads to investment in a variety of companies with diverse underlying businesses.
Identify good quality underlying assets with appreciation potential at compelling valuations.
There are many companies trading on discounts to net asset value.
Our aim is to identify companies that own high quality businesses where there is not only a wide discount, but also where we consider there to be a reasonable likelihood of those assets appreciating in value.
Focus on balance sheet strength.
Debt works very well when markets are appreciating.
However, debt can also destroy a lot of value when markets are falling and the business environment for a particular company deteriorates.
We consider very carefully the balance sheet strength of the companies in which we invest.
Factors we look at include the actual quantum of debt relative to the assets of the companies, the maturity profile of the debt and the cashflow the businesses generate.
Look for catalyst to narrow discounts Once we find a good quality business on an attractive valuation, we then consider whether it is likely that the discount will narrow.
Many companies trade on a discount for a reason and if that reason persists, then the discount may persist.
Catalysts differ for the various type of company we invest in.
For example, in the case of a closed end fund, where we are a large shareholder we can influence the Board of Directors to pursue a strategy for discount narrowing.
In the case of a family controlled shareholder where we cannot exert influence to the same extent, our analysis would involve trying to understand the interests and objectives of the controlling shareholder, and whether our interests were aligned with theirs.
Focus on bottom-up stock picking.
We are not asset allocators attempting to invest a pool of money across various asset classes.
We are equity investors focusing on a particular style of value investing.
We do not hug benchmarks and we will not own a company just because it is in a benchmark.
We seek to invest in companies that meet the criteria described above.
Be willing to hold cash if investments do not meet our criteria.
Very simply put, if we cannot find companies that meet our valuation and quality criteria we will not invest our shareholders money.
We will preserve capital until a new investment opportunity arises.
Our focus on buying high quality businesses on wide discounts to their net asset value has served us well over the long term.
There are periods of time, however, when our style is out of favour and the types of companies in which we invest are ignored by the broader market.
This requires us to be patient and to remain true to our style, so that when investors begin to appreciate the value in those companies, we are well placed to benefit.
In the short term, this means there could be some volatility in our returns.
The recent past reflects this.
However, we are confident that we own high quality businesses that are trading on cheap valuations and that generate reasonable cash dividends for us as we wait for the value to be appreciated by the market.
Members of the investment team at AVI invest their own money in funds which they manage.
As at 30 September 2012, AVIs directors and staff own approximately 780,000 shares in British Empire Securities and General Trust plc.
09 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 John Pennink John has managed the Companys portfolio for the past ten years and is the Chief Executive Officer of Asset Value Investors Limited.
He is a Chartered Financial Analyst.
Joe Bauernfreund Joe is an Executive Director of Asset Value Investors Limited.
He has been assisting John Pennink in the management of the portfolio over the past five years.
Detour Gold Corp Canada Detour Gold is a gold exploration and development company with its flagship asset, the Detour Lake project, based in Ontario, Canada.
The company has 15.6 million ounces of gold in reserves and once construction is complete in 2013, this project will be one of Canadas largest operating mines.
With 90% of the construction complete, we believe that the current valuation for Detour is under valued on a 29% discount to its net asset value and also to its peers.
Copyright Detour Gold Corp 10 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 Investment Managers Review Portfolio review Groupe Bruxelles Lambert Lafarge Lafarge is the worlds largest producer of cement, the second largest producer of aggregates and the fourth largest producer of ready-mixed concrete.
Groupe Bruxelles Lambert GBL owns several significant positions in listed companies along with a 21% holding in Lafarge.
During the year GBL reduced its holding in Pernod Ricard, the drinks company, to 7.5% after selling 2.3% of Pernod Ricard for499m.
GBL also sold its entire 10% holding in Arkema, the chemical company, for433m.
GBL continues to trade at a significant discount to its sum of the parts.
Copyright Lafarge Photo Library Photography Claude Cieutat Ignus Gerber Architect Oscar Niemeyer Location Minas Gerais State Administrative Center, Brazil 11 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 Ferrovial Spain After a strong first half showing from global markets there was Ferrovial is a Spanish listed holding company which has global operations continued progress in the second half of British Empires financial year, in more than 15 countries.
The company has four key divisions: airports, albeit at a reduced rate.
Your Companys performance relative to the toll roads, construction and services where prominent infrastructure assets benchmark, however, improved in the second half of the year include Heathrow Airport and 407 ETR, a major Canadian toll road.
compared with the first half, owing in large part to the narrowing of Ferrovial is commonly perceived to be a Spanish company despite 78% discounts on many of the Companys investments.
The proximate of the underlying earnings being derived from other countries.
The company causes for both the equity markets positive performance and also appears to be well financed with2.6bn liquidity and a net cash position.
the narrowing of discounts on our holdings have been policy As at 30 September, Ferrovial was trading at a 31% discount to its net pronouncements from the European Central Bank and the US Federal asset value.
These policies have eased fears of an imminent collapse, Copyright Ferrovial especially in the European banking system, and allowed investors the confidence to extend their investment time horizons.
A willingness to invest for the long term is a necessary pre-condition for the outperformance of the value style which we follow at AVI, as patience is often required to gather returns on investments made on the basis of low valuations.
Valuations within our portfolio companies still appear to be attractive, with a weighted average discount on our investments of 30%.
This is down from 39% one year ago but still wide by historical standards.
An increasing proportion of general equity market trading is being conducted through the medium of Exchange Traded Funds ETFs and other index-based products.
This has meant that markets have awarded increasingly high valuations to large cap stocks vis a vis their less well known peers and this has, in turn, led to a corresponding lack of interest and liquidity in the smaller cap names.
At some point in time, the valuation differential between the large cap stable growth stocks and the rest of the market will become so great as to sow the seeds of its own undoing.
We believe that investors will realise at some point that they all own the same expensive stocks and look to buy what is today cheap and unloved.
The degree to which the equity markets appear to be driven by hopes for further stimulus is concerning.
Each round of monetary easing or support is being met by the markets with diminishing returns.
At the same time, economic fundamentals have not significantly improved and offer limited support for the equity markets absent artificial stimulus.
To the extent that the economy does not pick up, there may be a gap opening up between the level of certain stock market indices close to an all-time high and the rather more gloomy economic fundamentals.
Our net liquidity has increased to circa 20%.
We still believe it is sensible to focus on buying companies on discounts for their long term appreciation potential.
In this particularly challenging environment of economic and policy uncertainty we believe a tweaking of our tactics but not of our overall strategy to pay more attention to dividends, which are an increasing component of returns, and catalysts is appropriate.
In addition to the attractive value in the portfolio, as noted above, British Empire shares have themselves traded on a significant discount at times throughout the year.
This has represented an appealing investment opportunity and your Company has bought back 1.985m shares at an average discount of 13.8%.
12 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 Investment Managers Review Portfolio review Portfolio Review Weighted Average Discount During the year, your companys NAV increased by 10.3% compared As ever, this factor remains a major determinant of returns over any with an increase of 13.8% in the benchmark Morningstar Global given period.
The graph below shows the weighted average discount Growth Index both on a total return basis.
Whilst it is disappointing on the invested part of the portfolio between 2006 and 2012.
It is clear to have underperformed the benchmark over the year, it was that discounts remain at the wider end of the historic range.
The wide encouraging that the Company has outperformed the benchmark over discounts and absence of significant narrowing have acted as a headthe second half of the year by over 3% and we remain confident that wind to performance in recent years as narrowing discounts can be an the significant value in our portfolio will be realised over time.
The outperformance of the portfolio over the second half of the year has coincided with a narrowing of the The following Table is intended to provide shareholders with greater discount from 35% to 30%.
clarity on the sources of return from the various parts of the portfolio.
Sector Weighted Average Discount to NAV in Portfolio Percentage Discount to NAV Local CCY Dividend Total 40% Return Income FX Return European Holding Companies 3.6% 1.8% 1.5 % 3.9% 35% Asian Holding Companies 3.7% 0.4% 0.2 % 3.9% 30% Mining & Resources 1.3% 0.1% 0.2% 1.7% Closed-end Funds 1.0% 0.2% 0.0% 1.3% 25% Property 0.6% 0.2% 0.1 % 0.7% Other including Vivendi 0.1 % 0.6% 1.2 % 0.6 % 20% Cash Government Bonds Expenses 0.7 % 0.3% 0.1 % 0.5 % 15% Grand Total 9.5% 3.7% 3.0 % 10.3% Sep 07 Sep 08 Sep 09 Sep 10 Sep 11 Sep 12 Source Asset Value Investors.
Please note that, due to rounding effects some numbers may not reconcile exactly.
The attribution and returns are generated from Asset Value Investors internal Source Estimated by Asset Value Investors.
reporting system and there may be small differences between the figures shown in this table and those shown in the accounts, primarily due to differing approaches to the recognition of income.
As far as returns go, two particular factors merit mention this year.
First, shareholders will be aware that the dividends which have flowed into the Companys income account in recent years have increased sharply and this dividend income has formed a significant part of the total return during the financial year.
This accounted for over a third of total return for the year.
Second, on the other side of the ledger, the strength of the Pound against several currencies, but principally the Euro, has had a negative effect on total returns during the year, accounting for a drag of 3% on NAV returns.
13 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 Nexen Canada Nexen is an upstream oil and gas company with energy assets in the UK North Sea, offshore West Africa, the Gulf of Mexico and Western Canada producing approximately 200,000 barrels of oil per day.
Subsequent to our purchase, Nexen was targeted by CNOOC, the Chinese state owned oil company, in the form of a friendly cash bid for the whole company.
This takeover attempt is subject to Canadian regulatory approval.
Copyright Nexen Inc Photography Kate Kunz Dave Olecko Location Canada, Long Lake Oil Sands Facility Scotland, Buzzard Offshore Facility 14 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 Investment Managers Review Portfolio review European Holding Companies Portfolio value on a look through basis This part of the portfolio contributed 38% of total gains achieved over 2012 2011 the financial year.
Local currency gains and dividend income were offset by negative foreign exchange translation effects.
The Euro was %% by far the weakest currency in the portfolio against Sterling.
15% of Continental Europe 37.76 49.54 the total portfolio is listed in Nordic countries.
There remains a lot Asia Pacific 22.34 19.19 of value in European Holding Companies.
Weighted average discounts Canada US 15.19 9.89 are 33% compared with 38% one year ago.
EMEA 3.03 4.95 United Kingdom 1.36 0.79 Notable gains were made in Aker, a Norwegian listed company Japan 0.41 3.73 focused on the oil services industry through a 28% stake in Aker South America 0.00 2.56 Solutions, a major oil services business, and a 49.9% stake in Det Liquidity 19.91 9.35 Norske, the second largest oil company in Norway.
Both of these companies have had a good year.
In the case of Aker Solutions a Based on location of companies underlying assets change of management and operational improvements have driven a share price re-rating, whilst at Det Norske being part of the consortium that made a large discovery in the North Sea boosted its share price Equity portfolio value enormously over the year.
Aker holds some other investments by market capitalisation in related industries and also has significant net cash on its balance 2012 2011 sheet, having made asset disposals early in the year.
It trades on a %% 41% discount and is committed to paying a relatively high dividend 1 billion 21.71 37.45 yield, currently 5.9%.
A share price total return during the year of 66% 1 billion & 5 billion 35.07 13.00 has been driven by underlying NAV growth rather than discount 5 billion & 10 billion 12.32 26.08 compression.
We consider that there is scope for further growth in 10 billion 30.90 23.47 the value of its businesses which suggests that the current wide discount level is unjustified.
Other strong contributors to performance based in Scandinavia include Investor AB A and Orkla: both of which trade on wide Portfolio value by sector discounts, have attractive dividend yields and strong balance sheets, 2012 2011 as well as catalysts for discount narrowing.
%% There were some disappointing performances elsewhere in Europe.
Investment Holding Companies 42.39 52.72 For example, CIR SpA in Italy, which we no longer hold, detracted Other including Vivendi 12.68 12.43 from performance to the tune of 2.8m over the period.
This is an example of a company that trades on a very wide discount.
However, Mining & Resources 10.35 13.22 being based in Italy, it has suffered from negative investor sentiment, Investment Companies 9.40 5.40 as well as a deteriorating operational outlook for some of its Real Estate Companies 5.27 6.88 businesses.
Liquidity 19.91 9.35 Source Asset Value Investors.
Percentages for the Asian Holding Companies Geographic Breakdown and the Sector Breakdown Asian companies have been a source of strong returns for a number are net asset value, calculated after deducting liabilities to Debenture Stock and Equities Index of years and once again they contributed significantly.
38% of this Unsecured Loan Stock 2013 holders from the liquidity years returns came from this group of companies, with the bulk of figure.
The percentages for Market Capitalisation are of the Portfolio excluding liquidity.
these coming from our investments in Jardine Matheson Holdings and 2011 has been restated to reflect this basis Jardine Strategic Holdings.
15 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2012 Wheelock & Co was another notable contributor to performance.
Closed End Funds In recent months its share price appreciated sharply and thus the The weighting in closed end funds has expanded over the year and discount at which it trades narrowed.
We used this strength to sell we have been particularly focused on the listed private equity sector.
our holding and realise profits.
We also took profits on part of our Holdings in Pantheon and Electra have been supplemented with new holdings in Swire Pacific and thereby further reduced our exposure investments including LMS Capital and AP Alternative Assets.
to property markets in Hong Kong and China, both of which have These investments were made on average discounts above 30% and been remarkably strong in recent years.
we are confident in the value of the underlying businesses.
In addition, action is being taken to address wide discounts, with no new We have been adding companies that offer exposure to the Asian investments being made by the funds and capital being returned domestic consumer.
During the year we had a position in Fraser & to shareholders from the sale of existing holdings.
Neave which was the subject of corporate activity that allowed us to sell our holding for a reasonable profit.
Mining & Resources Nexen was a large contributor to performance for the year under Another recent addition is First Pacific, which is a Hong Kong listed review as a result of a take over bid from CNOOC at a premium of holding company that owns stakes in four other listed companies circa 60% to the prevailing share price.
This was almost matched by in the Philippines and Indonesia.
It is on a 45% discount and a very strong performance over the year from Amerisur Resources, management are attempting to narrow the discount by way of share a London listed oil exploration company with assets in South America.
buybacks and generally increasing the investor awareness and understanding of the company.
It has been a challenge to make money out of gold mining stocks despite another year of decent gains in the gold spot price.
Vivendi We currently have 3% in gold mining companies, which is lower than Vivendi is the largest single holding in the portfolio.
Its share price has a year ago.
A loss on the sale of one holding was partially offset by been relatively flat over the year but this masks a rather more volatile the gains made in others.
time for the company as challenges in its French mobile phone business contributed to a decision to cut the dividend by a third.
Property Vivendi owns a collection of businesses spanning mobile phones, Granite Real Estate, a Canadian listed REIT, performed well: with its broadband, television, music and computer games and the share share price rising by over 30% during the year.
This has been driven price is significantly below the aggregate value of those businesses.
by improving investor sentiment following the implementation of a Following management changes, the company has now embarked more shareholder friendly strategy.
The company yields almost 6% on a different strategy that we believe will see one or more of those and is trading on a discount to NAV of circa 12%, which is far more businesses disposed of.
This reflects a recognition by management attractive than most of its peer group of North American REITs.
that the present structure does not work, as a huge amount of value could be created for shareholders if the discount were successfully Suntec REIT in Singapore is an example of a more recent investment.
This company owns prime commercial property in Singapore and yields almost 6.5%.
There is scope for this to be increased after the The company trades on very low multiples of earnings and, even after company completes its recently announced asset enhancement the cut in dividend, currently yields over 6%.
We added to our holding in Vivendi after the sharp sell-off in the Liquidity shares earlier in the year and this, together with the dividend income, A comment is warranted on the level of liquidity within the portfolio has meant that Vivendi made a small positive contribution to returns which has expanded from 10% one year ago to 20% as at during the year.
Much of this increase has come about during the last few months of the financial year, as stronger markets and Other narrower discounts in some of our stocks allowed us to take profits Losses within this sector have come from small Japanese companies, and to build up our cash levels for investment into more attractive where we have been reducing our investments.
We do not target a particular level of cash.
However, discounts indeed, it seems unlikely that management will pursue the at times cash will build up as the timing of sales and purchases do kind of strategy that could lead to those discounts being reduced.
Outlook There is good value in our portfolio of stocks relative to the and risk-off.
This has led many of them into using only the most market, as evidenced by the continued very wide weighted liquid index investments so as to be able to change their average discount to NAV.
In these holdings is embedded a store orientation quickly.
Longer-term investment is discouraged for of value that can be released through corporate activity such as both corporate and stock market investors.
For this reason, we takeovers and reorganisations.
Corporate activity may affect a consider the monetary activism as carried out by the US Federal small sub-set of our portfolio in any given period: as we have Reserve, the Bank of England and the ECB to be misconceived.
seen in the past year with Nexen, Allied Gold and Fraser & Neave.
In delivering a transient shot in the arm to the markets we A more general narrowing of discounts will occur when investors are also destroying the predictability and stability that we need gain confidence in the economic and political environment and to make sound investments and capital allocations both as can make longer term investment decisions.
Because the investors and as a society.
investment environment has been so influenced by central bank Notwithstanding the economic and policy headwinds, we will policies, many investors have become less interested in stockcontinue to seek to invest in good companies at attractive picking and the major decision has been between risk-on valuations.
