qxp:BT PLC 03 18 5 12 18:08 Page 19 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS PERFORMANCE In this section we discuss the operating and financial performance Products and services of our customer-facing lines of business and the financial In September 2011 we introduced new names for the categories of performance of the group.
our products and services to improve the way we sell to our We measure performance of our customer-facing lines of customers.
These new names make it easier for customers to business on an adjusted basis, being revenue, EBITDA, operating understand our portfolio and for our sales community to sell it.
They profit and operating cash ow: all of which are before specic items also help to differentiate us from competitors by making our which are not allocated to the customer-facing lines of business.
See page 5 for more details on our new A denition of specic items is set out on page 28.
Specic items products and services categories.
for 2012, 2011 and 2010 are disclosed in note 9 to the In December 2011 we announced the formation of BT Advise, consolidated financial statements.
A reconciliation of adjusted which brings together the BT Global Services experts who deliver EBITDA to group operating profit by the customer-facing lines of consulting, systems integration and managed services around the business, and for the group, is provided in Segment information, world under one team.
Customers will benefit from engaging with a note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
team made up of 4,500 highly skilled professionals who apply We explain our financial performance using measures that are industry-leading processes and methodologies.
not dened under IFRS and are therefore termed non-GAAP We have also invested in growth areas including MPLS, Ethernet, measures.
The non-GAAP measures we use are underlying revenue UCC, CRM, security, mobility and cloud services.
We also continue to excluding transit, adjusted and reported EBITDA and normalised, invest in industry-specic products and services such as our BT adjusted and reported free cash ow.
Each of these measures is Unied Trading voice service which we launched in 12 global discussed in more detail on pages 28 to 29. financial centres.
LINE OF BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Contracts We have made progress during the year, both on an operational Our investment to support our customers and improve our services basis with some improved measures, and nancially.
However, the has resulted in contract wins around the world with an order intake economic climate has been challenging.
of 6.7bn in 2012, a reduction of 8% which is more than accounted for by the lower level of contract renewals in the year.
We are seeing BT Global Services the benets from our investments in Asia Pacic, Latin America, Operating performance Turkey the Middle East and Africa where the combined order intake Investing for the future was up over 60% on last year.
We continued to invest in high-growth regions where our Contracts signed in 2012 included: customers want to expand.
The investments we announced last European Parliament: two framework contracts covering a year in Asia Pacic are progressing well with new technology wide range of networked IT services, including the supply of showcases in New Delhi and Shanghai, a new secure operations network equipment and applications centre in Sydney, a range of product refreshes and launches, and NATO: a contract with NATOs Consultation, Command and the hiring of around 200 professionals across the region in the key Control Agency NC3A, to provide a communications customer markets of Australia, China, Hong Kong, India, Japan and network connecting more than 70 locations spread across the Singapore.
As a result our Asia Pacic order pipeline has grown and NATO nations and the Balkans we are converting it into orders.
Lancashire County Council: a contract to deliver ICT for the In October 2011 we announced a series of investments in Latin County Council and schools as well as the back-ofce services America.
Through recruiting around 200 new staff, increasing our for human resources, payroll, the customer service centre and professional services capabilities, opening new centres of excellence procurement and implementing a wide range of network and customer service Anglo American: a global managed networked IT services improvements, we aim to better support global customers investing contract covering all Anglo Americans networking in Latin America and help large Latin American companies expand requirements at several hundred locations around the world globally.
In February 2012 we also announced a series of Bristol-Myers Squibb: a contract extension for global investments in Turkey, the Middle East and Africa.
Global companies network services including wide area and local area networks, investing in the region, as well as local companies expanding further as well as remote access, voice, and telephony infrastructure aeld, will gain access to a broader portfolio of services and will be The Brazilian Post Ofce and Telegraph Company Correios : a supported by around 150 additional highly qualied staff, including contract to connect more than 7,000 sites, including professional services specialists.
Across these three regions revenue corporate, regional and local ofces all over the country increased by 16% in 2012.
We expect to increase our revenue by CLSA Asia Pacic Markets: a contract for a managed voice, around 500m in these regions over the medium term.
data and trading systems solution across 14 countries in the Asia Pacic region, the UK and the US Cost transformation Serco Australia: a contract to install and manage We have continued to improve the efficiency of our operations communications infrastructure and run a range of IT services helping to deliver a 4% reduction in net operating costs.
We for the new Fiona Stanley hospital in Western Australia.
achieved this through: During 2012 we continued to execute on our largest customer increasing our use of shared service centres for contract contracts.
delivery London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games working with our external suppliers to improve contract terms BT is delivering a single communications network across 94 rationalising our network assets and our operations locations including 34 competition venues.
Every ofcial removing redundant third party circuits from our inventory photograph and sports report and millions of calls, emails, texts and improving our billing operations and promoting e-billing tweets will be carried over BTs communications network.
We are rationalising our property portfolio and associated carrying all the broadcast pictures for every sporting moment infrastructure.
BT is providing 80,000 connections, Report of the Directors Performance British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 19
