qxp:BT PLC 03 18 5 12 18:08 Page 28 resources, with the exception of financial commitments and measures to the nearest measure prepared in accordance with IFRS contingent liabilities disclosed in note 29 to the consolidated is presented below.
The alternative performance measures we use financial statements.
may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Legal proceedings We do not believe that there is any single current court action that Specic items would have a material adverse effect on our financial position or The groups income statement and segmental analysis separately operations.
During 2012 the aggregate volume and value of legal identify trading results before specic items.
Specic items are actions to which we are party remained broadly the same as at the those that in managements judgment need to be disclosed by end of 2011. virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
In determining whether an event or transaction is specic, management considers quantitative Going concern as well as qualitative factors such as the frequency or predictability The sections on Business, Strategy and Performance on pages 2 to of occurrence.
This is consistent with the way that financial 29 include information on the group structure, the performance of performance is measured by management and reported to the each of the lines of business, the impact of regulation and BT Group plc Board and the Operating Committee and assists in competition and principal risks and uncertainties.
The Performance providing a meaningful analysis of the trading results of the group.
section on pages 19 to 29 includes information on our financial The directors believe that presentation of the groups results in this results, financial outlook, cash ow, loans and borrowings and way is relevant to an understanding of the groups financial balance sheet position.
Notes 21, 22, 23 and 25 of the consolidated performance as specic items are identied by virtue of their size, financial statements include information on the groups investments, nature or incidence.
Items which have been considered to be cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, derivatives, financial risk specic items by virtue of their size, nature or incidence include management objectives, hedging policies and exposures to interest, disposals of businesses and investments, regulatory settlements, foreign exchange, credit, liquidity and market risks.
business restructuring programmes, asset impairment charges, Alongside the factors noted above, the directors have considered property rationalisation programmes, net interest on pensions and BT Group plcs cash ow forecasts, in particular with reference to the settlement of multiple tax years in a single payment.
In 2009 BT the period to the end of May 2013.
The directors are satisfied that Global Services contract and financial review charges were disclosed this cash ow forecast, taking into account reasonably possible risk as a specic item by virtue of their size and nature.
The impact of sensitivities associated with this forecast and BT Group plcs current subsequent changes to the contract and financial review charges funding and facilities, alongside BT Group plcs funding strategy, from revisions in estimates and assumptions are included within shows that the group will continue to operate for the foreseeable trading results before specic items, and are separately disclosed if future.
The directors therefore continue to have a reasonable considered significant.
expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in Specic items are summarised below and disclosed in note 9 to operational existence for the foreseeable future and continue to the consolidated financial statements.
adopt a going concern basis in accordance with the guidance Revenue and other operating income Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK In 2012 following a retrospective regulatory ruling in Germany, a Companies 2009 issued by the Financial Reporting Council in one-off charge of 410m was recognised against revenue with an preparing the consolidated financial statements.
equal reduction in operating costs.
In 2012 a loss on disposal of There has been no significant change in the financial or trading 19m arose on the disposal of a subsidiary undertaking.
position of the group since 31 March 2012.
Operating costs OUTLOOK Specic operating costs comprised BT Global Services restructuring Our objective remains to drive profitable revenue growth.
In 2013 we expect to incur economic and regulatory headwinds will make revenue growth in further BT Global restructuring costs of around 40m in relation to 2013 more challenging than originally envisaged, we expect the rationalisation of the Infonet and Radianz networks.
Property underlying revenue excluding transit to show an improving trend in rationalisation charges of 90m were incurred in 2012 2011: 2013 and 2014.
We expect a decline of around 200m300m in 88m.
The property rationalisation programme has now been transit revenue in 2013. completed.
We expect to make further progress in transforming our cost base which will drive growth in adjusted EBITDA in 2013 and 2014.
Net finance income We expect BT Global Services to deliver solid EBITDA growth in Net finance income on pensions was 197m in 2012 2011: 79m 2013 as we intensify our efforts to improve the efficiency of its expense.
operations and reduce its cost base.
Taxation ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES The specic tax items tax credit of 142m 2011: 239m credit in Introduction 2012 principally comprised a tax credit of 164m 2011: 172m We assess the performance of the group using a variety of for the re-measurement of deferred tax balances as a result of the alternative performance measures.
We principally discuss the change in the UK statutory tax rate from 26% to 24% effective in groups results on an adjusted basis.
The rationale for using 2013 but enacted in 2012 and from 28% to 26% effective in 2012 adjusted measures is explained below.
Results on an adjusted basis but enacted in 2011. are presented before specic items.
We also explain financial performance using measures that are Underlying revenue trends not dened under IFRS and are therefore termed non-GAAP Underlying revenue is a measure which seeks to reect the measures.
The non-GAAP measures we use are underlying revenue, underlying revenue performance of the group that will contribute reported and adjusted EBITDA and reported, adjusted and to long-term profitable growth.
As such it excludes any increases or normalised free cash ow.
A reconciliation from these non-GAAP 28 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 Report of the Directors Performance
