qxp:BT PLC 03 18 5 12 18:08 Page 19 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS PERFORMANCE In this section we discuss the operating and financial performance Products and services of our customer-facing lines of business and the financial In September 2011 we introduced new names for the categories of performance of the group.
our products and services to improve the way we sell to our We measure performance of our customer-facing lines of customers.
These new names make it easier for customers to business on an adjusted basis, being revenue, EBITDA, operating understand our portfolio and for our sales community to sell it.
They profit and operating cash ow: all of which are before specic items also help to differentiate us from competitors by making our which are not allocated to the customer-facing lines of business.
See page 5 for more details on our new A denition of specic items is set out on page 28.
Specic items products and services categories.
for 2012, 2011 and 2010 are disclosed in note 9 to the In December 2011 we announced the formation of BT Advise, consolidated financial statements.
A reconciliation of adjusted which brings together the BT Global Services experts who deliver EBITDA to group operating profit by the customer-facing lines of consulting, systems integration and managed services around the business, and for the group, is provided in Segment information, world under one team.
Customers will benefit from engaging with a note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
team made up of 4,500 highly skilled professionals who apply We explain our financial performance using measures that are industry-leading processes and methodologies.
not dened under IFRS and are therefore termed non-GAAP We have also invested in growth areas including MPLS, Ethernet, measures.
The non-GAAP measures we use are underlying revenue UCC, CRM, security, mobility and cloud services.
We also continue to excluding transit, adjusted and reported EBITDA and normalised, invest in industry-specic products and services such as our BT adjusted and reported free cash ow.
Each of these measures is Unied Trading voice service which we launched in 12 global discussed in more detail on pages 28 to 29. financial centres.
LINE OF BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Contracts We have made progress during the year, both on an operational Our investment to support our customers and improve our services basis with some improved measures, and nancially.
However, the has resulted in contract wins around the world with an order intake economic climate has been challenging.
of 6.7bn in 2012, a reduction of 8% which is more than accounted for by the lower level of contract renewals in the year.
We are seeing BT Global Services the benets from our investments in Asia Pacic, Latin America, Operating performance Turkey the Middle East and Africa where the combined order intake Investing for the future was up over 60% on last year.
We continued to invest in high-growth regions where our Contracts signed in 2012 included: customers want to expand.
The investments we announced last European Parliament: two framework contracts covering a year in Asia Pacic are progressing well with new technology wide range of networked IT services, including the supply of showcases in New Delhi and Shanghai, a new secure operations network equipment and applications centre in Sydney, a range of product refreshes and launches, and NATO: a contract with NATOs Consultation, Command and the hiring of around 200 professionals across the region in the key Control Agency NC3A, to provide a communications customer markets of Australia, China, Hong Kong, India, Japan and network connecting more than 70 locations spread across the Singapore.
As a result our Asia Pacic order pipeline has grown and NATO nations and the Balkans we are converting it into orders.
Lancashire County Council: a contract to deliver ICT for the In October 2011 we announced a series of investments in Latin County Council and schools as well as the back-ofce services America.
Through recruiting around 200 new staff, increasing our for human resources, payroll, the customer service centre and professional services capabilities, opening new centres of excellence procurement and implementing a wide range of network and customer service Anglo American: a global managed networked IT services improvements, we aim to better support global customers investing contract covering all Anglo Americans networking in Latin America and help large Latin American companies expand requirements at several hundred locations around the world globally.
In February 2012 we also announced a series of Bristol-Myers Squibb: a contract extension for global investments in Turkey, the Middle East and Africa.
Global companies network services including wide area and local area networks, investing in the region, as well as local companies expanding further as well as remote access, voice, and telephony infrastructure aeld, will gain access to a broader portfolio of services and will be The Brazilian Post Ofce and Telegraph Company Correios : a supported by around 150 additional highly qualied staff, including contract to connect more than 7,000 sites, including professional services specialists.
Across these three regions revenue corporate, regional and local ofces all over the country increased by 16% in 2012.
We expect to increase our revenue by CLSA Asia Pacic Markets: a contract for a managed voice, around 500m in these regions over the medium term.
data and trading systems solution across 14 countries in the Asia Pacic region, the UK and the US Cost transformation Serco Australia: a contract to install and manage We have continued to improve the efficiency of our operations communications infrastructure and run a range of IT services helping to deliver a 4% reduction in net operating costs.
We for the new Fiona Stanley hospital in Western Australia.
achieved this through: During 2012 we continued to execute on our largest customer increasing our use of shared service centres for contract contracts.
delivery London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games working with our external suppliers to improve contract terms BT is delivering a single communications network across 94 rationalising our network assets and our operations locations including 34 competition venues.
Every ofcial removing redundant third party circuits from our inventory photograph and sports report and millions of calls, emails, texts and improving our billing operations and promoting e-billing tweets will be carried over BTs communications network.
We are rationalising our property portfolio and associated carrying all the broadcast pictures for every sporting moment infrastructure.
BT is providing 80,000 connections, Report of the Directors Performance British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 19 03 329013 Financial Review.
qxp:BT PLC 03 18 5 12 18:08 Page 20 16,500 xed telephone lines, 14,000 mobile SIM cards, 10,000 Net operating costs decreased by 4% or by 1% excluding transit cable TV outlets, 5,500km of internal cabling and 1,800 wireless costs, disposals and foreign exchange movements.
This reects the access points.
The London 2012 Delivery Programme team has hit continued progress from our cost saving initiatives as set out above.
key milestones by successfully completing the installation of FTTP in EBITDA increased by 6%.
Excluding disposals and foreign the athletes village on schedule.
This will serve 2,818 ats, exchange movements EBITDA increased by 7% reecting the providing the athletes and coaches staying here with free BT Innity impact of cost saving initiatives and improved operational super-fast broadband throughout the Olympic and Paralympic performance.
Depreciation and amortisation decreased by 3% as a Games.
The London 2012 Delivery team has also nalised the result of lower overall capital expenditure over the prior two design for the Games-time website ahead of schedule.
This contributed to an operating loss of 85m, an expected to be visited by over a billion people during Games-time, improvement compared with the loss of 141m in 2011. with over 200 million unique visitors.
Capital expenditure increased by 12% due to customer contract commitments, additional expenditure to support the delivery of NHS contracts new contracts in EMEA and Latin America, as well as continued 2012 was our busiest year ever in the delivery of our large NHS network investment.
We rolled out four Operating cash was an inow of 183m 2011: 119m inow.
additional electronic patient record systems to major hospitals in This was slightly below our target of around 200m for the year.
London and the South of England.
Around 220,000 NHS staff now use our clinical information systems in more than 80 NHS BT Retail organisations.
We also doubled the capacity of the internet gateway Operating performance for N3, the secure national broadband network we have built and BT Consumer manage for the NHS, providing faster internet access for healthcare In response to changing customer demand and strong competition staff.
On the Spine, the secure database and messaging service BT over the past year we have focused our marketing and retention has also developed, more than 30m Choose and Book activities predominantly on dual play bundled offers of calls and appointments have been made since the service was launched, with broadband, and triple play bundles of calls, broadband and TV.
We 39,000 being made on average each working day.
have improved the exibility of our bundles by introducing a wider range of options for voice calling plans, broadband speed and usage Customer service delivery limits and TV content.
We focused our efforts on improving customer satisfaction across a More than 60% of our retail broadband customer base now has a wide range of metrics and made improvements in many areas.
bundle of services, and around 98% of new broadband orders are Through our right first time programme we reduced customer for bundled products.
The increasing popularity of bundles has faults by 5% and improved the way we handle calls from customers.
contributed to increased consumer ARPU which was 343 in the We take feedback from our customers in many ways: through fourth quarter of 2012 compared with 326 in the fourth quarter customer surveys: through our global account management teams, of 2011 as consumers take more products from us.
and through customer events where we discuss our strategy and Active consumer line loss was down 30% on last year.
This has their experience of working with us.
That feedback helps us identify been achieved through a combination of competitive bundled opportunities to improve overall customer satisfaction with our offers and effective marketing and retention campaigns.
year line churn has reduced with customers on bundles having lower churn than those with calls only.
Growth in call packages with Financial performance inclusive unlimited calls has slowed the decline in call minutes per a 2012 2011 line.
Year ended 31 March m m In the broadband market, we added 589,000 retail broadband Revenue 7,809 8,059 customers in the year, representing 54% of the broadband net Underlying revenue excluding transit 1% 4% additions of 1,083,000 and taking our retail customer base to Net operating costs 7,182 7,466 around 6.3m, up 10%.
EBITDA 627 593 Take-up of our super-fast broadband product, BT Innity, has Depreciation and amortisation 712 734 accelerated and we now have over 550,000 customers.
In Operating loss 85 141 November 2011 we launched our fastest ever broadband service, a FTTP BT Innity service which supports downstream speeds of up to Capital expenditure 560 498 100Mbps.
In April 2012 we launched FTTC BT Innity with up to Operating cash ow 183 119 80Mbps downstream and up to 20Mbps upstream.
Plusnet, our brand for cost-conscious customers, performed well during 2012 and made a good contribution to our broadband In 2012 underlying revenue excluding transit decreased by 1% performance, representing around 15% of total retail net additions.
partly reecting the challenging environment in certain markets.
Take-up of the Plusnet bre broadband service, which we launched Revenue decreased by 3% including a 168m decline in transit at the start of 2012, was also encouraging.
revenue, a 55m impact from disposals and a 21m favourable Our pay-TV service, BT Vision, had over 700,000 customers at impact from foreign exchange movements.
31 March 2012, up 23% over the prior year.
We are seeing the Revenue from networked IT services decreased by 1% mainly benefit of improvements we have made to our service during the due to the impact of disposals.
Calls and lines revenue decreased by year.
In July we launched a new BT Vision Essential package giving 9% reecting the continued trend of customers migrating to customers unlimited access to BBC iPlayer and seven-day catch-up alternative IP-based services, however the rate of decline has TV and the exibility to pay for all other on-demand content only slowed.
Transit revenue decreased by 27% largely due to the impact when they view it.
In June we launched BBC iPlayer nationally after of mobile termination rate reductions in Europe.
trialling it in 2011, and this has signicantly increased subscription 20 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 Report of the Directors Performance 03 329013 Financial Review.
qxp:BT PLC 03 18 5 12 18:08 Page 21 views of on-demand content.
In February we selectively launched In BT Redcare we saw a large increase in sales of mobile SIM-based our next generation BT Vision service Vision 2.0, which offers re and intruder products following significant enhancements to improved browsing and navigation capabilities, and has a these products incorporating mobile roaming and secure remote sophisticated recommendations engine to make viewing upload and download of software.
In March 2012 BT Vision won the IP&TV In BT Payphones we removed around 330 payphones as part of Industry Award in the Best Service Growth Achievement category.
our programme to remove unprofitable payphones while still This is awarded for significant growth in the number of subscribers meeting our universal service obligations.
to an IP-enabled TV service.
In BT Wiwe increased the volume of wiminutes by 43% in the year.
We won a contract with Hilton Hotels to provide wiin BT Business 17,000 rooms, and other significant wins included Heineken Pubs Our calls and lines business was impacted by the continuing decline and John Lewis.
in the xed telephony market.
However, we slowed the rate of line losses in 2012 through improved marketing and retention activities, Customer service delivery with net losses down 14%, the lowest for four years.
Call volumes In our consumer customer service organisation we have focused on continued to decline, but call usage per customer has stabilised.
making it easier for our customers to contact and get help from us.
Broadband performed well, and in particular we saw an The percentage of customers rating interactions with us as acceleration in sales of our BT Innity FTTC product.
We improved extremely easy or very easy has grown by eight percentage points our bundles of voice, broadband and mobile, which positively during the year for our voice channels.
In March 2012 our BT Care impacted our broadband performance.
In November 2011 we won team won the UK Customer Satisfaction Award from the Institute of the award from IT Magazine V3 for best business broadband Customer Service for best use of social media and communication internet service provider.
Over 60% of our service interactions are now self-serve via our website and automated telephone systems.
Calls to our call BT Ireland centres have fallen by 13% and complaints have fallen 16%.
Despite a challenging economy in 2012 we achieved some We continue to keep track of our performance in key areas that important contract wins and extensions.
In Northern Ireland these are important to customers, such as our success at resolving queries included the Police Service of Northern Ireland, the Department of in one contact.
In 2012 we improved our performance on this Finance and Personnel, and Randox Laboratories.
In the Republic of measure for consumers by a further eight percentage points.
Ireland wins included the Department of Social Protection and FBD In our business customer service organisation we focused on Insurance.
One Contact Resolution OCR aiming to resolve customers' issues In Northern Ireland, more than 750,000 premises have now in just one contact.
We have reduced repeat service calls overall by been passed by FTTC resulting in coverage of 89%, which makes it 12%, with the best improvement in our broadband technical one of the most bre-connected regions anywhere in Europe.
We helpdesk organisation, for which repeat calls were down 17%.
OCR saw a significant uplift in BT Innity sales in Northern Ireland, as for repair of lines also improved by 14 percentage points in the year.
well as line loss reductions and a fall in broadband churn.
Our breComplaints have signicantly reduced, and were down by 20%.
based Total Transmission network went live in the Republic of Ireland in October 2011 and we are progressively extending it to Financial performance a 2012 2011 further sites.
This network upgrade increases the capacity of our Year ended 31 March m m network, lowers the cost of bandwidth, brings our network closer to Revenue 7,393 7,700 businesses and enhances our Ethernet and IP capabilities to offer Net operating costs 5,563 5,916 new services.
EBITDA 1,830 1,784 Depreciation and amortisation 410 443 BT Enterprises Our BT Enterprises portfolio of businesses delivered a good overall Operating profit 1,420 1,341 performance, despite challenging market conditions and migration Capital expenditure 434 434 to new technologies.
We achieved significant customer wins and Operating cash ow 1,362 1,382 introduced product enhancements to improve our competitive a Restated.
In BT Conferencing we increased the volume of external audio In 2012 revenue decreased by 4% as increased consumer ARPU was conferencing minutes by around 20% in the year and had some offset by lower calls and lines revenue and lower IT hardware sales significant wins including DHL, Syngenta, and a contract extension in BT Business.
We launched BT Engage Meeting Mobile, an BT Consumer revenue declined by 5%.
The reduced rate of application for iPhone, iPad, and Android devices and enhanced our decline was due to growth in our broadband base, particularly BT cloud-based video conferencing solution.
Innity, and in BT Vision, which contributed to the increase in In BT Directories we increased our share of directory enquiry calls consumer ARPU.
to 118500 following successful TV advertising campaigns.
We also BT Business revenue declined by 5%, impacted by lower IT launched our new BT Marketing Solutions website which combines hardware sales reecting market conditions and our decision during all of our online and print portfolio in one place.
2012 to move away from low-margin IT hardware trade sales.
In BT Expedite & Fresca we launched a hosted EPOS solution and Business line loss was at its lowest level for four years.
delivered the industrys first iPad-enabled POS system, winning BT Ireland revenue was broadly at excluding the impact of Technology Initiative of the Year for our client, Oasis Fashions.
We foreign exchange movements, benefiting from a number of had some significant wins including the renewal of a five-year significant contract wins despite the challenging economic e-commerce contract with Aurora Fashions and a contract with WH environment.
Smith to provide a self-checkout solution.
Report of the Directors Performance British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 21 03 329013 Financial Review.
qxp:BT PLC 03 18 5 12 18:08 Page 22 BT Enterprises revenue increased by 1% excluding the impact of and accounted for 27% of external revenue in 2012, up from 24% foreign exchange movements.
BT Conferencing revenue increased in 2011. due to growth in conferencing minutes and BT Expedite & Fresca Net operating costs reduced by 6% but increased by 3% increased sales to retailers.
These increases were partially offset by excluding transit costs, as detailed above.
revenue declines in BT Payphones, BT Redcare and BT Directories.
Depreciation and amortisation Net operating costs decreased by 6% reecting our cost reduced by 2% and operating profit declined by 13%.
Capital expenditure increased by 2% principally due to better EBITDA increased by 3% and with depreciation and amortisation utilisation of our assets being offset by increased investment in our decreasing by 7% due to the lower level of capital expenditure in WBC and Ethernet roll-out.
recent years, operating profit increased by 6%.
Operating cash ow decreased by 12% largely due to the decline Capital expenditure was at and operating cash ow decreased in EBITDA.
Openreach BT Wholesale Operating performance Operating performance The continued growth in demand for bandwidth by consumers and Investing for the future businesses led to higher sales volumes across our portfolio.
This We now have more than 60 CPs taking our WBC bre broadband growth helped us to deliver a good financial performance, but also service.
Our MEAS service is now available at more than 13,000 led to higher levels of faults in our copper network.
mobile base station sites, an increase of around 3,800 in the year, reinforcing our market-leading position.
Investing for the future Since its launch in 2011 our global IP Exchange platform, We have achieved our target of passing 10m UK premises with our continues to grow rapidly and now has over 200 CP customers.
IP bre roll-out many months ahead of schedule and we are on track voice minutes have increased by around 80% in the year.
for passing two-thirds of premises by the end of 2014.
Adoption of bre broadband has been promising at 31 March 2012 we had Cost transformation more than 60 different providers trialling or offering bre Net operating costs reduced by 6% but increased by 3% excluding broadband.
Given our early experience of customer adoption, we transit costs.
Reductions in total labour costs and discretionary have hired a new mobile workforce of over 800 engineers expenditure were offset by the impact of changes in the product including many former Armed Forces personnel to manage the mix and network migration costs.
spikes in demand that occur when bre broadband is first made available in an exchange area.
Contracts During 2012 we signed contracts with a total order value of around Products and services 750m.
This was lower than 2011 partly due to several significant Our overall copper line base increased by 136,000 in the year and wins in that year and the lengthening of sales lead times for new has now grown for six consecutive quarters, as customers recognise contracts as customers delay making long-term strategic decisions.
the advantage of xed-line broadband.
At 31 March 2012 we were providing 15.5m WLR lines to other BT lines of business and 6.3m Customer service delivery to other CPs.
A variety of initiatives to improve reliability led to a 15% reduction in At 31 March 2012 around 93% of UK premises were served by faults being handled by us.
During 2012 we increased our e-chat an unbundled exchange and there were 16.8m unbundled lines in service and we now handle 85% of customer enquiries on-line.
This the UK, up 6.9% on the previous year.
Of these, 8.5m were for reduces waiting time and improves handling times for our customers.
other BT lines of business to support broadband services and 8.3m were for other CPs.
More than 30 CPs are providing services using Financial performance LLU and we are fullling more than 50,000 LLU orders a week.
a 2012 2011 Demand for our Ethernet services further increased in 2012, Year ended 31 March m m with the number of Ethernet circuits rising by 25%.
This growth was Revenue 3,923 4,201 driven both by higher demand for connections to CPs business Underlying revenue excluding transit 2% 3% customers, and by demand from CPs for higher speed connections Net operating costs 2,715 2,885 within their own networks.
EBITDA 1,208 1,316 Depreciation and amortisation 604 619 Cost transformation Net operating costs increased by 1% as efficiency improvements Operating profit 604 697 were offset by higher labour costs due to additional engineering Capital expenditure 336 329 activity and leaver costs.
Customer service delivery We have improved our delivery performance for new copper lines.
In 2012 underlying revenue excluding transit declined by 2% We worked with industry to establish a target lead-time of 14 days, primarily due to the ongoing migration of broadband lines to LLU and were performing consistently better than this by the end of the and the transition to IP-based services such as Ethernet and IP year.
The main disappointment in the year was the higher than Exchange.
These new IP-based services grew signicantly in 2012 expected level of copper network faults which was largely driven by but not enough to offset the decline in our traditional services.
the higher adoption and usage of broadband.
Revenue declined by 7% mainly due to a 224m reduction in transit revenue driven by mobile termination rate reductions of 213m.
The majority of our largest customers by revenue have signed longterm contracts.
Revenue from MNS contracts continued to grow 22 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 Report of the Directors Performance
