qxp:BT PLC 02 18 5 12 18:07 Page 13 People and engagement People Our people are crucially important for the delivery of our services and Our people are a key resource: we rely on them to deliver our strategy therefore our reputation and success.
They are our public face and are and we are proud of what they achieve for our business.
At 31 March the talent behind our innovation.
2012 our people resources were equivalent to 89,015 full time We know that engaged employees deliver better performance for employees of which 73,845 were based in the UK.
Because of this we have a number of initiatives in place Working environment to enhance their well being, and to make sure that work-life balance It is important to match the resources available to our customers is maintained through exible working practices.
To help achieve this we have people on many different types Health and safety of working arrangements.
These include part-time, term-time and Looking after the health, safety and well being of all our people is a job share.
They help to match the exibility required for the business major priority for us.
We have comprehensive management systems with peoples own aspirations for a work-life balance.
to help make our workplaces as safe as possible.
We continue to support an inclusive working environment where people can develop their careers and expect to be treated fairly, HOW WE MEASURE OUR PROGRESS regardless of their race, sex, religion beliefs, disability, marital or civil We measure our progress by two performance indicators: adjusted partnership status, age, sexual orientation, or caring responsibilities.
free cash ow, and customer service improvement.
We also work with specialist agencies to enable the recruitment of people with disabilities and we run a retention service to ensure that Adjusted free cash ow people can stay with us even if their capabilities change.
Free cash ow is an important measure of our financial performance As our business develops and grows, the skills that we need may and our progress against our strategic priorities.
It represents the cash change.
We provide opportunities to re-skill and look for alternative we generate from operations after capital expenditure and finance roles for individuals whose skills or jobs are no longer required.
Since costs and reects the cash available to invest in the business, repay we started these arrangements six years ago, over 19,000 people debt, support the pension scheme and pay dividends.
Our free cash have successfully found alternative employment within BT with ow measure changed from reported free cash ow to adjusted free 4,100 of these during the last year.
Our ability to help nd alternative cash ow in 2012 to align with management incentive arrangements.
roles has been enhanced by an ongoing review of work that has Adjusted free cash ow is before the cash impact of specic items.
previously been resourced externally and bringing this back into BT For further details of adjusted free cash ow see page 24. where appropriate.
Over the past two years around 4,000 jobs have been insourced from suppliers and overseas.
Customer service improvement Employee representation Our strategy starts with customer service and we always try to We have a record of stable industrial relations and constructive improve the experience we provide to our customers.
Right first relationships with the recognised unions in the UK and with works time is our key measure for customer service.
It measures how often councils elsewhere in Europe.
In the UK we recognise two main trade we keep the promises we make to our customers.
As well as unions the Communication Workers Union CWU, which represents improving service, keeping more promises reduces the work needed people in engineering, administrative and clerical positions, and to put things right and so reduces our cost.
Prospect, which represents managerial and professional employees.
For further details of customer service improvement see page 9.
We deal with unions around the world and also operate a panEuropean works council, the BT European Consultation Committee.
OUR RESOURCES Our resources are the things we need to deliver our strategy.
Many of Pay and benets them are things that make us different and that set us aside from our We expect our people to work hard and in return we reward them competitors and give us an advantage in our markets.
In 2012 we implemented a 3% pay increase in the UK as well as our resources in a responsible and sustainable manner.
paying all team members a 250 bonus.
For our engineers and support people this is an across-the-board arrangement and for our Brand and reputation managers there is performance-related differentiation.
The same The BT brand is an important business asset and a key resource.
We principles of fair pay for the work done are similarly applied in all know that it is effective in making sure our products and services are other countries in which we operate.
considered by customers of all types, in communicating our Our managers also receive bonuses linked to the success of the strengths, and in acting as a guide to our behaviours.
We are business and their personal contribution to it.
Our most senior consistently assessed as one of the worlds most valuable brands.
For managers are also eligible for long-term incentives, but again, example, we ranked 86 in Brand Finances Global 500 of the worlds payment is related to business success measured by our corporate top brands in 2012. performance over a three-year period.
Different arrangements apply People who buy things from us do not just choose us for the to the most senior managers in Openreach but these are also entirely obvious benets of our products and services.
They are buying into a related to business performance.
set of values, and a rich heritage.
Despite the diversity of our markets, We also provide savings-related share option plans in over 25 the brand associations are remarkably consistent we are seen as countries.
Under the BT employee share investment plan, we let relevant to people, and they trust and like us as a brand.
In 2011 we employees in the UK participate in a tax and national insurancebegan a two-year programme of renewing our trademark licences efficient share purchase scheme.
We are pleased that more than 60% around the world to provide confidence that the value of our brand is of our people participate in one or more of these share plans.
We also provide pension and retirement benets for employees as well as statutory retirement arrangements.
Report of the Directors Strategy British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 13 02 329013 Report of the Directors.
qxp:BT PLC 02 18 5 12 18:07 Page 14 Networks and platforms Innovation Our infrastructure is made up of networks and platforms which in Innovation has always been at the core of our business.
Our global combination connect our customers and support the services they research and development activities are aligned with, and focused on, use.
As such they are a vital resource and their reliability and security supporting our strategy.
are critical to our customers and to delivering our strategy.
Creating attractive and competitive propositions for customers is critical to our future.
We access some of the best innovation from Networks around the world through our open innovation model.
Our teams Our UK xed-line communications network is one of our most work with customers, partners and universities in the US, Asia, valuable resources.
Our super-fast bre-based broadband network is Europe and the Middle East, exposing us to more than 500 new key to our future and our competitive position in the UK.
Around the technologies, business propositions and market trends over the year.
world, our networks consist of assets that we own and those that are In 2012 we led patent applications for 65 inventions.
We routinely leased from suppliers to give us global reach.
seek patent protection in different countries including the US and We have established a global MPLS network, which is designed to China, and we currently maintain a total worldwide portfolio of over carry different types of network services over a common 5,000 patents and applications.
We offer two types of virtual private network VPN In 2012 we invested 560m 2011: 684m in global research service: IPVPN and Ethernet VPN.
These provide our customers with and development to support our drive for innovation.
The reduction secure network capabilities in many countries across the world.
in expenditure compared with 2011 has been delivered through Our IPVPN service is available in 197 countries and territories and better procurement, systems rationalisation, development efficiency can be accessed through: global points of presence GPoP and direct improvements and platforms reaching maturity.
Our global leased lines in 118 countries: city bre networks in 24 European cities development centres, located in the UK, US and India, help us to and 2 Latin American cities: Ethernet access in 42 countries: DSL in draw together key and complementary skills and resources both 21 countries: network-to-network interfaces NNI in 31 countries: internal and third party with the objective of increasing agility, internet-based access in 178 countries, and satellite access in over 60 efficiency and delivery of innovation into the market.
We are actively additional countries.
looking to invest in establishing additional centres in new locations.
BT-owned physical GPoP are MPLS points of access which house In 2012 we applied our research and development capability to a an IP node.
NNI are the interface between our network and the number of areas including: network of a third party.
They allow us to use another providers increasing broadband coverage we have been trialling network to extend our footprint in geographies where we have fewer innovative new technologies to test their suitability for providing of our own GPoP.
Satellite links provides access to the BT network in service in hard to reach locations across the UK.
For example, BT remote locations, beyond the reach of traditional xed-line solutions.
Wholesale trialled xed-mobile 4G LTE in Cornwall and Openreach Our Ethernet VPN service is available in 28 countries using performed trials using TV white space radio technology to get Ethernet access.
This number is growing through the global better broadband to locations on the Isle of Bute expansion investments we have made over the past year.
improving broadband speed we worked on the network frequency plan change described on page 11 and have been Platforms trialling 1Gbps FTTP broadband Our platforms are the processes and technology that deliver products improving customer service we have been developing advanced and services over our networks.
For example, the billing and network test capabilities to diagnose and solve the more payments platform comprises the systems and processes that complicated faults on our broadband network.
We try to predict calculate charges, produce bills and collect payments from our faults and x them before they impact on customers customers.
The number of platforms we own has grown over time enhancing cyber security to complement our security through a combination of acquisition, outsourcing contracts and capabilities we have developed advanced tools which provide technology upgrades.
We continue to improve platforms by additional insight and analysis.
modernising and rationalising them, so reducing complexity while improving reliability, exibility and cost.
Suppliers We have reduced the number of IT applications by 11% over the Suppliers play a key role in helping us deliver our products and year, which has helped BTID and BTO to underpin significant cost services to customers and as such play an important role in helping us reduction.
We work with around 18,200 suppliers, spending approximately 10.6bn per year with them, with the top 100 Properties suppliers accounting for around 65% of this spend.
At 31 March 2012 we occupied around 6,500 properties in the UK, and around 1,720 properties in the rest of the world.
The majority of Our approach to procurement the UK properties are owned by and leased from Telereal Trillium, Our supply chain is global.
We source products and services from which is part of the William Pears Group.
Of the UK portfolio, 90% of across the world and have a team of over 300 procurement the properties are operational telephone exchanges which contain professionals located across 27 countries.
telecoms equipment and are required as part of our continuing We operate a strategic sourcing process for the vast majority of activities.
Our general purpose properties consist chiey of ofces, spend to derive maximum value and to meet our cost transformation engineering depots and data centres.
Outside the UK, 90% of the goals, with vendor negotiations being a key driver of cost reductions.
properties are operational sites housing data hosting and telecoms Against the backdrop of a difficult economic climate, our strategy has equipment.
In 2012 we have continued our programme of property been to focus on the suppliers with the greatest spend together with rationalisation, consolidating ofce space within the estate and innovative approaches to the market to achieve maximum business disposing of redundant ofce and operational buildings through cost benefit.
We are now planning to broaden this approach to include a transformation programmes.
larger proportion of our supply base, while at the same time exploring collaboration and consolidation options with our suppliers.
14 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 Report of the Directors Strategy
