qxp:BT PLC 03 18 5 12 18:08 Page 30 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS STATUTORY INFORMATION The directors submit their report and the audited financial A resolution to reappoint  LLP as BTs statements of the company, British Telecommunications plc, and the auditors and to authorise the directors to agree their remuneration group, which includes its subsidiary undertakings, for 2012 year.
will be proposed at the AGM.
Introduction Internal control and risk management The Business, Strategy and Performance sections on pages 2 to 29 The Board of BT Group plc, the companys ultimate parent, is form part of this report.
The audited financial statements are responsible for the groups systems of internal control and risk presented on pages 35 to 90 and 108. management and for reviewing each year the effectiveness of those During the year no interim dividends have been paid 2011: nil.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than The directors have declared a final dividend of 1,400m 2011: nil.
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives: any system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance Principal activity against material misstatement or loss.
The process in place for The company is the principal trading company of the BT group.
Our reviewing BTs systems of internal control includes procedures main activities are providing and managing data and voice networks designed to identify and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and, in and providing a range of services over these networks.
the case of any categorised as significant, procedures exist to ensure In the UK we are a leading communications services provider, that necessary action is taken to remedy the failings.
selling products and services to consumers and small and mediumBT Group plc has enterprise-wide risk management processes for sized enterprises SMEs.
In the UK and globally we are a leading identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by provider of managed networked IT services for many of the largest the group.
These processes have been in place during 2012 and multinational corporations, domestic businesses and national and have continued up to the date on which this document was local government organisations.
We also sell wholesale telecoms approved.
The processes are in accordance with the Revised services to communications providers CPs in the UK and around Guidance for Directors on the UK Governance Code published by the the world.
Financial Reporting Council the Turnbull Guidance.
Risk assessment and evaluation takes place as an integral part of Directors BT Group plcs annual strategic planning cycle.
We have a detailed The directors at 31 March 2012 were Tony Chanmugam and risk management process, culminating in a BT Group plc Board Glyn Parry who served throughout 2012 and Sean Williams who review, which identies the key risks facing the group and each was appointed on 18 April 2011.
Ian Livingston served as a director business unit.
This information is reviewed by senior management until 18 April 2011. as part of the strategic review.
Our current key risks are summarised in the Strategy section Our risks on pages 15 to 18.
Financial statements The key features of the enterprise-wide risk management and A statement by the directors of their responsibilities for preparing internal control process comprise the following procedures: the financial statements is included in the Statement of directors senior executives collectively review the groups key risks and responsibilities on page 32. have created a Group Risk Register describing the risks, owners Our significant accounting policies are set out on pages 40 to 46 and mitigation strategies.
This is reviewed by BT Group plcs of the consolidated financial statements and conform with IFRS.
Group Risk Panel and Operating Committee before being These policies, and applicable estimation techniques have been reviewed and approved by the BT Group plc Board reviewed by the directors who have confirmed them to be the lines of business and internal service units carry out risk appropriate for the preparation of the 2012 consolidated financial assessments of their operations, create risk registers relating to statements.
those operations, and ensure that the key risks are addressed So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant senior executives with responsibilities for major group operations information that has not been disclosed to the auditors and each of report quarterly with their opinion on the effectiveness of the the directors believes that all steps have been taken that ought to operation of internal controls in their area of responsibility have been taken to make them aware of any relevant audit BT Group plcs internal auditors carry out continuing assessments information and to establish that the auditors have been made of the quality of risk management and control, report to aware of that information.
management and the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee on the status of specic areas identied for improvement and Financial instruments promote effective risk management in the lines of business and Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the internal service units operations group and exposure to interest risk, foreign exchange risk, credit risk, the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee, on behalf of the liquidity risk and price risk are given in note 25 on pages 77 to 87.
BT Group plc Board, considers the effectiveness of the operation of internal control procedures in the group during the financial Auditors year.
It reviews reports from the internal and external auditors  have been the companys auditors for and reports its conclusions to the BT Group plc Board.
The many years and the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee carried BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee has carried out these out the annual review of their performance by gathering feedback actions for 2012. from Committee members and senior management, and by Joint ventures and associates, which BT does not control, have not considering reports on the audit rms own internal quality control been dealt with as part of the group risk management process and procedure and assessment of independence.
Having assessed the are responsible for their own internal control assessment.
responses the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee did not consider it necessary to require them to tender for the audit.
The external auditors are required to rotate the lead partner every five years and other partners that are responsible for the group and subsidiary audits every seven years.
The partner currently responsible for BTs audit is completing his third year.
30 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 Report of the Directors Statutory information 03 329013 Financial Review.
qxp:BT PLC 03 18 5 12 18:08 Page 31 US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 BT has debt securities registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
As a result, we must comply with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to foreign issuers.
We comply with the legal and regulatory requirements introduced pursuant to this legislation, in so far as they are applicable.
Disclosure controls and procedures The principal executive officer and the principal financial officer, after evaluating the effectiveness of BTs disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report & Form 20-F, have concluded that, as of such date, BTs disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that material information relating to BT was made known to them by others within the group.
The principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that BTs disclosure controls and procedures are also effective to ensure that the information required to be disclosed by the company in reports that it les under the Securities Exchange Act 1934 Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC.
The principal executive officer and the principal financial officer have also provided the certications required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Internal control over financial reporting BTs management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the group including the consolidation process.
Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS.
Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework for internal control evaluation contained in the Turnbull Guidance.
Based on this assessment, management has concluded that at 31 March 2012, BTs internal control over financial reporting was effective.
There were no changes in BTs internal control over financial reporting that occurred during 2012 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to have materially affected, BTs internal control over financial reporting.
Any significant deficiency, as dened by the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB, in internal control over financial reporting is reported to the Audit & Risk Committee of the ultimate parent company, BT Group plc.
 LLP, which has audited the consolidated financial statements of the group for 2012, has also audited the effectiveness of the groups internal control over financial reporting under Auditing Standard No.
By order of the Board Heather Brierley Secretary 16 May 2012 Registered Office: 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ Registered in England and Wales No.
1800000 Report of the Directors Statutory information British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 31
