qxp:BT PLC 02 18 5 12 18:07 Page 2 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS We are one of the worlds leading communications services BT Business companies.
Our main activities are providing and managing data and BT Business supplies SMEs in Great Britain with xed calls and lines, voice networks and providing a range of services over these broadband, mobility and IT services as well as data and voice networks.
Specialist businesses within BT Business include: In the UK we are a leading communications services provider, BT iNet: A Cisco centre of excellence specialising in infrastructure, selling products and services to consumers and small and mediumsecurity and unied communications sized enterprises SMEs.
In the UK and globally we are a leading BT Engage IT: A leading provider of business-to-business IT provider of managed networked IT services for many of the largest equipment and services multinational corporations, domestic businesses and national and BT Business Direct: An online store providing IT, computing and local government organisations.
We also sell wholesale telecoms networking equipment plus associated installation and support services to communications providers CPs in the UK and around the services.
BT Ireland BT Ireland operates in Northern Ireland and in the Republic of Ireland.
HOW WE ARE ORGANISED In Northern Ireland we operate the copper access network and are the Our customers are at the heart of everything we do and this is leading provider of communications services to consumers, SMEs and reected in the way we organise our business.
We have four the public sector.
We are also rolling out bre in partnership with the customer-facing Iines of business: BT Global Services: BT Retail: BT Northern Ireland government through the Department of Enterprise, Wholesale, and Openreach.
These are supported by two internal Trade and Investments broadband project.
In the Republic of Ireland service units: BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate.
we serve corporate and public sector customers and we are one of the largest providers of wholesale network services to CPs.
BT Global Services BT Global Services is a global leader in managed networked IT BT Enterprises services, serving the needs of customers in more than 170 countries BT Enterprises consists of six separate businesses each of which worldwide.
We provide services to around 7,000 large corporate and operates as a standalone business: public sector customers.
Our corporate customers operate in a wide BT Conferencing: Audio, video and web conferencing and range of sectors including banking and financial services, collaboration services for large corporate customers in the UK and manufacturing, logistics, pharmaceuticals, and consumer packaged around the world goods.
We serve customers in the public sector in the UK, including BT Directories: Directory Enquiries 118500, operator and central government and local councils as well as public sector emergency services.
Marketing solutions business, including The organisations outside the UK.
Globally we provide transit and other Phone Book, website design services and web-based marketing wholesale services to global carriers.
services that help customers advertise their businesses online Our customers benefit from our global scale and operating model.
BT Expedite & Fresca: Specialist services for the retail sector, Products are sold globally, and customers are served locally in their including store point of sale systems, back-ofce applications such own countries and sectors by teams who understand their specic as merchandising and sales analytics, and software and platforms business challenges and create locally relevant solutions.
We call this for website transactions operating globally and delivering locally.
BT Redcare: Fire and intruder alarm signalling services, CCTV and We have operations around the world so that we can serve the surveillance networks and control room services.
Mobile-todomestic and international needs of our customers.
We operate mobile solutions for vending machines, cash machines and domestic businesses in key markets in Continental Europe such as payment terminals, taxis and fleet management Italy, Germany, Benelux, France and Spain, and have local network BT Payphones: Public payphones and managed prison, card and infrastructure including high-speed bre networks in 24 major private payphones European cities.
We also operate in 45 countries across the Middle BT Wi-: Premium BT Openzone wihotspots and BT Fon East and Africa.
In Latin America we operate in 22 countries.
In the hotspots offering broadband on the move to retail customers and US and Canada, we serve customers from ofces in 35 key cities.
We to wholesale customers such as mobile network operators.
serve 18 countries in the Asia Pacic region including India, China, Malaysia, Singapore, South Korea, Japan and Australia.
We are BT Wholesale investing in high-growth regions such as Asia Pacic, Latin America BT Wholesale provides a broad range of voice, broadband and data and Middle East and Africa, recruiting more people and improving communications services for xed and mobile network operators our portfolio, and our network infrastructure.
MNOs, internet service providers ISPs and telecoms resellers in the UK and also provides services to other BT lines of business.
BT Retail We provide managed network services MNS for xed and mobile BT Retail serves its customers through four customer-facing divisions: CPs with differing requirements from fully managed network BT Consumer: BT Business: BT Ireland, and BT Enterprises.
outsourcing for operators with significant network assets, to white label managed services designed to help operators with limited or no BT Consumer infrastructure.
We have MNS contracts in place with all of the UKs We are the leading provider of voice and broadband services for retail MNOs, helping them to manage the growth in mobile data and video consumers in Great Britain and we also have a growing pay-TV content with high speed data connections that link mobile base service, BT Vision.
stations to their and our core networks.
We sell services under the BT brand as well as the Plusnet brand in order to reach a wider range of customers.
Our BT-branded services Openreach have a range of extra features that set them apart from competitors In Great Britain Openreach provides services over the local loop while Plusnet provides simple voice and broadband services for more network also referred to as the local access network and the last cost-conscious customers.
mile, a critical national asset that comprises the copper and bre connections between telephone exchanges and consumer and 2 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 Report of the Directors Business 02 329013 Report of the Directors.
qxp:BT PLC 02 18 5 12 18:07 Page 3 business premises.
Openreach is also responsible for delivering the Fixed calls and lines roll-out of our bre broadband network.
In addition to delivering About 84% of households in the UK have a xed telephone line and local loop services, we provide backhaul services that connect this percentage has been steady for the last two years.
There are exchanges to CPs networks.
currently 23.9m xed lines to households in the UK, some of which Our business is subject to regulation that requires us to sell take more than one line, up 0.5% compared with last year.
Fixed lines services to all CPs on an open and equal basis, meaning that external have remained important to customers as they need them to receive CPs can buy services from us on the same terms as BTs lines of broadband services.
Around 15% of UK households have only a business.
To make this work effectively Openreachs operational, mobile phone and about 1% of UK households have no type of engineering and systems capabilities are separate from the rest of BT.
The number of call minutes from xed lines has been in decline for some time, with our total call minutes down 11% in the BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate year, as customers are increasingly using mobile phones, email, social Our customer-facing lines of business are supported by two internal networking and other kinds of communication as alternatives.
service units, BT Innovate & Design BTID and BT Operate BTO.
We have the largest share of xed lines to households in the UK at 47%, although this has been on a declining trend due to the BT Innovate & Design increasingly competitive nature of the market.
The three main BTID designs, develops, tests and deploys IT systems, processes, competitors to BT for xed calls and lines are Virgin Media, Sky and networks, products and services.
These are either used by, or sold TalkTalk.
through, the customer-facing lines of business to end-customers in the UK and around the world.
BTID aims to develop cost-efficient, Broadband exible solutions.
The UK has one of the highest levels of broadband availability in In addition, BTID manages and delivers our long-term technology Europe, with 99% of premises being able to receive a type of strategy and our global research and innovation activities, including broadband connection and around 67% currently having a xed our worldwide patent portfolio see page 14. broadband connection.
At 31 March 2012 there were around 21m xed cable and digital subscriber line DSL broadband connections to BT Operate homes and businesses in the UK, up by 6% over last year.
BT, Virgin BTO manages our core voice, data and TV networks, and IT Media, Sky and TalkTalk are the largest broadband providers in the applications which represent the core infrastructure over which we UK.
We are the largest broadband provider with a 30% share of the run our portfolio of products and services.
total broadband market including cable and a 37% share of the DSL, BTO is also responsible for managing our energy consumption and Local Loop Unbundling LLU and bre broadband market at the strategy for reducing our future carbon footprint see page 23.
Mobile operators O2 and Everything Everywhere In addition, BTO manages the physical and cyber security of our also have a significant share of the xed broadband market and a operations.
number of other players make up the remainder of the market.
Broadband speed has become increasingly important as CUSTOMERS, MARKETS AND PRODUCTS consumers have more devices and use more data-intensive We serve a number of different customer groups in the UK and applications.
Average downstream speeds have steadily increased as around the world.
In this section we explain who our customers are we have invested in upgrading networks and as customers have and the trends we see in the markets where we operate, as well as the migrated to higher speed services.
Higher upstream speeds are also products and services we offer customers in response to market becoming more important for customers for activities such as sharing trends.
large les, video communications and online gaming.
UK Consumers WiThe UK consumer customer segment is served by the BT Consumer Winetworks allow customers to access the internet out of the and BT Ireland divisions of BT Retail.
home at hotspot locations as an alternative to using mobile networks.
We are a leader in this eld with the largest winetwork in the UK, Customers with more than 4m hotspots.
These are a mix of BT Openzone sites in There are around 26m households in the UK and this is growing premium locations such as hotels, transport hubs and shopping slowly, currently at a rate of around 1% every year, due to an centres, and BT Fon sites in customers homes and premises.
There is increasing population and demographic changes.
We can reach a trend for premium locations to offer access to winetworks for almost all of these households with our consumer products and free.
We offer free wiconnectivity to our BT Broadband and BT services.
Innity customers across our entire network.
Competition in wihas At 31 March 2012 we had a total of 10.9m consumer xed lines in increased with Sky who bought The Cloud in January 2011, O2 and the UK with 10m active voice lines lines on which the consumer also Virgin Media all investing in their networks.
We had around 6.3m retail broadband customers including business customers, of which over 550,000 now take BT Pay-TV services Innity, our super-fast bre-based broadband service.
At 31 March There are four main platforms supporting pay-TV services in the UK: 2012 our BT Vision customer base was over 700,000. cable and satellite, which account for over 90% of subscriptions, and digital terrestrial and internet protocol TV IPTV services.
BT Vision is Markets our IP-enabled TV service.
The UK consumer market for xed calls and lines, broadband and TV services is highly competitive, with more than a hundred companies Pay-TV subscriptions offering voice and or broadband services.
The market has There were 14.3m pay-TV subscriptions in the UK in December 2011 concentrated over the last few years and there are now several strong and penetration has now reached 53% of all households.
The four highest market shares are held by BT, Virgin Media, largest market share with 67% of subscriptions.
BT was not allowed Sky and TalkTalk.
to offer TV services for many years and so started offering services much later.
We now have around a 4% market share.
Report of the Directors Business British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 3 02 329013 Report of the Directors.
qxp:BT PLC 02 18 5 12 18:07 Page 4 On-demand TV Customers Technological developments are bringing the TV and internet In the UK there are estimated to be 4.5m SMEs, ranging in size from together.
A number of companies have already launched TV services sole traders to businesses with up to 1,000 employees.
The over the internet in the UK, including Sky, LoveFilm and Netix.
communications and IT needs of these customers vary considerably, There is also considerable choice in free online catch-up TV services, depending on factors such as size, number of sites in which they such as BBC iPlayer, ITV Player and others.
There are an estimated 4m operate, their industry sector and their maturity.
TV sets in the UK that are connected to the internet, via games We serve around 1m SME customers across the UK from small consoles, set top boxes and smart TVs.
There is also a growing number start-ups to medium-sized businesses with up to 1,000 employees.
of IP-connected devices such as tablets and smartphones that can be Small customers, with fewer than 50 employees, account for over used to view TV content in or out of the home.
This trend will become increasingly important and will allow richer Markets on-demand and interactive TV services, provided that there is The SME market for xed and mobile communications and IT services suitable regulatory intervention to allow fair access to premium in the UK is very fragmented and highly competitive, with content.
competitors varying by the customer segments they serve and the Products and services products and services they offer.
Overall the market has been BT Retail sells calls, lines and broadband into the consumer market impacted by the current economic conditions.
under two brands: BT and Plusnet.
Under our BT Innity brand we Fixed telecoms services offer super-fast bre-based broadband using bre-to-the-cabinet The SME market for xed voice is declining with call volumes falling FTTC and bre-to-the-premises FTTP technology.
We also offer a due to substitution by mobile, wireless, email and voice over IP VoIP pay-TV service, BT Vision.
In order to win and retain customers it is and the impact of the current economic conditions.
BT has a 49% important for us to offer all three services and to package them market share of lines in the total UK business market but there is a lot together in exible bundles to meet customer needs and respond to of competition with over 300 resellers as well as xed network competition.
We offer customers a wide choice of packages of calls, operators.
Competition varies by market segment with key broadband and pay-TV services.
They offer our best value to competitors including Daisy, TalkTalk, Virgin Media, XLN, Alternative customers and encourage take-up of additional services.
When Networks, Cable & Wireless Worldwide, Colt Group and KCOM Group.
choosing their lines and calls, broadband and pay-TV, more than half of UK consumers now buy two or more of those services from the IT services same supplier.
The IT services market has experienced challenging conditions in recent years with low revenue growth.
However, there is growing Voice services interest in new service and business models, including cloud-based We provide xed lines and a choice of calling plans, including a range services such as managed hosting of IT applications and data, and of unlimited options to meet customer preferences for evening, unied communication and collaboration UCC tools.
These provide weekend and peak-time calling.
All options include free calling companies with greater control and exibility to manage their costs.
features such as call waiting and free inclusive 0800 and 0845 Key competitors in the SME IT services market include minutes.
We also offer alternative payment options such as Line Computacenter, SCC, Phoenix IT, Kelway, Dimension Data, Logicalis Rental Saver which reduces the line rental charge if customers pay for and 2E2.
We are the only company to provide BT Basic, a simple, low-cost telephone service available to people who are on Mobile low incomes.
The SME mobile market is growing, in particular in areas such as mobile data access and machine-to-machine services.
There has Broadband been a significant growth in smartphones which is driving growth in We sell broadband services under the BT, Plusnet and BT Innity data volumes.
The leading operators in the mobile market are brands with a wide range of speeds.
BT Broadband and BT Innity Vodafone, O2 and Everything Everywhere and we have a small but have a range of options for usage limits and bundled call plans, and growing share.
include our free wireless Home Hub, free online storage and security services and unlimited access to our wihotspots.
Products and services We have a broad portfolio of products and services covering xed BT Vision telephony, IT and mobility ranging from simple standalone services to Our BT Vision TV service offers customers standard Freeview managed services and complex customised solutions.
We sell to channels, the ability to pause, record and rewind live TV and a catchsmaller customers through four channels: call centres: 41 Local up service from the BBC, ITV, Channel 4 and Channel 5.
Customers Businesses, which are not part of BT but are independently owned get a Vision box, which allows them to stream over 5,600 hours of companies that exclusively sell our products and services: nonon-demand programming, including BBC iPlayer, and to download exclusive relationships with indirect partners, and online sales via high denition HD and 3D content.
We currently offer a choice of bt.
For larger customers we operate desk-based and eld-based two subscription packages, Essential and Unlimited, and the option to account management teams.
subscribe to Sky Sports 1 and 2, inclusive with the ESPN channel.
Voice services UK Small and medium-sized enterprises We provide a full range of xed voice services from standard calls and One of our strategic priorities is to be the Brand for Business for UK lines to fully managed ofce phone systems and contact centre SMEs so this is an important customer segment for us.
As well as traditional voice, we increasingly sell VoIP market is mainly served by the BT Business division of BT Retail.
We have a mobile virtual network operator MVNO agreement with Vodafone and sell mobile voice and data services.
4 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 Report of the Directors Business 02 329013 Report of the Directors.
qxp:BT PLC 02 18 5 12 18:07 Page 5 Broadband and internet Market demand is driven by many factors, but our customers tell us We provide a range of internet access options including: BT Business that they need to: Broadband over copper: and BT Innity for Business over FTTC and reduce costs and improve efficiency by rationalising networks, FTTP: BTNet dedicated internet access, and mobile broadband.
Other using cloud computing and improving workforce effectiveness by internet services include email, hosted Microsoft collaboration using exible working and collaboration tools services and web hosting.
position themselves for growth by improving the service they provide to their end-customers as well as accessing new highConnectivity services growth markets around the world We offer networking services to support customers voice and data manage risk by improving their ability to protect their networks communications needs.
This includes the design, installation and and IT systems from cyber attacks.
management of leased lines, Ethernet services, IP virtual private network IPVPN services, structured cabling, and local area Products and services networking solutions.
We build and run global networks and provide services such as UCC, customer relationship management CRM, data centre services and IT services managed security solutions supported by professional services skills.
We offer IT services through our three IT services businesses: BT We deliver value by combining our network, IT and professional Engage IT: BT iNet, and BT Business Direct.
centres, unied communications and security solutions.
We also To make it easier for customers to buy from us we group our provide hardware, computing support services and consultancy.
We products and services into clear categories, which address different work with most leading vendors including Cisco, Microsoft, Citrix, HP, business needs.
They are: NetApps and Symantec.
BT Connect Large corporate and public sector customers We supply a range of network services that connect our customers The large corporate and public sector customer segment is our largest employees and sites to their customers and the world.
We deliver segment in terms of external revenue.
It is served by BT Global access and connectivity through many industry standard Services.
technologies including Ethernet, DSL, multiprotocol label switching MPLS, satellite broadband, IP networks, telephone systems, private Customers telephone lines, analogue private circuits and managed local area We provide large corporate and public sector customers with a range networks LANs.
Super-fast bre-based broadband is also available.
of network, IT and professional services.
We provide services to some of the largest companies in the world.
BT Compute We serve: We offer customers a reliable IT platform for their business 87% of the FTSE100 companies applications, data storage and security, hosted in a secure and 64% of the Fortune 500 companies controlled environment in our global BT data centres and connected 90% of Interbrands annual ranking of the worlds most valuable over the internet or our global IP network.
We provide a new brands generation of cloud-based services, giving our customers the the worlds top stock exchanges, leading broker-dealers and exibility and agility that comes from a cloud computing biggest banks.
We also supply services to national and local government BT Assure organisations and other public sector bodies in the UK and in 16 The security of companies networks and IT systems is becoming more countries around the world.
important as the threat of cyber crime increases.
We provide a range In the UK we are one of the largest suppliers of networked IT of security products and services including rewalls, web access services for the UK government Government.
The Government, as a security, intrusion prevention and event monitoring which form the whole, is our largest customer.
Except as described on page 8, we basis of a global security management system, combined with a have a normal customer and supplier relationship with the professional services capability.
BT Contact Markets With our range of CRM services we help customers to deal with their The global information and communications technology ICT market end-customers efficiently and to improve their customers serving large corporate and public sector customers is very experience.
Our products allow our customers to be contacted by fragmented in terms of products, suppliers, and standards.
their end-customers using different methods including email, web Estimates of market size vary, but IDC value the total global ICT chats and phone calls, using either automated systems or dedicated market serving corporate and public sector customers at 1,327bn.
customer relationship employees working in physical or cloud-based Within the total global ICT market our core products and services contact centres.
most closely align to a segment dened as managed networked IT services.
This market has been impacted by economic conditions, as BT One customers delay projects or reduce ICT budgets.
The global managed Our UCC products let our customers communicate more efficiently networked IT services market is estimated to be worth 875bn and is with their employees, suppliers, customers and business partners and predicted to grow over the next four calendar years.
so reduce costs and build a more sustainable organisation.
Our There are regional differences in market growth rates.
The UK is a products let them take part in almost any kind of communication, highly competitive market and we continue to see pricing pressure as through phone calls, email, instant messaging and web conferencing, well as declines in more traditional telecoms services as customers by allowing their communications infrastructure, mobile phones, switch to newer technologies.
However, there is increasing potential desktop computers and applications to work together.
in high-growth economies as domestic companies expand globally, and global companies enter new markets.
Report of the Directors Business British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 5 02 329013 Report of the Directors.
qxp:BT PLC 02 18 5 12 18:07 Page 6 BT Advise footprints, as well as providing managed wholesale services to ISPs As well as providing physical products, we provide consulting, and other parts of BT.
systems integration and managed services.
BT Advise experts help For those CPs who wish to invest in building their own networks customers more effectively solve business problems and advise them Openreach rents the copper access lines to the CPs who put their own on products and services developed specifically for our key industry equipment in the exchanges.
This is called Local Loop Unbundling sectors.
The competitive market place for broadband has stimulated growth in LLU.
Wholesale customers Openreach continues to see a steady rise in the number of The wholesale telecoms customer segment in the UK and the unbundled exchange areas, which over the last three years has risen Republic of Ireland is served through Openreach, BT Wholesale and by around 11%.
Internationally it is served mainly through Global Telecoms Bandwidth demand Markets, the wholesale arm of BT Global Services.
The wholesale market is adopting next generation communications We provide our wholesale customers with access to our platforms, services for data connectivity, such as Ethernet, IP voice and higher skills and technology, making our investments and economies of scale speed broadband over copper and bre.
Bandwidth growth is work for their benefit.
This promotes competition, delivers endaccelerating as customers move onto higher speed broadband customer choice, avoids infrastructure duplication and encourages services, something which has resulted in capacity on our network innovation.
increasing by eight times over the past six years.
Customers The UKs spectrum auction expected in 2013 and the subsequent Openreach provides access products to around 490 CPs, including introduction of 4G Long Term Evolution LTE services are likely to xed and mobile operators and ISPs.
Openreachs largest customers signicantly increase demand for mobile data services.
We are include BT Retail, Sky and TalkTalk.
working with all UK mobile operators to help them efficiently meet BT Wholesale provides services to over 1,400 CPs, including xed this challenge.
and mobile operators, ISPs, broadcasters, resellers and infrastructure Products and services carriers.
We manage and support the network and services We sell to wholesale customers through Openreach or BT Wholesale requirements of a number of national UK operators including KCOM depending on the product or type of customer.
Openreach offers its Group, Virgin Media, Orange UK, Vodafone, O2 and MBNL.
products on an equivalent basis to all CPs consistent with BTs Outside of the UK we provide wholesale telecoms services to over Undertakings see page 8.
BT Wholesale offers a range of managed 1,000 CPs across more than 170 countries.
products and services, many of which are based on the access Markets products that Openreach provides to all CPs.
Some of our markets are being impacted by the current difficult Wholesale Line Rental WLR economic climate.
However, the need to reduce costs will encourage Openreach sells WLR which is used by CPs to offer telephony services more network sharing and outsourcing and our MNS solutions are using their own brand, pricing structure and billing, but using our well positioned to help our wholesale customers.
CPs do not need to invest in additional equipment or for data and connectivity for all types of users is driving growth in infrastructure to use WLR.
demand for our wholesale products and services.
Local Loop Unbundling LLU UK As an alternative to buying WLR, CPs can rent the copper lines In March 2011 Analysys Mason valued the UK addressable wholesale between BTs exchanges and customer premises from Openreach to market at 14.9bn per year.
The largest sector, worth an estimated provide voice and broadband services using their own equipment, 9.4bn per year, is wholesale telecoms, which includes data, this is called Local Loop Unbundling LLU.
broadband, voice and mobile services plus some value-added services like contact centres and content distribution.
The IT services Wholesale broadband sector, worth an estimated 3.6bn, covers cloud services, enterprise BT Wholesale offers a range of wholesale broadband services, solutions and managed network services.
delivered over copper and bre.
Our traditional broadband products, Today we primarily address the wholesale telecoms sector but we including IPstream, Datastream and IPStream Connect, offer speeds are active, and expanding into, the IP-based service sector where of up to 8Mbps ADSL.
Wholesale Broadband Connect WBC, our future growth is expected.
next generation family of broadband products, offers speeds up to In the UK our competitors include Cable & Wireless Worldwide, 20Mbps ADSL2 over copper.
We also offer broadband services Virgin Media and Colt Group, as well as a range of equipment over bre.
WBC FTTC offers downstream speeds of up to 40Mbps and vendors.
up to 80Mbps and WBC FTTP offers speeds of 100Mbps and 110Mbps.
Europe and overseas Our WBC copper and bre services are certied as meeting the We are Europes largest telecoms services wholesaler by revenue, mandatory Government security assurance levels required to support accounting for around 18% of total European wholesale revenue.
Public Services Network PSN opportunities in the UK.
Internationally, we compete with the wholesale divisions of local Super-fast bre-based broadband is provided by Openreach incumbents and alternative network operators as well as global through our Generic Ethernet Access GEA product.
There are two wholesale telecoms companies.
variants of GEA, FTTC and FTTP.
FTTC uses bre to provide high Wholesale broadband connection speeds from the exchange to a street cabinet near to Our broadband footprint reaches 99% of UK homes and businesses, customer premises, and a copper line for the final connection to the making us the UKs largest wholesale provider of broadband in terms premises.
FTTP uses bre for the whole route from the exchange to of reach.
We sell to CP customers who have their own broadband the customer.
We plan to launch a 330Mbps downstream product infrastructure but choose our services outside their own network during 2013 and are testing a 1Gbps service.
6 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 Report of the Directors Business 02 329013 Report of the Directors.
qxp:BT PLC 02 18 5 12 18:07 Page 7 Fibre Voice Access FVA REGULATION Openreach is introducing a voice service over bre, called FVA.
This The efficient supply of telecoms services is so important in the will allow CPs to provide voice services over bre with similar levels of modern world that the industry sometimes needs to be controlled functionality to copper voice services.
Our bre broadband network and monitored.
In the UK, and in the majority of countries around the can also deliver IPTV services as we have launched a multicast world where we operate, these services are subject to regulation by capability.
This allows triple play providers to prioritise broadcast TV governmental and independent non-governmental bodies.
We trafc over other internet trafc and to transmit broadcast signals explain below what this means for us.
European Union EU regulation Passive Infrastructure Access PIA In EU countries electronic communications services are governed by a Our PIA products allow CPs to rent space in our ducts or on our number of European directives and regulations.
CPs can use this space for their own bres, as an Europe-wide framework for the regulation of electronic alternative to buying bre-based broadband from us.
communications services which includes both xed and mobile voice services, broadband, cable TV and satellite TV.
The way in which the Wholesale Ethernet existing directives have been implemented vary from country to Ethernet is a widely-deployed network transmission technology that country.
They include rules about things like access and can transport large amounts of any type of data in a fast, assured and interconnection, universal service, and how often national regulators highly cost-effective manner.
We offer a wide choice of high should review markets for significant market power SMP.
They also bandwidth Ethernet services designed to help CPs extend their cover matters such as how SMP remedies like price controls should be networks and deliver a range of high quality services to their set.
They require regulators to consult with the European Commission customers.
Access connection speeds range from 2Mbps to 10Gbps.
on any price control decisions before they are nalised, to make sure Our Wholesale Ethernet is certied as meeting the mandatory they are consistent with the European regulations.
Government security assurance levels required to support PSN opportunities in the UK.
UK Regulation The UK telecoms industry is regulated through various European Capacity, call-based products and IP Exchange directives, the Communications Act 2003 the Communications Act, We sell a wide range of capacity and call-based products and services, Ofcom the UKs independent regulator, and other regulations and both regulated and unregulated, using both traditional and IP recommendations.
IP Exchange is our global IP interoperability service allowing IP The Communications Act network operators to interconnect with each other as well as with The Communications Act gives Ofcom legal powers and sets out the xed telecoms operators and MNOs.
legal requirements for how electronic communications services should be regulated in the UK.
It includes the conditions imposed by Private and partial private circuits the European directives.
The Government is currently reviewing our We are a major provider of traditional data circuits in the UK, which sectors regulatory regime which will result in a new framework in help our customers to extend the reach of their services and act as 2015.
The review is focusing on how growth and innovation can be inll solutions for their own networks.
encouraged and on removing unnecessary regulation and barriers to growth.
Transit We provide transit voice services across the UK and internationally.
Ofcom This is a low-margin product where volumes are declining as CPs and Ofcom is the independent regulator and competition authority for MNOs interconnect directly with each other.
the whole UK communications market.
Its main duties are: to further the interests of citizens in relation to communications White label managed services matters Our white label managed services business helps customers with to further the interests of consumers in relevant markets, where limited or no infrastructure to offer telecoms services such as appropriate by promoting competition.
telephony and broadband without the need to make large Ofcom sets out conditions under the Communications Act and investments.
We provide a complete service, from accepting and directions under these conditions.
Some conditions apply to all CPs.
processing new orders through to customer service and end-user Others apply to certain individual providers Ofcom has decided are billing.
universal service providers or have SMP in a particular market.
Mobility and wiAnyone can appeal against Ofcoms regulatory decisions through a Our Mobile Ethernet Access Service MEAS is now available at more number of legal processes including the Competition Appeal Tribunal.
than 13,000 mobile base stations sites, an increase of around 3,800 The general conditions that apply to all CPs are mainly about in the year, reinforcing our market leading position.
Mobile operators protecting consumer general access and interconnection, planning can also boost the capacity of their services using our more than 4m for emergencies, providing information to Ofcom, and telephone wiUK hot spots.
We are the designated universal service provider for the UK Broadcasting services excluding the Hull area where KCOM Group is the designated Our Global Media Network provides access to all the key locations provider and so we have certain universal service obligations.
This is around the world where broadcast content is either created or an important responsibility that we take very seriously.
We are strengthening our digital content capabilities by obligation is to make sure that basic xed-line services are available establishing a series of strategic alliances to expand our global media at an affordable price to all citizens and consumers in the UK.
In the UK we provide TV outside broadcast services from our also required to provide public payphones.
network of around 160 sports and news locations.
Our UK media MPLS network also underpins all digital terrestrial TV delivery in the UK.
Report of the Directors Business British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 7 02 329013 Report of the Directors.
qxp:BT PLC 02 18 5 12 18:07 Page 8 The European directives require Ofcom to review relevant communications markets regularly, usually every three years, and to decide whether any CP has SMP in those markets.
If Ofcom decides that a CP has SMP, it may impose appropriate controls, typically on the prices which the CP can charge.
Where Ofcom decides a company has SMP it will also generally make sure that charges are reasonably based on costs plus an appropriate return on the capital invested.
Impact of Ofcom regulation Around 90% of Openreachs revenue comes from products that are regulated by Ofcom.
The main exception is Ethernet services at speeds above 1Gbps.
In addition, while bre broadband is a regulated service, it is not subject to explicit price regulation by Ofcom, and is instead priced on a commercial basis in order to encourage investment.
There have been a number of regulatory decisions and outcomes of appeals in 2012 that will impact us in the future.
In particular, the charge controls imposed on our WLR and LLU pricing, which we are appealing, have reduced the prices we can charge for these products with effect from April 2012.
There are also ongoing disputes and appeals that could impact us.
During 2013 Ofcom is expected to carry out reviews of the business connectivity market covering products such as Ethernet and leased lines and the narrowband market covering wholesale calls.
Where we are found to have SMP Ofcom will carry out consultations on setting controls that could reduce or change the prices we charge for these products.
BTs Undertakings In response to Ofcoms 2005 strategic review of telecommunications, we put forward some legally binding undertakings under the Enterprise Act 2002.
These Undertakings which included creating Openreach came into force in September 2005.
They set out to give clarity and certainty to the UK telecommunications industry about the way BT provides upstream regulated products.
This in turn supports effective and fair competition in related downstream markets.
Most of the commitments in the Undertakings have been delivered.
Our relationship with HM Government We can be required by law to do certain things and provide certain services for the Government.
For example, under the Communications Act, we and others can be required to make and implement plans to provide or restore services in connection with disasters.
Under the Civil Contingencies Act 2004, the Government can also impose obligations on us and others at times of emergency and in connection with civil contingency planning.
The Secretary of State can also require us to take certain actions in the interest of national security and international relations.
Overseas regulation The degree of regulation in international markets varies widely and can hamper our ability to compete to a greater or lesser degree.
We are pressing incumbent operators and their national regulatory authorities around the world for fairer, cost-related wholesale access to their networks.
In particular, in the US we are trying to persuade the regulator to carry out a review of the US Business Access market to help us get fairer terms and lower prices from the incumbent operators for wholesale products in this important market.
8 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 Report of the Directors Business
