qxp:BT PLC 02 18 5 12 18:07 Page 9 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS STRATEGY Our aim is to drive shareholder value by making BT a better business Cost transformation with a better future.
We have made good progress towards this goal We have been taking a phased approach to cost transformation.
The in 2012, despite the challenging conditions.
first phase focuses on the efficiency of our expenditure in areas such as labour costs, consultancy spend and procurement from third OUR STRATEGY parties.
The second phase tackles right first time process reOur ambition remains to drive profitable revenue growth but the engineering and the reduction of overhead costs.
The third phase economic and regulatory headwinds we are facing will make this looks at in-sourcing and output-based pricing.
All these phases more challenging.
continue across the business with a particular focus on end-to-end Our strategy focuses on three key areas: process re-engineering to improve service and reduce costs still customer service delivery further.
cost transformation Specic activities during the year have included reviewing the way investing for the future.
that bundled orders ow through the organisation: the sales process These three areas, which we explain below, are the foundations for for some of our more complex products: training and development of making BT a better business.
They build on one another: the better our people: and broadband faults.
Cost transformation is as much we serve our customers and improve our processes, the less time and about cost avoidance as it is about reducing the unit cost of specic money we have to spend on putting things right.
This is a major driver items or activities and the success that we have had in reducing of our cost transformation and frees up resources for us to invest in broadband faults in the network has allowed us to offset some of the providing products and services for the future.
extra costs associated with the increase in copper line volumes.
By investing in our six strategic priorities, outlined below, we Overall, we made good progress with our cost transformation expect to grow the value of the business.
We reduced operating costs before depreciation and amortisation by 942m or 6%, with savings across Customer service delivery all our main cost categories.
This represents a cumulative reduction in Customer service is core to our strategy and we always try to improve operating costs of 2.9bn over the last three years.
the experience we provide to our customers.
In practice this means All of our lines of business have contributed to the progress made trying to do things right first time keeping our promises, being on cost transformation.
Our two internal service units, BTID and BTO, easy to contact and straightforward to deal with.
It means keeping have delivered benets to the customer-facing lines of business by our customers informed and taking prompt action to put things right targeting and driving lower delivery and operational costs.
This has when they have a fault.
To improve our customer experience further been achieved through vendor rationalisation and greater focus on we also focus on reducing faults and removing the need for automation of processes and operations.
The emphasis has now customers to call us.
moved to the rationalisation of our network and IT infrastructure and Right first time is our key measure for customer service.
It implementing a lean approach to our operations.
measures how often we keep the promises we make to customers.
As In order to identify further cost reduction opportunities we well as improving service, keeping more promises reduces work regularly benchmark the cost of running our infrastructure compared needed to put things right and so reduces our costs.
In 2012 we with other large telecoms operators around the world.
The fact that achieved a 3.0% improvement in this measure, following a 3.0% we have cut costs and improved service helps us to be much more improvement in 2011 and a 10.5% improvement in 2010.
In addition competitive in the market place but we recognise that there are we reduced faults handled and calls about problems by 6.2% in the further opportunities and also lessons to be learned from beyond the year.
In the first half of the year the theft of copper and bre cable grew signicantly, increasing the number of faults suffered by customers.
Investing for the future We have worked with the police, Government, media and other Our industry has undergone radical change in recent years.
stakeholders to raise awareness of cable theft and to take action to Customers demand more from communications services and reduce it.
Cable theft declined in the later part of the year thanks to competition is increasing.
By being more efficient in customer service this collective effort, but more work is needed.
We have invested in a delivery and transforming our cost base we can provide services on a number of innovations to help prevent cable theft and to catch the more competitive basis and improve our cash generation, which in people who commit it.
turn means we can invest in the future of the business and drive This cable theft, together with increased repair work related to the growth.
demands for higher speed broadband and an increase in demand for We are focusing our investments around three broad objectives new lines, led to a 19% increase in engineer visits.
We recruited across the business.
These are to: additional engineers and improved our efficiency resulting in a Defend and grow the value we add for our customers reduction in the level of repair work outstanding to, on average, only As well as providing basic communications products, we have made one and a half days activity.
We have also improved our delivery investments so that we can provide higher value services.
For performance for new copper lines.
We worked with the industry to example, super-fast bre-based broadband for consumer and establish a target lead-time of 14 days, and were performing business customers in the UK, managed networked IT services for consistently better than this by the end of the year.
large corporate and public sector customers, and managed services We made progress in other areas.
For example, in BT Retail we aim for our wholesale customers.
BT Global Services is adding further to deal with customer queries in one call, without the need for value by offering industry-specic solutions and expertise to customers to call us back.
We saw the number of queries dealt with in customers.
We have also made investments in customer service and one contact increase by 20% in BT Consumer.
As a result of our right billing and in our virtual data-centres.
first time programme we reduced customer faults by 5% in BT Global Services.
A variety of initiatives to improve reliability led to a 15% Capture opportunities in converging markets reduction in faults being handled by BT Wholesale.
The way that customers buy our products and services is changing.
We believe the changes we have made, and will make in the next Services which were once bought separately are increasingly bought financial year, will deliver signicantly improved service levels for our together, in bundles.
This convergence creates both threats and customers.
Report of the Directors Strategy British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 9
