qxp:BT PLC 03 18 5 12 18:08 Page 29 decreases in revenue as a result of acquisitions or disposals, any significant ongoing cash outows associated with investing in our foreign exchange movements affecting revenue and any specic infrastructure and nancing our operations.
We are focusing on the trends in underlying revenue free cash ow excludes cash ows that are determined at a excluding transit revenue as transit trafc is low-margin and is corporate level independently of ongoing trading operations such signicantly affected by reductions in mobile termination rates.
as dividends, acquisitions and disposals and repayment of debt.
A reconciliation from the decrease in reported group revenue, the most directly comparable IFRS measure, to the decrease in Normalised free cash ow adjusted group revenue and to the decrease in underlying revenue We now also measure cash ow on a normalised basis which excluding transit, is set out below.
removes the impact of the tax benefit relating to pension deficit payments.
2012 2011 A reconciliation from net cash inow from operating activities, Year ended 31 March % % the most directly comparable IFRS measure, to reported, adjusted Decrease in reported revenue 5.9 3.8 and normalised free cash ow is set out below.
Specic items 2.1 0.2 2012 2011 Decrease in adjusted revenue 3.8 4.0 Year ended 31 March m m Acquisitions and disposals 0.3 Net cash inow from operations 3,560 4,570 Foreign exchange movements and other 0.2 0.2 Add back pension deficit payment 2,000 1,030 Transit revenue 1.8 0.8 Included in cash ows from investing activities Decrease in underlying revenue excluding transit 1.9 3.0 Net capital expenditure 2,560 2,630 Interest received 127 134 EBITDA Dividends received from associates and joint ventures 4 7 In addition to measuring financial performance of the lines of Sales purchases of non-current financial assets 1 18 business based on operating profit, we also measure performance Outow on non-current amounts owed by based on EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA.
EBITDA is dened as the parent company 119 105 group profit or loss before depreciation, amortisation, net finance Included in cash ows from nancing activities expense and taxation.
Adjusted EBITDA is dened as EBITDA before Interest paid 693 973 specic items.
EBITDA is a common measure used by investors and Reported free cash ow 2,320 2,015 analysts to evaluate the operating financial performance of Add back: Net cash outow from specic items 204 212 companies, particularly in the telecom sector.
Adjusted free cash ow 2,524 2,227 We consider EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA to be useful measures Cash tax benefit of pension deficit payments 215 147 of our operating performance because they approximate the underlying operating cash ow by eliminating depreciation and Normalised free cash ow 2,309 2,080 amortisation.
EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not direct measures of our liquidity, which is shown by our cash ow statement, and Net debt need to be considered in the context of our financial commitments.
This measure is applied in context of BT Group plcs financial A reconciliation from group operating profit, the most directly statements and is referred to in these financial statements.
comparable IFRS measure, to reported and adjusted group EBITDA, Net debt consists of loans and other borrowings both current is set out below.
A reconciliation between operating profit and and non current, less current asset investments and cash and cash adjusted EBITDA for our lines of business is set out in Segment equivalents.
Loans and other borrowings are measured at the net information, note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
proceeds raised, adjusted to amortise any discount over the term of the debt.
For the purpose of this measure, current asset investments 2012 2011 Year ended 31 March m m and cash and cash equivalents are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Currency denominated balances within net Operating profit 2,923 2,573 debt are translated to Sterling at swap rates where hedged.
Depreciation and amortisation 2,972 2,979 This denition of net debt measures balances at the expected Reported EBITDA 5,895 5,552 value of future undiscounted cash ows due to arise on maturity of Specic items 173 329 financial instruments and removes the balance sheet adjustments Adjusted EBITDA 6,068 5,881 made from the re-measurement of hedged risks under fair value hedges and the use of the effective interest method.
In addition, the gross balances are adjusted to take account of netting Free cash ow Adjusted free cash ow arrangements.
Adjusted free cash ow is one of the groups key performance It is a measure of BT Group plcs net indebtedness that provides indicators by which our financial performance is measured.
an indicator of the overall balance sheet strength.
It is also a single Adjusted free cash ow is dened as the net increase in cash and measure that can be used to assess both the BT Group plcs cash cash equivalents less cash ows from nancing activities except net position and indebtedness.
There are material limitations in the use interest paid and less the acquisition or disposal of group of alternative performance measures and the use of the term net undertakings and less the net sale of short-term investments and debt does not necessarily mean that the cash included in the net excluding pension deficit payments.
It is also before the cash impact debt calculation is available to settle the liabilities included in this of specic items including tax related specic items.
related items the adjustment is made on a pre-tax basis.
Adjusted BT Group plcs management consider BT Group plcs free cash ow is primarily a liquidity measure, however we also consolidated net debt to be an alternative performance measure as believe it is an important indicator of our overall operational it is not dened in IFRS.
The most directly comparable IFRS measure performance as it reects the cash we generate from operations is the aggregate of loans and other borrowings current and nonafter capital expenditure and nancing costs, both of which are current, current asset investments and cash and cash equivalents.
Report of the Directors Performance British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 29
