qxp:BT PLC 02 18 5 12 18:07 Page 2 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS We are one of the worlds leading communications services BT Business companies.
Our main activities are providing and managing data and BT Business supplies SMEs in Great Britain with xed calls and lines, voice networks and providing a range of services over these broadband, mobility and IT services as well as data and voice networks.
Specialist businesses within BT Business include: In the UK we are a leading communications services provider, BT iNet: A Cisco centre of excellence specialising in infrastructure, selling products and services to consumers and small and mediumsecurity and unied communications sized enterprises SMEs.
In the UK and globally we are a leading BT Engage IT: A leading provider of business-to-business IT provider of managed networked IT services for many of the largest equipment and services multinational corporations, domestic businesses and national and BT Business Direct: An online store providing IT, computing and local government organisations.
We also sell wholesale telecoms networking equipment plus associated installation and support services to communications providers CPs in the UK and around the services.
BT Ireland BT Ireland operates in Northern Ireland and in the Republic of Ireland.
HOW WE ARE ORGANISED In Northern Ireland we operate the copper access network and are the Our customers are at the heart of everything we do and this is leading provider of communications services to consumers, SMEs and reected in the way we organise our business.
We have four the public sector.
We are also rolling out bre in partnership with the customer-facing Iines of business: BT Global Services: BT Retail: BT Northern Ireland government through the Department of Enterprise, Wholesale, and Openreach.
These are supported by two internal Trade and Investments broadband project.
In the Republic of Ireland service units: BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate.
we serve corporate and public sector customers and we are one of the largest providers of wholesale network services to CPs.
BT Global Services BT Global Services is a global leader in managed networked IT BT Enterprises services, serving the needs of customers in more than 170 countries BT Enterprises consists of six separate businesses each of which worldwide.
We provide services to around 7,000 large corporate and operates as a standalone business: public sector customers.
Our corporate customers operate in a wide BT Conferencing: Audio, video and web conferencing and range of sectors including banking and financial services, collaboration services for large corporate customers in the UK and manufacturing, logistics, pharmaceuticals, and consumer packaged around the world goods.
We serve customers in the public sector in the UK, including BT Directories: Directory Enquiries 118500, operator and central government and local councils as well as public sector emergency services.
Marketing solutions business, including The organisations outside the UK.
Globally we provide transit and other Phone Book, website design services and web-based marketing wholesale services to global carriers.
services that help customers advertise their businesses online Our customers benefit from our global scale and operating model.
BT Expedite & Fresca: Specialist services for the retail sector, Products are sold globally, and customers are served locally in their including store point of sale systems, back-ofce applications such own countries and sectors by teams who understand their specic as merchandising and sales analytics, and software and platforms business challenges and create locally relevant solutions.
We call this for website transactions operating globally and delivering locally.
BT Redcare: Fire and intruder alarm signalling services, CCTV and We have operations around the world so that we can serve the surveillance networks and control room services.
Mobile-todomestic and international needs of our customers.
We operate mobile solutions for vending machines, cash machines and domestic businesses in key markets in Continental Europe such as payment terminals, taxis and fleet management Italy, Germany, Benelux, France and Spain, and have local network BT Payphones: Public payphones and managed prison, card and infrastructure including high-speed bre networks in 24 major private payphones European cities.
We also operate in 45 countries across the Middle BT Wi-: Premium BT Openzone wihotspots and BT Fon East and Africa.
In Latin America we operate in 22 countries.
In the hotspots offering broadband on the move to retail customers and US and Canada, we serve customers from ofces in 35 key cities.
We to wholesale customers such as mobile network operators.
serve 18 countries in the Asia Pacic region including India, China, Malaysia, Singapore, South Korea, Japan and Australia.
We are BT Wholesale investing in high-growth regions such as Asia Pacic, Latin America BT Wholesale provides a broad range of voice, broadband and data and Middle East and Africa, recruiting more people and improving communications services for xed and mobile network operators our portfolio, and our network infrastructure.
MNOs, internet service providers ISPs and telecoms resellers in the UK and also provides services to other BT lines of business.
BT Retail We provide managed network services MNS for xed and mobile BT Retail serves its customers through four customer-facing divisions: CPs with differing requirements from fully managed network BT Consumer: BT Business: BT Ireland, and BT Enterprises.
outsourcing for operators with significant network assets, to white label managed services designed to help operators with limited or no BT Consumer infrastructure.
We have MNS contracts in place with all of the UKs We are the leading provider of voice and broadband services for retail MNOs, helping them to manage the growth in mobile data and video consumers in Great Britain and we also have a growing pay-TV content with high speed data connections that link mobile base service, BT Vision.
stations to their and our core networks.
We sell services under the BT brand as well as the Plusnet brand in order to reach a wider range of customers.
Our BT-branded services Openreach have a range of extra features that set them apart from competitors In Great Britain Openreach provides services over the local loop while Plusnet provides simple voice and broadband services for more network also referred to as the local access network and the last cost-conscious customers.
mile, a critical national asset that comprises the copper and bre connections between telephone exchanges and consumer and 2 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 Report of the Directors Business
