We have been investing to broaden the range of maintain differentiation against competitors, and continue our services we provide to customers as we expand into converging dual-brand strategy with Plusnet We include a range of features markets.
Examples include broadband and pay-TV in consumer free with our BT Broadband services to differentiate us from other markets and xed and mobile services in SME markets.
The Plusnet brand addresses the cost-conscious consumer with a simple broadband offer Capture opportunities in international markets launch higher broadband speeds and create new services that We have continued to invest in high-growth regions where customers exploit these speeds Our BT Innity service meets customers want to expand.
We have strengthened our position by investing in growing demand for improved speed performance.
Our higher assets, people and technology to serve multinational and large speeds set us apart from ISPs only offering DSL services, and allow domestic customers on a global basis.
For example, as our customers us to compete more effectively against Virgin Medias fastest have expanded into Asia Pacic and Latin America, so we have grown cable speeds.
Where bre is not yet deployed, we have been our capability in these regions.
We have new technology showcases in migrating our retail broadband customers onto our next New Delhi and Shanghai and a new secure operations centre in generation copper-based product Sydney.
Network and customer service improvements have been grow and enhance our TV services Our TV service is achieved and we have hired new people in key markets.
In February differentiated from traditional pay-TV competitors as it is more 2012 we announced plans to expand operations across Turkey, the oriented to video on-demand and catch-up TV, and is more Middle East and Africa.
We will improve our service adding a number of features over the coming years.
In 2013 we plan to launch our OUR BUSINESS MODEL YouView service, which combines free digital channels with free We believe that we have a sustainable business model.
It is built on on-demand content from public service broadcasters delivered creating and delivering value for our customers.
We are confident over broadband.
We are also investing in multicast infrastructure that the model supports our aim to grow the value of the business to deliver additional channels over our IP network.
and our strategy for doing so by investing in and focusing on our six strategic priorities.
Being the Brand for Business for UK SMEs This confidence is based on the recognition that customers value Our aim is to become the first choice for SMEs in all their xed and our products and services, which are an integral part of modern life mobile communications and IT needs.
for both individuals and organisations.
We can see an even greater In xed communications for SMEs we face significant competition role looking forward, driven by: in a fragmented market but we believe we have many advantages the fundamental need of individuals and organisations to including national coverage, a broad portfolio of products and communicate and interact services, and strong sales channels in all segments of the market.
We the wider availability of higher performance xed networks are looking to improve the products and services we sell and how we the wider availability of business-critical network-based IT sell them to protect and grow our market position.
services We are also looking to improve the way we offer mobile services the wider adoption of network-based IT services including cloudand are developing capabilities to combine xed and mobile services based services as part of an integrated offer.
the superior cost and bandwidth performance of xed networks During the year we withdrew from selling IT hardware to other over wireless networks resellers and have focused on selling a combination of services and the increased desire of individuals and organisations to act hardware to our end-customers.
We will focus in the future on services to support our customers as Our business model is underpinned by strong market positions in they move to new models for delivery of their IT, such as cloud combination with some market-leading assets and resources.
These will increasingly involve managed hosting of data difficult combination for competitors to replicate, and we are and applications and greater integration between IT and confident that our business model is sustainable.
That is why we communications services.
continue to invest in the business, foster innovation, maintain a strong cost focus, drive to deliver superior customer service, and BT Global Services a global leader pursue paths to growth.
We are already a leader in the market for managed networked IT services.
We have been recognised by Gartner, Inc. a leading OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES information technology research and advisory company, as being in In 2012 we made progress against our six strategic priorities although the leaders quadrant in their recent analysis of global network service a the challenges we faced during the year meant we performed better providers.
in some areas than others.
We believe we have four key differentiators which make us stand out in the marketplace: Driving broadband-based consumer services global assets, people and technology Broadband connectivity is now available to 99% of UK premises and industry experience and solutions it has become central to peoples lives, so the core of our consumer innovation and new solutions, based on our strength in the UK strategy is based on building and maintaining a competitive, professional services people and capabilities in BT Advise.
differentiated broadband offer for our customers.
There are several Our strategy is to make use of these differentiators to create elements to this: competitive advantage.
We are investing globally to make offer competitively priced bundles of broadband services with improvements in the areas our customers tell us are important to telephony and TV Competitively priced bundles drive both the acquisition of new customers and the retention of existing ones, a Gartner, Inc. Magic Quadrant for Global Network Service Providers, 24 April 2012.
Authors Neil Rickard ID Number G00226786.
Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted slowing the rate of line losses to competitors.
This also increases in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the number of products that customers buy from us, driving up the highest ratings.
Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartners research organisation and should not be construed as statements of fact.
Gartner disclaims all warranties, consumer average revenue per user ARPU expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
10 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 Report of the Directors Strategy 02 329013 Report of the Directors.
For example, we improved sales coverage in the UK, invested and are on track to enable exchanges serving around 90% of UK in our network in key cities, built out propositions across the four premises during spring 2013. industry sectors we target, hired professional services people across UK bre the world in key portfolio areas and invested in key growth One of the most important things we are doing is building a bre geographies.
broadband network throughout the UK.
We are investing 2.5bn on a We will build our global reputation in managed networked IT commercial basis to make bre broadband available to around twoservices by: thirds of UK premises by the end of 2014.
Looking beyond this, we expanding our global business by investing in high-growth believe that Broadband Delivery UK BDUK funds, together with regions such as Asia Pacic, Latin America and Turkey, the Middle funds from local government and other sources, as well as further East and Africa, recruiting more people and improving our private investment, could see around 90% of UK premises having portfolio and our network infrastructure access to bre broadband in approximately the next five years.
We developing our relationships with our customers by building and have indicated that we would be willing to invest further funds of enhancing industry-based solutions focusing on our four strategic around 1bn should we win a sufficient share of the public funds industry sectors being made available through competitive tenders to support bre innovating around our core portfolio of product families by roll-out.
We are competing for BDUK funds and have won the bid in investing in growth areas including MPLS, Ethernet, UCC, CRM, Lancashire and are the preferred supplier for Rutland.
We are also security, mobility and cloud services, as well as professional rolling out bre in Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly and Northern services capabilities Ireland, funded by public-private partnerships.
substantially improving customer experience by reducing the We believe bre is our future, with customer demand for higher number of customer incidents, making our operations more speeds being the driving force behind our bre broadband efficient, and improving overall customer satisfaction with our deployment.
Fibre broadband dramatically improves the online service.
experience for customers, whether they are consumers or businesses.
Consumers are able to watch HD movies on demand, download The wholesaler of choice albums in seconds, enjoy online multiplayer gaming and catch up We aim to be the wholesaler of choice in the UK and in the with friends and family with live video calls.
The key factor, however, international telecoms services market.
is the ability for everyone in the household to be able to participate in There are two dimensions to what we mean by wholesaler of these activities online, all at the same time.
The first refers to our ambition of being the obvious choice Fibre broadband also creates new ways of using the internet.
For for customers based on the products we sell and the quality of the businesses, the additional bandwidth available both upstream and service we deliver.
The second dimension is that customers can downstream enhances efficiency.
For example, the faster upstream choose to engage with us as a wholesale supplier in a number of speeds allow businesses to increase exible and remote working ways, for example, through Openreach for access products, or saving money on ofce overheads and improving the work-life through BT Wholesale for value-added products.
Businesses are also able to use high quality During the year Openreach saw growth in its copper base and the voice and video calls helping them to reduce time and money spent first LLU operators buying its bre-based broadband service.
BT on travel, while still gaining the benefit of direct customer contact.
Wholesale saw growth in the Wholesale Ethernet and IP Exchange This also helps lower CO2 emissions.
markets but a decline in revenues associated with transit and In March 2012 we announced that we had upgraded the copper wholesale broadband due to the migration to LLU.
access network within our FTTC footprint by increasing the spectrum Looking ahead to 2013, we expect a variety of issues, such as allocation at cabinets, so that the copper running from cabinets to regulatory charge controls and other regulatory pressures to continue the premises could support broadband speeds of up to 80Mbps to have an effect on our wholesale business.
We are working to downstream and up to 20Mbps upstream.
Further advances are identify growth opportunities that will help mitigate the impact.
possible for instance vectoring, which is an advanced technique to Our future plans include: reduce the impact of noise on copper lines and increase available creating opportunities for growth, by investing in bre data speeds.
broadband, Ethernet and IP voice services and in our portfolio of Our future plans include: managed service solutions launching our commercial up to 330Mbps FTTP products improving customer experience through continuing investment in commercially launching FVA, which provides voice service over fault prevention, automation and self-service tools FTTP connections reducing our cost base signicantly, while increasing the skills and making our FTTP service available in areas that are already served productivity of our people.
by FTTC, through the introduction of our FTTP on demand service establishing a pilot for our bre-only exchange programme in The best network provider Deddington, Oxfordshire.
The pilot will provide CPs with the We aim to be the best network provider in the UK by providing the opportunity to build and test a suite of new products that will run right products to suit customers needs.
We try to improve network over bre alone and help the industry better understand the reliability and make it easier for customers to do business with us.
opportunities arising from a bre-only world UK access network delivering further improvements to network rationalisation, Our copper access network is a critical national asset and we take our efficiency and reliability.
Through it we play a major part in peoples lives both at home and at work, managing and investing in the A responsible and sustainable business leader infrastructure that delivers telephony and broadband services Our aim is to create a better future for our business, its stakeholders throughout the UK.
We continue to invest in our copper network by and the environment by being a responsible and sustainable business upgrading its capacity and improving its efficiency.
In 2012 contracts worth more than 2.7bn with large We also continue to roll-out WBC, our next generation copper corporate and public sector customers requested information on our broadband product, offering speeds of up to 20Mbps downstream, sustainability credentials, making sustainability a basic requirement Report of the Directors Strategy British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 11 02 329013 Report of the Directors.
We use a materiality process to determine the Our strategy is to: social and environmental issues that are important to our improve our energy efficiency stakeholders and relevant to our business.
generate our own renewable electricity We have seven corporate responsibility CR related key purchase low and zero carbon intensity electricity.
performance indicators KPIs that we use to measure our progress.
Our energy efficiency programme is decoupling energy use from We provide information on how we have performed against these business growth.
KPIs in the Performance section on page 23.
Despite increased volumes we reduced our energy consumption The Committee for Sustainable and Responsible Business oversees by 3.3%, against our target 2% reduction from 2011.
In 2012 we our corporate responsibility, environment and community activities, delivered energy saving programmes which will save 21.9m per including charitable expenditure and the Better Future strategy for year.
maximising our contribution to society.
Engaging with suppliers to reduce emissions Creating a better future We work closely with our suppliers to reduce their environmental Our Better Future strategy brings together everything we are doing impact.
to be a responsible and sustainable business leader.
Examples of the We are pleased to have become the first company in the world to ways we are creating a Better Future can be found throughout this have product carbon footprints independently certied by the Carbon annual report but everything we are doing supports our focus areas: Trust to the new Greenhouse Gas Protocol Product Standard.
The Better connected independent verication covers three of our most popular consumer Better with less products: the BT Home Hub, our wireless router: the BT Vision Better lives digital set-top box: and the BT Graphite 2500 DECT phone.
Better lives Better connected Our people and technology are helping to build skills and increase We believe that the greatest impact we can have on society is by efficiency for our charity and community partners, allowing them to providing reliable and secure networks to allow the services needed concentrate on providing help and support to their communities.
Our for people and businesses to thrive.
Getting this right is also essential community investment activities provide a source of pride in the for building trust in BT, which contributes to the value of our brand.
company, helping motivate and engage our people.
Access to bre broadband Our supply chain A recent independent report predicts that bre broadband will result We source skills, products and services from many countries, in significant economic benets for the UK as a whole.
Given our bre contributing to economies around the world.
However, roll-out, this makes us a key contributor to the economic health of environmental and labour regulations may be poorly enforced in the UK.
some countries and local standards are sometimes lower than we consider acceptable.
We use an in-house team to check the ethical Increasing digital literacy standards in our supply chain in order to manage any risks.
We also recognise our role in increasing digital literacy, which can help enrich the interactions between individuals, and give them Supporting our customers access to essential services that are more frequently online.
Some We have been providing assistance and services for older and initiatives currently underway include Get IT Together, which aims to disabled customers in the UK since 1984.
We are committed to help people in the UK discover the digital world through the help of a helping them make the most out of our products and services, and friend or family member.
overcome communication challenges wherever possible.
We have brought together our most helpful products and services in one Better with less place, the Including You website, along with the latest news, advice We believe that we can be a force for net good by helping and information to make it easier to get the most from our products, individuals and businesses to live within the planets environmental including broadband.
We continually seek to minimise our own environmental footprint through efficient use of energy and natural resources.
We Better business practices can have a greater impact by helping customers reduce their We have a long track record of investing in our people and running environmental footprint through the use of our services.
our business with high ethical and supply chain standards.
Environmental management Running an ethical business Our Environmental Management System has been certied to the Operating ethically is not only the right thing to do, but is required by international standard ISO 14001 since 1999 in the UK.
Our regulators and customers alike.
To make sure that we are running our certication now covers our operations in Belgium, Ireland, Germany, business to the high standards we expect of ourselves, we have a Netherlands, Italy and Spain.
ISO 14001 requires us to demonstrate number of processes in place to make sure our people understand compliance with environmental laws and regulations, effectively what is expected of them.
We offer extensive training each year on control environmental risks, and demonstrate continual our statement of business practice, which we revise regularly to make improvement.
We set improvement targets, and report annually on sure we meet the highest legally required standards in the countries our progress.
This is supported by a number of ethical policies, including AntiEnergy and carbon emissions Corruption and Bribery and Gifts and Hospitality.
Our condential We are a large consumer of energy and in the UK we spent around hotline is now operational in 62 countries providing 96% coverage of 250m on energy in 2012.
Electricity use, after purchase of low and our employee population.
zero carbon intensity electricity, makes up 70% of our direct carbon emissions.
12 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 Report of the Directors Strategy
