qxp:BT PLC 02 18 5 12 18:07 Page 13 People and engagement People Our people are crucially important for the delivery of our services and Our people are a key resource: we rely on them to deliver our strategy therefore our reputation and success.
They are our public face and are and we are proud of what they achieve for our business.
At 31 March the talent behind our innovation.
2012 our people resources were equivalent to 89,015 full time We know that engaged employees deliver better performance for employees of which 73,845 were based in the UK.
Because of this we have a number of initiatives in place Working environment to enhance their well being, and to make sure that work-life balance It is important to match the resources available to our customers is maintained through exible working practices.
To help achieve this we have people on many different types Health and safety of working arrangements.
These include part-time, term-time and Looking after the health, safety and well being of all our people is a job share.
They help to match the exibility required for the business major priority for us.
We have comprehensive management systems with peoples own aspirations for a work-life balance.
to help make our workplaces as safe as possible.
We continue to support an inclusive working environment where people can develop their careers and expect to be treated fairly, HOW WE MEASURE OUR PROGRESS regardless of their race, sex, religion beliefs, disability, marital or civil We measure our progress by two performance indicators: adjusted partnership status, age, sexual orientation, or caring responsibilities.
free cash ow, and customer service improvement.
We also work with specialist agencies to enable the recruitment of people with disabilities and we run a retention service to ensure that Adjusted free cash ow people can stay with us even if their capabilities change.
Free cash ow is an important measure of our financial performance As our business develops and grows, the skills that we need may and our progress against our strategic priorities.
It represents the cash change.
We provide opportunities to re-skill and look for alternative we generate from operations after capital expenditure and finance roles for individuals whose skills or jobs are no longer required.
Since costs and reects the cash available to invest in the business, repay we started these arrangements six years ago, over 19,000 people debt, support the pension scheme and pay dividends.
Our free cash have successfully found alternative employment within BT with ow measure changed from reported free cash ow to adjusted free 4,100 of these during the last year.
Our ability to help nd alternative cash ow in 2012 to align with management incentive arrangements.
roles has been enhanced by an ongoing review of work that has Adjusted free cash ow is before the cash impact of specic items.
previously been resourced externally and bringing this back into BT For further details of adjusted free cash ow see page 24. where appropriate.
Over the past two years around 4,000 jobs have been insourced from suppliers and overseas.
Customer service improvement Employee representation Our strategy starts with customer service and we always try to We have a record of stable industrial relations and constructive improve the experience we provide to our customers.
Right first relationships with the recognised unions in the UK and with works time is our key measure for customer service.
It measures how often councils elsewhere in Europe.
In the UK we recognise two main trade we keep the promises we make to our customers.
As well as unions the Communication Workers Union CWU, which represents improving service, keeping more promises reduces the work needed people in engineering, administrative and clerical positions, and to put things right and so reduces our cost.
Prospect, which represents managerial and professional employees.
For further details of customer service improvement see page 9.
We deal with unions around the world and also operate a panEuropean works council, the BT European Consultation Committee.
OUR RESOURCES Our resources are the things we need to deliver our strategy.
Many of Pay and benets them are things that make us different and that set us aside from our We expect our people to work hard and in return we reward them competitors and give us an advantage in our markets.
In 2012 we implemented a 3% pay increase in the UK as well as our resources in a responsible and sustainable manner.
paying all team members a 250 bonus.
For our engineers and support people this is an across-the-board arrangement and for our Brand and reputation managers there is performance-related differentiation.
The same The BT brand is an important business asset and a key resource.
We principles of fair pay for the work done are similarly applied in all know that it is effective in making sure our products and services are other countries in which we operate.
considered by customers of all types, in communicating our Our managers also receive bonuses linked to the success of the strengths, and in acting as a guide to our behaviours.
We are business and their personal contribution to it.
Our most senior consistently assessed as one of the worlds most valuable brands.
For managers are also eligible for long-term incentives, but again, example, we ranked 86 in Brand Finances Global 500 of the worlds payment is related to business success measured by our corporate top brands in 2012. performance over a three-year period.
Different arrangements apply People who buy things from us do not just choose us for the to the most senior managers in Openreach but these are also entirely obvious benets of our products and services.
They are buying into a related to business performance.
set of values, and a rich heritage.
Despite the diversity of our markets, We also provide savings-related share option plans in over 25 the brand associations are remarkably consistent we are seen as countries.
Under the BT employee share investment plan, we let relevant to people, and they trust and like us as a brand.
In 2011 we employees in the UK participate in a tax and national insurancebegan a two-year programme of renewing our trademark licences efficient share purchase scheme.
We are pleased that more than 60% around the world to provide confidence that the value of our brand is of our people participate in one or more of these share plans.
We also provide pension and retirement benets for employees as well as statutory retirement arrangements.
Report of the Directors Strategy British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 13
