Business review Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2012 35 Valuation methodology Investments are measured at the directors estimate of Earnings multiples are adjusted for points of difference fair value at the reporting date, in accordance with IAS 39 between the comparator and the company being valued Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
where appropriate, including the ability of Caledonia to Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be effect change in the company and risks associated with exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties in holding an unlisted share.
Maintainable earnings balance reliability and relevance.
Publicly traded securities Generally, the latest historical accounts are used unless Investments listed in an active market are valued at reliable forecast results for the current year are available.
their bid price on the reporting date.
When a bid price Earnings are adjusted where appropriate for exceptional is unavailable, the price of the most recent transaction or non-recurring items and an average of more than one will normally be used.
years earnings may be used better to estimate maintainable earnings for cyclical or volatile businesses.
Unlisted companies Unlisted company investments are valued by applying an Net assets appropriate valuation technique, which makes maximum The net assets methodology is likely to be appropriate use of market-based information, is consistent with for a business whose value derives mainly from the models generally used by market participants and is underlying value of its assets rather than its earnings, applied consistently from period to period, except where a such as a property holding company or an investment change would result in a better estimation of fair value.
It may also be appropriate for a business that is not making an adequate return on assets and for which a The value of an unlisted company investment is generally greater value can be realised by liquidating the business crystallised through the sale or lotation of the entire and selling its assets.
A third party valuation may be used business, rather than the sale of an individual instrument.
to give the fair value of a certain asset or group of assets.
Therefore, the estimation of fair value is based on the assumed realisation of the underlying business at the Fund interests reporting date, based on the International Private Equity Fund interests refer to participations in arrangements to and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines September create a designated pool of capital to invest in a wider 2009.
Recognition is given to the uncertainties inherent range of assets than is feasible for an individual investor in estimating the fair value of unlisted companies and and to share the costs and beneits.
appropriate caution is applied in exercising judgments Open-ended funds, including investment companies with and making the necessary estimates.
variable capital, typically report regular net asset values, Enterprise value is normally determined using one of which usually provide a reliable basis to estimate fair the following valuation methodologies: value.
If the price reported by the fund is not available at the reporting date, the latest available price is used and Price of recent investment may be adjusted to take account of changes or events to Where the investment being valued was recently the reporting date.
acquired or a recent transaction has taken place, its cost or transaction price will generally provide a good Closed-ended funds include unlisted investment indication of fair value.
This methodology is likely to companies and limited partnerships.
For these be appropriate only for a limited period after the date investments, the fair value estimate is based on a of the relevant transaction.
summation of the estimated fair value of the underlying investments.
Fund manager valuation reports may be Multiples used where there is evidence that the valuation is derived This methodology involves the application of an earnings using fair value principles and may be adjusted to take multiple to the maintainable earnings of the business account of changes or events to the reporting date.
and is likely to be appropriate for an investment in an Adjustment may also be necessary for features of the fund established business with an identiiable stream of agreement not captured in the valuation report, such as continuing earnings.
performance fees or carried interest.
The earnings multiple used is determined by reference Other investments to market-based multiples appropriate for the business Other investments include preference shares, loan notes and correlating to the period and calculation of earnings or facilities, options, warrants and treasury instruments of the company being valued.
The aim is to identify that are not publicly traded and do not form part of an comparator companies that are similar in terms of risk investment in an unlisted company.
For such investments, and growth prospects to the company being valued.
appropriate valuation techniques are adopted and used consistently.
