38 Annual report 2012 Caledonia Investments plc Directors report 1.
Mr Loudon s beneicial interests included 322 shares 2011 322 shares held by the The directors present their report and accounts for the year Cayzer Family Archive, a private company limited by guarantee with charitable status, ended 31 March 2012.
The directors remuneration report and of which Mr Loudon is one of its three members.
the corporate governance report form part of this report.
Mr W yatts beneicial interests included 11,485 shares 201 1 36,512 shares in which The Hon C W Cayzer had a non-beneicial interest and 914,000 sh ares 2011 910,000 held Principal activities and results by The Dunchurch Lodge Stud Company, a private family company controlled by Mr Wyatt and certain of his connected persons.
The Hon C W Cayzers non-beneicial interests included Caledonia is an investment trust company.
A review of the 12,500 shares 2011 12,500 shares in which Mr Wyatt also had a non-beneicial interest.
activities of the company, together with the results for the year, is given in the business review, which should be regarded as There have been no changes in the directors interests shown part of this report.
During the year, the company sold Ermitage, above notiied up to the date of this report.
its funds of hedge funds management subsidiary, and acquired Details of the directors options to acquire ordinary shares in the 100% ownership of Ocean Dial Group, the fund manager focusing company and awards over ordinary shares under the companys on India, in which it had previously held a non-controlling performance share scheme and deferred bonus plans as at interest.
There have been no other signiicant changes in 31 March 2012 are set out in the directors remuneration report the activities of the companys operating subsidiaries, which on pages 47 to 54. principally comprised engineering, chemicals, property, support services, leisure, inancial services and investment.
Directors indemnity Each of the directors has the beneit, under the companys The company has been approved by Her Majestys Revenue articles of association, of an indemnity, to the extent permitted by and Customs HMRC as an investment trust for its relevant the Companies Act 2006, against any liability incurred by him for inancial years up to 31 March 2011 and continues to manage it s negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to affairs so as to comply with the requirements for investment the affairs of the company.
For the companys inancial year ended 31 March 2012, conirmation of investment trust status will be granted Share capital structure retrospectively by HMRC and an application for approval The company has two classes of share capital ordinary shares will be made subsequent to the approval of these accounts by of 5p each and deferred ordinary shares of 5p each.
New tax rules for investment trust The holders of the ordinary shares are entitled to receive companies have been introduced with effect from 1 January 2012 dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one under which the company will be able to apply for continuing vote per share at meetings of the company.
All voting rights are approval for its inancial years from 1 April 2012 onwards and however suspended in respect of the companys shares that are will be making a requisite application in due course.
Dividends The deferred ordinary shares carry no voting rights and are not An interim dividend of 11.7p per share 2011 11.1p was paid on redeemable.
They carry the right to a ixed cumulative preferece n 5 January 2012 and the board has proposed that a inal dividen d dividend of 1% per annum exclusive of any associated tax credit of 31.2p per share 2011 26.0p be paid on 9 August 2012. of the nominal value of such deferred ordinary shares, being This will result in total dividends for the year of 42.9p per share 0.05p per share, or 4,000 in aggregate, for all such shares 2011 37.1p.
The company is required to pay the dividend Annual general meeting to the extent that it has distributable proits.
On a winding-u p or The eighty-third annual general meeting of the company will be other return of capital, the deferred ordinary shares carry the held at Cayzer House, 30 Buckingham Gate, London SW1E 6NN right to the payment of the amount paid up on such shares only on Wednesday, 25 July 2012 at 11.30 am.
The notice of the after holders of the ordinary shares have received the sum of annual general meeting and details of all of the resolutions to 100,000 in respect of each such ordinary share.
All of the be put to shareholders are set out in a separate circular, sent deferred ordinary shares are held by Sterling Industries PLC, to shareholders at the same time as this annual report.
Directors and their interests At 31 March 2012, 57,358,801 ordinary shares and 8,000,000 The directors of the company are shown on pages 36 to 37. deferred ordinary shares were in issue.
The ordinary shares All of the directors served through the year, other than therefore represented approximately 88%, and the deferred Mr R D Kent and Mr R B Woods, who were appointed on 1 October ordinary shares approximately 12%, of the total issued share 2011 and 1 November 2011 respectively.
Mr J M May also served capital by nominal value.
Of the ordinary shares in issue at as a director until his resignation on 30 September 2011.
31 March 2012, 3,000 shares were held by a group company.
As stated above, all voting rights are suspended on these shares.
The interests of the directors and their families in the ordinary share capital of the company as at 31 March 2012 were as follows: During the year, the company purchased and cancelled 863,750 ordinary shares at a total cost of 12.7m and also cancelled Beneicial Non-beneicial 572,230 ordinary shares previously held in treasury.
Since the 2012 2011 2012 2011 No No No No year end, an additional 95,500 ordinary shares have been 1 purchased and cancelled at a total cost of 1.3m.
The companys J R H Loudon 13,564 13,564 9,930 9,930 2 issued share capital after these transactions, as at 23 May 2012, W P Wyatt 1,014,920 1,029,425 19,093 19,093 being the latest practicable date prior to signature of these S A King 650 accounts, was 57,263,301 ordinary shares and 8,000,000 2 The Hon C W Cayzer 40,892 40,892 23,985 49,012 deferred ordinary shares.
J M B Cayzer-Colvin 408,498 408,498 7,053 7,053 Restrictions on the transfer of shares C M Allen-Jones 7,500 7,500 There are no speciic restrictio ns on the transfer of the companys M E T Davies 2,500 2,500 shares, although the articles of association contain provisions whereby the directors may refuse to register a transfer of a R Goblet dAlviella certiicated share which is not fully paid, provided that such C H Gregson 610 610 refusal does not prevent dealings in the share from taking place R D Kent on an open and proper basis.
The directors may also refuse to D G F Thompson 3,000 3,000 3,000 3,000 register the transfer of a certiicated share unless it is alo dged, R B Woods Governance Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2012 39 duly stamped, at the registered ofice or at such other place a s requires that all directors should be subject to annual election by the directors may appoint, accompanied by the certiicate for shareholders.
Shareholders may also appoint new directors by the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the ordinary resolution.
The articles of association limit the number directors may reasonably require to show the right of the of directors to not less than two and not more than twelve, unless transferor to make the transfer b in respect of only one clss a the shareholders resolve otherwise.
of shares and c in favour of not more than four transferees.
A director may be removed from ofice if requested to resign The directors may refuse to register a transfer of shares if by not less than three-quarters of the other directors or by an a shareholder has not supplied information to the company ordinary resolution of the shareholders.
in default of a request duly served under section 793 of the Any amendment of the articles of association requires the Companies Act 2006 and such shares represent at least approval of shareholders by a special resolution.
0.25% of the class of share concerned.
Authority to allot and purchase shares Substantial interests At the annual general meeting of the company held on 21 July As at 31 March 2012, the following had notiied the company 2011, shareholders granted to the directors authority to allot that they held 3% or more of the voting rights of the company: ordinary shares up to a nominal amount of 970,375, representing approximately one-third of the ordinary share Number Percentage of voting of voting capital then in issue, excluding ordinary shares then held in rights rights treasury, with authority to allot additional ordinary shares up The Cayzer Trust Company Ltd 19,608,252 34.2% to a nominal value of 970,376, representing approximately a 1 further one-third of the issued ordinary share capital then in Rebelco S. A.
2,847,344 4.9% issue, excluding ordinary shares then held in treasury, by way 1.
Rebelco S. A. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Soina S. A. of pre-emptive rights issues only, in accordance with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers.
The directors were There have been no changes in the substantial interests notiie d further authorised to issue ordinary shares up to a nominal to the company up to the date of this report.
amount of 145,556 other than pro rata to existing ordinary Employee share trust shareholders.
These authorities last until 21 October 2012 or, if The Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust acquires earlier, the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
and holds ordinary shares in the company for subsequent At the annual general meeting held on 21 July 2011, shareholders transfer to employees exercising options under the companys also granted authority for the company to make market executive share option schemes and awards under the purchases of up to 5,822,255 of its own ordinary shares, being performance share scheme or calling for awards vesting under approximately 10% of the ordinary share capital then in issue, the companys deferred bonus plans.
The voting rights of shares excluding ordinary shares then held in treasury, at a price not held by the trust are exercisable by the independent trustee.
more than the higher of a 5% greater than the average of the The trustee has also waived all dividends payable in respect middle market quotations for such ordinary shares during the of the ordinary shares held by the trust, except to the extent of ive business days preceding any such purchase and b the 0.0001% of such dividends.
At 31 March 2012, the trust held higher of i the price of the last independent trade in such 350,293 ordinary shares.
ordinary shares and ii the highest current independent bid Restrictions on voting rights relating thereto on the trading venue where the purchase is The directors may direct that a shareholder shall not be entitled carried out, nor at a price less than 5p, being the nominal value to attend and vote either personally or by proxy or exercise of an ordinary share.
This authority lasts until 21 October 2012 any other right conferred by membership in relation to general or, if earlier, the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
meetings of the company in respect of some or all of the shares At the same time, shareholders who were not members of the held by him, if he or any person with an interest in such shares Cayzer family concert party Cayzer Concert Party gave their has been duly served with a notice under section 793 of the approval for a waiver by the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers Companies Act 2006 and is in default for the prescribed period of the obligation that could arise on the Cayzer Concert Party in supplying to the company the information required or, in under Rule 9 of the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers to make purported compliance with such a notice, has made a statement a general offer for Caledonia on the implementation by the which is false or inadequate in a material particular.
company of the above authority to purchase its own shares.
The approval was subject to the maximum percentage of voting Agreements which may restrict the transfer of shares or rights in which the Cayzer Concert Party is interested not exercise of voting rights exceeding 49.9% as a result of purchases by the company.
The company is not aware of any arrangements which may This waiver expires on 21 October 2012 or, if earlier, the restrict the transfer of any of its shares or the exercise of any conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
Change of control rights Appointment and removal of directors and the There are no special control rights in relation to the articles of association companys shares.
The appointment and removal of directors is governed by the companys articles of association and prevailing company law.
Options granted under the companys executive share option schemes, awards made under its performance share scheme and The articles of association provide that at every annual general awards made under its deferred bonus plans may become meeting one-third of the directors, or if not a multiple of three, exercisable or vest as a result of a change of control, although the the number nearest to one-third, shall retire by rotation and number of shares comprised in those options or awards may be therefore be required to seek re-election by shareholders.
The service contracts of certain directors and associate directors may be appointed by the board, but are subject to directors also contain provisions whereby a liquidated sum is election by shareholders at the next annual general meeting of payable by the company in the event of termination within one the company following their appointment.
However, to comply year following a change of control.
Any such liquidated sum with the provisions of The UK Corporate Governance Code, which would be equivalent to no more than one years total emoluments.
has applied to the company since 1 April 2011, the company now 40 Annual report 2012 Caledonia Investments plc Directors report continued Customers and suppliers Going concern The groups policy in relation to all of its suppliers is to settle the The companys and groups business activities, together with the terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction.
factors likely to affect its future development, performance and The group will abide by those terms on condition that it is position are set out in the Chief Executives report on pages satisied that the supplier has provided the goods or servicein s 4 to 6 and the Investment review on pages 8 to 29.
The inancil a accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The group position of the company and group, its cash lows, liquidity does not follow any code or statement on payment practice.
position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on pages 30 to 31.
In addition, note 21 to the inancia l Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual statements includes the companys and groups objectives, report and the inancial statements policies and processes for managing capital, inancial risk The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report management objectives, details of inancial instruments and and the group and parent company inancial statements in hedging activities, and exposures to currency risk, interest rate accordance with applicable law and regulations.
risk, price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent The company and group have cash resources and committed company inancial statements for each inancial year.
Under t t ha bank facilities available to meet existing and new investment law they are required to prepare the group inancial statement s commitments.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable company and group are well placed to manage business risks law and have elected to prepare the parent company inancial successfully.
statements on the same basis.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the company Under company law the directors must not approve the inancial and group have adequate resources to continue in operational statements unless they are satisied that they give a true and fai r existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report of their proit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of t he and accounts.
group and parent company inancial statements, the directors are required to: Auditor Having engaged Deloitte LLP as the companys auditor since O select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 2006, the board, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, consistently decided after the 2011 year end to put the group audit out to O make judgements and estimates that are reasonable tender.
Following formal proposals from three audit irms, and prudent including Deloitte, KPMG Audit Plc was successful in this process and Deloitte consequently resigned as Caledonias auditor on O state whether they have been prepared in accordance with 27 October 2011.
The board appointed KPMG to ill the vacancy IFRSs as adopted by the EU and and accordingly resolutions will be proposed at the annual O general meeting to re-appoint KPMG as auditor of the company prepare the inancial statements on the going concern basis and to authorise the directors to agree their remuneration.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the A description of how the Audit Committee ensures the objectivity parent company will continue in business.
and independence of the auditor is set out on page 43 within the The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Corporate governance report.
records that are suficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy The directors who held ofice at the date of approval of this Directors report conirm that, so far as each is aware, there is at any time the inancial position of the parent company and no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is enable them to ensure that its inancial statements comply wit h the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for unaware and each director has taken all the steps that he ought taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditor the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and is aware of that information.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors report, Directors By order of the board remuneration report and Corporate governance report Graeme Denison that complies with that law and those regulations.
