Overview Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2012 7 Investment model Our investment model has been successfully developed class.
We look to provide appropriate diversity in our and deployed over many years to build both a growing portfolio across sectors, geography and currencies and long term store of wealth and income.
It is based on further mitigate risk by not investing more than 15% of maintaining and developing our extensive network, our net asset value in any one company, at the time of carefully iltering the investment opportunities and an initial investment or subsequent purchase.
active monitoring of investment performance and value.
Our objective is to generate returns over the medium We invest in both listed and unlisted securities, and long term in excess of the FTSE All-Share through a predominantly equities, with around 60% of our combination of capital growth and a progressive income investment portfolio normally being held in listed return.
The execution of this investment objective is equities.
We may utilise derivatives to hedge risk summarised in the following processes.
exposures, but do not use these as an active investment Attract preferential deal low Make signiicant investments Identify best opportunities Our reputation, network of deal We invest directly in both listed and We seek businesses with established originators and family tradition enables unlisted opportunities around the business models, strong cash lows us to access premium investment world.
Our minimum investment size and proven management teams.
opportunities not always available to is 10m and we are willing to invest Such opportunities are not reliant on others.
This derives from both tracking between 20m and 50m for signiicant leverage for returns and offer long term quality management teams in proven equity interests in companies.
businesses and through the contacts we make through our extensive board representation network.
Identify best opportunities The Caledonia team Attract Make At its heart, our investment preferential signiicant process is focused on recruiting and retaining high deal low investments quality investment executives to maintain deal low and investment continuity, who understand and are able to execute Caledonias investment philosophy.
Develop Manage business and support network investees Develop business network Manage and support investees Maintaining our reputation as a We manage our investments as pools supportive and constructively involved of capital, focusing ownership and long term investor enables us to develop responsibility on our executive team.
our network of contacts, who will give Where we take a board seat, we can us priority consideration when new both actively monitor the development deal opportunities arise.
of our investment and contribute long term support and governance.
