28 Annual report 2012 Caledonia Investments plc Investment review continued Income & Growth pool Companies that meet the pool criteria are leaders in their The Income & Growth pool was ields with strong balance sheets, above average returns established in March 2011 and comprises on equity RoE and demonstrable histories of creating shareholder value.
Crucially, they have the cash lows investments focusing on both yield and that enable them to provide attractive cash returns to capital appreciation from worldwide shareholders, whilst still investing to grow their markets.
The target gross yield is 4.5%.
Growth in tandem with income is a key criterion.
These investments are typically listed The irst year has been a successful one with an overall equities in large-cap companies with gain in sterling terms of 7.4% over the twelve months.
solid records and strong cash lows.
They In addition, a gross dividend yield of 5.1% was achieved are multinational in nature and therefore by the pool, comfortably in line with the target that we set at the pools inception.
also provide Caledonia with an increased World markets peaked in April 2011 and the rest of the look-through exposure to world markets.
calendar year became increasingly dificult as the At 31 March 2012, the Income & Growth European crisis escalated.
As the pool was investing from cash into higher yielding companies, this worked pool comprised 47 investments, with to Caledonias advantage and, after the notable slide in small percentage holdings and therefore markets last August, buying was stepped up over the also providing a highly liquid portfolio.
ensuing months, when share prices were at their most depressed.
This was a successful strategy, most notably in US stocks, and helped performance from January to March 2012 as the market recovery took hold.
It was notable during the weak phase of the market that strong balance sheet and high dividend yielding stocks were seen as safe havens.
This is one of the key aims of the pool, to hold growing but resilient companies that can survive economic downturns and still safely pay shareholders a good income.
Caledonia is investing for the long term through economic cycles in businesses that are not just well managed, but have a structural tailwind that assists them.
Weight Country % United Kingdom 26.1 United States 18.7 Australia 15.8 France 4.8 Switzerland 4.8 Hong Kong 4.7 Brazil 4.7 China 4.2 Singapore 3.7 Germany 3.2 Canada 3.1 Taiwan 2.7 Finland 1.9 Norway 1.6 100.0 The portfolio has been established with a spread of investments in countries with strong fundamentals and corporate governance.
Countries outside the UK, such as Canada, Australia and those in Scandinavia, have sound inances, sound governance and a culture of paying good dividends to shareholders.
Within Asia, only selective Business review Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2012 29 developed markets have been targeted, including Hong Australia deserves a special mention as not only are Kong, Singapore and Taiwan, which enables the Asian yields there amongst the highest globally, but it has a growth opportunity to be properly captured.
Giant AAA credit rating, decent population growth and Asia on Manufacturing in Taiwan, for example, which is the its doorstep.
Companies such as Melbourne based Amcor worlds leading bicycle manufacturer, has signiicant are tapping into growth through their customers, the exposure not just to China, but to other emerging global tobacco, pharma and food companies, which are economies.
Television Broadcasts in Hong Kong is themselves investing heavily in emerging markets.
expanding TV production into China and a number of The global inancial sector had a dificult year and other Asian economies.
Australia is notable for being one of the few countries where the pool invested defensively in banks it stayed The BRIC economies help provide growth and the pool zero-weighted in European and UK banks throughout the has established positions in Brazil and China in well year.
Banks such as Commonwealth Bank of Australia are recognised companies.
India does not provide the conservative, achieve a 19% RoE and, importantly, pay out requisite yields and Russia does not provide governance a 7% dividend yield to shareholders.
Avoiding holding UK that meets the pools criteria.
The opportunities sought and EU banks and all but one investment in southern out in Brazil and China are structural and include, for Europe was one of the better decisions of the year and one example, a water utility in Brazil, Copasa, where there is a that is still in place.
Thus the spread of the pool is broad decade of growth ahead connecting new homes to water but conservative by geography and also in the currencies supply and sewage treatment.
Weight It is important that dividends grow at above the rate of Name % inlation to give real returns to shareholders and this was Pizer 3.0 achieved with approximately 8% growth in the average GlaxoSmithKline 2.9 dividend over the year.
This was satisfactory and Starwood Property Trust 2.8 comfortably above UK inlation, which averaged about Philip Morris International 2.8 4%, although there were sectors, such as insurance which Television Broadcasts 2.7 was hit by an unusual number of natural catastrophes, Giant Manufacturing 2.7 where dividends were lat.
Imperial Tobacco Group 2.6 Having successfully established the pool over the last Kimberly-Clark 2.6 twelve months, the aim now is to grow it in size and ASX 2.6 optimise overall returns.
One of our tasks for 2012 13 is Sonic Healthcare 2.5 to improve on the overall dividend growth rate.
As part of this process, the team visits all of our portfolio companies The US provides some great global brand name in their home countries and meets their management companies, such as Philip Morris, Mattel and Pizer, teams.
Caledonia is investing in businesses, not stocks.
that perfectly capture the consistent dividend yield and This involves a signiicant amount of travel, as well as growth that the pool seeks.
Yields in the US are not meetings when the companies visit London.
Caledonia as high as ideally desired due to the growing prevalence believes that local due diligence is crucial and only by of buy-backs, but there are nevertheless enough doing this can we properly understand the business we opportunities to compile a focused list to choose from.
are investing in on behalf of our shareholders.
The pool Despite the economic problems in Europe, there are some should only be investing in the best of the best and, with world-leading companies headquartered there that are a global perspective and opportunity set, there is a creating value for shareholders, often with very signiicant universe that allows this to be achieved.
For example, Nestl Establishing this pool in 2011 12 demonstrated that and Syngenta in Switzerland both meet the pools long buying high quality, strong cash-low companies at times term criteria and have therefore been included.
of opportunity is the key to building good investment The pharma sector is also well represented in Europe returns over a period of years.
A growing dividend and Sanoi, Bayer and GlaxoSmithKline, whose businesses yield of around 5% is both a support and a very are relatively immune to the peripheral economies woes, important part many studies show the majority part are all included.
Our home market in the UK also provides of investment returns.
well managed, dividend growing companies, whether they be obvious choices like Imperial Tobacco or special situations, such as the repositioning of Tate & Lyle into higher added value areas.
Vodafone in telecoms has been one of the more resilient high yielding names and, elsewhere, in Canadian telecoms, the British Columbia based TELUS mobile operator proved a very steady performer through a turbulent 2011.
