6 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Portfolio Managers Report FTSE All-Share Index Total Return from 30 June 2011 Job Curtis to 30 June 2012 rebased to 100 Investment Background 105 During the twelve month period under review, the UK equity 100 market, as measured by the FTSE All-Share Index, produced a negative total return of 3.1%.
This contrasts with the positive 95 total return for the previous financial year to 30 June 2011 of 25.6%.
The overall direction of the market was determined 90 by macro economic developments rather than specific problems with companies or sectors.
The eurozone sovereign 85 debt crisis proved destabilising for the equity market because 80 it was so hard to see a solution to the crisis given the J J A S O N D J F M A M J structure of a monetary union without a fiscal or political FTSE All Share Price Index Source: Datastream union.
London Brent Crude Oil Index US$ BBL Price Index from Growth in the eurozone was adversely affected by 30 June 2011 to 30 June 2012 deleveraging and fiscal tightening.
UK economic growth was also disappointing due to the impact of falling real wages and 130 tight credit conditions.
The best growth continued to be in 125 emerging markets although Chinese economic growth slowed 120 down from its exceptionally high rate of recent years.
115 One positive effect of the sluggish economic activity was the 110 fall in the oil price.
Brent Crude peaked at $125 a barrel in 105 March and then fell to $92 a barrel by the end of June as a 100 result of weaker than expected demand for oil.
The fall in the 95 oil price helped to reduce inflation across the developed 90 J J A S O N D J F M A M J economies.
London Brent Crude Oil Index US$ BBL Source: Datastream Price Index Against a background of significant economic uncertainties, Base Rates, 10 year UK Government & FTSE All-Share Index there was a strong demand for assets that were perceived to Yields from 30 June 2011 to 30 June 2012 be safe.
UK ten year gilt yields fell throughout the twelve 4.5 months to reach 1.6% by the end of June.
The UK base rate 4.0 stayed at 0.5% while the dividend yield on equities varied 3.5 between 3% and 4%.
Companies in City of Londons 3.0 portfolio on average increased their dividends by 7.8%.
2.5 2.0 Given the attractive dividend yield and other measures of 1.5 value, gearing was maintained in a range of between 7.9% 1.0 and 10.7%.
During this year, gearing detracted from 0.5 performance by 0.99% having contributed positively last 0.0 year by 2.72%.
J J A S O N D J F M A M J FTSE All-Share Price Index Source: Datastream UK Clearing Banks Base Rate UK Government Bond Series 10 Year Middle Rate Red.
Yield The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 7 Portfolio Managers Report continued Estimated Performance Attribution Analysis companies tend to be poor dividend payers and with the for the year to 30 June 2012 total returns relative to the exception of BHP Billiton, which is held in Citys portfolio, all FTSE All-Share Index: for the year to 30 June 2011 relative of the mining stocks either cut or passed their dividends to the FTSE All-Share 4% Capped Index during the 2008 2009 downturn.
Being under represented in the mining sector was the biggest sector contribution to 2012 2011 outperformance over the twelve months.
Stock selection 6.64% 0.83% Gearing -0.99% 2.72% The second biggest contributor to performance was through Expenses -0.45% -0.44% being under represented in the banks sector.
Overall, our view Share issues 0.18% 0.28% is that many banks will struggle as they are required to hold more capital than in the past which will depress future Total 5.38% 3.39% returns.
HSBC is our favoured bank because of its strong Source: Henderson Global Investors capital ratios and deposit base, conservative lending and Performance of Higher Yielding Shares compared with global footprint.
Elsewhere in the financial sectors, the lower yielding shares portfolios overweight position in life assurance was increased The chart below compares the return of the FTSE 350 Higher with additions to existing holdings and the purchase of a new Yielding Index the higher dividend yielding half of the largest holding in Phoenix at a significant discount to its embedded 350 shares in the UK with the FTSE 350 Lower Yield Index value.
In non life insurance, the holding in Admiral was sold the lower dividend yielding half of the largest 350 shares in on concerns about slowing profits growth in its motor the UK from 30 June 2011 to 30 June 2012 rebased to 100. insurance operations.
In real estate investment trusts, the overweight position was increased through a new holding in 110 British Land which offers a high quality income stream 105 through its relatively long let portfolio.
In financial services, 100 two new holdings were bought.
Brewin Dolphin has a strong 95 franchise as one of the UKs largest private client fund 90 managers.
IG Group is a market leader in providing retail 85 financial derivatives and it tends to benefit from market 80 volatility.
75 The third most successful area was the multi-national 70 J J A S O N D J F M A M J consumer products companies.
In particular, the two biggest FTSE 350 Higher Yield FTSE 350 Lower Yield Source: Datastream single stock contributors were Diageo, in beverages, and British American Tobacco.
Both companies benefited from Over the twelve month period, the FTSE 350 Higher Yield strong brands selling into emerging markets as well as the Index significantly outperformed the FTSE 350 Lower Yield relatively resilient US economy.
At the end of the Trusts Index.
Against the background of low interest rates, stocks financial year, British American Tobacco had overtaken Royal with an above average dividend yield were in demand.
In Dutch Shell as the largest holding.
Diageo moved up from addition, the low dividend yielding mining sector, where the fourth to third largest holding over the year.
portfolio was significantly underweight, was a major The gas, water and multiutilities sector was also a big underperformer due to the weakness in commodity prices.
The fall in British Government bond yields helped the sector as did the relatively stable UK Portfolio Review City of London has been under represented, relative to the regulatory regimes.
Within the utility sector, some profits were FTSE All-Share Index, in the mining sector for many years taken in National Grid.
Additions were made to Centrica because the sector is volatile with the direction of share prices which has a relatively strong balance sheet and has pursued a depending on spot commodity prices.
In addition, mining strategy of combining its British Gas supply business with 8 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Portfolio Managers Report continued upstream ownership of North Sea gas fields as well as The second largest sector in the portfolio, at 30 June 2012, electricity generation plants.
In the electricity sector, a poorly was pharmaceuticals.
GlaxoSmithKline outperformed over the timed sale was made of International Power which was twelve months by some 18% as investors appreciated its subsequently taken over by Suez of France.
strong cash flow from its spread of healthcare products.
In contrast, AstraZeneca only performed in line with the market Telecommunications was a mixed area for the Trust over the because it was adversely affected by the expiry of patents on year.
The largest holding in Vodafone was an outperformer some of its important medicines.
A new holding was and a special dividend was received from its market leading purchased in Merck, the US pharmaceutical company, which US joint venture.
Many overseas telecommunications markets is generating significant cash flow relative to its market faced tough trading due to competitive and regulatory issues.
capitalisation from existing products and has some promising As a result, the holdings in Cable & Wireless Communications, new products under development.
SK Telecom of South Korea and Vivendi of France were sold.
In contrast, the UK telecommunications market appeared to The portfolio remained biased towards international be relatively healthy and a holding was purchased in BT which companies with exposure to economies likely to grow faster is benefiting from its leading position in supplying broadband.
However, some new purchases were made of quality UK cyclicals, which had attractive dividend yields and The industrial engineering sector underperformed over the growth.
Daily Mail and General retains a strong franchise in twelve months but it should be remembered that the sector national newspapers as well as a growing international had strongly outperformed in the previous two years.
Greencore was bought on a were taken in about one third of the holding in Weir Group price earnings multiple that undervalues its growth potential but overall the industrial engineering companies in the as a leading supplier of food products to UK supermarkets.
portfolio are in niche sectors with strong technology and Greggs is the well known sandwiches and savouries retailer should prosper in the long run.
In the industrial area, two new with an excellent profits and dividend growth record.
holdings were purchased on attractive valuations relative to Persimmon is one of the UKs largest housebuilders with a six their history.
Emerson Electric of the US is a diversified year land bank and a plan to make substantial cash returns to industrial holding company, with some 35% of its sales in shareholders over the next nine years.
Young & Cos Brewery emerging markets, that has increased its dividend every year has a valuable estate of pubs in south west London and since 1956.
Daimler of Germany is the owner of Mercedes Surrey.
A notable sale during the year was made of the Benz cars as well as being the global leader in heavy holding in G4S at the time of a potential large acquisition commercial trucks.
A new holding was also bought in Balfour which was subsequently abandoned and ahead of the Beatty, the international contractor, which has growth problems with its security contract for the London Olympics.
potential in its support services and US construction businesses.
Distribution of the Portfolio at 30 June 2012 Turning to the largest sectors in the portfolio, oil and gas Large companies 80% constituents of the FTSE 100 Index producers was the biggest with 9.8% of the portfolio at Medium-sized companies Overseas listed companies 30 June 2012.
The main holding remained Royal Dutch Shell which delivered some technically difficult projects into 7% production in Qatar and Canada during the twelve months.
Royal Dutch Shell outperformed the FTSE All Share by 9% 13% over the twelve months while BP, where the portfolio was significantly under represented relative to the FTSE All Share Index, underperformed by some 1% due to problems with its Russian joint venture.
In oil services, a small holding was 80% purchased in Cape which has significant recovery potential under a new chief executive.
The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 9 Portfolio Managers Report continued The distribution at the previous year end was: large companies flow and growth in profits are better placed to sustain and 78%, medium-sized companies 16% and overseas listed grow their profits.
Large consumer goods and healthcare companies 6%.
In this analysis, medium sized UK listed companies such as British American Tobacco, Diageo, companies are identified as those outside the FTSE 100 Index.
GlaxoSmithKline, Unilever and AstraZeneca with exposure to emerging markets meet these characteristics.
These An alternative analysis is to consider the weighting of the companies are all in City of Londons top eight holdings.
Also largest 30 stocks in the UK and the rest of the UK market.
On in the top eight are the multinationals Royal Dutch Shell, this basis, at 30 June 2012, 54% of Citys portfolio was in the Vodafone and HSBC which are not over dependent on any largest 30 compared with 65% of the FTSE All-Share Index, one country or region for their growth.
The ninth, tenth and 39% in the rest of the UK market 35% FTSE All-Share and eleventh largest holdings in the portfolio are UK utilities with 7% overseas listed.
relatively high visibility of revenues and profits.
There is scope to have 20% of the portfolio in overseas listed At the time of writing, a defensive bias does seem appropriate stocks, but we will only invest overseas when there is, in our for the portfolio.
However, as economic circumstances change, view, an advantage over UK listed companies.
it is important to be flexible, especially as the stock market tends to reflect known information and the sentiment of Outlook investors.
There will continue to be opportunities in the months With the debt overhang and subdued growth outlook in the ahead to increase the portfolios exposure to stocks outside the UK and other developed economies, it is likely that interest largest 30 in the UK market and to overseas listed stocks.
rates will remain at exceptionally low yields.
As a result equities that offer sustainable yields and growth remain attractive.
Such companies form the heart of City of Londons portfolio.
Companies with strong balance sheets, good cash Job Curtis
