14 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Report of the Directors The directors present the audited financial statements of the The remainder of the portfolio will be invested in a Company and their report for the year from 1 July 2011 to combination of UK listed medium-sized and small 30 June 2012. companies and up to 20% in overseas listed companies.
There are no set limits on sector exposures, although the Business Review Board regularly monitors the Companys investments and The following business review is designed to provide the Managers investment activity.
The Manager primarily information primarily about the Companys business and results employs a bottom-up value-based investment process to for the year ended 30 June 2012.
The Business Review should identify suitable opportunities and pays particular regard to be read in conjunction with the Portfolio Managers Report on cash generation and dividends.
pages 6 to 9, which gives a detailed review of the investment activities for the year and an outlook for the future.
The portfolio yield will usually be between 10% and 30% above the average dividend yield for the UK equity market.
a Status There may be some holdings, selected for their above The City of London Investment Trust plc registered in England & average growth potential, which have a dividend yield Wales, number 34871 the Company traded throughout the lower than the market.
year under review and was not dormant.
The Company is an investment company as defined in Section 833 of the Companies l Gearing Act 2006 and operates as an investment trust in accordance with The Company will at times utilise limited gearing, both short and long term, in order to enhance performance.
Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
It has obtained approval from HM Revenue & Customs HMRC of its status as Other than in exceptional market conditions, gearing will an investment trust under the above-mentioned Section.
HMRC not exceed 20% of net asset value at the time of draw approval of the Companys status as an investment trust has been down of the relevant borrowings.
Up to 10% of the net received in respect of the year ended 30 June 2011, although this assets can be held in cash.
approval is subject to there being no subsequent enquiries under Selling traded options where the underlying share is held in Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The directors are of the the portfolio can be used to generate income.
Buying and opinion that the Company has continued to conduct its affairs in selling FTSE 100 Index Futures can be used to increase or a manner that will enable it to continue to gain such approval.
The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs so l Diversification that its investments fully qualify for a stocks and shares The Company achieves an appropriate spread of component of an ISA.
investment risk principally through a broadly diversified b Investment objective and policy portfolio, which at 30 June 2012 contained 102 individual Objective investments 2011: 93 as detailed on pages 10 and 11.
At The Companys objective is to provide long-term growth in 30 June 2012, the largest single investment was British income and capital, principally by investment in equities listed American Tobacco, which accounted for 6.7% of total on the London Stock Exchange.
The Board continues to investments, while the top 20 holdings totalled 59.6%.
recognise the importance of dividend income to shareholders.
The Company will not invest more than 15% of its Policy portfolio in any single investment on acquisition, nor will it l Asset allocation invest more than 15% of the portfolio in any other UK While the Company will mainly invest in equities, there is listed investment trusts or investment companies.
the flexibility to invest in debt securities, such as c Financial review convertibles, corporate bonds or government debt, if it is l Assets deemed that these will, at a particular time or for a Total net assets at 30 June 2012 amounted to particular period, enhance the performance of the 699,546,000 compared with 674,477,000 at 30 June Company in the pursuit of its objective.
2011, and the net asset value per ordinary share decreased The Company has a portfolio invested predominantly in from 299.95p to 292.87p.
This figure is calculated by valuing larger companies.
Typically at least 60% of the portfolio by the Companys long-term debt at its nominal value.
With value will be invested in companies in the FTSE 100 Index.
long-term debt calculated at its fair, or market, value year-
