Close Brothers Group plc 10 Annual Report 2012 Corporate Overview Strategy and Key Performance Indicators Our strategy is to focus on businesses where divisions: Banking, Securities and Asset we have a differentiated proposition and Management.
Going forward our priority is to which have the capacity to deliver high quality, continue to maximise the opportunity for each sustainable earnings over time.
Over the last of these three divisions in a range of market few years we have exited a number of nonconditions.
core businesses which did not meet these criteria.
The group is focused on three core The groups overall strategic objectives are: Description Progress Adjusted operating profit and earnings per share increased We focus on Drive despite mixed conditions for our businesses.
businesses and Strong profit growth in Banking while strengthening front line sales capacity, information systems and infrastructure.
sustainable activities that Winterflood remained profitable despite difficult market conditions.
generate recurring, profits Substantially completed restructuring in Asset Management sustainable profits and rolled out new client propositions.
Loan book increased 20%, the third consecutive year of We develop and Build client strong growth with continued high repeat business.
maintain strong Private client AuM increased through organic growth and acquisitions.
franchises relationships that Winterflood maintained its leading market position.
deliver repeat business and recurring income Maintained a strong capital position while employing capital We maintain a Remain for loan book growth.
strong funding, Maintained a diverse funding position with prudent maturity profile.
prudent and capital and liquidity Maintained a good level of high quality liquidity while improving balance sheet efficiency through lower holdings position at all times efficient of debt securities.
and are committed Maintained underwriting discipline and quality of loan book.
to maintaining loan book quality Maintained solid return on equity despite challenging year We aim to generate Deliver for Securities.
sustainable growth Increased full year dividend per share by 4%.
shareholder in dividends and shareholder returns returns 1 Adjusted operating profit excluding associate income after tax and non-controlling interests on opening equity.
Close Brothers Group plc 11 Annual Report 2012 Key performance indicators Strategic priorities by division: Adjusted operating Adjusted earnings profit per share In the Banking division, to million pence capture sustainable growth 150 75 134 67 131 65 opportunities while maintaining 117 58 120 60 90 45 our distinctive, specialist lending 60 30 model.
30 15 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2 010 2011 2012 In Securities, to maintain our leading market positions and Loan book Winterood income Assets under million million Management maximise profitability in all trading million conditions.
