Close Brothers Group plc 28 Annual Report 2012 Governance Board of Directors Strone Macpherson Preben Prebensen Jonathan Howell Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Strone was appointed a director in 2003, Preben joined Close Brothers as chief Jonathan joined Close Brothers as finance senior independent director in 2004, executive in April 2009 having spent his director in February 2008, having deputy chairman in 2006 and chairman in career in a number of senior positions at previously held the same role at the June 2008.
He is chairman of the JP Morgan over 23 years, as well as being London Stock Exchange Group plc since Nomination and Governance Committee.
chief executive of Wellington Underwriting 1999.
Prior to that he was at Price He is chairman of British Empire Securities plc from 2004 to 2006, and then chief Waterhouse.
and General Trust plc and JP Morgan investment officer and a member of the Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc.
group executive committee at Catlin He is also a governor of Heriot-Watt Group Limited.
University and a trustee of the Kings Fund.
Formerly he was a director of Flemings, chairman of Tribal Group plc, executive deputy chairman of Misys plc and a non-executive director of AXA UK plc and Kleinwort Benson Private Bank Limited.
Ray Greenshields Douglas Paterson Jamie Cayzer-Colvin Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Ray was appointed a director in Douglas was appointed a director in July Jamie was appointed a director in January November 2008 and chairman of the Risk 2004 and is chairman of the Audit 2008.
He is chairman of the Henderson Committee in December 2010.
Within the Goldman Sachs Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc senior adviser to Standard Life Assurance, Group he is a director of Goldman Sachs and a number of unquoted companies, a a member of Standard Life Assurance International Bank, Montague Place director of Caledonia Investments plc and With Profits Committee and chairman of Custody Services and Rothesay Life a non-executive director of Polar Capital Octopus VCT 3 plc.
Formerly he was Limited, and is a non-executive officer of Holdings plc and India Capital Growth chairman of Bestinvest Group, a director Generation Investment Management LLP.
Previously he was with Whitbread of Standard Life Assurance Limited, Formerly he was a senior partner in the and GEC and is a former director of managing director of Barclays Wealth banking and capital markets division of Rathbone Brothers Plc.
Management, CEO of Zurich Financial .
Services UK and International Life, and managing director of AMP Financial Services.
Close Brothers Group plc 29 Annual Report 2012 Stephen Hodges Elizabeth Lee Bruce Carnegie-Brown Managing Director and Banking Group Head of Legal and Regulatory Senior Independent Director ChiefExecutive Affairs, and Company Secretary Bruce was appointed a director in June Stephen joined the Banking division of Elizabeth joined Close Brothers as general 2006 and senior independent director in Close Brothers in 1985 following eight counsel and company secretary in June 2008.
He is chairman of the years at Hambros.
He was appointed a September 2009 and was appointed a Remuneration Committee.
He is chairman director in August 1995 with responsibility director in August 2012 with responsibility of Aon UK Limited, senior independent for the Banking division and in November for legal and regulatory affairs.
Formerly director of Catlin Group Limited and a 2002 was appointed managing director.
she was with Lehman Brothers and non-executive director of General Electrics financial services Moneysupermarket.
Formerly he was with 3i Group, Marsh & McLennan and JP Morgan.
Geoffrey Howe Shonaid Jemmett-Page Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Geoffrey was appointed a director in Shonaid was appointed a director in January 2011.
She is a non-executive Nationwide Building Society and of director of GKN plc, Amlin plc and APR Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc.
Formerly she was chief Formerly he was chairman of Railtrack plc, operating officer of CDC Group plc, a nona non-executive director of Investec plc executive director of Havelock Europa plc, and JP Morgan Overseas Investment held executive positions with Unilever plc Trust plc, a director of Robert Fleming and was a financial sector audit partner at Holdings Limited and a managing partner KPMG.
