Close Brothers Group plc 31 Annual Report 2012 Governance Report of the Directors The directors present their report and the audited financial Share Capital statements for the year ended 31 July 2012.
At 31 July 2012 the Company had 150.6 million ordinary shares in issue with a nominal value of 25.0p each.
Details of changes in Business Review and Principal Activities the Companys ordinary share capital during the year are given in Close Brothers Group plc the Company is the parent note 24 on page 92 of the Financial Statements.
On a show of company of a specialist financial services group which makes hands, each member has the right to one vote at general loans, trades securities and provides advice and investment meetings of the Company.
On a poll, each member is entitled to management solutions to a wide range of clients.
one vote for every share held.
The shares carry no rights to fixed income.
No person has any special rights of control over the The principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 July 2012 and their Companys share capital and all shares are fully paid.
principal activities are listed in note 27 on page 94 of the Financial Statements.
During the year the Company issued 70,042 ordinary shares of 25.0p each in satisfaction of option exercises.
Full details of the The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business options exercised, the weighted average option exercise price Review can be found in the following sections of the Annual and the weighted average market price at the date of exercise Report, each of which are incorporated by reference into and can be found in note 32 to the Financial Statements on pages form part of, this Report of the Directors: 99and 100.
Pages Restrictions on the transfer of shares There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of the Companys Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement 4 to 7 shares which are governed by the general provisions of the Business Model 8 and 9 articles of association and prevailing legislation.
Strategy and Key Performance Indicators 10 and 11 Business Review 12 to 23 The Company is unaware of any arrangements between its Principal Risks and Uncertainties 24 to 27 shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares and or voting rights.
Board of Directors 28 and 29 Corporate Governance 33 to 43 New issues of share capital Corporate Responsibility 44 and 45 Under the Companies Acts, the directors of a company are, with Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration 46 to 57 certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without express authorisation, which may be contained in a companys Results and Dividends articles of association or given by its shareholders in general The consolidated results for the year are shown on page 59.
The meeting, but which in either event cannot last more than five directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 27.5p 2011: years.
Under the Companies Acts, the board may also not allot 26.5p on each ordinary share which, together with the interim shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to an employee share dividend of 14.0p 2011: 13.5p, makes an ordinary distribution for scheme without first making an offer to existing shareholders to the year of 41.5p 2011: 40.0p per share.
The final dividend, if allot such shares to them on the same or more favourable terms approved by shareholders at the 2012 Annual General Meeting in proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless this AGM, will be paid on 27 November 2012 to shareholders on requirement is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders.
the register as at 19 October 2012.
Purchase of Own Shares Directors Under section 724 of the Companies Act 2006 a company may The current directors of the Company at the date of this report purchase its own shares to be held in treasury Treasury appear on pages 28 and 29.
Elizabeth Lee were appointed to the board on 1 August 2012.
Allother directors held office throughout the year.
The existing authority given to the Company at the last AGM to purchase Treasury Shares of up to 10% of its issued share capital Directors interests will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM.
The directors interests in the share capital of the Company at 31July 2012 are set out on page 53.
The board considers it would be appropriate to renew this authority and intends to seek shareholder approval to purchase Powers and appointment of directors Treasury Shares of up to 10% of its issued share capital at the Details on the powers and appointment of directors are set out forthcoming AGM in line with current investor sentiment.
Details of the resolution renewing the authority are included in the Directors indemnity Notice of AGM.
The Company has granted indemnities to all of its directors onterms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
Awards under the Companys employee share plans are met Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of from a combination of shares purchased in the market and held section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were accordingly in either in treasury or in the employee share trust as well as by force during the course of the year, and remain in force at the newly issued shares.
During the year, the Company did not purchase any Treasury Shares.
Close Brothers Group plc 32 Annual Report 2012 Governance Report of the Directors continued In 2012, 996,492 Treasury Shares were transferred out to satisfy Charitable and Political Donations share option awards, for a total consideration of 3.1 million.
The The group made charitable donations in the year amounting to maximum number of Treasury Shares held at any time during the 160,000 2011: 228,500.
Further details are set out in the year was 4.5 million with a nominal value of 1.1 million.
Corporate Responsibility report on pages 44 and 45.
No political donations were made during the year 2011: nil.
Employee Share Trust Bedell Trustees Limited is the trustee of the Close Brothers Resolutions at the AGM Group Employee Share Trust, an independent trust, which holds The Companys AGM will be held on 22 November 2012. shares for the benefit of employees and former employees of the Resolutions to be proposed at the AGM include the renewal of group.
The trustee has agreed to satisfy a number of awards the directors authority to allot shares, the disapplication of under the employee share plans.
As part of these arrangements pre-emption rights, authority for the Company to purchase its the Company funds the trust, from time to time, to enable the own shares and the re-election of all the directors.
trustee to acquire shares to satisfy these awards, details of which are set out in note 32 to the Financial Statements on pages 99 The full text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of AGM sent and 100. to the Companys shareholders.
A letter from the chairman which explains the purpose of the resolutions will accompany the During the year, the employee share trust made market Notice of AGM.
Auditor Substantial Shareholdings Resolutions to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditor Details on substantial shareholdings in the Company are set out and to give the directors the authority to determine the auditors on page 42. remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Significant Contracts Disclosure of Information to Auditor A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid may Each of the persons who are directors at the date of approval of cause a number of agreements to which the Company is party to this Annual Report confirms that: take effect, alter or terminate.
These include the Company bonds So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit due 2017, certain insurance policies, bank facility agreements information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and and employee share plans.
They have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant The group had committed facilities totalling 1.4 billion at 31 July audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is 2012 which contain clauses which require lender consent for any aware of that information.
Should consent not be given, a change of control would trigger mandatory prepayment of the facilities.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies All of the Companys employee share plans contain provisions Act 2006. relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options may vest and become exercisable on a change of control, By order of the board subject where appropriate to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time and pro-rating of awards.
In the context of Elizabeth Lee the Company as a whole, these agreements are not considered Company Secretary to be significant.
25 September 2012 Risk Management The group has procedures in place to identify, monitor and evaluate the significant risks it faces.
The groups risk management objectives and policies are set out on pages 37 to39 and in note 34 to the Financial Statements on pages 102 to111.
Supplier Payment Policy All banking, securities and investment transactions are settled in accordance with applicable terms and conditions of business agreed with the counterparty.
Average creditor days for all other approved expenses was 19 2011: 19.
