g n i E k x n p t a n e r e t B d u r P S e c Close Brothers Group plc 8 Annual Report 2012 Corporate Overview Business Model Close Brothers is a financial services group Each of our businesses is distinct and a which makes loans, trades securities and specialist in its field, but they share a number provides advice and investment management of key attributes.
Together, these key attributes solutions to a wide range of clients.
We allow us to offer a differentiated proposition typically operate in segments of the financial to our clients and underpin our long track market where we can differentiate ourselves record of financial performance through the and where we do not compete directly with economic cycle.
Simple Our business activities are straightforward: we make loans: we trade securities: and we provide advice and investment management solutions.
We offer simple products with straightforward, transparent pricing.
Our balance sheet is transparent and we do not invest in complex securities products or derivatives.
The groups simple products, business activities and balance sheet ensure we maintain the confidence of clients, lenders and depositors, shareholders, and other stakeholders.
Creating and sustaining value Expert Our employees are experts in their fields with strong knowledge of their products, markets and clients.
Our experienced local teams have delegated decision making authority, with strong central oversight.
Our remuneration structures aim to balance long and short-term performance to promote sustainability of profits.
Our local knowledge and experience allow us to provide a differentiated and valuable service to our clients and is a core part of our risk management.
u r i t i e t s n R e e l a m t i o e n e s g l p h a i m p n i s S a M t e s s A Close Brothers Group plc 9 Annual Report 2012 Each of our businesses shares common attributes, but their business models Prudent are distinct: We have a prudent, diversified Banking funding position and we borrow longer than we lend.
Provides specialist lending to small and medium-sized businesses and individuals We have a strong capital position across a diverse range of asset classes and also offers deposit taking services.
with a core tier 1 capital ratio of We provide finance directly to SMEs across the UK and also distribute our 12.8% and leverage ratio of 9.7%.
finance products through intermediaries such as motor dealers and insurance We apply prudent and consistent brokers.
criteria to our lending and our loan Our loan book is predominantly secured, has a short maturity and is diverse portfolio is predominantly secured, across asset classes and sectors.
Through high service levels and flexible solutions we build long-term relationships In our trading businesses, with clients and intermediaries and generate high levels of repeat business.
exposures are short term and relate Our local, integrated teams are responsible for loans from new business to market-making positions.
Securities The prudent nature of our business Provides trading services to retail brokers and institutions principally through and balance sheet has allowed us Winterflood, a leading market-maker in the UK.
to continue meeting our clients Winterflood has a strong market position as the largest market-maker to UK retail financial needs and deliver solid brokers, with broad market coverage.
returns through the economic cycle.
We have a strong and unique culture with approximately 100 experienced traders and a proprietary technology platform.
Our focus on market-making, low fixed cost base and strong risk management have allowed us to remain consistently profitable in a wide range of market conditions.
Relationships Seydler has a strong position in the German small and mid-cap market as designated sponsor to over 200 listed companies.
We offer high service levels and build long-term relationships with Asset Management clients and intermediaries.
Our local presence and knowledge Provides a full range of advice, investment management and self directed services allow us to understand and meet to private and corporate clients and professional advisers.
We provide an integrated offering for private clients combining financial planning Our financial strength and prudent, advice and professional investment management.
consistent model ensure we can We offer a wide range of funds, separately managed accounts and bespoke continue serving our clients at all portfolios, all supported by an integrated investment process.
stages of the economic cycle.
We access multiple distribution channels including our own and third party advisers, high net worth portfolio managers and an online portal for self directed clients.
Strong relationships with clients, intermediaries and other stakeholders ensure our service offering meets their needs and generates sustainable revenues.
For more information on our divisions please see pages 18 to 23.
