Close Brothers Group plc 2 Annual Report 2012 Corporate Overview Our Business Close Brothers is a specialist financial services group which makes loans, trades securities and provides advice and investment management solutions to a wide range of clients.
Close Brothers was established in 1878 and today employs over 2,500 people, principally in the UK.
It is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is a member of the FTSE 250.
Close Brothers Group plc 3 Annual Report 2012 Banking Securities Asset Management The Banking division provides specialist The Securities division provides trading The Asset Management division provides lending to small and medium-sized services to retail brokers and institutions a full range of advice, investment businesses and individuals across a principally through Winterflood, a leading management and self directed services diverse range of asset classes, and also market-maker in the UK.
to private and corporate clients and offers deposit taking services.
Winterflood is a leading market-maker to The Banking division provides specialist the UK private client broker community, Through our national network of around finance solutions through our three lending serving over 300 private client brokers.
130 financial advisers, we offer a holistic business units: Retail, which provides We deal in over 15,000 UK and financial planning service, which includes point of sale finance for cars, motorcycles international securities and have access to access to our investment management and light commercial vehicles through all major exchanges and Multilateral products.
We offer flexible service levels motor dealers and specialist financing of Trading Facilities as well as our own including face to face, telephone, or online insurance premiums through brokers: internal liquidity pool, and offer guaranteed access.
For self directed clients, we offer Commercial, which provides asset finance best execution to our clients.
direct access to our technology platform across a broad range of asset classes and products through our client portal.
including commercial vehicles, plant, The experience and expertise of our machinery and construction equipment as traders along with prudent and Our investment management follows well as invoice factoring and discounting: conservative risk limits allow us to provide a global, multi-asset philosophy.
Our and Property, which provides short-term continuous liquidity to our clients and product range includes directly invested, financing principally for residential property trade profitably in all market conditions.
multi-manager and passive funds development and bridging loans.
which are available both through our Close Brothers Seydler Bank AG, based own advisers and third party IFAs.
Our The Treasury function provides funding in Frankfurt, offers securities and capital investment management offering also for the groups lending activities through market services focused on German midincludes separately managed accounts corporate deposits and retail savings sized companies.
and fully bespoke portfolio management products, as well as wholesale funding.
135.0m 24.5m 4.3 m 2011: 106.3m 2011: 54.8m 2011: 8.6 m 1 1 1 Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating loss 1 Stated before exceptional items, goodwill impairment, amortisation of intangible assets on acquisition, discontinued operations and tax: and excludes group segment income and expense.
