Business model Provider of essential services to engineering manufacturers Heat Treatment and Metal Joining Hot Isostatic Pressing HIP Surface Technology Heat treatments are controlled processes HIP combines very high temperature Surface technologies are used used to alter the microstructure of with inert gas under very high pressure.
extensively to prolong the working life materials such as metals and alloys to HIP can be used to eliminate porosity of components and protect them from impart properties which benefit the in castings and manufacture specialist environmental factors such as corrosion working life of a component.
Metal joining includes specialised processes used to join and assemble parts, sometimes dissimilar in material.
The global leader Customer focus Global network Transferable know-how Bodycote is focused on continual Bodycotes global network of over 190 The global Bodycote network provides 6,7 improvement of our quality of service market-focused facilities in 26 countries unique opportunities for the transfer of and takes an active role in finding brings economies of scale - particularly knowledge and skills, and the transfer of solutions to technical issues and for energy consumption and equipment technology.
promoting mutual business development utilisation.
This makes Bodycotes With some of the best metallurgists, with our customers.
processing inherently more efficient than engineers and technicians in the 31 customers in-house operations and Bodycote seeks to secure long-term industry, Bodycote is ideally placed enhances our competitive position in the agreements and strategic partnerships to provide solutions for customers, sub-contract market.
with our customers which are often whatever their market or wherever in the exclusive in nature and embody The capital intensive nature of world they may be.
protection and relative freedom from Bodycotes business also provides Bodycotes scale enables continuous but risk, allowing both companies to significant barriers to entry.
The scope of focused investment, both in the latest concentrate capital and other resources Bodycotes network enables Bodycote processes and in the most efficient and on core competencies.
to specialise more effectively than environmentally friendly equipment.
competitors at individual locations and provides comprehensive back-up for our customers.
The partner of choice Service Quality Expertise Bodycote has become the partner of Bodycotes quality management Bodycotes extensive facilities and 3 choice for the worlds most respected systems, validated by major engineering expertise mean that projects can extend and innovative engineering companies by OEMs, have been developed to meet beyond customers in-house capabilities, providing highly efficient, cost-effective the requirements of international and developing specific processes and services to the highest quality standards national accrediting bodies.
All Bodycote equipment for a customer, where through strategic investment in people facilities hold industry and customer required, and finding solutions to meet and the latest technology, equipment approvals appropriate to the services needs.
they offer and the markets they serve.
Our own development and improvement of standard processes has led to Bodycote offering a range of proprietary processes which far outperform their standard counterparts.
Creating value For customers For Bodycote For investors Value-adding services Mutually beneficial customer Financially stable and sustainable partnerships business Global supplier which can meet multiple processing needs Wide customer base means Bodycote Good growth drivers is not reliant on any one customer Access to entire Bodycote knowledge Superior return on investment base, and expertise Ideally positioned to promote growth Strong margins and cash flow in emerging markets and selected Cost and environmental benefits versus technologies in-house operations Clearly focused strategy Superscript numbers indicate references to other pages in the report where further information can be found.
02 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2012
