Markets we serve Aerospace, Defence & Energy Aerospace, Defence & Energy Within the Aerospace, Defence & Energy ADE sectors, our customers think and operate globally and increasingly expect Bodycote to service them in the same way.
Consequently, the ADE business is organised globally.
This gives Bodycote a notable advantage as the only thermal processing company with a global footprint and knowledge of operating in all of the worlds key manufacturing areas.
A number of Bodycotes most important customers fall within the compass of ADE and Bodycote intends to continue to leverage its unique market position to increase revenues in these market sectors.
The business incorporates the Groups activities in hot isostatic pressing and surface technology as well as the relevant heat treatment services, encompassing 64 facilities in total.
Aerospace & Defence Energy 133.4m 83.4m 22.7% 14.2% 2011: 113.6m 2011: 72.0m Contribution to Group turnover Contribution to Group turnover For further information about the markets we serve go to www.
com markets 08 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2012 Markets we serve Automotive & General Industrial Automotive & General Industrial Whilst the Automotive & General Industrial AGI marketplace has many multinational customers which tend to operate on a regionally-focused basis, it also has very many medium-sized and smaller businesses.
Generally, there are more competitors to Bodycote in AGI and much of the business is locallyoriented, meaning that proximity to the customer is very important.
Bodycotes uniquely large network of 129 AGI facilities enables the business to offer the widest range of technical capability and security of supply, continuing to increase the proportion of technically differentiated services that it offers.
Bodycote has a long and successful history of serving this wide-ranging customer base.
Automotive General industrial 134.5m 236.5m 22.9% 40.2% 2011: 147.4m 2011: 237.6m Contribution to Group turnover Contribution to Group turnover For further information about the markets we serve go to www.
com markets 09 Stock code: BOY www.
com Additional information Financial statements Governance Business review
