Touch down a component journey AIRCRAFT LANDING GEAR Safety critical landing gear must perform without fault every time the aircraft ies.
A combination of thermal processing techniques is used to ensure the steels material properties are optimised and to protect it during its working life.
Traditionally, landing gear has been surface treated using hard chrome plate, but this is now Alloy steel billet being superseded by more environmentally is forged to shape.
friendly thermal spray processes, which provide extreme wear and corrosion resistance.
The part is heat treated to harden and temper the steel.
A thermally sprayed surface treatment is applied to replace hard chrome plate for improved wear and corrosion resistance.
The component is surface machined using diamond tools due to the extreme hardness of the surface nish.
BODYCOTE COMPONENT JOURNEYS This is just one example of how Bodycote brings together the huge wealth of knowledge and expertise from across the Group to provide the vital engineering services our customers need.
For more component journeys visit www.
com End application aircraft Denotes the parts of the component journey undertaken by Bodycote 16 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2012 Markets Aerospace, Defence & Energy markets Automotive & General Industrial markets Aerospace and defence revenues improved in 2012 by 17.5% In automotive, in the face of reduced demand in all geographies 18.7% at constant exchange rates, of which 13.5% was except North America, the Group built on the gains achieved organic and 5.2% from acquisitions, due to a combination of in 2010 and 2011 by offering the broad range of new and new contract gains, market share improvement and market traditional processes the sector requires, along with the demand.
reliability of service and supply that the extensive network of facilities can offer.
Sales to the car and light truck sector Original equipment sales improved as both Boeing and Airbus declined by 7.1% and to heavy truck by 15.1%.
continued to increase production rates.
Available seat kilometres grew by 3.9% indicating an increase in aircraft flying hours, which General industrial revenue performance was mixed by sector and in turn drove an increase in demand for aftermarket parts.
Sales decreased in the year by 0.5%.
growth in North America covered most sectors of the aerospace industry but in Europe was primarily due to the supply chain for In North America automotive revenues improved strongly and narrow body aircraft.
Sales for engines for wide body aircraft have, for the year as a whole were ahead of 2011 by 25.9% 25.0% at as yet, been more muted.
constant exchange rates, of which 5.8% was organic and 19.2% from acquisitions.
Car and light truck related sales increased by Sales into the defence sector, which account for around 5% of 23.1% and heavy truck increased by 40.1%.
General industrial sales Group sales, were robust with little or no evidence of the downturn also advanced well and revenues were ahead 25.0% compared to reported in the industry finding its way to the platforms that 2011 23.9% at constant currencies of which 6.5% was organic and Bodycote serves.
Most of the Groups revenues come from the 17.4% from acquisitions.
installed equipment base, with a heavy emphasis on applications for US homeland defence.
In Western Europe sales were significantly impacted both by reduced demand and currency translation effects due to the Power generation sales increased by 3.5% in 2012 6.3% at weakness of the Euro versus Sterling.
Automotive revenues were constant exchange rates, of which 3.3% was organic and 3.0% down 14.5% in 2012 9.5% in constant currencies, there were no from acquisitions compared to 2011 and would have been higher acquisitions.
Car and light truck fared better down 11.8%, 6.0% in but for capacity constraints in our US HIP business.
Additional constant currencies than heavy truck, which was lower by 22.6% capability is due on-stream towards the end of 2013.
Once again 19.9% in constant currencies.
General industrial sales were much demand was stronger in North America than in Europe.
less affected but were, nevertheless, down compared to 2011 by 6.3% but only 0.6% in constant currencies, there were no Sales to oil & gas customers increased by 21.8% 22.3% at acquisitions.
constant exchange rates, of which 15.4% was organic and 6.9% from acquisitions.
Much of this growth came from gains in subsea The Groups business in emerging markets had a disappointing applications and market share wins.
Requirements for gas fracking year, with sales lower year on year by 13.1% 6.5% at constant in North America have subsided as the year progressed and this has currencies, there were no acquisitions.
In Eastern Europe weak been exacerbated by inventory correction at the oilfield services demand from Germany and France saw our customers reducing companies.
The switch from gas fracking to oil provided some their output in Poland and the Czech Republic rather than cut back in mitigation as rigs were made ready for production in a new location.
Asia, notably China for Bodycote, witnessed a short term slow-down in manufacturing activity and Bodycotes business in Brazil was impacted by a significant reduction in industrial activity in 2012.
com Additional information Financial statements Governance Business review
