Global network Bodycote is experienced in all major market sectors and is able to combine the capability and expertise of a network of over 190 worldwide locations to deliver global, or local, services for customers.
Overview North America As the only truly global provider of subcontract thermal processing services, Bodycote is able to offer significant advantages to its customers.
Through an international network of plants, Bodycote can effectively utilise a wealth of knowledge, experience and specialist expertise to deliver quality service when and where it is needed.
The network operates from over 190 worldwide locations, with customers able to benefit from Bodycotes comprehensive range of services from multiple locations.
Customers know that if their business expands, Bodycote will have the capability to meet their needs.
They know that if they were to broaden their manufacturing footprint, Bodycote would be able to assist them.
They know that they can obtain the same process to the same quality standards from multiple locations.
Bodycote is the largest provider of thermal processing services in North America by a significant margin, with a comprehensive Such a large network brings economies of scale, with network coverage.
This network offers locations convenient technology developed at one location being available globally if to customers in all areas where manufacturing and technical the market requires it.
The Bodycote network has a wealth of technical accreditations, Our facilities offer the widest and deepest range of processes some industry or customer specific, others more general.
for aerospace and energy applications and all the leading Individual operations concentrate on the accreditations suited to technologies for automotive applications.
Although Bodycote is headquartered in the UK, 89% of the Groups revenue is derived outside the UK.
With facilities in 26 countries, Bodycote is truly global.
Group revenue by market sector Revenue by market sector North America m m 236.5 General industrial 55.6 General industrial Automotive 134.5 Automotive 30.1 Aerospace and Defence 133.4 Aerospace and Defence 79.3 Energy 83.4 Energy 37.4 06 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2012 Although Bodycote is headquartered in the UK, 89% of the Groups revenue is derived outside the UK.
Western Europe Emerging markets Bodycote is the number one provider of thermal processing Bodycote has 28 facilities in emerging geographies covering services in Western Europe with the largest network by far and Eastern Europe, China, Brazil, India, Singapore and Dubai.
Bodycote is the number one thermal processing provider in The range of process offerings vary somewhat by country both Brazil and Eastern Europe and is the leading western and region, reflecting which types of industry are prominent provider in China.
These markets have a special emphasis in the in those locations, thus enabling the Group to best meet the Groups growth strategy for the future.
Revenue by market sector Western Europe Revenue by market sector Emerging markets m m General industrial 158.5 General industrial 22.4 Automotive 82.3 Automotive 22.1 Aerospace and Defence 53.0 Aerospace and Defence 1.1 Energy 43.8 Energy 2.2 07 Stock code: BOY www.
com Additional information Financial statements Governance Business review
