Core technologies Thermal processing The partner of choice Bodycote provides thermal processing services which improve Bodycote has become the partner of choice for the worlds material properties such as strength, durability and corrosion most respected and innovative engineering companies by resistance, enabling manufacturers components to work more providing highly efficient, cost-effective services to the highest efficiently with significantly extended operational lifetimes.
quality standards through strategic investment in people and Bodycotes services consist of a number of core technologies: the latest technology, equipment and quality systems.
heat treatment and metal joining, hot isostatic pressing HIP and surface technology.
By outsourcing non-core but vitally important thermal processing requirements to Bodycote, customers are able to concentrate Heat treatment and metal joining their business resources where they are needed most.
Bodycotes Heat treatments are controlled processes used to alter the services offer tangible benefits to customers such as reduced microstructure of materials, such as metals and alloys, to impart equipment maintenance, capital expenditure, energy costs, people properties which benefit the working life of a component, for costs and a major reduction in CO emissions.
2 example: increased surface hardness, temperature resistance, ductility and strength.
Metal joining includes specialised processes Bodycote has a long history of successful outsourcing partnerships, such as electron beam welding, vacuum and honeycomb brazing from global to local manufacturers.
In many cases, subcontracting complex operations requiring a fusion of expertise and technology.
relationships lead to component and service-specific long-term agreements, or strategic partnering arrangements, which embody Bodycote offers an extensive range of heat treatment services and protection and freedom from risk for the customer and Bodycote.
specialist metal joining techniques from facilities around the world.
These are normally exclusive in character and provide the basis With unmatched capacity and computerised systems, Bodycote for mutual business development, with both companies freed to facilities can process a wide range of component sizes to exacting concentrate capital and other resources on core competencies.
standards with reliable, repeatable results.
Making innovations possible Hot isostatic pressing HIP Bodycotes extensive facilities and expertise mean development HIP combines very high temperature up to 2,000C with inert projects can expand far beyond customers in-house capabilities, gas under very high pressure up to 30,000 psi equivalent to that helping to realise goals more quickly and more cost-effectively.
found at an ocean depth of 11,000m such as at the bottom of the Mariana Trench in the Pacific Ocean.
HIP can be used to eliminate Around the globe, Bodycote has dedicated teams working on a porosity in castings and consolidate encapsulated powders to variety of projects and sharing knowledge where appropriate.
Dissimilar materials can be bonded together to required, this may include the development of specific processes manufacture unique cost-effective components.
Every week a and equipment for a customer or verification of materials or typical Bodycote HIP plant will process many tons of titanium, designs, prior to their application.
aluminium, steel and super-alloy castings, removing porosity and improving the performance of parts such as turbine blades and oilfield components.
With the largest operational capacity in the world and a wide variety of sizes of equipment, Bodycote HIP is able to accommodate large volumes of small product as economically as large individual components.
Surface technology Surface technologies are used extensively to prolong the working life of components and protect them from environmental factors such as corrosion and abrasion.
The range of surface treatments available from Bodycote covers a wide variety of applications, providing manufacturers with solutions to meet requirements such as durability, wear resistance, improved hardness and electrical conductivity.
Bodycote is a provider of specialised plasma spray, high velocity oxy fuel HVOF and thermally formed ceramic treatments and is able to surface engineer components including complex geometric shapes and internal bores that are designed to operate in the most demanding of industrial applications.
com Additional information Financial statements Governance Business review
