DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2012 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and audited financial Investment Adviser sought to achieve this by allocating the statements for the year to 31 December 2012.
Companys assets among professionally selected hedge funds that were managed by experienced portfolio managers Principal Activity employing, as a group, a variety of investment techniques Dexion Absolute Limited the Company is a Guernsey and strategies.
authorised closed-ended investment company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Companys Shares are There were a number of portfolio managers implementing classified as a premium listing.
Trading in the Companys alternative investment strategies whose services were not Ordinary Shares since reclassified as Shares commenced generally available to the investing public.
Such portfolio on 19 December 2002. managers often imposed high minimum investment requirements and placed stringent restrictions on the Company Law number of investors whose money they would manage.
By These financial statements have been prepared under the investing with these and other portfolio managers, the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Company sought to provide investors with access to the varied skills and expertise of such portfolio managers which Prior to Reorganisation may not otherwise have been available to such investors, Investment Objective while at the same time attempting to lessen the risks and The Continuing Portfolios investment objective was to volatility associated with investing through any single hedge generate consistent long-term capital appreciation with low fund or portfolio manager.
The Company also enabled volatility and little correlation with the general equity and investors to avoid, to a significant extent, the high minimum bond markets through a portfolio having a diversified risk investment requirements typically imposed on individual profile.
The Companys investment objective was consistent investors investing in hedge funds directly.
with that of Aurora LP Aurora, which is the Investment Advisers flagship fund.
Although the Investment Adviser allocated the Companys assets among underlying portfolio managers employing one Although not forming part of the Companys investment or more of the strategies described on page 71, the objective, the Companys investment rationale, methodology Investment Adviser did not follow a rigid policy and, subject and portfolio management was consistent with that of Aurora.
to maintaining an appropriate spread of funds and investment strategies, the Companys assets could have However, it was not possible for the Company always to been deployed in whatever funds and investment strategies invest in the same underlying funds as Aurora or to the same the Investment Adviser deemed appropriate.
The Company extent or at all and the fees and expenses payable by Aurora was not restricted from participating in any market, strategy may have differed materially from those payable by the or investment, and the Investment Adviser could alter or Company.
Accordingly, the Companys performance would modify some or all of the Companys underlying investment not mirror that of Aurora.
strategies in light of available investment opportunities and prevailing economic and market conditions if the Investment The 2011 Redemption Portfolio and 2012 Redemption Adviser determined that such alterations or modifications Portfolios investment objective is to realise their respective were consistent with the Companys investment objective, assets in an orderly way to pay respective redeeming and subject to what the Investment Adviser considered an US$ Shareholders.
The Company invested and managed its assets in a way which was consistent with its Investment Policy objective of spreading investment risk.
The investment policy of the Companys Continuing Portfolio was to invest in an actively managed portfolio of hedge funds The initial allocation of assets to a fund managed by a which was diversified by investment strategy, style and particular portfolio manager had been based, in part, on the manager, to achieve attractive risk-adjusted returns with low Investment Advisers contact and experience with the correlation to equity and fixed interest benchmarks.
Allocations were also a function of the 14 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2012 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED degree of risk that the Investment Adviser sought i to The valuations of the Companys investments, as set out in include funds managed by at least two portfolio managers its weekly and monthly NAV releases, assumed a present utilising a particular investment strategy, ii not to invest value of those investments based on estimates received more than 10% of the Companys total assets in any one from underlying funds or their managers or administrators fund, and iii not to invest more than 40% of the Companys and assuming no settlement obstructions rather than the total assets in any single strategy, although it may have amount which those investments might realise were they to deviated from any such guidelines from time to time and or be redeemed.
for sustained periods, subject always to the investment restrictions set out below.
Investment Restrictions The Company was subject to the following investment The portfolio managers selected by the Investment Adviser restrictions which included certain restrictions set out in the had complete discretion to purchase and sell securities for Listing Rules of the London Stock Exchange: their respective hedge funds consistent with the relevant Not more than 20% of the total assets of the Company investment advisory agreements, partnership agreements or would be invested in any one fund at the time the other governing documents.
Such agreements and governing investment is made.
documents generally allowed the portfolio managers to The Company would not make further investment s in change the kinds of investments they made and their any single investment strategy where, immediately techniques for making investments if they believed that such following such further investment s, that investment changes were appropriate in view of the then current or strategy represented 60% or more of the total assets of expected, market, business or economic conditions.
The Company would not borrow more than 40% of its Although it did not do so, the Investment Adviser may have net assets for short term or temporary liquidity allocated part of the Companys assets to portfolio managers purposes, including as may be necessary to facilitate affiliated with the Investment Adviser provided that such investment and withdrawals from underlying funds or allocations were permitted by applicable law.
Such to meet ongoing expenses and to implement the allocations, if any, would generally not, in the aggregate, Companys currency hedging strategy.
have exceeded 10% of the Companys total net assets as of The Company would avoid cross-financing between the date any such allocation was made although the businesses forming part of its investment portfolio.
The Investment Adviser may deviate from the foregoing policy Company would avoid the operation of common under unusual circumstances.
The Company would pay treasury functions as between the Company and such affiliated portfolio managers management and investee companies.
performance fees on terms no more favourable than the Any material change in the investment policies of the terms generally offered to unaffiliated investors.
Company would only be made with the approval of Shareholders by ordinary resolution.
The hedge funds in which the Company invested were or had Not more than 10% of the total assets of the Company been permitted to borrow and invest in long and short positions in aggregate would be invested in other closed-ended in equities, fixed income securities, options, warrants, futures, investment funds except for those which themselves commodities, currency forwards, over-the-counter derivative have stated investment policies to invest no more than instruments such as swaps, securities that lack active public 15% of their gross assets in other closed-ended markets, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, investment funds.
preferred stocks, convertible bonds and other financial Dividends would not normally be paid and in any event instruments as well as cash and cash equivalents.
will only be paid if they are covered by income received from underlying investments.
It was the intention of the Company to be substantially fully The distribution as dividend of surpluses arising from invested at all times, although the Investment Adviser was the realisation of investments was prohibited.
able to use its discretion to hold cash or equivalent investments from time to time.
15 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2012 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS In the event of any breach of these investment restrictions, are subject to side pockets or subject to other Settlement Obstructions comprised in the Continuing Portfolio together the Board would make an announcement on a regulatory with all rights and benefits attached to them will be information service provider as soon as practicable and transferred to Aurora Offshore Fund Ltd. II AOFL II in subsequently write to Shareholders if appropriate.
specie in consideration of the issue to the Company of class Z shares in AOFL II.
As at 1 April 2013 approximately 43% of The above investment restrictions did not apply to the 2011 the investments in the Continuing Portfolio had been and the 2012 Redemption Portfolios as the investments in transferred in specie to AOFL II and investments representing these portfolios are being realised on an orderly basis.
approximately a further 47% are expected to be transferred in specie in the period to 1 April 2014.
The remaining Post Reorganisation 1 April 2013 Investments in the Continuing Portfolio will be realised as Restructuring quickly as possible with the proceeds being invested in AOFL The Restructuring Proposals referred to in the Chairmans II and, subject to the availability of a suitable credit facility, Statement were subject to Shareholder approval.
The the Company may invest in AOFL II prior to receiving such realisation proceeds.
Circular to consider the relevant Special Resolution was posted to Shareholders on 22 February 2013 convening an AOFL II commenced business on 1 July 2002 and certain Extraordinary General Meeting on 15 March 2013, which classes of its shares are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange sought the consent of Shareholders to the adoption of the although the class Z shares of AOFL II into which the New Articles, and approval for the change of the investment Company is now investing are not so listed.
As at policy of the Company and for the new Investment 31 December 2012, the net asset value of AOFL II was Management Agreement and the Investment Advisory approximately US$2.2 billion.
Agreement and which set out the 2013 Redemption Offers The class Z shares carry no investment management fee but conditional on the Special Resolution being passed.
will incur approximately 0.25% per annum of their net asset value in operating costs.
On 15 March 2013 the Special Resolution was passed by 99.4% of those shares having been voted.
As part of the Restructuring the Companys New Articles Acceptances of the 2013 Redemption Offers were received contain provisions for a 2014 Exit Offer or a 2014 Winding for 123,037,150 GBP Shares, 1,458,371 EUR Shares and Up Resolution.
The 2014 Exit Offer to be put forward in June 5,438,944 US$ Shares representing approximately 45.99%, 2014 will take the form of an offer to redeem up to a number 49.02% and 67.65% respectively of the Shares then in issue of Shares having an aggregate NAV at a date determined by excluding Treasury Shares.
The 2013 Redemption Offers the Directors for the purpose and after deducting the costs were declared to be unconditional on 18 March 2013. of the 2014 Exit Offer equal to the then NAV of the Continuing Portfolio less such amount of the NAV as the The Redeemed Shares had an aggregate value using the Board in its absolute discretion determines to be the 2014 estimated net assets of the Company as at 8 March 2013 Minimum Viable Size of the Company going forwards.
At and prevailing spot currency exchange rates of such time, the NAV of the Continuing Portfolio is expected to approximately US$339.4 million or approximately 47% of comprise the Companys investment in AOFL II and those the estimated net assets of the Company.
Illiquid Investments which have not then been realised together with foreign exchange gains losses and other As set out in the Circular, a 2013 Redemption Portfolio has relevant liabilities.
The proportion of the issued Share capital now been created in respect of those Redeemed Shares with which the 2014 Exit Offer will represent is impossible to a Portfolio Split Date of 28 February 2013.
The first predict at this point since it will depend, amongst other settlement date of redemption monies in respect of the 2013 things, upon the determination by the Board at or shortly Redemption Offers is expected to be in August 2013. before the time of making the 2014 Exit Offer of the 2014 Minimum Viable Size.
In current market conditions the Board Currency hedging arrangements for the Redeemed Shares expects that this would be approximately US$100 million ceased at close of business London time on 28 March 2013. including the value of Illiquid Investments but this may As explained in the Circular, certain of the Investments but change and Shareholders should place no reliance on not the Illiquid Investments, being those investments which this figure.
16 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2012 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED If the 2014 Exit Offer is oversubscribed it will be cancelled and instruments including derivative instruments such as the 2014 Winding Up Resolution will be put forward instead.
swaps, futures, options and forward agreements, trade on The price at which the Shares will be redeemed in the 2014 margin and engage in short sales.
Exit Offer will be the lower of i 95% of the NAV per Share at 31 December 2014 and ii the NAV per Share less the Illiquid While AOFL II seeks to generate consistent long-term capital Investments per Share at that date and less costs.
appreciation, it is also concerned with preservation of capital.
Consequently, AOFL II diversifies its holdings among Other material changes in the New Articles include i the a number of underlying funds that collectively implement a removal of the discount management provisions so range of alternative investment strategies which include, or eliminating the requirement for further continuation resolutions and their replacement by provisions effective may include, but are not limited to: long short equities, 1 January 2015 requiring semi-annual partial redemption opportunistic, long short credit, portfolio hedge, macro and offers.
Where a class of Share has traded at a discount of 5% event-driven strategies.
AOFL II does not follow a rigid or more in the three months commencing on 1 January and investment strategy and is not restricted from participating in 1 July in each year, a redemption offer will be made by the any market, strategy or investment.
AOFL IIs assets may be Company for up to 25% of the issued Shares of that class.
allocated among whatever investment strategies it considers Such redemption offer will be made within 2 months following appropriate under prevailing economic and market the end of the calendar half year in which such discount is conditions.
However, AOFL II generally i intends to include triggered, ii greater discretion for Directors in the class at least two managers of underlying funds utilising a closure and Share conversion mechanics and iii the removal particular investment strategy and ii does not intend to of the requirement for a continuation vote in 2016. invest more than approximately 10% of AOFL IIs total assets measured as of the allocation date with any single manager Investment objective of an underlying fund although it may deviate from such The Companys revised investment objective which is guidelines from time to time and redemptions or market consistent with that of AOFL II is to generate consistent events and their impact on managers may result in some long-term capital appreciation with low volatility and little managers having greater weightings.
correlation with the equity and bond markets.
The Company seeks to achieve its investment objective by investing AOFL II may conduct direct trading activities for hedging and substantially all of its assets other than the illiquid portfolio reallocation purposes.
AOFL II may also engage in investments and any funds required for short term working direct trading in connection with the liquidation of securities capital purposes and subject to realising those investments which have been distributed in-kind to AOFL II.
In addition, which are not the subject of in specie transfers to AOFL II in AOFL II may buy or sell underlying funds in secondary shares of AOFL II.
market transactions, although AOFL II does not intend to use secondary market transactions as the primary method for Investment policy allocating to or away from underlying funds.
AOFL II seeks to accomplish its investment objective by allocating its capital primarily among a select group of Investment Restrictions experienced portfolio managers, identified for their expertise As a feeder fund with a primary listing on the London Stock in implementing a number of different alternative investment Exchange the Company must ensure that: strategies in a variety of markets, through investments in collective investment vehicles and or discretionary managed i the master funds investment policies are consistent with accounts managed by such managers.
Underlying funds its published investment policy and provide for spreading may invest in a wide range of instruments and markets on a investment risk: and worldwide basis, including, but not limited to, US and non-US equities and equity-related instruments, fixed income and ii the master fund in fact invests and manages its other debt-related instruments, currencies, commodities and investments in a way that is consistent with the derivative instruments.
In addition, underlying funds may Companys published investment policy and spreads utilise both over-the-counter and exchange traded investment risk.
17 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2012 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS AOFL II will adhere to the following investment restrictions for Company to become a feeder fund of AOFL II.
The Directors as long as its shares are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange: may continue to utilise the Shareholder authority to buy-back up to 14.99% of the Shares in issue at the time of the i except as set out in iii below, no more than 20% of the relevant Annual General Meeting to assist in the control of value of the gross assets of AOFL II may be lent to or the discount mechanism.
invested in the securities of any one issuer: Financial risks ii no more than 20% of the value of the gross assets of Capital risk management is about ensuring that the AOFL II may be exposed to the creditworthiness or Company is able to continue as a going concern.
Note 4 of solvency of any one counterparty: these financial statements describes the risks within this iii up to 40% of the value of the gross assets of AOFL II category together with an indication of how each is managed may be allocated to any one underlying fund, provided and monitored.
that it operates on the principle of risk spreading: The Company started 2012 with a secured variable funding iv no more than 20%, in aggregate, of the value of the note from Credit Suisse which provides for the lower of 200 gross assets of AOFL II may be invested in other funds million or 30% of net assets whichever is the lower.
Ahead of the whose principal investment objective includes investing annual renewal, the Board performed a review of potential credit in other funds: providers that resulted in a further request to Credit Suisse to roll v AOFL II may not take legal or management control of the the facility for another 12 months with effect from 30 August issuer of any of its underlying assets: and 2012.
This was granted however, due to the Companys reduction in net assets, with effect from 16 July 2012, the vi AOFL II will observe the general principle of commitment is the lower of 150 million or 30% of net assets.
diversification of risk in its derivatives trading if any.
The restrictions set out in paragraphs i to vi above apply As part of the Restructuring Proposals it was necessary for to any investment at the time the investment is made.
the Company to negotiate a replacement facility to accommodate the expected new feeder-fund status.
It is Principal Risks and Uncertainties currently expected that the Company will continue with the Economic risk existing facility until 30 June 2013 and thereafter enter into As noted within the Chairmans Statement, during 2012, a new arrangement which will include being limited to central banks maintained unprecedented monetary stimulus borrowing an amount equivalent to a maximum of programmes and in some cases expanded upon measures approximately 30% of its net asset value.
This resulted in historically low interest rates across developed markets, increased correlations Shareholder Information amongst and within securities markets, and concerns The Company announces its NAV on a monthly basis amongst investors regarding the removal of these measures together with a commentary on its investment performance.
Stimulus efforts have generally yielded Estimated NAVs are normally provided weekly.
Share price, favourable results for the equity and commodity markets, but NAV and performance information can also be found by the desired long-lasting effects remain uncertain.
eligible Shareholders on the Companys website page which can be accessed via www.
However Performance risk information on that website does not form part of, nor is it During 2013 the discount floor provision was triggered.
incorporated by reference into this document and that Following consultation with major Shareholders, in seeking information is not available to certain overseas Shareholders.
to address the prevailing discount to NAV and to better Shareholder web conferences also take place and are position the Company to meet the differing requirements of announced via RNS.
the Companys shareholder base, the Board, in conjunction with the Investment Manager and the Investment Adviser, put forward a proposed corporate reorganisation of the 18 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2012 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED discount and also to address the liquidity of the Shares.
Results During the year the Company repurchased 8,632,000 The results for the year are set out in the Statement of Shares.
7,524,000 Shares were held in treasury as at Comprehensive Income on page 30.
The Directors do not 31 December 2012. propose a dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 nor was one declared for 2011.
The Directors maintain a Treasury share policy whereby any Significant Events Shares held in treasury after a period of 12 months are The Companys rolling 12 month discount floor was cancelled.
Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, the triggered in the beginning of 2012 requiring continuation number of Shares of any class held as Treasury shares must votes to be proposed for each class of Shares by way of not at any time exceed 10% of the total number of issued ordinary class resolution.
Shares of that class at that time.
34,347,659 Treasury shares were cancelled in 2012.
Pursuant to the Companys articles on 28 February 2012 a At the beginning of 2013, the Companys rolling 12 month Circular containing notices of each of the class meetings discount floor was again triggered.
Following consultation was sent to Shareholders.
On 22 March 2012, following with major Shareholders, in seeking to address the prevailing separate class meetings the Board announced the discount to NAV and to better position the Company to meet Continuation Resolution for the Share class was passed the differing requirements of the Companys shareholder with a total of 59% of the issued Share capital voting, and base, the Board, in conjunction with the Investment Manager 70% of the votes cast in favour.
The Continuation and the Investment Adviser, determined to put proposals to Resolutions for the and US$ Share classes were not Shareholders to restructure the Company to become a passed, with 85% of the issued Share capital voting with feeder fund of AOFL II.
The details of the restructure are as 99% voting against, and 81.2% of the US$ issued Share outlined on page 16. capital voting with 94% of votes being cast against.
Management Arrangements As a result of the failure of the Continuation Resolutions for The Company has an agreement with Dexion Capital the and US$ Share class, in April 2012 the Board put Guernsey Limited for the provision of investment forward the 2012 Redemption Proposals to the and US$ management services.
The Manager attends every quarterly Shareholders proposing the creation of a 2012 Redemption Board meeting and maintains open dialogue with the Portfolio for the purpose of realising the investments Directors on an ongoing basis.
Management fees are contained within it in an orderly and timely manner, and disclosed in note 11.
In connection with the Restructuring distributing the cash amounts received to redeeming Proposals the Company made certain amendments to its Shareholders.
Acceptances were received for 87.3 million existing investment management agreement with the Shares, representing 89% of the issued Shares, and Investment Manager and its investment advisory agreement 39 million US$ Shares, representing 64.9% of the issued with the Investment Adviser to reflect the Restructuring US$ Shares.
On 31 May 2012 the 2012 Redemption Proposals and the Companys new feeder fund status.
These annual accounts have been prepared disclosing the results of the Continuing and 2011 Essentially the roles of the Investment Manager and and 2012 Redemption Portfolios separately, both in the Investment Adviser will not change but will be largely primary statements and in the notes to the accounts.
performed at the AOFL II level and not the Company level since the Company will be a feeder fund.
Accordingly, the The Companys remaining Investments other than those fees charged by the Investment Manager and Investment comprised in the Prior 2011 and 2012 Redemption Portfolios Adviser in respect of the Continuing Portfolio will not change.
arising from previous redemption offers comprise the The Management Engagement Committee has reviewed the Continuing Portfolio.
performance of the Manager in managing the Continuing Portfolio.
That Committee has also reviewed the 2012 saw the continued implementation of Share buybacks appropriateness of the terms of the investment management by the Company designed both to reduce the Share price 19 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2012 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS agreement, in particular, the length of the notice period and The Directors are mindful of the Association of Investment the fees payable to the Manager.
Companies the AIC recommendation that the position of directors who have served for more than nine years is Following their review, it is in the opinion of the Directors that carefully considered lest their independence could be the continuing appointment of the Manager on the terms impaired and recognise that both the Chairman, John Hallam, agreed is in the interest of Shareholders as a whole.
and the Senior Independent Director, Trevor Ash fall into this category.
Equally the Board is conscious that, on 15 March During 2012 the Management Engagement Committee 2013, Shareholders approved measures that will have a reviewed all key service provider performance and requested significant, but as yet uncertain, effect on the future of the a self-certification from each such provider demonstrating Company.
As the Board is satisfied that Messrs Hallam and how key performance indicators had been achieved.
Ash continue to act in an independent manner it believes that it is in the best interests of Shareholders that they remain on Directors Interests the Board to provide continuity at this time of important The Directors, as stated on page 13, all served during the change for the Company, at least until the situation clarifies in year under review.
The Directors had no beneficial interest in early 2015.
Their continuing appointment will be subject to the Company other than as shown below: their re-election at the AGMs to be held in 2013 and 2014.
31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Shares Shares The Board also recognises that Mr Bowie has also served for TC Ash Nil Nil more than 9 years.
Mr Bowie is not an independent director.
R M J Bowie 102,626 102,626 However, his continuing appointment is recommended by Robin Bowie the Board particularly in these times of uncertainty.
Childrens Trust 14,700 14,700 W N Collins 20,000 20,000 The Board is also mindful of the need to contain costs in S A Farnon 15,000 15,000 view of the transition and, inter alia, will keep its membership J E Hallam 22,906 22,906 and remuneration under review.
P Sharman 62,280 62,280 AIC Substantial Interests The Company is a member of the AIC and has carefully Disclosure and Transparency Rules are now comprised in the considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Financial Conduct Authority handbook.
Such rules require Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code and has substantial Shareholders to make relevant holding decided to follow the AICs Corporate Governance Guide for notifications to the Company and the UK Financial Conduct Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
The Company must then disseminate this information to the wider market.
The AIC code is publicly available on the AIC website.
Corporate Governance The AIC Code of Corporate Governance A Framework of Introduction best practice for Guernsey domiciled member companies The Board recognises the importance of a strong corporate was issued in February 2013. governance culture that meets the listing requirements.
All Directors contribute to Board discussions and debates.
The On 22 January 2013, the Financial Reporting Council Board believes in providing as much transparency for provided the AIC with an updated endorsement letter to investors as is reasonably possible and the monthly portfolio cover the fifth edition of the AIC Code.
The endorsement report continues to be well received by investors.
confirms that by following the AIC Code investment company boards should fully meet their obligations in relation to the 20 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2012 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED UK Corporate Governance Code and paragraph LR 9.8.
6 of If there are fewer than three Directors who are subject to the Listing Rules.
retirement by rotation, one shall retire from office.
However, the Board has adopted a policy whereby each Director will The Company Secretary has undertaken a review of the retire and offer themselves for re-election at each Annual corporate governance principles of the Board and General Meeting.
The Directors are not subject to automatic Committees of the Board of the Company.
confirm compliance to the AIC Code, prior to the February 2013 update that will be applied for the accounting year By adopting this policy the Directors recognise that more ending 31 December 2013, without exception.
than one third of their number retires each year.
The Board believes that long serving Directors should not be prevented Guernsey Regulatory Environment from forming part of an independent majority of the Board.
The Guernsey Financial Services Commissions Finance As previously mentioned, the Board is satisfied as to the Sector Code of Corporate Governance the Code continued independence of Messrs. Ash and Hallam, each of comprises Principles and Guidance, and provides a formal whom have achieved over ten years service.
The Board expression of good corporate practice against which undertakes a formal annual evaluation of its Directors and is Shareholders, boards and the Commission can better assess satisfied that all directors continue to discharge their the governance exercised over companies in Guernseys obligations as Directors and contribute very effectively to the finance sector.
work of the Board and its committees.
The overall composition and balance of the Board is kept under review The Commission recognises that the different nature, scale as described below in the programme of work undertaken by and complexity of business will lead to differing approaches the Nomination Committee.
The Board will continue to to meeting the Code.
manage the orderly succession of non-executive Directors without compromising the effectiveness and continuity of the Companies which report against the Association of Board and its committees.
Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance are also deemed to meet this Code.
Other than arising from the initial re-election of the first directors of the Company, this is the third year that all of the The Board Directors are to retire and offer themselves for re-election.
Disclosure under Principle 5 of the AIC Code The Board currently consists of six non-executive Directors.
In the absence of each retiring Director, the remaining In accordance with Principle 2 of the AIC Code four of the Directors discussed and appraised each other.
The Board non-executives the majority are independent of the believes that the balance of skills, experience, and Investment Adviser and Manager.
Mr Bowie and Mr Sharman knowledge of the Company and mixed length of service on are not independent of the Manager or the Investment the Board provides for a solid base in which the interest of Consultant.
The Chairman, Mr Hallam, met the investors will be served to a high standard.
The Board independence criteria of the AIC Code Principle 1 upon recommends the re-election of each Director, particularly in appointment and has continued to meet this condition these transitional times, and supporting biographies, throughout his term of service.
Although not a requirement including length of service, are disclosed on page 13 of this of the AIC Code, in accordance with guidance in Principle 1, annual report.
A full list of other public company the Board has a Senior Independent Director.
Mr Ash was directorships for each Director is disclosed on page 70. appointed as Senior Independent Director on 30 November 2010.
Being non-executive Directors, no Director has a The Board meets at least four times a year and between these service contract with the Company.
formal meetings there is regular contact with the Companys key service providers.
The attendance of each Director at the The Articles of Incorporation provide that one third of the quarterly meetings is disclosed on page 23.
Directors retire by rotation at each annual general meeting.
21 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2012 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS During the year a further 11 ad-hoc Committee meetings Company Secretary circulates a detailed questionnaire plus were held to deal with matters substantially of an a separate questionnaire for the evaluation of the Chairman.
administrative nature and these were attended by those The questionnaires, once completed, are returned to the directors available at the time.
Company Secretary who collates responses, prepares a summary and discusses the Board evaluation with the The Directors are kept fully informed of investment and financial Chairman prior to circulation to the remaining Board controls, and other matters that are relevant to the business of members.
For the evaluation of the Chairman, the results are the Company that should be brought to the attention of the discussed with the Senior Independent Director who then Directors.
The Directors also have access, where necessary in discusses them with the Chairman prior to further the furtherance of their duties, to independent professional distribution to the remaining Directors.
However, in addition advice at the expense of the Company.
and in accordance with Principle 7 of the AIC Code, an independent third party carried out this evaluation between As previously mentioned, the Board has a breadth of March and August 2012.
No significant corporate experience relevant to the Company, and the Directors governance issues were raised from this review.
believe that any changes to the Boards composition can be managed without undue disruption.
With any new Director Directors Duties and Responsibilities appointment to the Board an induction process is tailored to The Directors have adopted a set of Reserved Powers, which ensure that it would be appropriate for the appointee.
Upon establish the key purpose of the Board and detail its major any such appointment the new Director would be available duties.
These duties cover the following areas of to meet Shareholders upon request.
responsibility: Statutory obligations and public disclosure: The Board considers agenda items laid out in the notice and Strategic matters and financial reporting: agenda of meeting which are formally circulated to the Oversight of management and personnel matters: Board in advance of the meeting as part of the Board papers.
The establishment, terms of reference, and reporting Directors may request any agenda items to be added that arrangements for all subcommittees acting on behalf of they consider appropriate for Board discussion.
Additionally, the authority of the Board: each Director is required to inform the Board of any potential Risk assessment and management, including or actual conflicts of interest prior to Board discussion.
reporting, monitoring, governance and control: and Other matters having a material effect on the Company.
The Board constantly considers strategy to address continuing market conditions and feedback from Shareholders wishing to These Reserved Powers of the Board have been adopted by achieve certain liquidity.
The restructuring approved on 15 the Directors to demonstrate clearly the seriousness with March 2013 is strong evidence of the Boards understanding which the Board takes its fiduciary responsibilities and as an of Shareholder needs and expectations.
ongoing means of measuring and monitoring the effectiveness of its actions.
It also addresses Principle 16 of The primary focus at Board meetings is a review of the AIC Code.
investment performance and associated matters such as asset allocation, marketing investor relations, risk Committees of the Board Nomination Committee management, gearing, general administration and The Nomination Committee was constituted by resolution of compliance, peer group information and industry issues.
The Committee is chaired by Mr Hallam and the other members are Mr Ash, Mrs Farnon The Board evaluates its performance and considers the tenure and Mr Collins.
and independence of each Director on an annual basis, and believes that the mix of skills, experience and length of service The key duties of the Nomination Committee are to regularly are appropriate to the requirements of the Company.
review the structure, size and composition including skills, knowledge and experience in accordance with Principle 6 of Ordinarily, to enable this evaluation to take place the 22 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2012 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The attendance record of Directors is set out below: Quarterly Management board Audit Engagement Remuneration Nomination meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 4 5 1 1 2 Meetings attended: J E Hallam Chairman 4 N A 1 1 2 T C Ash 3 3 1 1 2 R M J Bowie 4 N A N A N A N A P Sharman 3 N A N A N A N A S A Farnon 4 5 1 1 2 W N Collins 4 5 1 1 2 the AIC Code required of the Board and to make the remuneration policy, although such review may not result recommendations with regard to changes and to give full in changes.
The Remuneration Committee may seek consideration to succession planning for Directors that independent professional services as required.
The would include identifying and nomination of suitable Remuneration Committee has no executive powers with board candidates.
regard to its findings and recommendations.
The chairman of the Remuneration Committee or a member thereof will Gender diversity and Lord Daviess review into always be available to answer questions about the work of Women on Boards the Remuneration Committee at the annual general meeting The Davies Review into Women on Boards recommended of the Company.
that companies make available a formal statement over their Remuneration Policy intentions concerning gender diversity.
The Board welcomes After careful consideration the Committee determined that: the proposals set out by Lord Davies in his review into Women on Boards.
The Board is encouraged by and All Directors of the Company are non-executive and as such welcomes that steps are now being taken to increase the there are: general pool of suitably qualified candidates to fill nonno service contracts with the Company: executive director roles.
That said, ensuring that the no long-term incentive schemes: Company has the strongest possible leadership at Board no options or similar performance incentives.
level remains a key priority and appropriate candidates will always be appointed on merit.
We currently have one female The Directors Remuneration: member out of six on the Board.
shall reflect the responsibility, experience, time commitment and position on the Board: Remuneration Committee the Chairman and Chairman of the Audit Committee The Remuneration Committee was constituted by resolution shall be remunerated in excess of the remaining board of the Board on 21 August 2007. members to reflect their increased roles of The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr Ash and the responsibility and accountability: other members are Mr Hallam, Mrs Farnon and Mr Collins.
fees shall be paid quarterly in arrears: remuneration for additional work shall be carefully The key duty of the Remuneration Committee is to determine, considered and become due and payable on an ad-hoc agree and propose Board policy for the remuneration of the basis: and Directors of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee independent professional consultancy shall be meets at least once in every financial calendar year to review undertaken at least every three years.
23 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2012 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS Remuneration 2012 Audit Committee Following the independent board evaluation report, in An Audit Committee has been established consisting of Mrs respect of directors remuneration, the Board approved the Farnon Chairman, Mr Ash and Mr Collins.
The Audit following annual fees, effective from 1 July 2012: Committee examines the effectiveness of the Companys Mr J Hallam, Chairman, 47,250: internal control systems, the annual report and accounts and Mr T Ash, Senior Independent Director 31,500: interim report, the auditor's remuneration and engagement, as Mrs S Farnon, Chair of the Audit Committee, 38,000: well as the auditors independence, audit related and any nonDr P Sharman and Mr W Collins, 31,500: and audit services provided by them.
The Audit Committee receives Mr R Bowie has waived his right to his annual fee of information from the Company Secretary and the compliance 31,500. department of the Administrator and the external auditors.
Any additional remuneration where Directors are involved in The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year to duties beyond those normally expected as part of a review the audit plan, annual and interim accounts and other Directors appointment will be disclosed in the Directors risk management and governance matters.
The chairman of Report of the financial statements in respect of that financial the Audit Committee or a member thereof will always be year.
available to answer questions about the work of the Audit Committee at the annual general meeting of the Company.
Management Engagement Committee A Management Engagement Committee, with defined terms The Audit Committee also considers whether the of reference and duties, has been established to review appointment of an internal audit function is required.
The annually the terms of the management agreement between Terms of Reference for the Audit Committee provide that the the Company and the Manager, the investment advisory external auditors should not audit their own firms agreement between the Company, the Manager and the consultancy work nor make management decisions on Investment Adviser, and the Investment Consultant behalf of the Company.
The Terms of Reference also disclose agreement between the Company, the Manager and the the type of non audit services work the current appointed Investment Consultant and the Company Secretarial external auditor may not undertake without the prior consent agreement with the Company Secretary.
The Management of the Audit Committee and or the Board of Directors.
Legal Engagement Committee also reviews the performance of all and other professional fees disclosed in the Statement of other key service providers including the Custodian, Comprehensive Income on page 30 contains fees for audit Designated Manager and Corporate Broker.
This approach related services of 14,350 for the interim review and addresses AIC Code Principles 15 and 18 as the Committee 25,254 for the monthly conversions between classes of refers to the Board all discussions and findings.
KPMG will also receive a fee of 39,018 for the annual audit.
As previously mentioned, all key service providers submitted a performance self-certification to the Management Having reviewed the annual report and accounts in detail Engagement Committee as part of the 2012 review.
and considered all matters brought to the attention of the board during the year, the Audit Committee members The Management Engagement Committee is also charged consider that, taken as a whole the report and accounts with ensuring that service providers do not have conflicts of provide a fair, balanced and understandable representation interest in accordance with the Authorised Closed Ended of the Companys affairs.
Investment Schemes Rules 2008 as issued by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission.
Significant issues considered by the members of the Audit Committee have been the 2012 annual evaluation of the The Management Engagement Committee consists of Chairman, the continuing independence of the external Mr Collins Chairman, Mr Ash, Mrs Farnon and Mr Hallam.
auditors, the discount floor trigger and associated corporate actions including the Shareholder Circular of 22 February 2013, 24 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2012 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED the review and recommendation of the financial statements responsible for the systems of internal control.
Formal for the years' ended 31 December 2011 and 2012 and the contractual agreements have been put in place between the Going Concern status of the Company.
Company and providers of these services.
Terms of Reference On an ongoing basis compliance reports are provided at All Terms of Reference for Committees are available from the each quarterly board meeting from the Administrator, Company Secretary upon request.
Custodian, Manager, Investment Adviser, Investment Consultant and Company Secretary.
Internal Controls The Board is ultimately responsible for the Companys As part of the overall risk management process, at each system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
quarterly meeting the Directors receive, consider and assess The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for a risk matrix detailing all key risks that are graded by identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks probability and impact.
The Directors conduct at least annually a review of the Companys system of internal Corporate Responsibility control, covering all controls, including financial, operational, The Company is not an operating company.
It considers the compliance and risk management.
ongoing concerns of investors not only by open and regular dialogue with and through the Manager, the Investment The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of Consultant and the Companys Broker but also by direct internal control.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated discussions with Shareholders.
the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and the policies by which these The Company makes reference to the Corporate risks are managed.
Responsibility Statement of Aurora Investment Management LLC as Investment Adviser.
As there is a delegation of daily operational activity as described below, the Audit Committee and Board have The Company keeps abreast of regulatory and statutory determined that there is no requirement for a direct internal changes and takes appropriate action.
The Company has audit function.
The internal control systems are designed to been advised that carbon disclosure is set to become meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which mandatory by April 2013 for UK Companies listed on the it is exposed.
main market of the London Stock Exchange.
As previously referred, all daily operations are delegated.
The Company Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to itself does not maintain premises, or have any employees.
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only provide Going Concern reasonable and not absolute assurance against As outlined on page 16, the Company went through a series misstatement and loss.
of events resulting in the Company becoming a feeder fund to AOFL II.
The Board has delegated the management of the Companys investment portfolio, the provision of custody services and The discount trigger in January 2013 was followed by the administration, registrar and corporate secretarial consultation with major Shareholders in seeking to address functions including the independent calculation of the the then prevailing discounts to NAV at which the Companys Companys NAV and the production of the Annual Report and Shares were trading.
In agreement with the Investment Financial Statements which are independently audited.
Manager and Investment Adviser, the Company put forward Whilst the Board delegates responsibility, it retains proposals to become a feeder fund of AOFL II.
The Company accountability for the functions it delegates and is 25 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2012 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS also proposed 2013 Redemption Offers, the results of which The Company reports formally to Shareholders twice a year are outlined on page 16. and a proxy voting card for the AGM is sent to Shareholders with the Annual Report and Accounts.
Results of The Continuing Portfolio, determined by the Directors to be a Extraordinary and Annual General Meetings are announced viable size, is now transitioning its investments into AOFL II.
by the Company on the day of the relevant meeting.
Additionally, the Interim Management Statements and the A 2014 exit offer will be put forward in June 2014 again as current information provided to eligible Shareholders on an outlined on page 16.
Assuming continuance of the Portfolio ongoing basis through the Companys website page and in 2014, and with effect from 1 January 2015, semi-annual newsletter assist in keeping Shareholders informed.
The redemption offers will be made in the circumstances Company Secretary and Registrar monitor the voting of the outlined on page 16. shareholders and proxy voting is taken into consideration when votes are cast at the Annual General Meeting.
The continuation vote previously scheduled for 2016 has Shareholders may contact the Directors via the Company been removed from the Articles of Incorporation.
Secretary, whose contact details are found on page 69 of this Report and Accounts.
For all of the reasons above, the Directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis Disclosure of information to auditors in preparing the Financial Statements, and after due So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant consideration the Directors consider that the Company is audit information of which the Companys auditor is able to continue in the foreseeable future.
unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware Relations with Shareholders AIC Code Principle 19 of any relevant information and to establish that the The Manager, the Investment Consultant and the Companys Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Broker maintain a regular dialogue with institutional Shareholders, the feedback from which is reported to the Auditors Board.
In addition, Board members will be available to A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Channel respond to Shareholders questions at the Annual General Islands Limited will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors are available for meetings with Shareholders upon request via the Company Secretary or the By order of the Board Investment Consultant.
The Company continues to offer Investor web conferences with the Investment Adviser.
Two John E Hallam Susie Farnon such conferences took place during 2012.
To provide further Director Director transparency, the Directors agreed portfolio and liquidity 22 April 2013 enhancements to the published monthly newsletter that may be found by eligible Shareholders on the Companys website page which can be accessed via www.
The Board monitors the trading activity and Shareholder profile on a regular basis.
Shareholder sentiment is also ascertained by the careful monitoring of the discount premium at which each class of Shares is traded in the market against the NAV per Share when compared to the discounts premiums experienced by the Companys peer group.
