Business model Delivering value We use a multi-brand, multi-product and multi-distribution channel business model, positioning each of our brands to offer different propositions to distinct customer segments.
When combined effectively with our significant scale, we believe this allows us to achieve high performance in distribution, pricing, claims and cost, which in turn should position us to deliver value to customers and sustainable returns to our shareholders Delivering value to our customers through our people Our customers Our people Our business model starts with our customers, who are the Our people are essential to delivering products and services most important element in what we do.
We aspire to give for our customers.
Everyone from frontline staff, who directly our customers the products that best suit their needs and engage with our customers, to the back ofce and central encourage them to expect a high quality of service throughout functions, who run all of the processes that sit behind our their relationship with us.
From the moment customers select products and services, plays a part in ensuring we are our products, through to making a claim and resolving an meeting customers needs.
All of this will ultimately help unexpected event, we treat each phase of the journey as an to drive value for our customers and shareholders.
opportunity to give our customers the best service and outcome.
Product distribution Pricing and underwriting Premiums Our customers We provide a range of brands, products and channels Settling claims to our customers Claims Managing nances Costs Our people Investment and other income Capital Reinvest in the business profit Dividends Our shareholders Managing risk 6 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Through our focused processes Our low risk discipline Product distribution Managing nances We give our customers what they need and make it easy We manage our nances to maximise returns within agreed for them to access our products in a way that suits them, limits.
This includes only spending money on items that add ensuring they are appropriately covered when unexpected the most value to our customers, ensuring a well governed events happen.
and controlled business, whilst balancing the need to generate a suitable and sustainable return to our shareholders.
We also We use a multi-brand, multi-product and multi-channel business hold assets in excess of our expected liabilities in the form model to sell our products and services to retail customers and of capital, which is designed to absorb any unexpected businesses.
Products can be purchased via the internet, phone, losses that might occur.
PCWs and indirectly via partners and brokers.
Each brand represents products targeted at one or more of the insurance Managing risk market segments: motor, home, rescue, pet, travel, commercial Risk manifests itself in many ways and at each point of our and international.
By tailoring the distribution channel mix for business model it needs to be managed.
We ensure that each product, we can offer our customers a combination of our products meet all of the regulatory standards and that brands, products and services that best suit their needs.
customers fully understand what they are purchasing from us.
We also make sure that we price our policies prudently Pricing and underwriting and appropriately invest our assets to minimise the risk of The scale of our business, which we have built over the creating a potential loss to the Group.
We mitigate risks by last 25 years, enables deeper pricing insight, creating the agreeing policies and minimum standards that are regularly potential for greater pricing accuracy.
It also allows us to reviewed and updated to ensure we are in line with the risk invest more heavily in data and achieve economies of scale, appetite set by the Board.
This internal control framework is which means we are able to set the appropriate price for the supplemented with regular reviews by external experts.
Settling claims The point at which a customer needs to make a claim is when the value of their policy becomes apparent.
Therefore, through active engagement with our customers, we aim to settle their claim as quickly and as easily as possible.
Doing this the right way helps us to demonstrate the value of the products and services we provide.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 7
