Corporate governance report continued Committee reports The Groups risk assessment process includes output from a Audit Committee report system for reporting on all the significant risks that stand in the way of achieving Group objectives.
The system also reports on the nature and effectiveness of the controls and other management processes that manage these risks.
The system also sets risk appetites for key categories of quantiable risk.
It additionally encompasses self-assessment of controls by risk owners throughout the business, whose assertions are Andrew Palmer, Chair of the Audit Committee independently challenged by the Risk Management Committee.
Role and focus The Board Risk Committee regularly reviews significant risks, their potential impact on the Groups financial position, The Committee is responsible for the oversight and variations from agreed risk appetites and the actions taken challenge of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of to manage those risks.
financial control, financial regulatory reporting and other internal controls.
It monitors the work of internal and How does the Board ensure that internal systems of control are effective?
The Board has put in place a management structure with dened The Audit Committees terms of reference are available on our website lines of responsibility and clear delegation of authority.
control framework cascades down through the business units 1 Membership and attendance and central functions, showing clear responsibilities for ensuring that appropriate controls are in place at an operational level, Scheduled Ad hoc 2 2 including those that relate to the financial reporting process.
meetings meetings The internal audit function supports the Board by providing an Committee Chair independent and objective assurance of the adequacy and 3 Ian Falconer 1 of 1 n a effectiveness of the Groups operations.
It brings a systematic and disciplined approach to evaluating and improving the 4 Jane Hanson 5 of 5 2 of 2 effectiveness of its risk management, control and governance 5 frameworks and processes.
Andrew Palmer 5 of 5 2 of 2 The Directors are aware that any system of internal control is Non-Executive Directors designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to 6 Mike Biggs 1 of 1 1 of 2 achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or 7 Glyn Jones 2 of 2 n a financial loss.
8 Christopher Sullivan n a n a The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups 7 risk management and internal control systems.
Its monitoring Clare Thompson 2 of 2 n a covers all material controls and is based principally on reviewing reports from management and the Internal Audit Other attendees include function so that the Board may consider whether significant t Chief Executive officer t General Counsel and weaknesses are promptly remedied and if they indicate a need Company Secretary t Chief Financial officer for more extensive monitoring.
During the course of the reviews, t Head of Internal Audit the Board has not identied or been advised of any failings or t Chief Risk officer weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
t External auditors Remuneration Minimum number of meetings per annum The Board has delegated responsibility to the Remuneration The Committee is to meet at least four times a year at Committee for the remuneration arrangements of the Executive appropriate times in the financial and regulatory reporting Directors and any applicable senior executives of the Group.
and audit cycle and otherwise as required.
Please refer to the Directors remuneration report on pages 78 to 90.
The attendance shown above includes attendance of the Audit and Risk Committee until it was split into distinct Audit and Board Risk Committees with effect from 16 October 2012.
Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number of meetings possible or applicable for the Director to attend.
Resigned from the Committee on 23 February 2012.
A member from 16 February 2012 and Chair between 23 February and 16 October 2012.
A member throughout the year and appointed Chair on 16 October 2012.
A member between 28 May 2012 and 16 October 2012.
68 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 8.
Resigned from the Committee on 27 January 2012.
Directors report: Corporate governance The Groups Audit Committee was established by the Board t Rolled out and monitored the Groups system of internal controls on 21 September 2012 to be effective from admission to appropriate to an independent listed insurance company.
Prior to the establishment of this Committee, the Group t Reviewed documentation relating to the listing of 500 million had a combined Risk and Audit Committee, the last meeting of Tier 2 subordinated debt, issued in April 2012 and the of which took place on 31 August 2012.
References to the IPO documentation.
activities of the Audit Committee in this report include those t Established the parameters of the services provided by the carried out by the Risk and Audit Committee during 2012. external auditors in line with the requirements of the relevant What did the Committee do in 2012?
t Reviewed the constitution, membership and terms of t Reviewed and challenged key assumptions, judgements, reference of the Committee.
analysis of emerging trends and movements on internal t Agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken and external actuarial best estimates and management by the external auditors and the Internal Audit function.
best estimate reserves, and recommended the associated levels of reserves to the Board each quarter.
t Monitored Internal Audits independent and objective reports regarding the appropriateness, effectiveness and t Approved an internal controls manual as a guide to the sustainability of the Groups system of internal controls.
businesses and to the auditors.
t Reviewed regular reports of the work conducted by the What will we be focusing on?
auditors and noted mitigating actions proposed by t Providing oversight of the actuarial reporting process: management where required.
a review of the Groups control environment and processes.
t Received quarterly risk reports until the formation of the t Providing oversight of the Internal Audit strategic review, Board Risk Committee in September and, in the light of that is, the programme of activity being delivered to ensure the IPO, ensured that the auditors focus was aligned that the Internal Audit function can continue to meet the with the areas of greatest risk facing the Group.
expectations of the Board and satisfy emerging regulatory t Reviewed: the interim results for the half year ended and industry standards for internal audit.
30 June 2012 issued in September: the interim t Ensuring the provision of training and development, particularly management statement issued in November: and in relation to new legislation and regulation.
the Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012, with particular focus on accounting Frequency of meetings policies and critical estimates and judgements.
During 2012, the Committee and its predecessor, the Risk and Audit Committee met on seven occasions, five of which t Considered plans and key assumptions relating to were scheduled and two were additional ad hoc meetings.
the Groups actuarial reserves, received regular The members attendance record is set out above.
updates regarding movements and emerging trends, In addition to the formal meetings, the Committee held: and recommended the level of reserves to the Board each quarter.
t Separate meetings to discuss relevant issues with members t Provided oversight of the Fit for Listing work stream and of senior management and the Head of Internal Audit.
monitored progress towards the target operating model.
t Meetings with the external auditors to discuss issues relating t Key control issues reported by Internal Audit were monitored to the Committee and for the purpose of training.
on a quarterly basis until the Groups risk exposure had t Private meetings with the Head of Internal Audit and the been properly mitigated.
external audit partner to discuss the general control environment and culture of the Group.
t Monitored the Groups compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements and recommendations within the Committee expertise scope of the Committees terms of reference.
Committee members bring considerable financial and accounting experience to the Committees work.
All members have past t Assessed the external auditors performance.
employment experience in either finance or accounting roles, or What have we achieved?
comparable experience in corporate activities, and are members t Facilitated the Groups separation from RBS Group by of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
supervising the various work streams focusing on the The Board is satisfied that each of these members has recent and creation of the Groups target operating model.
relevant financial experience, as recommended by the Code.
t Effected the creation of separate Audit and Board Risk Committees, wholly constituted of independent NonExecutive Directors and with distinct terms of reference.
t Obtained independent reviews from Towers Watson of the Groups actuarial reserves at the first and second quarters of 2012 to support the proposed IPO.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 69 Corporate governance report continued Reports to the Board any changes and decisions that require a major element The Chair of the Committee submits a report to the subsequent of judgement, unusual transactions, clarity of disclosures meeting of the Board on the Committees work.
In addition, the Committee reviews the going concern assumption, compliance with Internal control accounting standards and obligations under applicable laws, The Groups Internal Audit function carries out independent regulations and governance codes and makes appropriate internal audit work.
The Head of the Internal Audit function reports to the Chair of External audit the Audit Committee and the Chief Financial officer.
The Chief The Committee plays a key role in managing the relationship Risk officer reports to the Chair of the Board Risk Committee with the Groups external auditor, Deloitte LLP.
The Groups and to the Chief Executive officer.
Audit Non-Audit Services Minimum Standard ensures that the independence and objectivity of the external auditor The Internal Audit function provides the Committee with are not impaired.
independent and objective reports on the appropriateness, effectiveness and sustainability of the Groups risk management, Both audit and non-audit services provided by Direct Line systems of internal control, governance frameworks and Groups external auditor are closely monitored: processes.
The Groups statement of internal controls can be found on page 68. t The Audit Committee formally approves a list of audit and non-audit services and an associated budget in advance of The key control issues that Internal Audit reports to management each financial year in line with the Auditing Practices Boards and to the Committee are monitored on a quarterly basis Ethical Standard 5. until the related risk exposures have been properly mitigated.
t All permitted services must be approved before any work commences and applications for approval must be submitted More details of the management of risk are contained on a prescribed form, signed by the relevant member of the in the Board Risk Committee report on page 71 and the Executive Committee.
Risk Management report on page 26. t The Audit Committee Chair approves services costing less Reserves than 100,000 whilst the Audit Committee approves services The Committee approves annual plans for reviews of reserves, costing in excess of 100,000. informed by internal and external emerging issues.
It also t At each meeting, the Audit Committee reviews and, if approved, considers an appropriate balance between internal actuarial raties all services approved since its previous meeting.
review and external peer review.
Consultants appointed to provide validation of actuarial reviews are subject to approval t On an annual basis, the Audit Committee receives a report on by the Committee.
all services provided during the year and their related costs.
At least half-yearly, the Committee reviews and challenges the key The Audit Committee will regularly review and where appropriate assumptions and judgements, the emerging trends, movements update the Minimum Standard to ensure alignment with the and analysis of uncertainties underlying the assessment of the latest standards and practice in establishing, maintaining and actuarial best estimate reviews where appropriate.
monitoring the independence and objectivity of auditors.
Simultaneously with this review, the Committee also considers Fees payable to the auditor and challenges the appropriateness of proposals made by the During the year ended 31 December 2012, Deloitte LLPs fees Chief Financial officer for management best estimate reserves for for audit services and other services supplied were 6.1 million.
booking, informed both by actuarial analysis, wider commercial In accordance with the Groups Audit Non-Audit Services insights and principles of consistency from period to period.
Minimum Standard, all services were approved prior to work Following their review of actuarial best estimate and commencing and each of the non-audit services was confirmed management best estimate reserves, the Committee to be permissible for the external auditor to undertake.
The proposes the respective reserves to the Board for booking.
Audit Committee approved fees of 4.5 million payable to Deloitte LLP for services not related to audit work, which Financial reporting accounted for 74% of total fees paid to the external auditor The review process undertaken by the Committee prior to in the year.
The majority of non-audit fees relate to the the publication of the Groups financial statements focuses Groups IPO, for which Deloitte LLP provided additional on our critical accounting policies and practices, and on services as Reporting Accountants.
70 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors report: Corporate governance A summary of fees payable to the auditor for the year Board Risk Committee report ended 31 December 2012 is provided in note 10 to the Group financial statements.
The Audit Committee and Board remained satisfied that the provision of non-audit services by Deloitte LLP has not compromised Deloittes independence as the Companys external auditor.
Jane Hanson, Chair of the Board Risk Committee Auditor performance and independence The performance of the external auditors is assessed every Role and focus year, including their independence and objectivity and the The Board Risk Committee provides oversight effectiveness of the external audit process.
The effectiveness and advice to the Board in relation to current review includes regular questioning of the external auditor and potential future risk exposures of the Group during Audit Committee meetings.
The Committee reviews the and future risk strategy.
It determines risk appetite external audit strategy and receives reports from Deloitte LLP on its own policies and procedures regarding independence and tolerance and promotes a risk awareness and quality control, including an annual conrmation of culture within the Group.
independence in line with industry standards.
The Committee The Board Risk Committees terms of reference are available on concluded that the performance of the external auditor and our website at: www.
the effectiveness of the audit process were satisfactory.
1 Membership and attendance Re-appointment of auditor Scheduled Ad hoc The Committee intends to undertake a formal review on a 2 2 meetings meetings regular basis to assess whether the external audit should be re-tendered.
Deloitte LLP has been the Groups auditor since Committee Chairs 2000, during which time the Group was audited as a division 3 Ian Falconer 1 of 1 n a of RBS Group.
Following the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange on 16 October 2012, Deloitte remained the Jane Hanson 5 of 5 2 of 2 Groups external auditor.
Non-Executive Directors The Committee is recommending to the Board that Deloitte LLP be re-appointed as auditor of the Company.
A resolution for 4 Mike Biggs 1 of 1 1 of 2 the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company will be put to a shareholder vote at the AGM on 6 June 2013.
Andrew Palmer 5 of 5 2 of 2 Clare Thompson 2 of 2 n a This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 27 February 2013.
Priscilla Vacassin 2 of 2 n a Other attendees include t Chief Executive officer t General Counsel and Company Secretary t Chief Financial officer Andrew Palmer, Chair of the Audit Committee t Head of Internal Audit t Chief Risk officer Minimum number of meetings per annum The Risk Committee is to meet at least four times a year at appropriate times in the risk and regulatory reporting cycle.
The Board Risk Committee was constituted on 16 October 2012.
The attendance shown above includes attendance of the Risk and Audit Committee until it was split into distinct Audit and Board Risk committees with effect from 16 October 2012.
2 A ttendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number of meetings possible or applicable for the Director to attend.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 71 Corporate governance report continued The activities of the Risk and Audit Committees were combined What will we be focusing on?
and managed by a joint Risk and Audit Committee until t Fostering a culture which is aligned to appropriate outcomes 16 October 2012.
References to the activities of the for the customer.
Board Risk Committee below include those activities t Delivering a mature and embedded conduct risk framework.
carried out by the Risk and Audit Committee.
t Considering and recommending for approval by the Board: What did the Committee do in 2012?
the design and implementation of risk management and The Committee and its predecessor, the Risk and Audit measurement strategies across the Group: and Committee considered and monitored the following the Groups risk appetite, framework and tolerance levels matters during 2012: for current and future strategy.
t The Groups key risks and risk appetite, including Frequency of meetings regulatory and conduct risks.
During 2012, the Committee and its predecessor the Risk and t The high level risk-based policies throughout the Group, Audit Committee met on seven occasions: five were scheduled including the risk appetite framework, policy framework, meetings and two of which were additional ad hoc meetings.
and associated tools and processes.
These included, but The members attendance record is set out on page 71. were not limited to, the business change risk process, material risk assessment and business continuity planning.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 27 February 2013. t The detailed planning for the Groups internal Solvency II model.
The Committee also received regular progress reports on the development of the models used to calculate economic capital requirements and the stress and scenario-testing techniques used to validate the results.
t Risks identied as outside appetite resulting from Internal Jane Hanson, Chair of the Board Risk Committee Audit and other assurance reviews of the Groups system of internal control and the action taken by management to mitigate them.
t The Groups economic capital and liquidity positions, particularly in light of the evolving Eurozone uncertainty.
The Committee also considered in detail the management actions being taken to address the impact of the economic environment.
t The arrangements by which our staff may, in confidence, raise concerns regarding possible improprieties regarding financial reporting or other matters.
t Monitored the Groups compliance with SOX 404 and other statutory and regulatory requirements and recommendations within the scope of the Committees terms of reference.
t Revised the constitution and membership of the Committee to meet the requirements of a listed company.
t Approved of a comprehensive ERM framework.
t Oversight of the Solvency II programme.
t Ensured the risk governance framework was t for purpose.
72 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors report: Corporate governance What did the Committee do in 2012?
Corporate Social Responsibility The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee was Committee report constituted as part of the Fit for Listing programme and held its first meeting in December 2012.
At that meeting, the Committee considered: t The constitution of the Committee, its membership and terms of reference.
Jane Hanson, t The priorities and targets on key issues.
Chair of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee t Health and safety policies and procedures and compliance with them.
Role and focus The remit of the Corporate Social Responsibility What have we achieved?
t Approved the constitution and membership of the Committee is to ensure Direct Line Group Committee to meet the requirements of a listed company.
conducts its business in a responsible manner t Produced the Corporate and Social Responsibility Plan including in relation to health and safety, for 2013 including priorities, policies and community environmental, corporate social responsibility, engagement activities.
The Committee t Launched the Companys One Day volunteering initiative also oversees the allocation of donations and for employees.
What will we be focusing on?
Membership and attendance t Reviewing the Groups overall Corporate Social 1 1 Scheduled Ad hoc Responsibility strategy, measures, policies and compliance.
meetings meetings t Reviewing performance and priorities against both internal targets and relevant external benchmarking indices.
Committee Chair t Reviewing the extent, effectiveness and transparency of Jane Hanson 1 of 1 n a external reporting.
Committee members t Considering and recommending the Groups positioning on relevant emerging Corporate Social Responsibility issues.
Paul Geddes 1 of 1 n a t Overseeing the Groups compliance with its health and Clare Thompson 1 of 1 n a safety statutory and regulatory requirements and embedding a health and safety culture across the Group.
2 Tom Woolgrove 1 of 1 n a This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on Other attendees include 27 February 2013. t Human Resources Director t Director of Communications t General Counsel and t Head of Public Affairs and Company Secretary Sustainability Jane Hanson, Chair of the Corporate Social Responsibility Minimum number of meetings Committee The Committee is to meet at least four times a year.
Appointed as a member on 13 December 2012.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 73 Corporate governance report continued What did the Committee do in 2012?
Investment Committee report t Reviewed its membership, constitution and terms of reference.
t Considered plans and monitored progress in delivering a stand-alone Investment and Treasury function prior to operational separation from RBS Group.
t Monitored the delivery of in-train changes to the existing portfolio strategy.
Andrew Palmer, Chair of the Investment Committee t Reviewed the return on funds invested, having regard to existing investment policies and guidelines.
Role and focus t Reviewed and monitored exposures of concern, in particular The role of the Investment Committee is to sovereign and bank exposure to Eurozone countries, and propose investment policies and guidelines for legacy positions outside the tolerance limits set in the risk the management of Group funds for approval exposure framework.
by the Board and to oversee the management t Received updates on collateral management plans, the closure and performance of the investment strategy of of legacy investment portfolios, changes to the asset manager the Group.
The International and Life boards for the International portfolios and recommendations to adjust independently review and approve the credit durations for the Groups investment portfolios.
investment guidelines of those entities.
t Reported as appropriate to the boards of the regulated companies within the Group on our investment Membership and attendance management performance.
Scheduled 1 What have we achieved?
meetings t Monitored the successful creation of a stand-alone Investment Committee Chair and Treasury function.
t Reviewed the significant progress made by the Investment Andrew Palmer 2 of 2 and Treasury function in reshaping the investment portfolios.
Committee members What will we be focusing on?
2 Ian Falconer 1 of 1 t Considering changes to the existing asset benchmark composition for the Groups investment portfolio to improve Jane Hanson 2 of 2 the expected risk-adjusted returns, respecting the Groups 3 investment risk appetite set by the Board.
Christopher Sullivan 0 of 1 t Using the internal capital model to support asset strategy decisions by understanding the capital and solvency implications.
Other attendees include t Chief Executive officer t Director of Investment t Reviewing the liquidity requirements of the business and Management and Treasury considering the adequacy of liquidity available to meet t Chief Financial officer such needs from the investment portfolio.
t General Counsel and Company Secretary t Reviewing the merits of any derivative and asset strategies proposed to mitigate risks associated with long-term liabilities.
Minimum number of meetings per annum t Monitoring the selection and implementation process for The Committee is to meet at least three times a year.
any new asset classes approved for the investment portfolio.
Notes: This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 1.
Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the 27 February 2013. number of meetings possible or applicable for the Director to attend.
Andrew Palmer, Chair of the Investment Committee 74 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors report: Corporate governance Frequency of meetings Nomination Committee report As the Board was up to full complement prior to listing on 16 October 2012, the Committee did not need to meet between listing and the year end.
It has subsequently met to determine Directors independence or non-independence for the purpose of recommending to the Board the re-appointment of Directors at the AGM.
Mike Biggs, The Committee is to meet at least once a year to consider Chair of the Nomination Committee the Board composition and membership of the principal Role and focus Committees and to consider the suitability of all Directors The Nomination Committee is responsible for standing for re-election at the AGM.
The Committee will also meet as required to consider candidates for appointment to considering and making recommendations to the the Board.
The Chief Executive officer is closely involved Board regarding the appointment of Directors.
It will in the work of the Committee and is invited to attend and make recommendations regarding the membership contribute to meetings.
and chairmanship of the Board Committees.
Appointments The Nomination Committees terms of reference are available on During 2012, Mike Biggs, Mark Catton, Glyn Jones, our website at: www.
Clare Thompson, Priscilla Vacassin and Bruce Van Saun Membership were appointed to the Board.
The appointment of Mike Biggs was managed by RBS Group as it wholly Committee Chair owned Direct Line Group at that time.
Messrs Van Saun and Catton were nominated by the Companys majority Mike Biggs shareholder, RBS Group.
We recruited the remaining Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors appointed in 2012 with the help of external search consultants JCA Group, who have no Glyn Jones other connection with the Company.
As part of the process, those newly-appointed Directors met the Chairman, the Andrew Palmer Chief Executive officer and a number of other Directors before being appointed.
Other attendees include t Chief Executive officer t General Counsel and Please refer to pages 66 to 67 for the Groups approach Company Secretary to diversity, including gender diversity.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on Minimum number of meetings per annum 27 February 2013.
As required, but not less than once a year.
Michael N Biggs, Chair of the Nomination Committee Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 75 Corporate governance report continued What did the Committee do in 2012?
Remuneration Committee report t Reviewed the constitution of the Committee, its membership and terms of reference.
t Set and reviewed policy guidelines.
t Proposed salaries for executives for the RBS Group Remuneration Committee to consider.
Priscilla Vacassin, t Considered the terms of the Executive Directors, executives Chair of the Remuneration Committee and senior managements contracts.
t Finalised the rules for the executive and all-employee share Role and focus plans and Share Ownership Guidelines and approved The Committee is responsible for setting and their adoption and establishment.
oversight of the Groups remuneration policy.
t Granted awards to eligible employees under the It also makes recommendations to the Board Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
regarding the remuneration arrangements of t Approved the issue of free shares to employees on IPO.
the Companys Executive Directors and any t Considered post-IPO pay arrangements for the Executive applicable senior executives.
Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
The Remuneration Committees terms of reference are available t Established an Employee Share Ownership Trust, and on our website at: www.
considered the proposed approach to funding it and Membership and attendance its relationship with the trustees.
Scheduled Ad hoc What have we achieved?
1 1 meetings meetings t Revised the constitution and membership of the Committee to meet the requirements of a listed company.
Committee Chairs t Approved a remuneration policy for the Group.
2 Mike Biggs 4 of 4 5 of 5 t Developed the remuneration and incentive arrangements 3 for Executive Directors and senior executives of the Group Andrew Palmer 4 of 4 4 of 5 and considered the treatment of legacy entitlements under 4 Priscilla Vacassin 1 of 1 2 of 2 RBS Group share schemes.
t Revised Executive Directors and senior executives Non-Executive Directors contractual terms.
5 Jane Hanson 3 of 3 3 of 4 t Introduced all-employee share schemes.
6 t Agreed the high level principles and key terms of the 2013 Clare Thompson 1 of 1 1 of 1 incentive plan arrangements.
Other attendees include t Recommended outcomes of the 2012 bonus award and LTIP.
t Chief Executive officer t General Counsel and t Prepared the Groups first Directors remuneration report Company Secretary t Chief Financial officer and recommended its inclusion in the 2012 Annual Report t FIT Remuneration & Accounts.
t Chief Risk officer 7 Consultants LLP, t Human Resources Director What will we be focusing on?
independent adviser t Director of Performance t The 2013 remuneration and incentive plan arrangements and Reward in tandem with reviews of the pay review budget for 2013 and the outcomes from the annual performance review.
Meeting frequency t The grants of awards under the Groups share schemes.
The Committee is to meet at least four times a year.
t The roll-out of the all-employee Buy-As-You-Earn scheme.
Notes: t The share ownership guidelines for members of the 1.
Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the Executive Committee.
number of meetings possible or applicable for the Director to attend.
t The possible outcomes of the 2013 Annual Incentive Plan 2.
AIP and the structure of the 2014 plan in light of the 3.
Acted as Chair for meetings held on 18 July, 13 August, experience in 2013.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 5.
Resigned from the Committee on 21 September 2012.
Appointed to the Committee on 21 September 2012.
Attends by invitation as the Committees independent adviser.
Priscilla Vacassin, Chair of the Remuneration Committee 76 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors report: Corporate governance Relations with shareholders What arrangements are we making for the What does relations with shareholders mean?
Actively engaging with our shareholders is fundamental to The Notice of the AGM will be sent to shareholders well our business.
We believe that ensuring an active dialogue in advance of the meeting.
We will propose all items and ongoing engagement is vital to keeping in touch with requiring shareholder approval under separate resolutions.
opinions, providing us with the opportunity to address We will provide proxy appointment forms for each resolution, any questions and concerns in a proactive way.
with the option for shareholders to vote for, or against, or How do we communicate with shareholders?
We have instructed our registrars, The Executive Directors frequently meet with investors and the Computershare Investor Services plc, to ensure that all valid Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive proxy appointments are properly recorded and counted.
Directors are available to attend meetings with major shareholders We will announce the result of the poll as soon as practical at the shareholders request.
In such meetings, the Chairman after the meeting and also post the result on our website after has the opportunity to discuss governance and strategy with that date.
The proxy form and announcement of the results shareholders and ensure that any particular shareholder views explicitly state that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and are communicated to the Board.
will therefore not be counted in the calculation when deciding The Board is also given the opportunity to understand the whether the resolution has been passed.
views of major shareholders through analysts reports, broker We anticipate that all Directors will attend the AGM and briengs and meetings with major shareholders.
that the Chairs of the Audit, Board Risk, Corporate Social At the Companys first AGM the Chief Executive officer will Responsibility, Investment and Remuneration Committees make a presentation on the Groups progress and shareholders will be available to answer questions.
will be encouraged to ask questions.
What is the procedure at the AGM?
The Company also engages with holders of the Groups Following presentations by members of the Board, voting subordinated debt.
on the resolutions at the AGM will be conducted on a poll.
Shareholders proxy votes can be submitted electronically What did we do in 2012?
through the Company Registrars website.
Further details During the year, Directors spent a considerable amount of time can be found in the Notice of AGM.
understanding the views of potential investors and other market participants, to ensure they were aware of market sentiment in the run-up to, and following, the IPO.
In October, the Chief Executive officer, the Chief Financial officer and members of the executive between them met and presented to 292 institutions, seeing over 700 individuals across eight cities with calls to six more.
What are we focusing on in 2013?
We are planning to hold a number of events to foster engagement, in recognition of the importance of maintaining an active dialogue with our shareholders, target investors and other important insurance sector investors.
These include: t Presentations of our financial results.
t Investor road shows in the UK, Europe, the US and Canada.
t Attending key conferences to enable communication with a large number of existing and target investors in a time-efficient manner.
t Briengs with investors and banks to convey key messages on performance and strategy.
t Dinners with UK fund managers at the end of 2013.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 77
