Directors report: Corporate governance Other disclosures Activities, directors report and business review Remuneration of Directors Direct Line Group is the largest retail general insurer in the The Remuneration report starting on page 78 forms part UK.
The number one direct motor insurer in Italy and the of the Directors report and includes details of the nature number three direct motor insurer in Germany.
We operate and amount of each element of the remuneration including a multi-brand, multi-product and multi-channel business that share options of each of the Directors.
covers the majority of customer segments in the UK for Secretary personal lines general insurance and SME commercial lines.
Details of the Company Secretary of Direct Line Insurance The information that fulls the requirements of the Directors Group plc, including his qualications and experience, report for the purposes of section 415 of the Companies are set out on page 59.
Act 2006 is included within this corporate governance Directors indemnities report pages 52 to 95.
The Articles of the Company permit it to indemnify the ofcers Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 requires the of the Company and the ofcers of any associated company Directors to present a business review in the Directors report.
against liabilities arising from the conduct of Company business The information that fulls this requirement can be found on to the extent permitted by law.
Accordingly, the Company pages 10 to 51, and is incorporated by reference into this executed deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each Director corporate governance report.
in respect of liabilities that may attach to them in their capacity as Directors of the Company or of associated companies.
These Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company indemnities are qualifying third-party indemnities as dened by and its subsidiaries and its risk management policies is disclosed section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
No amount was paid in the business review on pages 26 to 29. under any of these indemnities during the year.
5 2 also requires this The Company also purchased directors and ofcers liability Annual Report & Accounts to include a management report.
insurance during the year, which provides appropriate cover The information that fulls this requirement can be found in the for legal actions brought against its Directors.
business review on pages 10 to 51 and this report on pages 52 to 94.
Authorisation of conicts of interest The Companys Articles of Association permit the authorisation of The subsidiary and associated undertakings which principally a Directors potential conict of interest or duty.
Such authorisations affect the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are may be given by the remaining Directors who are independent of listed in note 19 to the financial statements.
The cautionary statement about forward-looking statements The Board has approved a number of authorisations in this is set out on page 175. manner.
Notwithstanding such authorisation, the Board continues to ensure that any actual conict of interest or duty, significant changes and events should it arise, is dealt with appropriately, which will usually significant changes and events affecting the Group during 2012 be by arranging that the Director takes no part in the relevant and until the date of this report are set out on page 52 to 53 Board or Committee discussion or decision.
At no time during the year did any Director hold a material Post-balance sheet events interest in any contract of signicance with the Company or the Details of events after the statement of financial position dates Group other than the Relationship Agreement with RBS Group, are contained in note 41 to the financial statements.
the indemnity provision described above and service contracts between each Executive Director and the Company.
Dividends The final dividend for 2012 of 8 pence per ordinary share will, subject to shareholder approval, be paid on 11 June 2013 to all holders of Ordinary Shares on the Register of Members at close of business on 8 March 2013.
Full details of dividends paid and of the dividend policy may be found on pages 135 and 171 respectively.
Details of the Companys rules on the appointment and term of appointment of Directors are given on pages 65 to 66 of this report.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 91 Other disclosures continued Share capital and control Details of Directors remuneration, service contracts, The issued and fully paid share capital of the Company employment contracts and interests in the shares of the immediately following Admission to the Ofcial List of Company are set out in the Directors remuneration report.
the London Stock Exchange the Ofcial List was The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys 1,500,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each.
Ordinary Shares, together with the powers of the Companys Prior to listing, the Directors were authorised on 31 August 2012, Directors, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, conditional on admission to the Ofcial List, to subdivide each which can be obtained from the Companys website, of the 1,500,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 1 each in the www.
Unless expressly specified to Company into: the contrary in the Articles of Association, they may only be amended by a special resolution of the Companys a 1,500,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence: and shareholders at a general meeting.
b 1,500,000,000 deferred shares of 90 pence each.
Relationship Agreement with RBS Group Under the terms of a Relationship Agreement between the Immediately following the subdivision of the Companys Company and RBS Group, which is described on page 61, issued share capital described above, the deferred RBS Group has nominated Bruce Van Saun and Mark Catton shares were acquired and cancelled by the Company as Directors of the Company.
in accordance with sections 659 1 and 662 1 c respectively of the Companies Act 2006.
Under the terms of the agreement, RBS Group may nominate up to two Directors to serve on the Companys Accordingly, the Directors were authorised on 21 September Board of Directors.
With the exception of the Relationship 2012, conditional on admission to the Ofcial List of the Agreement, there is no arrangement or understanding with London Stock Exchange, to: any shareholder, customer, supplier, or any other external party, providing the right to appoint a Director or a member t allot shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal of the Executive Committee.
amount of 50,000,000, or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares: Restrictions on the transfer of shares t allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of The Relationship Agreement in place between the Company 100,000,000, for the purpose of a rights issue: and and RBS Group contains certain restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary Shares registered in the name of RBS Group.
t make market purchases of up to 150,000,000 shares of the Company representing approximately 10% of the In addition, there are restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary Companys issued share capital at the time.
Shares under the Companys employee share incentive plans while the shares are subject to the plan rules.
Where, under These authorities have not been used to date and shareholders an employee share incentive plan operated by the Company, will be asked to renew them at the 2013 AGM.
Details are participants are the beneficial owners of shares but not the contained in the Notice of AGM.
registered owners, the voting rights are normally exercised at the discretion of the participants.
Following the IPO on 16 October 2012, the Ordinary Shares have a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
As Other than those specified above, there are no restrictions on at the date of this report, 65.27% of the Companys issued the voting rights attached to the Companys Ordinary Shares or shares are held by The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc.
the transfer of securities in the Company.
There are no special rights with regard to control of the Company attached to the Details of the Companys share capital and shares under option Companys Ordinary Shares.
The Company is not aware of at 31 December 2012 are given in notes 27 and 34 of the any agreements between holders of shares that may result in consolidated financial statements.
restrictions on the transfer of shares or voting rights.
The Company held no treasury shares during the year or at the date of this report.
92 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors report: Corporate governance Material contracts Group management uses an intranet-based social media A number of agreements may take effect, alter or terminate site, run as part of the BEST programme, to share ideas upon a change of control of the Company including following a and achieve a common awareness throughout the Group, takeover bid, for example commercial contracts and distribution including those financial and economic factors that affect agreements.
None is considered to be significant in terms of its our performance.
The site also contains employee-feedback impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
In addition, the Group encourages the involvement of employees in its performance by allowing t The Relationship Agreement between the Company and eligible employees to participate in our all-employee share RBS Group remains in force until such time as the RBS Groups ownership plans.
shareholding reduces below 20% of the issued share capital of the Company.
There are also provisions which provide The Group values the diversity of its employees and is the RBS Group with the right automatically to terminate the committed to creating a working environment that is inclusive Relationship Agreement if the Company ceases to be listed, of all.
The Group embraces peoples differences in order to or if it passes a resolution to wind up, or if an administration attract and retain talent and seeks to enable employees to order is made or it makes an arrangement with creditors.
reach their potential: these differences include but are not There are no provisions in the Relationship Agreement which limited to age, belief, disability, ethnic or national origin, allows RBS Group to terminate the agreement in the event gender, gender identity, marital or civil partnership status, of a change of control of Direct Line Group.
political opinion, race, religion or sexual orientation.
These commitments extend to recruitment and selection, training, t All of the Companys employee share incentive plans contain career development, exible working arrangements, provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding promotion and performance appraisal.
awards would typically vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject usually to the satisfaction of Disabled employees performance conditions and pro-rata reduction.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant Substantial shareholdings concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled In accordance with the provisions of chapter 5 of the every effort is made to ensure that they continue their employment Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services with the Group and that they receive appropriate training.
It is Authority, the following shareholder has provided the Company Group policy that the training, career development and promotion with notice of interests in the Companys voting rights.
of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Shareholder 31 December 2012 27 February 2013 Supplier payment policy The Royal Bank of The Groups policy is to pay suppliers in accordance with Scotland Group plc 65.27% 65.27% agreed terms of business.
Whenever possible, purchase orders are placed on the basis of the Groups standard terms and Note: The interests indicated above are held directly.
These include provision for the payment of suppliers Employee consultation within 30 days of the end of the month in which the Group The Groups statement on our employees is set out in the receives the goods or in which services are provided.
In summary, we encourage The average trade creditors of the Group during 2012, which open, honest and transparent communication and dialogue with exclude insurance creditors, were equivalent to 26 days employees.
ERBs are in place to advise the Executive Committee purchases 2011: 18 days purchases, based on the ratio of regarding employee matters, including concerns and reports on Group trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts morale, and to support communications.
Throughout 2012, ERBs invoiced during the year.
have championed the BEST programme, helping all employees contribute to improving the Groups business.
The BEST programme focuses on how we can achieve our ambition to become Britains best retail general insurer.
A key achievement of the programme was the distillation of the ideas received from employees to arrive at a set of values to govern the way the Group operates.
In addition, we held workshops as part of the transformation plan focusing on what constitutes the BEST for People, BEST for Customers and BEST for Shareholders.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 93 Other disclosures continued Charitable and political contributions In addition, note 27 to the consolidated financial statements Through our Community Cashback scheme our employees describes capital management needs and policies and note 3 were able to donate 48,000 to the charities they are involved covers underwriting, market, liquidity and credit risks which in.
Through our payroll giving scheme, the Group matched may affect the Groups financial position.
employee donations and contributed a total of 112,000.
After making due enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable The Group was also able to support Children in Need expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate and Comic Relief with over 900 employees taking pledge resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable telephone calls in 2012. future.
Accordingly, they have adopted the going concern basis The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee is responsible in preparing this Annual Report & Accounts.
for the approval of the Groups community-based activities: Statement of disclosure of information to auditors more detail on the role of the Groups CSR and community Each Director at the date of the approval of this Annual Report development activities can be found in the Corporate Social & Accounts confirms that: Responsibility report on pages 47 to 51. t So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit The Group made no political donations during the information of which Deloitte LLP, the Companys external year 2011: nil.
Governmental regulation t The Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to To comply with European Union state aid requirements, have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware RBS Group agreed to cede control of Direct Line Group of any relevant audit information and to establish that by the end of 2013 and divest its entire interest by the end Deloitte LLP is aware of that information.
The initial minority tranche of the divestment of Direct Line Group, by way of a public otation, was This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance effected on 16 October 2012. with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Financial instruments Auditors The Groups companies use financial instruments to manage Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in ofce certain types of risk, including those relating to credit, as external auditors.
A resolution to reappoint them will be foreign-currency exchange, cash ow, liquidity, interest rates proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
and equity and property prices.
Details of the objectives and This Directors report was reviewed and approved by the management of these instruments are contained in the Risk Board on 27 February 2013. management and Capital management sections on pages 26 to 29 and 45.
An indication of the exposure of Group By order of the Board companies to such risks is also contained in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
Humphrey Tomlinson, General Counsel and Company Secretary Going concern The Group has sufficient financial resources to meet its financial needs and it manages a mature portfolio of insurance risk.
The Directors believe that the Group is well positioned to manage its business risks successfully in the current economic environment.
The Financial Review on pages 36 to 46 describes the Groups capital management strategy, which covers how we measure our regulatory and economic capital needs and how capital is deployed.
The financial position of the Group is also covered in that section, including a commentary on cash and investment levels, reserves, currency management, insurance liability management, liquidity and borrowings.
94 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
