Booker group plc aNNUal rEPOrt & aCCOUNts 2012 DirECtOrs aND OFFiCErs Richard Rose Age: 56 Mark Aylwin Age: 48 Andrew Cripps Age: 54 non-Executive Chairman Managing Director - non-Executive Director and Chairman of Booker Direct and Chairman of Audit nomination Committee Mark is Managing Director Committee richard was an Executive of Booker Direct.
Prior to andrew read Economics at the Director and Chairman of that, he was Chief Executive University of Cambridge prior Blueheath Holdings plc Officer of Blueheath.
to qualifying as a Chartered Blueheath immediately prior to the reverse Mark was previously supply chain and it accountant with KPMg.
Following twenty years acquisition of Blueheath by the Booker group director at Musgrave Budgens londis.
with rothmans international and British american in 2007 and became Non-Executive Chairman He has over twenty years trading, supply tobacco Plc, he has held a number of Nonof the Company upon completion of the merger.
chain and logistics experience in the food Executive Directorships in the UK and Europe.
richard was formerly Chief Executive of Whittard industry, principally at safeway where he andrew is currently Non-Executive Deputy of Chelsea plc, a multi site retailer of tea and was commercial director for non-foods and Chairman of swedish Match aB and a Noncoffee which was sold in 2006.
Previously he was the supply chain director.
Executive Director of Boparan Holdings limited a Director of Hagemeyer UK ltd, a distributor Guy Farrant Age: 50 Stewart Gilliland of professional products and services, with a Managing Director - Age: 55 UK turnover approaching 1 billion through 360 Uk Cash and Carry non-Executive Director outlets.
Prior to that he had been Chief Executive guy is Managing Director stewart was formerly Chief of WF Electrical plc, a fully listed electrical of the groups UK cash and Executive of Muller Dairies UK distributor, where he created a substantial carry business.
guy has a and ireland after a long career improvement in shareholder value.
Hagemeyer wealth of food experience spent in senior roles with purchased WF Electrical plc in 2000.
He was having worked in the food industry for 25 leading consumer facing companies, including also Non-Executive Chairman of aC Electrical years rising to be Director of Food and, Whitbread and interbrew.
His current roles include Wholesale ltd where he led a successful growth latterly, Operations and retail Director at Non-Executive Directorships of sutton and East strategy resulting in a substantial increase in Marks and spencer plc.
surrey Water Plc, vianet group plc, formerly shareholder value.
the business was sold to Brulines group plc and the Department for Wolseley in 2006.
He was Executive Chairman Bryn Satherley Age: 51 Communities and local government.
of Helphire group plc from 2009 to 2011.
He operations Director is also Non-Executive Chairman of anpario plc, Bryn is Operations Director Karen Jones CBE, Crawshaw group plc and a Non-Executive responsible for property, it, Age: 55 Director of Drl group ltd. logistics and supply chain non-Executive Director of the Booker group.
Bryn and Chairman of Charles Wilson Age: 46 was at Booker plc between Remuneration Committee Chief Executive 1999 and 2001 and rejoined Karen was Chief Executive Charles started his career Booker in 2005.
Prior to 1999 he was at Exel of spirit group ltd, a in 1986 with Procter and plc and was on the board of alldays ltd private equity backed pub gamble following which & restaurant group, which was built up by he was a consultant with Lord Bilimoria CBE, DL Age: 50 acquisition and sold to Punch taverns in 2006.
OC&C strategy Consultants non-Executive Director Prior to spirit, Karen founded, grew and floated and a Director of abberton associates.
in and Senior Independent the Pelican group Plc, owner of a number of 1998 he became an Executive Director of Director restaurant chains including Caf rouge, which Booker plc which merged with iceland plc Karan Bilimoria is the was acquired by Whitbread in 1996.
Karen has in 2000. in 2001 he became an Executive Founder of Cobra Beer and a first class honours degree from University Director of arcadia group plc and in 2004 the Chairman of the Cobra of East anglia, and also attended Wellesley he became an Executive Director of Marks Beer Partnership ltd, a College, Usa.
Karen is a founder and Chairman and spencer Plc.
in 2005 he was appointed Joint venture with Molson Coors.
Karan is an of Food and Fuel ltd, a hospitality company, as Chief Executive of Booker.
independent Crossbench Peer in the House which currently consists of eleven gastropubs of lords.
Karan graduated in law from the Jonathan Prentis Age: 50 in london.
Karen is a Non-Executive Director of University of Cambridge and is a qualied Group Finance Director asOs Plc, COFra ag, Firmenich international Chartered accountant.
Karan is an honorary Jonathan qualified as a sa and royal National theatre Enterprises ltd. fellow of sidney sussex College, University chartered accountant in she is a governor of ashridge Business school.
of Cambridge and a former Chancellor of 1987 with Deloitte & touche.
Karan is a former Mark Chilton Age: 49 He was appointed as group Non-Executive Director of Brake Brothers and is Company Secretary Finance Director of Booker in the President of the UK india Business Council.
Prior to this appointment, Jonathan was secretary and general Finance Director of Woodward Foodservice ltd Counsel to the group and then Finance Director of group logistics and was appointed to his within the Big Food group plc.
Prior to 2003, present role in June 2007. he was with tDg plc.
Mark qualied as a solicitor in 1987.
Mark was appointed as Company secretary of the Booker group in 2006.
Previously, he was head of legal at the Big Food group plc.
Prior to that, he was at the greenalls group Plc.
