Managers Review Background Portfolio Review with a similar level of year-on-year growth.
This is a result of the developers strategy to target more market segments The period under review was more challenging for Asia than and, to a lesser extent, successful geographical expansion the previous year as the weaker global growth outlook and outside the capital Manila.
BPIs interim 2012 profits surged the European debt crisis led to generally softer more than 50% on the back of rising revenue, albeit the macroeconomic numbers.
Despite that, the regions rate of numbers were somewhat flattered by trading gains.
The bank economic growth was still healthier than that of the West.
is conservatively run, well capitalised and has adequate room Inflation also receded across most of the region, allowing to grow its loan-to-deposit ratio from the current level of central banks to cut interest rates.
In terms of equity market performance, Asias largest growth The holdings in Hong Kong and Singapore also proved engines, namely China and India, were the main laggards favourable, with Jardine Strategic and its affiliate Dairy Farm while the Asean region outperformed once again, with the again performing well.
Results were supportive, particularly Philippines, Thailand and Malaysia all posting healthy gains.
In Singapore, ST The portfolio benefited from the overweight to the Asean Engineering and City Developments CDL led performance.
countries as well as the underweight to mainland China.
As The aerospace and defence company gained from doublenoted in the interim report, the overweight to India digit profit growth in the first half and continued to win new detracted, but this was mitigated by good performance from orders, while its dividend yield of over 4% remained the portfolios holdings relative to the Indian benchmark.
CDL rebounded from prior weakness over the governments property cooling measures.
House prices The Trust outperformed its benchmark for the 12 months to remain firm although price appreciation and transaction 31 August with the net asset value gaining 6.7%, compared volumes slowed recently.
The developer is well positioned with a 0.3% decline in the MSCI All Country Asia ex Japan given its good, low-cost land bank and variety of residential index.
Apart from fine performance of the Asean holdings, projects targeted at different market segments.
those in more defensive sectors, such as telecoms and consumer staples, also outperformed as the more secure Elsewhere, Taiwan Mobile and Taiwan Semiconductor earnings outlook underpinned valuations.
Despite the repeated their good performance.
Taiwan Mobiles results portfolios upbeat performance, it was not immune to were steady, with the acquisition of the Momo shopping earnings disappointments, in the cases of Infosys and Li & network boosting revenue growth.
While profit growth was Fung, and news events such as the ongoing corruption more muted, good capital management underpinned the investigation at Sun Hung Kai Properties and the regulatory companys earnings.
Taiwan Semiconductors quarterly probes at HSBC and Standard Chartered Bank.
numbers were more volatile but the company maintained a healthy dividend payout, a net cash balance sheet and still It is worth emphasising that the portfolios geographical managed profit growth in the first half of 2012.
Continued preferences have remained fairly consistent over the long growth in mobile computing should go on supporting the term and are a reflection of where we can find the best semiconductor industry in the years ahead.
companies at times this is in spite of a weaker macroeconomic environment.
As noted last year, we The holdings in Thailand PTTEP and Siam Cement lagged continue to find China a challenging place to invest and the local market, although they had a decent performance prefer to gain exposure to the mainland via Hong Kong.
Both companies, being less exposed to the proved positive as slowing domestic growth, along with a domestic economy, did not rebound to the same degree as number of corporate scandals, weighed on mainland shares.
those boosted by the recovery from last years floods, while Conversely, the overweight to India and the non-benchmark minimum wage hikes buoyed consumption.
PTTEP, like other exposure to Sri Lanka detracted as these markets, and more national energy companies, set off on an acquisition trail notably their currencies fell, owing to deteriorating fiscal with the aim of securing future resources: the company positions.
Encouragingly, the corporate results of our purchased Cove Energy during the year.
Siam Cements holdings in both markets were largely positive.
profits fell from a year ago, primarily because of weaker petrochemical margins.
Turning towards stock selection, the portfolios two Philippine holdings were among the top ten contributors.
The In India, both Infosys and Hero Motocorp underperformed.
improved domestic economic environment led to a pick-up The IT Services company is exposed to both the financial in capital expenditure and investment, which in turn, services sector and the US market which slowed its growth benefited property developer Ayala Land and lender the Bank momentum.
However, Infosys continued to deliver decent of the Philippine Islands BPI.
After posting record profits in earnings growth, boosted in part by rupee weakness, 2011 and registering earnings growth of over 30%, Ayala although the numbers undershot analysts expectations.
It Land maintained its positive trend in the first half of 2012, 8 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc was a different story for Hero Motocorp, which continued to shares towards the end of the financial year following a report record quarterly sales volumes and profit growth period of underperformance.
The second half of the calendar year, however, may prove a bit tougher as the Outlook currency weakness could put pressure on costs, while rural As the Chairman highlighted, the outlook for corporate sales are dependent on the monsoon season.
However, the earnings growth in the region has moderated but remains company continues to invest in additional capacity and will positive.
While inflationary pressures have eased, we cannot target new export markets as it adjusts operationally without be certain that they will not resurface.
Importantly, the Honda's partnership.
valuations of Edinburgh Dragon Trusts underlying companies remain very reasonable, although many consumer-related Portfolio Activity companies appear to be trading on more expensive multiples, There was only one addition and two disposals during the given the positive demographics and rising income levels year.
As always, the bulk of our trading was done when across much of the region.
As ever, the bulk of the portfolios pricing opportunities arose, with the aim of buying and companies have solid balance sheets: all have experienced holding the businesses that we chose to invest in.
The new management teams and good market positions and we are holding was Keppel Corporation, a leading Singapore-based confident in the future of their businesses.
conglomerate with a strong position in the offshore and marine segment.
Despite operating in a cyclical industry, the company has established an excellent track record and its Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Limited order book remains steady, given its ability to design 31 October 2012 proprietary jackups and semi-submersible rigs.
We built up the position through the year and in a similar vein, we added to last years new holdings in HSBC and AIA Group.
on behalf of Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited Against this we sold Indian fast-moving consumer goods Both companies are subsidiaries of Aberdeen Asset company Hindustan Unilever and took partial profits in sister Management PLC.
The companies performed well, both operationally and even stronger in share price terms, so valuations look relatively expensive.
We maintained a holding in the Indonesian company given the less severe competitive environment compared to India and the higher margins of the business there.
In fairness, both companies have continued to perform well but we will maintain our pricing discipline as much as possible.
We also sold the small holding in Dah Sing Banking.
Although cheap, well-capitalised and always mooted as a potential takeover target by larger mainland institutions, the operating numbers disappointed, with net interest margins contracting on the back of competition and further provisions taken for its treasury portfolio.
We took the decision to transfer this exposure to larger financials, HSBC and AIA Group.
Other trading activities were more opportunistic and those worthy of specific mention include the following: we topped up Infosys and DFCC Bank on weakness and added to Hong Kong property stocks, Hang Lung Group and Swire Pacific, during the September 2011 market sell-off.
We also topsliced positions in more defensive companies, such as BAT Malaysia, Singapore Telecom and Taiwan Mobile following their strong relative performance and reallocated the proceeds to stocks that fell to more attractive levels.
These included Grasim, Petrochina and Siam Cement.
We took partial profits from ASM Pacific earlier, then bought back Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 9
