Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial Review of Performance statements for the year ended 31 August 2012.
An outline of the performance, market background, investment activity and portfolio strategy during the year Business Review under review, as well as the investment outlook, is provided in the Chairmans Statement and Managers Review.
This Business Review, in conjunction with the rest of the Report and Accounts, is intended to provide shareholders Future Trends with the information and measures that the Directors use to assess, direct and oversee the Manager in the management The regions economies have high rates of growth, strong of the Companys portfolio.
The Business Review is prepared trade and fiscal surpluses and rapidly developing capital in accordance with the requirements of Section 417 of the markets.
Nevertheless the past has demonstrated regional Companies Act 2006. risks and the outlook for the region is provided in the Chairmans Statement and Managers Review.
Principal Activity Risk Management The Company is registered as a public limited company in Scotland and is an investment company as defined by The major risks associated with the Company are detailed Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys below: registration number is SC106049.
Resource risk: The Company is an investment trust and has no employees.
The responsibility for the management of The Company carries on business as an investment trust and the Company has been delegated to Aberdeen Asset the Directors do not envisage any change in this activity in Managers Limited the Manager under the management the foreseeable future.
The Company has received requisite agreement.
The terms of the management agreement cover approval of investment trust status from HM Revenue and the necessary duties and conditions expected of the Customs for accounting periods up to and including 31 Manager.
The Board reviews the performance of the August 2011.
Manager on a regular basis and their compliance with the management contract formally on an annual basis.
The Directors are of the opinion, under advice, that the Company has conducted its affairs for the year ended 31 Investment and market risk: The Company is exposed to the August 2012 so as to be able to obtain approval as an effect of variations in share prices due to the nature of its investment trust in accordance with Chapter 4 of Part 24 of business.
Investment in Asian equities involves a greater the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the Investment Trust degree of risk than that usually associated with investment Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011 for that year, in the major securities markets.
These include a greater risk although approval for the period would be subject to review of social, political and economic instability including were there to be any enquiry under the Corporation Tax Self changes in government which may restrict investment Assessment regime.
opportunities and have an adverse effect on economic reform.
Changes in legal, regulatory and accounting policies The Company has conducted its affairs so as to satisfy the can also affect the value of the Companys investments.
requirements as a qualifying security for Individual Savings The lower volumes of trading in certain securities of Accounts.
The Directors intend that the Company will emerging markets may result in lack of liquidity and price continue to conduct its affairs in this manner.
In addition, currency fluctuations and high interest rates may affect the value of the Companys Investment Objective and Policy investments and the income derived therefrom.
The Companys objective is to achieve long term capital The Board continually monitors the investment policy of growth through investment in the Far East.
The Companys the Company, taking account of stockmarket factors, and benchmark is the MSCI All Country Asia ex Japan Index.
reviews the Companys performance compared to its Investments are made in stock markets in the region with the benchmark index and peer group.
Further details on other exception of Japan and Australasia, principally in large risks relating to the Companys investment activities, companies.
including market price, liquidity and foreign currency risks, are provided in note 18 to the financial statements.
Details of the Company's investment policy and strategy are provided in the Investment Objective and Policy section on Gearing risk: As at 31 August 2012 the Company had 59.8 page 3. million nominal of 3.5% Convertible Unsecured Loan Stock 2018 CULS.
Gearing has the effect of exacerbating market falls and gains.
In order to manage the level of Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 21 Directors Report continued gearing, the Board has set a maximum gearing ratio of The Ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends which 20%.
are declared from time to time by an ordinary resolution of Regulatory risk: The Company operates in a complex the Company up to the amount recommended by the regulatory environment and faces a number of regulatory Board and to receive any interim dividends which the risks.
Serious breaches of regulations, such as the tax rules Directors may resolve the Company should pay.
On a for investment companies, the UKLA Listing Rules and the winding-up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the Companies Act, could lead to a number of detrimental surplus assets will be paid to Ordinary shareholders in outcomes and reputational damage.
The Audit Committee proportion to their shareholdings.
On a show of hands, every monitors compliance with regulations by reviewing internal Ordinary shareholder present in person, or by proxy, has one control reports from the Manager.
vote and, on a poll, every Ordinary shareholder present in person has one vote for each share held and a proxy has one Discount volatility: The Companys share price can trade at vote for every share represented.
a discount to its underlying net asset value.
The Board monitors the discount level of the Companys shares and There are no restrictions concerning the holding or transfer has in place a buyback mechanism whereby the Manager is of the Company's Ordinary shares and there are no special authorised to buy back shares within certain limits.
rights attached to any of the shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders which may Monitoring Performance Key Performance Indicators result in restriction on the transfer of shares or the voting At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of rights.
performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving its objectives.
The key performance indicators The interest rate on the CULS is 3.5% per annum, payable KPIs are established industry measures, and are as follows: semi-annually in arrears on 31 January and 31 July in each year.
CULS holders are entitled to convert their CULS into Net asset value total return Ordinary shares every six months from 31 July 2011 until 31 Share price total return January 2018.
In accordance with the terms of the CULS Performance attribution Issue, the conversion price of the CULS was determined at Discount to net asset value 310.1528 pence nominal of CULS for one Ordinary share, which represented a 10% premium to the published An analysis of these measures is disclosed on pages 4 to 9. unaudited NAV per Ordinary share including income of Performance is measured against the Companys benchmark, 281.9571 pence at close of business on 5 January 2011.
Any the MSCI All Country Asia ex Japan Index and the Board CULS not previously redeemed, purchased or converted will also considers peer group comparative performance.
be repaid by the Company on 31 January 2018 at its nominal amount.
CULS holders have the power by Extraordinary Social, Community, Employee Responsibilities and Resolution to sanction any modification, abrogation or Environmental Policy compromise of, or arrangement in, respect of their rights As an investment trust, the Company has no employees and against the Company and to assent to any modification of has no direct social, community, employee or environmental the provisions of the Trust Deed.
Details of the Companys Socially Responsible Investment policy are set out in the Corporate In the event of a winding-up of the Company, the Ordinary Governance Report.
shares will rank behind any creditors or prior ranking capital of the Company, including the CULS.
Capital Structure and Borrowings During the year to 31 August 2012, the Company issued Other Information 13,909 2011 35,131 Ordinary shares following elections The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of by CULS holders to convert 43,160 2011 - 108,987 Directors, amendments of the Articles of Association and nominal of CULS.
There were no buybacks of Ordinary shares powers to issue or buy back Company's shares are contained during the year.
in the Articles of Association of the Company and the Companies Act 2006.
There are no agreements which the At 31 August 2012, the Company had 196,360,259 2011 Company is party to that might affect its control following a 196,346,350 fully paid Ordinary shares of 20p each in issue takeover bid: and there are no agreements between the and 59,847,853 2011 59,891,013 nominal of CULS.
Company and its Directors concerning compensation for loss There have been no changes in the Companys issued share of office.
Other than the Management Agreement with the capital and borrowings subsequent to the year end and up to Manager, further details of which are set out on page 23, the the date of this report.
Company is not aware of any contractual or other 22 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc agreements which are essential to its business which ought The Directors interests in the shares of the Company as at to be disclosed in the Directors Report.
31 August 2012 are shown in Table 1.
The Company has not been notified of any subsequent changes in Directors Dividends interests.
The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 2.20p per Directors Liability Insurance Ordinary share 2011 3.20p be paid on 14 December 2012 to shareholders on the register on 16 November 2012.
The The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity provisions ex-date is 14 November 2012. contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Company maintains insurance in respect of Directors and Directors officers liabilities in relation to their acts on behalf of the Company.
Details of the current Directors of the Company are shown on pages 18 to 20.
Management Agreement Frank Frame retired from the Board on 7 December 2011.
The Manager to the Company is Aberdeen Asset Managers Iain Watt will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Limited.
Under the Management Agreement, the Manager is Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 December 2012. required to give a notice period of six months if it wishes to terminate the agreement.
The notice period for the Company Kathryn Langridge was appointed as a non-executive Director is three months or on shorter notice in certain circumstances.
Compensation is payable in lieu of the unexpired notice period if actual notice is less than the notice period.
The The Articles of Association provide that Directors retire and management fee is 0.25% per quarter of the net assets of are subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting the Company less i the value of any investment funds following their appointment and thereafter must offer managed by the Manager and ii 50% of the value of any themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
In investment funds managed or advised by investment a change to this practice and in order to meet the managers other than the Manager.
7.1 of the new UK Corporate Governance Code published in June 2010, all of the Directors Auditor of the Company will stand for re-election.
Resolutions 4 to 9 The Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, is willing to inclusive, which relate the re-election of each of the continue in office, and resolutions will be proposed at the Directors, will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting to re-appoint them, and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
31 August 2012 1 September 2011 During the year ended 31 August 2012, 4,240 2011 - 4,000 was paid to the auditor for non audit services.
This Ordinary Ordinary CULS shares CULS shares related to further assurance work regarding the interim and regulatory reporting.
Allan 28,820 15,000 28,820 15,000 McKenzie The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this David Gairns Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, Frank Frame n a n a 2,164 8,500 there is no relevant audit information of which the retired 7 Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken December all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to 2011 make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to Tony Lowrie establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that Iain McLaren 20,379 10,000 20,379 10,000 information.
Peter 2,500 n a n a Maynard Corporate Governance appointed 12 The Statement of Corporate Governance, which forms part October of the Directors Report, is contained on pages 26 to 29.
2011 Iain Watt 29,844 17,164 29,844 17,164 Payments Policy Table 1 Directors and their interests in the Company It is the Companys policy to settle all investment No contract or arrangement subsisted during the period in transactions in accordance with the terms and conditions of which any of the Directors was materially interested.
No the relevant markets in which it operates.
All other expenses Director had a service contract with the Company.
Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 23 Directors Report continued are paid on a timely basis in the ordinary course of business.
cash, pursuant to a rights issue made pro rata to In certain circumstances, settlement terms are agreed prior shareholders in the future.
Ordinary shares would only be to business taking place.
issued for cash pursuant to a rights issue at a price above the net asset value per share.
This authority will expire on Substantial Share Interests 28 February 2014 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless At 31 October 2012 the substantial interests in the Ordinary previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company share capital which had been notified to the Company during in general meeting.
the period are shown in Table 2.
The Directors consider that the powers proposed to be No.
of granted by the above resolutions are necessary to Ordinary provide flexibility to issue shares should they deem it to Holder shares % be in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Lazard Freres Asset 21,886,816 11.1 Directors do not have any intention of exercising such Management powers at present.
City of London Investment 19,621,411 10.0 Management iv Purchase of the Companys own Ordinary shares Investec Wealth & 16,285,358 8.3 Resolution 15, which will be proposed as a special Investment resolution, will authorise the Company to make market Derbyshire County Council 12,000,000 6.1 purchases of its own shares.
The maximum number of Table 2: Substantial share interests Ordinary shares which may be purchased pursuant to the authority shall be 14.99% of the issued share capital Annual General Meeting of the Company as at the date of the passing of the Among the resolutions being put at the Annual General resolution approximately 29.4 million Ordinary shares.
Meeting of the Company to be held on 11 December 2012, The minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary the following resolutions will be proposed: share exclusive of expenses shall be 20p.
The maximum price for an Ordinary share again exclusive of i Continuation of Company expenses shall be an amount being not more than the Resolution 12, which is an ordinary resolution, will, if higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market approved, allow the Company to continue as an quotations for the Companys Ordinary shares for the investment trust.
five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher of the price of the last ii Section 551 Authority to Allot Shares independent trade and the highest current independent Resolution 13, which is an ordinary resolution, will, if bid relating to an Ordinary share on the trading venue approved, give the Directors a general authority to allot where the purchase is carried out.
new securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 13,090,684 representing approximately 33.33 per cent.
This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if to do of the total Ordinary share capital of the Company in so would enhance the net asset value per share and is in issue as at the date of this Directors Report, such the best interests of shareholders generally.
Shares so authority to expire on 28 February 2014 or, if earlier, at repurchased will be cancelled.
This authority will expire the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of on 28 February 2014 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the Company unless previously revoked, varied or the next Annual General Meeting of the Company extended by the Company in general meeting.
unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting.
iii Limited dis-application of Pre-emption Provisions As noted above, resolution 13 will, if approved, give the v Notice period for general meetings Directors a general authority to allot securities up to an The Companys Articles of Association enable the aggregate nominal amount of 13,090,684.
Resolution Company to call general meetings other than an Annual 14, which is a special resolution, will, if approved, give General Meeting on 14 clear days' notice.
In order for the Directors power to allot unissued Ordinary shares up this to be effective, the shareholders must also approve to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 1,963,603 the calling of meetings on 14 days' notice by separate being 5% of the current issued share capital of the resolution.
Resolution 16, which will be proposed as a Company, for cash other than to existing shareholders special resolution, seeks such approval.
The approval will pro rata to their holdings.
A maximum of 13,090,684 of be effective until the Company's next Annual General unissued Ordinary share capital may also be allotted for Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will 24 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations before it can call a general meeting on 14 days' notice.
Recommendation The Directors believe that the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole, and recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings totalling, in aggregate, 44,664 Ordinary shares, and representing 0.02% of the existing issued Ordinary share capital of the Company.
By order of the Board, Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited Secretary Edinburgh, 31 October 2012 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 25
