Your Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and independent of the Manager, supervise the management of Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc and represent the interests of shareholders.
Allan McKenzie David Gairns Kathryn Langridge Status: Independent Non-Executive Status: Senior Independent NonStatus: Independent Non-Executive Chairman Executive Director Director Length of service: 6 years, appointed a Length of service: 9 years, appointed a Length of service: Appointed on 29 Director on 1 September 2006 Director on 1 July 2003 October 2012 Experience: former chief operating Experience: is a chartered accountant Experience: has 30 years experience in officer and a managing director of and has spent his professional career the investment industry.
She is BlackRock International Limited prior to with KPMG, retiring in 1991 as senior currently fund management director at his retirement in 2006.
He is the partner of the Hong Kong firm.
He is a Jupiter Asset Management responsible chairman of Impax Asian Environmental former non-executive director of The for running the Jupiter Global Emerging Markets plc.
He is also a former Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Markets Fund.
She was previously the director of BlackRock Global Series plc Corporation and Mass Transit Railway Head of the Global Emerging Markets and a former chairman and director of Corporation.
team at Lloyd George Management, the Thailand International Fund Committee membership: Audit where she was responsible for Limited.
Between 1972 and 1991 he Committee Chairman and developing investment strategy and was actively involved in fund Remuneration Committee Chairman managing equity portfolios across a management, specialising in Asian Remuneration: 28,000 per annum range of emerging markets.
Since 1991 his role with effect from 1 September 2012 this, she was at INVESCO Perpetual for was in marketing and client relationship All other public company 17 years holding positions that included management at both Scottish Widows directorships: None Head of Asian investments and Head of Investment Management and Employment by the Manager: None International Equity Products.
Other connections with Trust or began her career in Asia with Jardine Committee membership: Audit Manager: None Fleming.
Committee and Remuneration Shared Directorships with any other Committee membership: None Committee Trust Directors: None Remuneration: 24,000 per annum Remuneration: 36,000 per annum Shareholding in Company: None with effect from 29 October 2012 with effect from 1 September 2012 All other public company All other public company directorships: None directorships: Impax Asian Employment by the Manager: None Environmental Markets plc Other connections with Trust or Employment by the Manager: None Manager: None Other connections with Trust or Shared Directorships with any other Manager: None Trust Directors: None Shared Directorships with any other Shareholding in Company: None Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: 15,000 Ordinary shares and 28,820 CULS 18 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc Tony Lowrie Iain McLaren Status: Independent Non-Executive Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Director Length of service: 8 years, appointed a Length of service: 2 years, appointed a Director on 4 October 2004 Director on 6 September 2010 Experience: has been involved in Asian Experience: is a chartered accountant investment for over 30 years, originally and was a partner at KPMG for 27 with Hoare Govett and HG Asia and years, including Senior Partner in ABN Amro where he was a managing Scotland from 1999 to 2004, retiring director prior to his retirement in 2007. from the firm in 2008.
He is the Senior He is a director of Kenmare Resources Independent Director and Audit plc and Petra Diamonds Limited and a Committee Chairman of Cairn Energy former non-executive director of JD Plc.
He is also chairman of Investors Wetherspoon and Allied Gold.
Capital Trust Plc and a non-executive Committee membership: director of Baillie Gifford Shin Nippon Remuneration Committee Plc, Ecofin Water & Power Remuneration: 24,000 per annum Opportunities plc and a director of a with effect from 1 September 2012 number of other companies.
He is a All other public company former President of the Institute of directorships: Kenmare Resources plc Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
and Petra Diamonds Limited Committee membership: Audit Employment by the Manager: None Committee Other connections with Trust or Remuneration: 26,000 per annum Manager: None with effect from 1 September 2012 Shared Directorships with any other All other public company Trust Directors: None directorships: Cairn Energy Plc, Baillie Shareholding in Company: None Gifford Shin Nippon Plc, Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities plc and Investors Capital Trust Plc Employment by the Manager: None Other connections with Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: 10,000 Ordinary shares and 20,379 CULS Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 19 Your Board of Directors continued Peter Maynard Iain Watt Status: Independent Non-Executive Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Director Length of service: 1 year, appointed a Length of service: 25 years, appointed Director on 12 October 2011 a Director on 12 August 1987 Experience: qualified as a solicitor and Experience: has over 40 years was Group Legal Director at Prudential experience of the investment plc from 1998 to 2009 and Company management industry and was former Secretary from July 1999.
Prior to that chief executive of Edinburgh Fund he was with HSBC for 14 years during Managers plc.
which time he was variously a Director Committee membership: None of HSBC Investment Bank, President Remuneration: 24,000 per annum and Chief Executive Officer of James with effect from 1 September 2012 Capel Inc in New York and finally All other public company Deputy Group Legal Adviser.
Recently directorships: None he has been the Head of Group Employment by the Manager: None Governance and Regulatory Other connections with Trust or Compliance at Old Mutual plc.
He is a Manager: None former chairman of the GC100 and was Shared Directorships with any other a supervisory board member of the Trust Directors: None London Business School Centre for Shareholding in Company: 17,164 Corporate Governance.
He is a nonOrdinary shares and 29,844 CULS executive director of Brunner Investment Trust plc.
Committee membership: None Remuneration: 24,000 per annum with effect from 1 September 2012 All other public company directorships: Brunner Investment Trust plc Employment by the Manager: None Other connections with Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: 2,500 Ordinary shares 20 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc
