Investment Objective and Policy Investment Objective and corporate governance.
Price is calculated by reference to key financial ratios, the market, the peer group and business The investment objective of the Company is to achieve longprospects.
Stock selection is key in constructing a diversified term capital growth through investment in the Far East.
portfolio of companies with top-down investment approach Investments are made in stock markets in the region, with and benchmark weightings being secondary factors.
The the exception of Japan and Australasia, principally in large Manager is authorised to invest up to 15% of the Companys companies.
When appropriate, the Company will utilise gross assets in any single stock, calculated at the time an gearing to maximise long term returns.
Benchmark A detailed description of the investment process and risk The Companys benchmark index is the MSCI All Country controls employed by the Manager is disclosed on page 12.
A comprehensive analysis of the Companys portfolio by country and by sector is disclosed on pages 14 to 17, Investment Policy including a description of the ten largest investments, the full The Companys assets are invested in a diversified portfolio investment portfolio by value, sector geographical analysis of securities in quoted companies spread across a range of and currency market performance.
At 31 August 2012, the industries and economies in the Asia Pacific region, excluding Companys portfolio consisted of 47 holdings.
The shares that make up the portfolio are selected from companies that have proven management The Board is responsible for determining the gearing policy and whose shares are considered to be under-priced.
The for the Company and has set a maximum gearing limit of Company invests in a diversified range of sectors and 20%.
Gearing is used to leverage the Companys portfolio in countries.
Investments are not limited as to market order to enhance returns where and to the extent this is capitalisation, sector or country weightings within the region.
considered appropriate to do so.
At 31 August 2012, the Companys gearing was 10.3%.
The Companys policy is to invest no more than 15% of gross assets in other listed investment companies including listed As at 31 August 2012, the Company had no holdings in other investment trusts.
listed investment companies including listed investment trusts.
The Company complies with Chapter 4 of Part 24 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011 and does not invest more than 15% of its assets in the shares of any one company.
When appropriate the Company will utilise gearing to maximise long-term returns, which is subject to a maximum gearing level of 20% imposed by the Board.
The Company does not currently utilise derivatives but keeps this under review.
Achieving the Investment Policy The Directors are responsible for determining the investment policy and the investment objective of the Company.
Dayto-day management of the Companys assets has been delegated to the Manager who invests in a diversified range of companies throughout the Asia Pacific investment region in accordance with the investment policy.
The Manager follows a bottom-up investment process based on a disciplined evaluation of companies through direct contact by its fund managers.
Stock selection is the major source of added value.
No stock is bought without the Manager having first met management.
The Manager evaluates a companys worth in two stages: quality then price.
Quality is defined by reference to management, business focus, the balance sheet Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 3
