THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 signing of the balance sheet.
In considering this, the Directors took into account the diversified portfolio of readily realisable securities which can be used to meet funding commitments, and the ability of the Company to meet all of its liabilities and ongoing expenses from its assets.
The Directors also considered the revenue forecasts for the forthcoming year and future dividend payments in concluding on the going concern basis.
Audit Committee The Board is supported by an Audit Committee consisting of all non-executive Directors with the exception of Jim Pettigrew.
Gordon McQueen was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee on 22 July 2011 when Jim Pettigrew became Chairman of the Board.
The Committee has written terms of reference which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, including its role and authority, were updated during the year to ensure best practice and compliance with the AIC Code.
They will be available for inspection at the AGM and can be inspected at the Registered Office of the Company or on the Managers website.
The Audit Committee is responsible to the Board for reviewing each aspect of the financial reporting process, systems of internal control and the management of financial risks, the audit process, relationships with external auditors, the Companys processes for monitoring compliance with laws and regulations, its code of business conduct and for making recommendations to the Board.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board in respect of the appointment, reappointment and removal of the auditor and for the terms of their audit engagement.
It is also responsible for reviewing the Managers whistleblowing arrangements.
Duties of the Audit Committee include discussing with the external auditor the nature and scope of the audit and reviewing the external auditors quality control procedures: considering the scope of work undertaken by the Managers internal audit and compliance departments: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Managers internal audit: reviewing the Companys procedures for detecting fraud: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company: reviewing the half-yearly and annual financial reports of the Company prior to their submission to the Board: and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control systems including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
They also include responsibility for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the audit process and the external auditors independence and objectivity with particular regard to the provision of non-audit services.
The Audit Committee of the Board meets the external auditor in the absence of representatives from the Manager at least once a year to review these and other appropriate matters.
Shareholders have the opportunity at each Annual General Meeting to vote on the re-appointment of the external auditor for the forthcoming year and to authorise the Directors to determine the level of auditors remuneration.
The Committee also reviews corporate governance issues, the existence and performance of all controls operating in the Company including compliance with the conditions for approval as an investment trust, the relationship with and the performance of third party service providers.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year in the performance of their duties.
In addition, the Audit Committee Chairman meets with the Manager on a regular basis, and from time to time with the external Auditor.
The Committee has received satisfactory reports on the Managers internal operations from the Managers Compliance and Internal Audit departments.
The Committee has reviewed the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 with the Manager and the auditor at the conclusion of the audit process.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at the AGM to deal with questions relating to the accounts.
The Committee has recommended approval by the Board of an audit fee of 23,000, exclusive of expenses and VAT.
The Committee has considered and is satisfied with the objectivity and the independence of the auditor.
Non-audit fees for the year to 31 March 2012 were 7,000 and related to the review of the half-yearly financial report and the annual certificates of compliance to the trustee of the debenture stocks.
The Committee does not believe that this has impaired the auditors independence and objectivity.
Non-audit services up to 5,000 do not require approval in advance of the Audit Committee: amounts in excess of this require the approval of the Audit Committee.
Relations with Shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Board and the Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with shareholders is through the half-yearly and annual
