THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11 DIRECTORS 1 2 Jim Pettigrew William Samuel Jim Pettigrew was appointed to William Samuel was appointed the Board on 27 October 2005 to the Board in 2003.
He is and became the Chairman on currently a senior advisor to 22 July 2011.
He is a Chartered Lazard in London having Accountant and he is also a formerly been Vice Chairman member of the Association of of European Investment Corporate Treasurers.
Following Banking at Citigroup, chairman a number of finance function of HP Bulmer Holdings and positions in Scotland and in Group Managing Director London including Group Treasurer of Sedgwick Group plc, Investment Bank at Schroders and a director of he was Group Finance Director, ICAP plc, a FTSE 100 Schroders PLC.
He is also Chairman of Howden Joinery company and the worlds largest specialist inter-dealer Group and Chairman of the Ecclesiastical Insurance broker from January 1999 to June 2006.
He was Chief Office and is Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Operating and Financial Officer of Ashmore Group plc Director of Inchcape plc.
He joined Schroders Investment from 2006 to 2007 and was Chief Executive Officer of Management Department in 1977 having qualified as a CMC Markets plc from 2007 to 2009.
He is a Chartered Accountant and was Head of Investment Non-Executive Director of Hermes Fund Managers Limited, Banking when Schroders sold its investment banking Royal Bank of Canada Europe Limited, Aberdeen Asset business to Salomon, Smith, Barney, part of Citigroup Management plc and AON UK Limited.
2 2 Richard Barfield Maxwell Ward Richard Barfield was appointed Maxwell Ward was appointed to to the Board in August 2001 the Board on 8 August 2011. and is the Senior Independent Mr Ward joined Baillie Gifford in Director.
He was previously 1971 becoming a partner in the Chief Investment Manager at firm in 1975 and was head of Standard Life.
He is Chairman of the UK Equity Department from The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust 1981 until his retirement in April and is a Director of the Standard 2000.
He was also a member of Life Property Income Trust.
He is the firms Management and a member of the Board of the Pension Protection Fund and Investment Policy Committees and Chairman of Baillie a Director of Coal Staff Superannuation Scheme Trustees Gifford Overseas.
From 1989 until 2000 he was manager of Limited.
Scottish Mortgage and Trust plc.
Following his retirement from Baillie Gifford, he floated The Independent Investment 2 Gordon McQueen Trust plc and has been its managing director since.
He is a Gordon McQueen was former non-executive Director of Aegon UK plc and Foreign appointed to the Board on and Colonial Investment Trust plc.
He is a Chartered 2 Accountant and a Fellow of the Sir Nigel Wicks Chartered Institute of Bankers of Sir Nigel Wicks, GCB, CVO, CBE Scotland.
He is a former Finance was appointed to the Board in Director of Bank of Scotland 2005.
After working for The and, until 2003, he was an British Petroleum Company, Sir Executive Director of HBOS plc, Nigel joined HM Treasury in where his main role was Chief Executive, Treasury.
He worked for Prime Director and Audit Committee Chairman of Shaftesbury Ministers Harold Wilson, James PLC, Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust Plc and JPMorgan Callaghan and Margaret Midcap Investment Trust Plc.
He has been the United Kingdoms Executive Director at the International 2 Nicola Ralston Monetary Fund and World Bank and the Prime Ministers Nicola Ralston was appointed to representative Sherpa for the Economic Summits of the the Board in 2003.
She started Group of Seven Industrialised Nations.
From 1989 to 2000, her financial career in 1977 he was the Treasurys Second Permanent Secretary moving to Schroders in 1979. responsible for international financial matters.
The Prime During her time with the Minister appointed him as Chair of the Committee on Schroder Group, Nicola Standards in Public Life for the period March 2001 to April undertook a variety of 2004.
He is Chairman of Euroclear plc and a Commissioner analytical, fund management of the Jersey Financial Services Commission.
and business management roles, becoming Head of Investment Management for the Schroder Group in 1999.
After leaving Schroders in 2001, Nicola worked with a management consulting firm and was a Director of several hedge funds.
From 2005 to 2006 1 Member of the Management Engagement and she was Head of Global Investment Consulting at Hewitt.
She is now a Director of PiRho Investment Consulting, which she co-founded in 2008.
She is also a member of 2 Member of the Audit, Management Engagement and the FTSE Policy Committee.
