THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 MANAGEMENT AUDIT ENGAGEMENT BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE STRATEGY MEETINGS MEETINGS MEETINGS MEETINGS 1 Jim Pettigrew 4 4 3 3 1 1 1 1 Richard Barfield 4 4 3 3 1 1 1 1 2 Scott Dobbie 2 2 1 1 1 1 n a 3 Gordon McQueen 3 3 2 2 n a 1 1 Nicola Ralston 4 4 3 3 1 1 1 1 William Samuel 4 4 3 3 1 1 1 1 4 Maxwell Ward 2 2 2 2 n a 1 1 Sir Nigel Wicks 4 4 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 The Chairman is not a member of the Audit Committee but was in attendance at the meetings.
Board members attended a significant number of informal meetings to discuss other ad hoc items.
Directors Remuneration The Board as a whole reviews Directors remuneration periodically.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 29 and 30.
Board Responsibilities The Directors are equally responsible under United Kingdom law for the proper conduct of the Companys affairs and for promoting the success of the Company by directing and supervising its affairs within a framework of effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
In addition, the Directors are responsible for ensuring that their policies and operations are in the interest of all of the Companys shareholders and that the interests of creditors and suppliers to the Company are properly considered.
The Board is committed to the prevention of corruption in the conduct of the Companys affairs and, taking account of the nature of the Companys business and operations, has put in place procedures for and on behalf of the Company that the Board considers adequate to prevent persons associated with it from engaging in bribery.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its consideration, which clearly define the Directors responsibilities.
The main responsibilities include: setting the Companys objectives, policies and standards: ensuring that the Companys obligations to shareholders and others are understood and complied with: selecting an appropriate Manager, approving accounting policies and dividend policy: managing the capital structure: setting long-term objectives and strategy: reviewing investment performance: assessing risk: approving loans and borrowing: and controlling risks.
The Board ensures that shareholders are provided with sufficient information in order to understand the risk:reward balance to which they are exposed by holding their shares, through the portfolio details given in the half-yearly and annual financial reports, interim management statements, factsheets and daily NAV disclosures.
Finally, the Board as a whole undertakes the responsibilities which would otherwise be assumed by a remuneration committee, determining the Companys remuneration policy.
The Board takes into account all factors which are deemed necessary in order to ensure that members of the Board are provided with appropriate compensation and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Company.
The remuneration of Directors is reviewed periodically and reported on in more detail in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Supply of Information To enable the Directors of the Board to fulfil their roles, the Manager ensures that all Directors have timely access to all relevant management, financial and regulatory information.
