26 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The Companys policy is that, subject to an overriding requirement to pursue the best financial interests of the Company, the Manager should take account of social, environmental and ethical factors in making and holding investments and in the use of voting powers conferred by such investments.
The Company is able to supply documents or information to shareholders in electronic form e. g. by email or by means of a website.
This will deliver environmental benefits through reduced use of paper and the energy required for its production and distribution.
Directors Directors Disclosable Interests The beneficial interests of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company are set out below: 31 MARCH 31 MARCH 2012 2011 Jim Pettigrew 20,000 20,000 Richard Barfield 13,984 13,984 Gordon McQueen appointed 31 May 2011 2,000 Nicola Ralston 15,000 15,000 William Samuel 23,170 23,170 Maxwell Ward appointed 8 August 2011 20,000 Sir Nigel Wicks 3,500 3,500 Save as aforesaid, no Director had any interests, beneficial or otherwise, in the shares of the Company during the year.
No Director held any of the Companys debenture stocks at either date.
No changes to these holdings had been notified up to the date of this report.
No Director was a party to, or had any interests in, any contract or arrangement with the Company at any time during the year or at the year end.
The Company has entered into a Deed of Indemnity with Directors individually.
Director Indemnification and Insurance A Deed of Indemnity was executed between the Company and each Director.
Under the terms of the indemnities, a Director may be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all costs, charges, losses, expenses and liabilities which the Director may sustain or incur in the execution or purported execution or discharge of his or her duties or the exercise of his powers or discretions as a Director of the Company.
This includes any liability incurred by the Director in disputing, defending, investigating or providing evidence in connection with any actual or threatened or alleged claims, demands, investigations or proceedings whether civil or criminal, and any settlement in respect thereof.
Directors will continue to be indemnified under the terms of the indemnities notwithstanding that they may have ceased to be Directors of the Company.
However, Directors will not be entitled to be indemnified for any liability to the Company for fines payable to regulatory authorities, for defending any criminal proceedings in which they are convicted or in defending any civil proceedings brought by the Company in which judgment is given against a Director.
In these circumstances, the Director will repay to the Company any amount received from the Company under his indemnity.
The indemnity does not apply to the extent that a liability is recoverable from any insurers, if it is prohibited by the Companies Act 2006 or otherwise prohibited by law or if a liability arises from an act or omission of the Director which is shown to have been in bad faith or arising from gross negligence.
Share Capital Capital Structure At the year end, the Companys issued share capital consisted of 195,116,734 ordinary shares of 25p each.
To enable the Board to take action to deal with any significant overhang or shortage of shares in the market, it seeks approval from shareholders every year to buy back and issue shares, however, no shares were bought back or issued in the year.
