24 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued financial reports, which aim to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys activities and their results.
This information is supplemented by the daily calculation and publication of the net asset value of the Companys ordinary shares, interim management statements and by monthly and daily fact sheets produced by the Manager.
This information can be accessed at the Managers investment trust website at www.
At each AGM, a presentation is made by the investment manager following the formal business of the Meeting and shareholders have the opportunity to attend, vote and most importantly to communicate directly with the whole Board.
There is a regular dialogue between the Manager and major institutional shareholders to discuss aspects of investment performance, governance and strategy and to listen to shareholder views in order to help develop an understanding of their issues and concerns.
General presentations to both institutional shareholders and analysts follow the publication of the annual results.
All meetings between the Manager and shareholders are reported to the Board.
During the year, the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the other Directors also met representatives of those major shareholders who accepted an invitation from the Chairman to meet.
Stewardship The Board considers that the Company has a responsibility as a shareholder towards ensuring that high standards of Corporate Governance are maintained in the companies in which it invests.
To achieve this, the Board does not seek to intervene in daily management decisions, but aims to support high standards of governance and, where necessary, will take the initiative to ensure those standards are met.
The principal means of putting shareholder responsibility into practice is through the exercise of voting rights.
The Companys voting rights are exercised on an informed and independent basis.
The Companys stewardship functions have been delegated to the Manager.
The Manager has adopted a clear and considered policy towards its responsibility as a shareholder on behalf of the Company.
As part of this policy, the Manager takes steps to satisfy itself about the extent to which the companies in which it invests look after shareholders value and comply with local recommendations and practices, such as the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A copy of the Managers policy on Corporate Governance and stewardship can be found at www.
Conflicts of Interest A Director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or has the potential to conflict with the companys interests.
The Articles of Association of the Company give the Directors authority to authorise potential conflicts of interest and there are safeguards which apply when Directors decide whether to do so.
Firstly, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors can impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Directors have declared any potential conflicts of interest to the Company.
The Register of Potential Conflicts of Interests is kept at the Registered Office of the Company.
It is reviewed regularly by the Board and the Directors will advise the Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of any potential conflicts of interest.
The Manager Investment Management Agreement IMA Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML acts as Manager and Secretary to the Company under an investment management agreement dated 15 September 2008.
The agreement is terminable by either party by giving not less than 3 months notice.
The management fee is payable monthly in arrears and is equal to 0.05% of the market capitalisation of the Companys ordinary shares at each month end.
IAML is also entitled to a performance fee in respect of each rolling three year period in which the Company outperforms its benchmark, the FTSE All-Share Index, plus a hurdle rate, this being the equivalent of 1.25% per annum, as adjusted for shorter periods.
Any performance fee earned will be the lower of 15% of the outperformance based on the average quarterly net asset value with debt at par of the Company over the relevant performance period and
