08 MANAGERS REPORT Market Review A return of 1.4% by the FTSE All-Share index over the 12 months masks some major swings in sentiment and high stock market volatility.
The optimistic mood in which markets had started 2011 soon waned as the year unfolded and global events, particularly the eurozone sovereign debt and banking crisis, dominated UK stock market sentiment.
The third quarter of the calendar year witnessed the worst performance a negative return of 13.5% by the index since 2002, as forecasts for slower economic growth added to stock market concerns.
Neil Woodford Mirroring the pattern of the previous year, the stock market saw a strong recovery into the end of 2011, this time driven by a significant shift in policy by the European Central Bank, which announced its long-term refinancing operation LTRO.
This was seen as removing the near term risk of a major banking crisis.
The performance comparison with the previous year continued into 2012, as the UK stock market rose on the back of improved economic news coming out of the US along with a second round of LTRO from the ECB.
The last month of the period, however, saw optimism waning and some profit taking as doubts re-emerged about the strength of the global economy and the longer term resolution of the eurozone debt crisis and investors struggled to find reasons to propel equities higher.
Portfolio Strategy and Review The Companys net asset value, including reinvested dividends, rose by 15.2% during the period, compared to a rise of 1.4% total return by the FTSE All-Share Index.
Against such a turbulent stock market backdrop, there was inevitably volatility in the performance of the Company during the year.
The positioning of the portfolio, however, mitigated this while also providing a healthy positive absolute return against a flat performance by the UK stock market.
The significant outperformance of the index by the Company over the year indicates to the manager that market dynamics appear to have changed.
In the previous two years, equity markets were largely driven by momentum, with fundamentals being ignored.
During the last 12 months, however, fundamentals have started to reassert themselves, with valuation again starting to matter.
The portfolio has significant exposure to the tobacco sector and this had a positive impact on performance over the year.
The holdings in British American Tobacco and Imperial Tobacco both delivered returns in excess of 30%, as investors were again reminded of the attractions of the sectors quality, dependable characteristics and cashflow.
While the valuations in the sector may no longer be as low as they were a decade ago, in the managers view they still look attractive given this dependability and the companies focus on delivering returns to shareholders.
Over a quarter of the Companys assets are invested in the pharmaceutical sector, which also performed well over the year.
This was particularly the case for the holding in GlaxoSmithKline, which announced a 15% increase in its share buy-back in November and that it may file as many as 10 new drugs for regulatory approval next year.
This wrong-footed the stock market which appeared to have given up on the industrys ability to discover new drugs.
The Companys holdings in Roche and Novartis gained additionally from the strength of the Swiss franc and, while the performance of AstraZeneca was pedestrian by comparison, the total return from the holding still exceeded that of the index over the 12 months.
The manager remains convinced that, over the longer term, a significant exposure to this sector will prove rewarding.
The holding in BT again delivered positive returns over the year.
As well as pleasing the stock market with news that its roll-out of high speed broadband is progressing faster than expected, the company announced that it had reached an agreement with its pension scheme trustees on a reduction plan for the schemes deficit.
This allows BT scope to increase future returns to shareholders and the stock market to focus on the value the manager sees within the shares.
Newsflow over the period from the Companys major holdings was mostly positive.
This was not, however, the case for Tesco.
The companys trading update and profit warning suggested that we had placed too much confidence in the businesss ability to cope with the economic headwinds and also that some of the companys investment decisions of recent years have not created the value originally envisaged.
For example, the building of much bigger stores to cope with an expanding product range has coincided with a boom in internet shopping.
THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 09 There was also disappointing news from the investment in Chemring the company announced that unexpected delays in customer orders would hit full year revenues and profits.
A negative impact on performance came from the holding in Homeserve, the shares of which fell sharply on news last October that, following an independent review, the company had decided to suspend part of its sales operation pending a re-training of its telephone sales staff.
The manager disposed of the Companys holding in Tesco for the reasons outlined above.
He also took some profits in the tobacco and telecommunications sectors following strong outperformance: these, however, remain core holdings.
The proceeds were re-invested in positions across the pharmaceutical sector and new investments were made in Sanofi, Serco Group and Smith & Nephew.
The manager took advantage of share price weakness to add to holdings in Chemring and Homeserve.
Outlook The manager expects concerns about the eurozone debt crisis and the outlook for the global economy to remain a feature throughout the rest of 2012 and beyond, as the developed world continues to grapple with the aftermath of the 2008 banking crisis.
His view remains that, following this crisis, the economies of the developed world face a period of inevitably lower growth, as the necessary fide-leveraging takes place.
Whilst low interest rates and innovative monetary policy can help offset the negative impact of this fide-leveraging, the tools available to central banks and governments are not powerful enough to effect a strong and sustainable recovery.
This does not mean that equities will necessarily fall significantly and neither does it alter the confidence that the manager has for the scope for an appropriately positioned portfolio to produce positive returns.
His strategy remains unchanged he continues to focus the portfolio on what he believes to be fundamentally cheap companies, many of which are defined as blue-chip or the new sovereigns, and where he believes valuations continue to underestimate their ability to grow through a prolonged period of economic stagnation.
Neil Woodford Investment Manager 31 May 2012
