The Committee met four times during the year under review.
The main matters discussed at those meetings were: Q review and approval of the annual plan of the external auditors: Q discussion and approval of the fee for the external audit: Q detailed review of the Annual and Half Year Report and Accounts and recommendation for approval by the Board: Q discussion of reports from the external auditors following their audit: Q assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process as described below: Q review of the Companys key risks and internal controls: Q review of Electra Partners Business Continuity Plan and IT Disaster Recovery Plan: Q consideration of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code, Guidance on Audit Committees and the 2012 UK Stewardship Code and the impact of these on the Company: Q consideration of ways of improving the format of the Report and Accounts.
The Committee annually reviews the performance of  LLP, the Companys external auditors.
In doing so the Committee considers a range of factors including the quality of service, the auditors specialist expertise and the level of audit fee.
The Committee remains satisfied with their effectiveness and therefore has not considered it necessary, to date, to require the auditors to tender for the audit work.
The auditors are required to rotate the audit partner every five years as a result of this rotation requirement a new audit partner is now responsible for the audit with effect from this years Report and Accounts.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the choice of external auditor.
Under Company law the reappointment of the external auditors is subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting.
The Committee has reviewed the provision of non-audit services and believes them to be cost-effective and not an impediment to the external auditors objectivity and independence.
The non-audit services include the provision of taxation advice.
It has been agreed that all non-audit work to be carried out by the external auditors must be approved by the Committee and that any special projects must be approved in advance.
Following the review carried out by the Committee as to whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function, the Board has considered and continues to believe that the internal control systems in place within Electra Partners and the internal control reports provided by it give sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards shareholders investment and the Companys assets, is maintained.
In addition, the work of the external auditors is extended to include supplementary testing of certain of Electra Partners internal controls.
An internal audit function, specific to the Company is therefore considered unnecessary.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee The Remuneration and Nomination Committee comprises all the Directors of the Company, all of whom are considered to be independent.
The Board considers it appropriate, given the number of Directors, that all Directors should comprise the Committee.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee is chaired by Ms Webber.
The Committee met twice in the year under review, to consider the appointment of Mr Yates as a Director and to review Directors remuneration.
During the year the Committee engaged the services of an external search consultant in relation to the appointment of an additional Director.
The Committees duties in relation to remuneration, include determining and agreeing with the Board the policy for the remuneration of the Directors.
The Committees duties in relation to nomination include identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies on merit and against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board including gender.
The Committee has written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website.
The Valuations Committee The Valuations Committee adds a further level of oversight to the valuation process carried out by Electra Partners under its contractual arrangements with the Company.
The Valuations Committee was chaired by Mr Walton until his retirement from the Board when Ms Barker was appointed as Chairman of the Committee.
Ms Barker, Ms Webber, Mr Cullinan and Mr Perkin were members of the Committee throughout the year.
Mr Yates was appointed as a member of the Committee during the year.
78 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012
