Directors Attendance at Meetings of the Board and Committees of the Board Remuneration Management Audit and Nomination Valuations Engagement Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of Meetings 9 4 2 2 3 Dr C Bowe 9 2 K Barker 9 4 2 2 1 G Cullinan 9 4 2 2 3 RK Perkin 9 4 2 2 MEDA Walton 7 4 2 2 L Webber 9 4 2 2 3 R Yates 2 2 Dr Bowe is not a member of the Audit, Valuations or Management Engagement Committees.
Mr Yates was appointed to the Board on 28 May 2012 following the retirement of Mr Walton on the same date.
Mr Walton was not a member of the Management Engagement Committee during the year.
Mr Yates was appointed to the Committee on his appointment to the Board at which time Ms Barker retired from the Committee.
Mr Perkin was not a member of the Management Engagement Committee during the year.
The Board receives information that it considers to be sufficient and appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Directors receive board papers several days in advance of Board meetings and are able to consider in detail the Companys performance and any issues to be discussed at the relevant meeting.
The Directors believe that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to enable it to provide effective strategic leadership and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors including their relevant experience can be found on pages 82 and 83.
Independence of the Board Dr Bowe and Mr Perkin were non-executive Directors of Electra Private Equity Investments PLC throughout the year and Mr Cullinan was appointed as a non-executive Director of Electra Private Equity Investments PLC on 28 May 2012 following the retirement of Mr Walton from the Boards of the Company and Electra Private Equity Investments PLC on the same date.
Electra Private Equity Investments PLC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Electra which was established solely for the purpose of issuing and redeeming Zero Dividend Preference shares.
The Board has carefully considered the independence of each Director under the provisions of the AIC Code and, notwithstanding the cross-directorships detailed above, has concluded that each Director is wholly independent on the basis that the Board firmly believes that independence is a state of mind and the character and judgement which accompany this are distinct from and are not compromised by cross-directorships.
The Board carries out a formal appraisal process of its own operations and performance and those of its Committees each year.
In 2012, the Board commissioned Boardroom Review to carry out an  evaluation of its operations and performance and those of its Committees.
Issues covered included Board composition, meeting arrangements and communication.
Boardroom Review presented a detailed report to the Board on the conclusions of its evaluation and these were discussed with the Board.
The report did not identify any material weaknesses or concerns.
The Chairman has led on implementing those changes recommended by Boardroom Review that the Board considered should be made.
Boardroom Review does not have any other connection with the Company.
The process was considered by the Board to be constructive in identifying areas for improving the functioning and performance of the Board and of its Committees.
The Board concluded that its performance and that of its Committees was satisfactory.
76 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012
