Board of Directors Colette Bowe Chairman An economist by profession, Dr Bowe has worked in Whitehall, City regulation and the fund management industry.
She is currently Chairman of the Ofcom board, a board member of the UK Statistics Authority and a member of the supervisory board of AXA Investment Managers Deutschland GmbH.
Dr Bowe was appointed a Director in 2007 and as Chairman in 2010.
Kate Barker Ms Barker is a non executive director of Taylor Wimpey PLC and the Yorkshire Building Society, a non-executive member of the Office for Budget Responsibility and a senior adviser to Credit Suisse.
She was, until May 2010, a member of the Monetary Policy Committee of the Bank of England, on which she served for three terms, and has held a range of other senior positions, including chief economic adviser to the Confederation of British Industry from 1994 to 2001.
Ms Barker was appointed a Director in 2010.
She is Chairman of the Valuations Committee.
Geoffrey Cullinan Mr Cullinan was a Director of Bain & Company from 1997 to 2005.
He was the founder and leader of their private equity business in Europe and continues to be an Adviser to Bain.
He was formerly Chief Executive of Hamleys plc 1996 and senior non executive director of Datamonitor plc 1994 to 2002.
Prior to that he was the managing partner of OC&C Strategy Consultants, which he co-founded in 1986.
Mr Cullinan was appointed a Director in 2011.
He is Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee.
Roger Perkin Mr Perkin is a former senior partner at Ernst & Young with extensive global accounting experience and financial services expertise.
He spent 40 years at Ernst & Young and its predecessor firms, including over 30 years as a Partner, working with a wide range of clients before specialising in financial services.
He is a director of Nationwide Building Society and Tullett Prebon plc.
Mr Perkin was appointed a Director in 2009.
Mr Perkin is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
82 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012 Lucinda Webber Ms Webber has over 25 years of experience in the private equity industry, having joined Barclays Development Capital Limited from Barclays Merchant Bank in 1984.
She became a director of Barclays Development Capital Limited now Barclays Private Equity and Barclays Capital Dvloppement in 1990.
In 1997 she moved to working part-time as a director for Barclays Private Equity and Barclays Capital Dvloppement and from 1999, worked as a consultant in private equity.
Ms Webber was appointed a Director in 2007.
She is Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee and the Senior Independent Director.
Roger Yates Mr Yates has 30 years experience as an investment professional and a business manager in the fund management industry having begun his career with GT Management Limited in 1981.
He was Chief Executive of Henderson Global Investors from 1999 to 2003 and then, following the companys listing, of Henderson Group Plc until 2008.
Prior to that he was Chief Investment Officer of Invesco Global and Morgan Grenfell Investment Management Limited.
He is currently Chief Executive Officer of Pioneer Investments, part of the UniCredit Group.
He is currently a non-executive director of JP Morgan Elect plc and IG Group Holdings plc and was, from 2009 to 2010, non-executive director of F&C Asset Management plc.
Mr Yates was appointed a Director in May 2012.
Notes: All Directors are members of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
All Directors apart from the Chairman are members of the Audit Committee and the Valuations Committee.
Mr Cullinan, Mr Yates and Ms Webber are members of the Management Engagement Committee.
Dr Bowe, Mr Cullinan and Mr Perkin are Directors of the Companys wholly owned subsidiary Electra Private Equity Investments PLC.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2012 83 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview
