The directors have pleasure in submitting the annual report of Powers of the directors the Company and its subsidiaries to the shareholders, together Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, UK legislation with the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012. and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise Principal activities and business review all the powers of the Company.
The directors have been The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiary authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares and to make undertakings has remained housebuilding in the UK.
market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares and these The information that fulfils the requirements of the business powers may be exercised under authority of resolutions of the review commences on page 8 and provides a full review of the Company passed at its Annual General Meeting.
The rules in Groups performance and prospects.
relation to the appointment and replacement of directors are Information on the risks to which the performance of the set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
business is subject, including key social, environmental and Share capital ethical risks, is provided on page 22.
These risks are regularly reviewed by the Board and controls and mitigation processes At the date of this report the Companys issued share capital put in place as explained in the report on corporate governance.
comprised a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 50 pence.
As at 22 February 2012, Key financial performance indicators include pre tax profit, 133,815,751 ordinary shares of 50 pence each have been earnings per share, operating margin, return on capital issued, are fully paid up and are quoted on the London employed, consented and strategic land bank, volume of legal Stock Exchange.
Other key performance indicators are also monitored including those relating to health and The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary safety, customer satisfaction and corporate social responsibility.
shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, Key performance indicators are set out on pages 20 and 21. copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Group Company Secretary.
Results and dividends In particular, subject to applicable statutes, shares may be The Group made a profit after taxation of 40.9 million issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by 2011: 23.3 million.
An interim dividend of 3.0p 2011: 1.5p ordinary resolution determine, or if there is no such resolution net per share was paid on 23 November 2012.
The Board or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board proposes to pay, subject to shareholder approval at the 2013 may determine.
Shareholders are entitled to attend, speak Annual General Meeting, a final dividend of 6.0p and vote at general meetings of the Company, to appoint 2011: final dividend of 3.5p net per share in respect of the one or more proxies and, if they are corporations, to appoint 2012 financial year on 24 May 2013 to shareholders on the corporate representatives.
register at the close of business on 2 April 2013.
On this On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company basis, the total dividend for 2012 will be 9.0p 2011: 5.0p.
every shareholder present in person or by proxy and entitled to The dividend reinvestment plan, introduced in 2012, gives vote has one vote and on a poll every shareholder present in shareholders the opportunity to reinvest their dividends.
person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share held.
Further details regarding voting, including Directors the deadlines for voting, at the Annual General Meeting can Details of the directors are shown on page 30. be found in the notes to the Notice of the Annual General Details of directors emoluments, pension rights, service Meeting at the back of this annual report and accounts.
contracts and directors interests in the ordinary shares of the No shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled Company are included in the Directors Remuneration Report to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general on pages 39 to 52. meeting or to exercise any other shareholder rights if he or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and has failed to directors will retire at the Annual General Meeting, to be held supply the Company with the requisite information within the on Thursday 16 May 2013, and being eligible, offer themselves prescribed period.
58 | Annual report and accounts | Governance Directors report Governance Shareholders may receive a dividend and on a liquidation may The Board may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share in the assets of the Company.
None of the ordinary shares share unless the instrument of transfer: i is lodged, duly stamped of the Company, including those held by the Companys share if stampable, at the registered office of the Company or any schemes, carry any special rights with regard to control of other place decided by the Board accompanied by the certificate the Company.
Employees participating in the Bovis Homes Group for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the Share Incentive Plan may direct the trustee to exercise voting rights Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor on their behalf at any general meeting.
to make the transfer: ii is in respect of only one class of shares: and iii is in favour of not more than four transferees.
Transfers of The instrument of transfer of a certificated share may be in any uncertificated shares must be carried out using the relevant system usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
and the Board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated The Board may refuse to register any instrument of transfer of a share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal of the relevant system and with UK legislation.
There are no other does not prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking limitations on the holding of ordinary shares in the Company and place on an open and proper basis.
the Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Substantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2012, the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital had been notified to the Company: % of voting rights of % direct % indirect % financial Total number of the issued Ordinary shares of 50p each holding holding instruments shares held share capital BlackRock - 14.25 2.87 22,889,328 17.12 Schroders - 9.97 - 13,331,898 9.97 Sanderson Asset Management 9.03 - - 12,039,346 9.03 JPMorgan Asset Management - 5.45 - 7,279,947 5.45 Standard Life Investments 4.12 0.88 - 6,700,314 5.01 Between 1 January and 22 February 2013, the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital were notified to the Company: % of voting 22 February 2013 rights of % direct % indirect % financial Total number of the issued Ordinary shares of 50p each holding holding instruments shares held share capital BlackRock UK Special Situations 4.11 - - 5,504,045 4.11 Legal & General Group 3.04 - - 4,076,171 3.04 Bovis Homes Group PLC | 59 Corporate governance Corporate social responsibility The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate The Group, in carrying out its business activities, is pursuing governance.
Details relating to the Companys compliance with its commitment to sustainable development and transparent the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code are given in the corporate conduct in social and ethical matters, corporate Corporate Governance report on pages 31 to 37. governance, health and safety and the environment.
The Groups corporate social responsibility policy commitments Directors indemnities focus on sustainable development, the environment, health As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under and safety, research and development, human resources, which the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors, an ethical code of conduct and stakeholder engagement.
to the extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles The Group Executive Committee co-ordinates developments of Association, in respect of all losses arising out of or in in this area and an established process of risk identification connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and management is embedded in all activities, regardless of and responsibilities, as directors of the Company or any of whether risk is classed as strategic, operational, financial, or its subsidiaries.
compliance-related, legal, environmental, social or connected to reputation.
The Health, Safety and Environmental Employees Consultative Committee monitors and maintains the high The Groups employment policies do not discriminate between health and safety and environmental standards expected from employees, or potential employees, on the grounds of sex, offices and sites.
sexual orientation, age, colour, creed, ethnic origin or religious The Board addresses risk in its own decision making and belief.
It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration takes regular account of the significance of sustainability, to the employment needs of disabled persons and persons environmental, social and ethical matters through consideration who become disabled whilst employed by the Group where of relevant information and data in Board reports and other requirements may be adequately covered by these persons documentation provided.
Ultimate responsibility rests with the and to comply with any current legislation with regard to Board and induction and training in this area is supported.
Further details of risks and policies and procedures for their The Group has a human capital strategy focused on the management are included in the Groups Corporate Social key areas of leadership and management development, Responsibility report dated 22 February 2013, which includes employee development, recruitment and retention, and key targets and performance data.
A copy of the report is employee engagement.
This strategy is aligned with the available on the Groups website www.
co. uk Groups business strategy and objectives, matching and on request to the Group Company Secretary resources to future requirements.
Donations It is the policy of the Group to train and develop employees to ensure they are equipped to undertake the tasks for The Group made charitable donations in the year amounting which they are employed, and to provide the opportunity to 911 2011: 4,950.
No political donations were made in for career development equally and without discrimination.
either year by the Group or Company.
Employees receive regular training in health, safety and Suppliers environmental matters.
The Groups payment policy in respect of all suppliers is to Information about the Groups performance and other matters settle agreed outstanding accounts in accordance with terms is provided regularly by a news magazine and electronic and conditions agreed with suppliers when placing orders.
bulletins, by consultations at staff meetings and through elected employee representatives.
The Groups creditor days relating to trade creditors at the year end in respect of goods and services supplied in the The Group operates both a defined benefit pension scheme normal course of trade amounted to 53 days 2011: 54 days.
and a defined contribution pension scheme.
The calculation excludes land purchase creditors.
The Company has a Share Incentive Plan, a Save As You Earn The aggregate amount owed to trade creditors by the Share Option Scheme, a Share Option Plan, an Executive Share Company was nil throughout 2011 and 2012.
Option Scheme expired, and a Long Term Incentive Plan to motivate employees and encourage strong involvement with the Group.
See note 20 to the accounts for details of the share schemes.
60 | Annual report and accounts | Governance Directors report Governance Ability to call a general meeting on 14 days notice would only be Significant agreements utilised in limited circumstances and where it was to the advantage During the period under review and until 30 January 2013, of shareholders as a whole.
the Group was party to a syndicated facility agreement with its At a meeting on 22 February 2013, the Board resolved that a relationship banking group relating to the provision of a resolution be submitted to shareholders at the Annual General 150 million revolving loan facility.
Since 30 January 2013, the Meeting proposing the renewal of the authority to enable the Group has been a party to a syndicated facility agreement with its Company to purchase up to 10% of its own shares.
At the relationship banking group relating to the provision of a present time, the directors have no wish to exercise the authority 125 million revolving loan facility and an agreement relating to to purchase any of the shares of the Company, but consider that a three year bi-lateral term loan of 25 million.
In the event of it is appropriate to have the flexibility to do so.
Any shares so a change of control, provisions in the agreements would allow purchased would be cancelled.
lenders to withdraw the facility.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had no borrowing positions under the then current The directors believe that all the resolutions proposed to be banking arrangement.
considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests All of the Groups share schemes contain provisions relating to a of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and, accordingly, change of control.
Under these provisions, a change of control unanimously recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of the would be a vesting event, allowing exercise of outstanding options resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of their own and awards, subject to satisfaction of performance conditions shares in the Company.
Auditors There are a number of commercial contracts that could alter in the Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this report event of a change of control.
None is considered to be material in confirms that: terms of their potential impact on the Group in this event.
so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit Annual General Meeting information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Notice of the 2013 Annual General Meeting to be held on each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have Thursday 16 May 2013 is set out on pages 95 to 97. taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit Members wishing to vote should return forms of proxy to the information and to establish that the Companys auditors are Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time aware of that information.
Shareholders with internet access may This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance register their voting instructions via the internet by going to with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. www.
The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the continue in office and, in accordance with the provisions of the directors will stand for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Companies Act 2006, resolutions concerning their re-appointment During 2012, the Board reviewed its composition and succession and remuneration will be placed before the Annual General Meeting.
As a result, it is proposed that the Articles of Association be amended at this years Annual General Directors responsibilities statement Meeting to increase the overall limit on the remuneration of all The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report non-executive directors.
This will provide the Board with flexibility and the Group and Parent Company financial statements, in in succession planning and support a progressive and orderly accordance with applicable law and regulations.
refreshing of the Board, allowing new non-executive directors a Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Parent period of induction before experienced incumbents depart.
Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that In addition, it will provide flexibility, in light of the growth of law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial the Group, should the Board wish to appoint an additional nonstatements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and executive director.
The Articles may only be amended by a special applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company resolution of shareholders at a general meeting, unless expressly financial statements on the same basis.
specified to the contrary therein.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial As in prior years, it is proposed that a general meeting that is statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair not an Annual General Meeting can be called on not less than view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and 14 clear days notice.
This resolution is required as a result of of their profit or loss for that period.
the implementation of the Shareholder Rights Directive, which increased the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 61 In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity statements, the directors are required to: of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the select suitable accounting policies and then apply preparation and dissemination of financial statements may them consistently: differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
make judgments and estimates that are reasonable Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed and prudent: on page 30 of this anual report confirm that, to the best of for the Group and Parent Company financial statements, their knowledge: state whether they have been prepared in accordance a the Group and Parent Company financial statements in this with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: report, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS prepare the financial statements on the going concern as adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretation and those parts of basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting and the Parent Company will continue in business.
under IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting financial position and profit or loss of the Company and of records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent the Group taken as a whole: and Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy b the management report contained in this report includes at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and a fair review of the development and performance of the enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply business and the position of the Company and the Group with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility taken as a whole, together with a description of the for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to principal risks and uncertainties they face.
safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are By Order of the Board also responsible for preparing a directors report, report on M T D Palmer directors remuneration and report on corporate governance Company Secretary that comply with that law and those regulations.
22 February 2013 Bovis Homes Group PLC Registered number 306718 62 | Annual report and accounts | Governance Directors report Governance Bovis Homes Group PLC | 63
