Alastair Lyons CBE 59 Colin Holmes 47 M alcolm Harris 64 Non-executive Deputy Chairman Non-executive Director Non-executive Chairman Appointed non-executive Deputy Chairman and Colin was appointed as an independent nonAppointed non-executive Chairman in 2008, executive Director in 2006 and Chairman of the Senior Independent Director in 2008, Alastair is Malcolm was previously Chief Executive from 1996 Remuneration Committee in 2008.
He is a member non-executive Chairman of Admiral, Serco and to 2008 and was first appointed to the Board of both the Audit and Nomination Committees.
He is also Senior Independent of Bovis Homes in 1978.
He is a non-executive Colin is also a non-executive Director of Admiral Director of the Phoenix Group.
Previously, Alastair director of the Home Builders Federation HBF and Group plc.
where he is the chairman of the was Chief Executive of the National Provident was previously a director of the National House Audit Committee.
Additionally, he is the Chairman Institution and the National and Provincial Building Building Council NHBC.
Malcolm has in depth of GoOutdoors Ltd, a rapidly growing retailer Society, Managing Director of the Insurance Division sector and industry knowledge and is a regular of outdoor equipment and clothing.
Colin is a of Abbey National plc and Director of Corporate contributor to industry thinking.
Chartered Management Accountant and was Projects at National Westminster Bank plc.
He has a formally a member of the Executive Committee broad base of business experience with a particular of Tesco plc.
During his 22 year career at Tesco focus on the insurance industry and working with he held a wide range of positions including UK private equity.
Finance Director and CEO Tesco Express.
J ohn Warren 59 David Ritchie 43 Jonathan Hill 44 Non-executive Director BA Hons ACA, Chief Executive BSc Hons ACA, Group Finance Director Appointed an independent non-executive director Appointed Chief Executive in 2008, David was Joined Bovis Homes in August 2010 as Group in 2006 and Chairman of the Audit Committee in Group Managing Director from 2007 to 2008 Finance Director.
Previously, he was employed by 2007, John is a Chartered Accountant and a nonand Group Finance Director from 2002 to 2006.
TUI Travel plc in both group finance and divisional executive director of Rank Group plc and Spectris He joined Bovis Homes in 1998 as Group roles and held positions with Centrica plc, plc where he is the senior independent director.
Financial Controller and was previously BT Group plc and Price Waterhouse.
In May 2012, he was appointed a non-executive employed by KPMG.
David has significant director of Welsh Water and in June 2012 he was experience and knowledge of the sector, appointed a non-executive director of 4imprint including land acquisition, planning, Group plc.
On 30 January 2013, John was also construction, marketing and customer service.
appointed a non-executive director of Greencore Group plc.
At all the companies where John is a non-executive diretor, he chairs the Audit Committee.
He was previously group M artin Palmer 54 finance director of WH Smith PLC and United FCIS, Group Company Secretary Biscuits plc and a non-executive director of Arla Foods UK plc, BPP Holdings plc, RAC plc, Uniq plc Joined Bovis Homes in 2001 and was previously and Rexam plc.
John has detailed financial and Group Company Secretary of London Forfaiting accounting expertise and previous experience in Company PLC from 1997 to 2001. chairing audit committees.
30 | Annual report and accounts | Governance Directors and officers Governance
