ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 | 21 Report of the Directors any time by the relevant contracting entity within the FL Group Results, business review and dividend either, in the case of the With Profits fund assets, upon six months The Groups results for the year ended 31 December 2012 are notice or, in the case of the other Demutualisation Assets, upon shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 42.
business review of the year ended 31 December 2012 and future developments are covered on pages 2 to 19.
This review, together Achmea Group with the Directors Report on Corporate Governance on pages 26 There are four material Investment Management Agreements the to 32, forms part of the Report of the Directors.
Agreements that have been in place with companies within the The Group profit for the year, after tax, amounted to 3.0 million.
These Agreements sit alongside an overarching Umbrella Agreement which sets out the The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 2.0 pence per high level terms governing the relationship between the F&C Group share, amounting to 10.9 million, resulting in a total of 3.0 pence and the Achmea Group including the operation of F&Cs rights to and 16.3 million for the year.
exclusivity over the management of assets of the Achmea Group.
The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on 24 May 2013 These rights to exclusivity are incorporated into the Agreements and to ordinary shareholders whose names are on the register on operate subject to certain exceptions listed therein such as the 5 April 2013.
No liability for the proposed dividends has been withdrawal of assets for reasonable business needs or for recognised as at 31 December 2012, in accordance with IFRS.
underperformance by F&C in a particular asset class.
Withdrawals of assets not permitted under the Agreements require the payment of Principal activity and status compensation by the Achmea Group to F&C.
The management by The Groups business is asset management.
Details of the progress F&C of those assets covered by the Agreements is currently of the business during the year and of future prospects are scheduled to terminate in October 2013, subject to any exceptions contained in the Executive Chairmans Statement and the Business that have been or may be agreed between the Achmea Group and Review on pages 2 to 19.
F&C in relation to specific asset classes.
However, in the event of a change of control whereby a third party acquires a controlling The Company is registered as a Public Limited Company in terms of interest in F&C, immediate termination would be possible.
the Companies Act 2006 and is currently a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index.
The Company is registered in Scotland, registered Millennium BCP Group BCP number SC73508, and is domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consequences of termination of the various asset management Details of the principal entities within the Group are contained in agreements with BCP-related funds are regulated by an Umbrella note 38 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
There are also Agreement with BCP the UA, which terminates when the last of two branch offices in the Group outside the UK, in Germany these asset management agreements is itself terminated.
provides that compensation would be payable if management of the assets governed by these agreements were to be terminated before Significant agreements 29 June 2014.
However, if a person acquires an interest in the F&C is party to the following significant contracts that take effect, shares of F&C which is larger than the aggregate interest of Friends alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company: Life and Achmea, then the period by reference to which compensation is payable by BCP to F&C on termination of such an Friends Life Group FL Group agreement is reduced.
On 17 December 2010, Sherborne acquired an interest in the shares of F&C which is greater than the aggregate There are three material Investment Management Agreements the Agreements that have been in place with companies within the FL interest of Friends Life and Achmea thereby reducing the period by reference to which compensation would have been payable had an Group since October 2004 and under which assets are managed by F&C.
Management of the majority of these assets can only be agreement been terminated at that time from forty-two months to twelve months.
Further communications from BCP have put F&C on terminated by the relevant contracting party within the FL Group upon twelve months notice expiring no earlier than 11 October notice that payments by BCP in respect of F&Cs continued 2014 subject to certain exceptions listed within the Agreements.
provision of services to BCP constitute payment in lieu of These exceptions include withdrawals of assets as a result of compensation and that the agreements could now be terminated by underperformance thresholds being triggered, withdrawals for BCP at any time without compensation or notice.
As at the latest reasonable business and financial needs such as discharging practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report and liabilities under insurance contracts and meeting internal financing Financial Statements, none of the relevant agreements has been requirements, and withdrawals of assets of up to 150 million per terminated and no notice terminating such agreements has annum in respect of the overall portfolio of assets covered by each been received.
Withdrawals of assets not permitted under the Millenniumbcp Ageas Group Ageas Agreements require the payment of compensation by the FL Group to F&C.
Management of the remainder of the assets of the FL Group There are three asset management contracts in place with insurance by F&C known as the Demutualisation Assets can be terminated at companies that form part of Ageas for which the notice period for 22 | GOVERNANCE | Report of the Directors termination is between twelve and twenty-four months depending shares to satisfy commutation arrangements pursuant to the on the date notice is served by the relevant entity.
However, the acquisition of Thames River Capital.
termination notice period is reduced to twelve months in the event Details of shares under option at 31 December 2012 are shown on of a major corporate action occurring that affects F&C.
The Directors who held office at the year end and their interests together with those of their connected persons in the Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust Plc share capital of the Company are shown below: The Investment Management Agreement in place with Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust Plc can be terminated by the trust on a Ordinary Shares 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 minimum of six months notice expiring at the end of any calendar Edward Bramson Beneficial Nil Nil month.
In the event that there is a change of control in F&C as Non-Beneficial 109,883,743 106,397,130 defined in Section 1124 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010, then the Keith Bedell-Pearce Beneficial 51,285 51,285 investment trust is entitled to terminate the agreement on not less Ian Brindle Beneficial 19,147 19,147 than three months notice to expire at the end of any calendar Keith Jones Beneficial Nil Nil month.
David Logan Beneficial 98,336 344,627 Non-Beneficial 64,176 64,176 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Jeff Medlock Beneficial 20,000 20,000 The Investment Management Agreement in place with F&C Derham ONeill Beneficial Nil Nil Commercial Property Trust Limited can be terminated by the Keith Percy Beneficial Nil Nil investment trust on not less than six months notice.
Early Kieran Poynter Beneficial 30,000 30,000 termination can be undertaken by the investment trust, but only Richard Wilson Beneficial 211,792 211,667 subject to the payment of compensation to F&C based on revenue Edward Bramson is an associate of SIGA, LP, a member of the Sherborne stream.
Immediate termination is possible by the investment trust in Group.
the event that there is a change of control in F&C as defined in David Logan is a Director of F&C Group ESOP Trustee Limited, a Section 1124 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 to which its Board company incorporated in 1995 to operate a discretionary employee has not consented.
benefit trust to encourage and facilitate the acquisition and holding of shares in the Company by employees.
F&C REIT Asset Management LLP Or date of appointment as Director if later.
Since the year end, the following Directors dealings and those of their The F&C REIT Asset Management LLP the LLP Limited Liability connected persons in the Companys shares have taken place: Partnership Agreement, dated 21 July 2008, is between F&C, the Messrs Logan and Wilson subscribe for 125 worth of shares each month two individual members and a separate company controlled by under the Companys Share Incentive Plan, details of which are set out on discretionary trusts.
page 34: and SIGA LP, a member of the Sherborne Group has acquired a further Where there is a change of control of F&C, F&C can elect to change 280,000 shares since the year end.
the arrangements for voting at LLP members meetings such that F&Cs interests are represented by one vote and the REIT Parties Directors and officers liability aggregate interests are represented by one vote.
If F&C does not so The Group maintains insurance cover in respect of Directors and elect, then F&C may be required to offer to sell its interests in the officers liability.
LLP to the other members of the LLP at a price determined by an independent valuer.
The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association at article 166 which is a Property, plant and equipment qualifying third-party indemnity provision as defined in the Details of changes in property, plant and equipment are disclosed in Companies Act 2006. note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
At 31 December 2012, there were no significant differences between the net book Charitable and political contributions and market values of property, plant and equipment.
During the year, the Group made contributions to charity of 133,000 Financial instruments 2011: 274,000.
No political donations or contributions were made during the year 2011: nil.
Further details on the criteria for Details of financial instruments are disclosed in notes 14 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The financial risk management charitable giving are contained on the Companys website.
objectives and policies of the Group are contained in note 35.
Payment policy and practice Share capital and Directors interests It is the Groups policy to ensure settlement of suppliers accounts in During 2012 the Company issued 12,377,307 ordinary shares in accordance with the stated terms.
In certain circumstances, respect of vested awards or options under the Companys long-term settlement terms are agreed prior to any business taking place.
The Company also issued 10,684,692 ordinary our policy to abide by those terms.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 | 23 At 31 December 2012, trade creditors represented the equivalent of Share incentive schemes 6 days 2011: 3 days of the annual purchases invoiced by the During the year, employees participated directly in the business suppliers to the Group.
through a number of Employee Share Schemes, details of which are included within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 38 or the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on Substantial interests in share capital pages 86 to 95.
The Company has been informed of the following substantial interests, above 3 per cent as at 22 March 2013: Annual General Meeting AGM Ordinary Shares Percentage The Company will hold its AGM on Friday, 10 May 2013 at Ironmongers Hall, Shaftesbury Place, Barbican, London EC2Y 8AA.
Sherborne 110,163,743 19.8 Fidelity Worldwide 50,885,147 9.2 The Meeting will start at 11 a. m. UK time.
Details of all resolutions Aviva 47,903,933 8.6 being put to shareholders are set out in the Notice of Annual Norges Bank Investment Management 23,648,610 4.3 General Meeting commencing on page 134.
Sarasin & Partners 23,109,444 4.2 Standard Life 22,037,726 4.0 Board changes Dimensional Fund Advisors 19,660,976 3.5 Old Mutual Asset Managers 19,545,120 3.5 On 4 December 2012, Mr Wilson joined the Board as an Threadneedle Investments 18,062,260 3.3 Executive Director.
Aberforth Partners 17,645,076 3.2 Messrs Brindle and Medlock will retire from the Board on conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
Employees Information relating to the re-election of Directors at the Annual At 1 March 2013, there were 649 full-time employees and 75 partGeneral Meeting is set out in the Directors Report on Corporate time employees within the Group 1 March 2012: 776 full-time Governance on page 30. employees and 84 part-time employees.
Authority to allot ordinary shares and disapplication Disabled employees of pre-emption rights The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment Ordinary resolution 13 will be put to the AGM of the Company to from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be renew the Directors power to allot shares.
The Directors currently adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person.
have a general authority to allot relevant securities up to a maximum Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy amount of 177,355.19 together with specific authorities to allot wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under normal shares to satisfy the consideration payable in connection with the terms and conditions and to provide training, career development and acquisition of Thames River and the related commutation promotion to disabled employees wherever possible.
arrangements and for the settlement of awards made under the management share plans the Specific Authorities.
The resolution proposes that a similar general authority be granted in substitution Employee involvement of the existing general authority to allot securities up to a maximum During the year, the policy of providing employees with information amount of 185,041.76, representing approximately 33.33 per cent about the Group has been continued through internal presentations of the Companys total issued ordinary share capital excluding by the Executive Directors and Group Management and the internal treasury shares as at the date of this report.
The Specific Authorities publication of relevant information.
Wherever appropriate, employees will remain unaffected by the passing of this resolution.
are consulted to ensure that their views are taken into account before decisions are taken which are likely to affect their interests.
In addition, in accordance with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers in December 2008, the Company is seeking additional authority to allot securities in connection with a pre-emptive rights Equal opportunities issue up to a maximum amount of 185,041.76, representing The Group aims to provide equal opportunities for all, without approximately 33.33 per cent of the Companys total issued ordinary discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, marital status, age, share capital excluding treasury shares as at the date of this report.
sex, sexual orientation or disability.
We recruit and promote those The benefit to the Company of obtaining such authority on an annual best suited for the job.
The Group respects the dignity of individuals basis is that it would allow the Company to implement a rights issue and their beliefs.
The Group does not tolerate any sexual, racial, of an amount equal to approximately 66.67 per cent of the issued physical or mental harassment of staff in the work place.
24 | GOVERNANCE | Report of the Directors ordinary share capital without the need to call an additional general amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market meeting.
This would shorten the implementation timetable for such a quotations for the Companys ordinary shares for the five business rights issue.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising this days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
The authority will expire at the end of the AGM to be held in conferred by this resolution will expire on the earlier of the date 2014, unless previously cancelled or varied by the Company in falling fifteen months after the date of the passing of this resolution general meeting.
It is the intention of the Directors to renew this and the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2014. authority annually at each AGM.
As at the date of this report, the Company had 82,915,399 options Special resolution 14 will renew the present power to allot unissued to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding representing 14.93 per ordinary share capital and to sell ordinary shares held in treasury for cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at the cash without first being required to offer such shares to existing same date, excluding treasury shares.
If the buy-back authority is shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
renewed at the AGM and is then utilised in full, the options outstanding at the date of this report would represent 16.59 per Such power will apply to the allotment of unissued ordinary shares cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company excluding and treasury shares sold up to a maximum nominal amount of treasury shares.
27,759.04 representing approximately 5 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of this report, except Any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority would that: either be held as treasury shares or cancelled.
While any shares are held in treasury, voting rights are suspended and currently no 1 the maximum nominal amount of shares that can be allotted in dividends or any other distribution are paid or made on such connection with a pre-emptive rights issue is 370,083.52 shares.
The Directors consider it appropriate to have in place the representing approximately 66.67 per cent of the Companys facility to acquire shares in circumstances where they believe that total issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as future shareholder returns can be enhanced by taking such action.
at the date of this report: and This authority, if renewed, will only be exercised if to do so would 2 the maximum nominal amount of unissued ordinary shares that result in an increase in earnings per ordinary share and if it is can be allotted or treasury shares sold: considered to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
a pursuant to any other pre-emptive offering where legal or regulatory requirements prevent the issue of shares wholly Proposed amendment to the Companys Long-Term Remuneration Plan LTRP on a pre-emptive basis : or The LTRP is the Companys principal long-term retention plan and b in order to satisfy options or awards under any share allows the Board to grant selected employees and senior managers scheme for employees or share incentive plan approved awards over ordinary shares that not only act as an incentive to by the Company in general meeting, remain with the business but also help to ensure that the interests of is 185,041.76, representing approximately 33.33 per cent of the participants are more closely aligned with those of shareholders.
Companys total issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury Awards granted under the LTRP can be satisfied either by the issue shares as at the date of this report.
of new shares or the purchase of existing shares in the market.
The Directors consider that the authority proposed to be granted by However, the rules of the plan place a limitation on the number of resolution 13 and the power proposed to be granted by resolution new shares over which awards can be granted in any rolling ten year 14 are necessary in order to take advantage of opportunities as they period.
This dilution limit is currently set at 10 per cent of the arise and to retain flexibility.
The Directors do not have any intention Companys issued share capital.
of exercising such authority or power at the present time other than In light of the significant changes made to the Companys business for the purposes referred to in 2 b above.
in recent years, the LTRP has been used extensively as a means of ensuring the continued stability of the Companys key employee Purchase of own shares population throughout this period.
This has, in turn, resulted in a Special resolution 15 will be put to the AGM to renew the present marked reduction in the available headroom under the 10 per cent dilution limit summarised above.
As a consequence, and in order to power to make market purchases of the Companys own ordinary shares.
Pursuant to the renewed power, the maximum aggregate ensure that the Company has sufficient flexibility to operate this important element of its overall remuneration structure in an number of ordinary shares which may be purchased pursuant to the authority shall be 55,518,079 being approximately 10 per cent of appropriate, cost-effective manner in the future, Resolution 16 seeks shareholder approval to amend the LTRPs rules by raising the the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date of this report.
The minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary dilution limit from 10 per cent to 15 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
share shall be 0.1 pence exclusive of expenses.
The maximum price for an ordinary share again exclusive of expenses shall be an ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 | 25 Further details of the existing dilution limit and the amendment Recommendation highlighted above are set out in the appendix to the notice of The Directors consider that the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting contained on page 137.
The notes to the notice also AGM are in the best interests of the Company and of shareholders provide information on how the LTRP rules, marked up to show the as a whole.
Accordingly, the Directors unanimously recommend that proposed change, may be inspected in advance of the meeting.
you vote in favour of all the proposed resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
Notice of General Meetings We are currently able to call general meetings other than AGMs on Adequacy of the information provided to the auditor fourteen days notice.
We are proposing special resolution 17 at the The Directors who held office at the date of approving this Directors AGM so that we can continue to be able to do so.
The flexibility Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no offered by this resolution will only be used where it is, in the opinion relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is of the Directors, appropriate in relation to the business to be unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he is obliged considered at the meeting and merited in the interests of the to take as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant shareholders as a whole.
audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
The authority being sought pursuant to special resolution 17 will expire at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2014.
It is the By order of the Board, current intention of the Directors to renew this authority annually.
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA Auditor Secretary KPMG has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor 80 George Street and a resolution proposing its re-appointment and for the Directors Edinburgh EH2 3BU to determine its fees will be submitted at the AGM.
25 March 2013 Details of the auditors remuneration is provided in note 4 c to the Consolidated Financial Statements and further detail on how the Board ensures the independence of the auditor is detailed on pages 31 and 32 within the Directors Report on Corporate Governance.
