ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 | 13 Our trading performance and outlook Partially due to the maturity profile of some of the underlying Introduction insurance products of our strategic partners, there has been a longF&C provides asset management services to two main client standing trend of annual net outflows.
In 2012 net outflows from groupings, which we classify as strategic partners and consumer strategic partners were 11.4 billion 2011: 7.2 billion.
Our proposition for consumer and strategic partner outflows were exacerbated by previously notified institutional investors comprises a wide range of investment outflows of 1.0 billion of Millenium BCP pension scheme assets products and funds, sold to third-party retail, wholesale and due to the partial nationalisation of the Portugese banking pension institutional clients.
system and withdrawals of 5.3 billion of fixed income assets by Strategic partners primarily comprise a small group of insurance Friends Life.
As disclosed in previous reports, Friends Life has clients for whom we have managed assets under longer-term established an in-house fixed income asset management function, contractual arrangements.
These contracts have generally provided and has repatriated certain assets to this business.
We anticipate us with certain exclusivity rights in relation to the management of the that a further 6.2 billion of fixed income assets will be transferred to assets associated with each partner.
The assets managed for each Friends Life during 2013: after this transfer we will manage of these clients are generally much greater than our average approximately 15.7 billion of Friends Life assets, including relationship size.
2.4 billion of remaining fixed income assets.
Our strategic partner focus is on the retention of current Whilst the Achmea long-term contract matures in October 2013, we relationships and capture of related asset flows, through a do not yet have clarity on asset withdrawals that may result from this combination of strong relationship management, investment and we anticipate dialogue with Achmea regarding their future asset performance and client service.
At 31 December 2012, we managed approximately 22.7 billion on behalf of Achmea.
The consumer and institutional area provides us with much greater scope for revenue and asset growth, through a variety of products Consumer and institutional and channels, and our sales and marketing efforts are heavily biased F&C is a leading provider of services to third-party investors, which towards this area of business.
we broadly categorise as either third-party institutional business, or consumer business, which comprise open-end retail funds and Strategic Partner business investment trusts.
Our strategic partners comprise: Achmea The Netherlands, Millennium BCP Portugal, Friends First Ireland and Friends Life Our third-party institutional business includes a range of solutionsUK.
The assets managed for these entities principally comprise led products, principally aimed at assisting clients immunise their insurance funds but also include certain sub-advised mutual funds liabilities, together with a range of return-seeking products across and pension scheme assets.
These are long-standing relationships asset classes equity, property, fixed income and Multi-asset.
Our which generally provide us with exclusivity to manage the assets of largest institutional client base is defined benefit pension schemes these partners for a minimum period of time.
An exception to this is and our largest markets for third-party institutional business are the Millennium BCP relationship in Portugal, which is principally The Netherlands, the UK and Germany.
Institutional assets under represented by a BCP-Ageas insurance joint venture, where the management were 24.4 billion at 31 December 2012 2011: exclusivity period has already come to an end, although we continue 23.3 billion representing 26 per cent of our total assets under to manage all the related assets.
The current Achmea exclusivity management and some 28 per cent of 2012 net revenues.
relationship and related contract matures in October 2013 and the Mandates in the institutional asset management industry are current Friends Life contract matures in October 2014. predominantly intermediated through firms of investment consultants who advise pension schemes on manager selection and We provide strategic partners with portfolio management in asset allocation.
In recent years F&C has achieved a much improved multi-asset and single-asset class mandates and a range of position with investment consultants, with a total of 74 individual investment solutions, such as liability hedging strategies and product buy ratings at the end of 2012.
During 2012, our shareholder engagement programmes.
institutional business recorded net outflows of 0.7 billion: while we At 31 December 2012 assets under management for strategic generated gross inflows of 2.9 billion, these were more than offset partners were 58.5 billion 2011: 63.7 billion representing 61 per by gross outflows of 3.6 billion.
However, pleasingly, our inflows cent of our total assets under management.
Due to the lower fees were biased towards areas of strategic importance for the Group, that we receive for managing these assets, our revenue from whilst outflows were generally of lower fee margin, legacy business.
strategic partners is considerably less at some 33 per cent of 2012 Additionally, at 31 December 2012 the Group had a further pipeline net revenues.
of institutional new business that had been won, but had not yet 14 | BUSINESS REVIEW | Our trading performance and outlook funded, net of withdrawals, of some 0.8 billion.
We believe our During 2012, the total assets managed in fund products and institutional business is well positioned for growth, with strong investment trusts declined by 0.8 billion to 12.3 billion at investment track records, significant scale and consultant support in 31 December 2012.
The decline was principally attributable to a number of core capabilities.
As we look forward, we will seek to wholesale outflows of 1.2 billion, offset by market growth in retail enhance our product range with new offerings which we believe will funds and investment trusts.
Wholesale redemptions were meet the emerging needs of institutional investors.
principally attributable to investment performance and related portfolio positioning within the Thames River Global Credit and The Group also offers a wide range of collective investment vehicles Global Bond teams.
After a number of years of outflows from share which are distributed into the retail and wholesale markets, buy-backs, our investment trusts posted a small positive flow for principally through Independent Financial Advisers, discretionary 2012, with a number of trusts issuing new equity to meet wealth managers and other wholesale channels such as banks and shareholder demand.
These products comprise closed-end listed investment companies investment trusts and both UK and offshore-domiciled During 2013, we anticipate that our wholesale efforts will be biased open-ended mutual funds.
Some of these vehicles are managed by towards a number of fixed income products, including emerging F&C staff and others by teams operating through the Thames River market debt and convertibles, while within the retail channel our LLPs.
It is important to distinguish between these, as the allocation focus will be biased towards our Multi-manager funds.
of revenues and profits differ significantly.
Where a fund is managed by a Thames River team, the revenues earned from that fund, net of the direct costs of managing the fund, and certain allocated costs, are shared between the senior investment professionals in the investment team and the Group under a predetermined profit share formula.
This typically results in the senior investment professionals receiving around 50 per cent of the relevant profits.
Where a fund is managed by F&C staff, the relevant investment managers are generally remunerated by a combination of salary plus a discretionary bonus.
