ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 | 15 Our financial performance Total return Net revenue We view share price total return including dividends as a key Net revenue for the year was 243.5 million 2011: 267.0 million.
Our total shareholder return for the year This included 9.5 million 2011: 11.8 million of performance fee ended 31 December 2012 was 62.5 per cent.
In the same period, the income.
Performance fee income was earned from a variety of fund total shareholder return on the FTSE 250 Index was 26.1 per cent and client types, with the most significant contributor being F&C REIT, and the FTSE 100 Index was 10 per cent.
our property business, where investment performance has remained strong throughout 2012.
Market backdrop Strategic partner revenues declined by some 7.7 million during Our financial results have three key sensitivities to external factors: the year, whilst consumer and institutional revenues fell by some equity market levels, fixed income market levels and the Euro Sterling 18.0 million, with some 14.4 million of that decline attributable to exchange rate.
Equity market levels and fixed income market levels wholesale funds.
impact our assets under management, and consequently our Our strategic partners remain an important part of our client base, revenues: at the end of 2012 approximately 59 per cent of our assets however, we believe our strongest growth opportunities lie in our were invested in fixed income securities, and a further 27 per cent in consumer and institutional business for both third-party institutional equities.
In 2012 we earned approximately 41 per cent of our revenues business and in the retail and wholesale channels.
While 4.5 billion in Euros, primarily in respect of assets managed by our Dutch and of gross new third-party business was funded during 2012, outflows Portugese subsidiaries and our reported revenues are impacted by the of 6.4 billion resulted in net outflows of 1.9 billion.
Some exchange rates used to translate these amounts to Sterling.
1.2 billion of these net outflows arose in our wholesale business, Depending on the nature of our products and mandates, revenues which comprises certain of the legacy Thames River funds.
Whilst may be determined by reference to daily, monthly or quarterly assets these funds carry a net fee margin substantially higher than the under management.
majority of our business, their impact on Group profitability is Equity markets were volatile during 2012: the FTSE 100 opened at significantly less, as a result of the relationship between fee income 5572: it subsequently reached a low of 5260 on 1 June 2012 before and distributions to members of the Thames River LLPs.
Our thirdrecovering to close the year at 5898.
The average FTSE 100 level over party institutional business recorded net outflows of 0.7 billion 2012 was 5743.
Fixed income markets continued to perform strongly during 2012: however, as a result of the differential between lower fee during 2012, as investors continued to favour low risk assets for most margin outflows and higher fee margin inflows, these net flows will of the year.
For example, the Barclays Euro Aggregate Index, a broad contribute a small increase in annualised revenues.
fixed income index, opened the year at 147.8 and closed the year at As they are indicative of the growth potential of the business and a 159.5, posting a positive return of some 8 per cent.
measure of the successful implementation of our stratetgy, consumer The Euro Sterling exchange rate opened the year at 1.20, before and institutional funds flows and associated annualised revenues strengthening to 1.28 in quarter 3 of 2012: the year-end rate was represent a key performance indicator KPI used by the Board and 1.23 and the average for 2012 was approximately 1.23. management to assess the progress of the business.
Presentation of financial results Revenue margin International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS require our Our revenue margin excluding performance fees, measured as our net Financial Statements to consolidate the results of our Managed management fee income divided by average assets under Pension Funds MPF business on a line-by-line basis, impacting management, reduced from 24.4 basis points in 2011 to 23.9 basis the presentation of both our Income Statement and Statement of points in 2012.
This decline principally arises from the reduction in Financial Position.
Our MPF business provides certain clients with wholesale funds, which carry a fee margin approximately 75 basis asset management services inside an insurance product wrapper.
points greater than the Group average.
The requirement to consolidate this business has a significant effect on the financial investments and investment contract liabilities Operating expenses captions included in our Statement of Financial Position, the risks The Groups underlying operating expenses, excluding foreign and rewards of which are substantially borne by the clients of this exchange gains and losses, amortisation of intangible assets and business.
In addition, our Statement of Financial Position includes exceptional items, were 172.1 million in 2012, a reduction of some some 4.5 million of cash also attributable to policyholders of this 30.0 million, or 15 per cent, over prior year levels.
This reduction is business and which is not available for corporate purposes.
As attributable to two main factors.
Firstly, core operating expenses MPF is not an area of strategic focus for the Group and has reduced from 183.8 million to 160.5 million, a reduction of recorded net client redemptions in recent years, a project is 23.3 million.
This reduction reflects the implementation of the actions underway to terminate this business and all clients have been outlined in the Groups strategic review and we anticipate that the offered the opportunity to transfer to alternative F&C funds.
As a remaining savings identified in that review will be delivered in line with consequence, the financial investments and investment contract the timetable previously set out.
Secondly, distributions to the liabilities associated with MPF have reduced substantially during individual members of the Thames River limited partnerships fell from 2012 and we anticipate that the remaining amounts will be 18.3 million to 11.6 million, primarily reflecting the reduced level of redeemed in H1 2013. income from the wholesale funds managed by the Thames River 16 | BUSINESS REVIEW | Our financial performance partnerships.
The Groups largest cost is personnel cost and during business, so long as that new business carries adequate marginal the year, headcount, on a full-time equivalent basis, fell to some 723 at profit.
Successful implementation of our strategy will be reflected by 31 December 2012 from 847 at 31 December 2011. further increases in operating margin.
Operating margin is measured as underlying operating profit as a During 2012, we incurred a number of exceptional operating costs, percentage of net revenue.
For this purpose, adjusted operating profit which are excluded from our underlying results.
These include represents operating profit before the impact of exceptional items but employment expenses, property expenses, outsourcing expenses and after deducting variable compensation payable to members of Thames litigation expenses, details of which are set out in note 6 a to the River partnerships.
As noted above, we continued to implement the cost reduction Foreign exchange gains and losses programme which we announced as part of 2011s strategic review.
In As indicated earlier in this review, the Groups results are sensitive to addition, we executed certain other cost reductions, either to ensure foreign exchange rate fluctuations.
Translational gains and losses on that we are able to invest resources in areas of potential long-term revenues and expenses are reflected within the Sterling equivalent of growth whilst controlling our overall cost base, to rightsize functions in those revenues and expenses, however, the Group also incurs line with our changing business needs and requirements, or to ensure exchange gains and losses on the retranslation of assets and liabilities that we can absorb inflationary cost rises within our overall targeted held in foreign currency.
During the year these losses amounted to cost base.
The majority of these cost savings will be realised through 2.0 million.
As they do not reflect the ongoing profitability of the headcount reductions and during 2012 exceptional employment business, they have been excluded from underlying earnings.
related costs of 8.2 million have been recognised in respect of On a constant-currency basis, had 2012 results been recognised at termination and benefits payments: these represent the one-off cost to the same average Euro Sterling exchange rate as 2011, the underlying be incurred to generate the annualised savings.
Whilst we anticipate operating profit would have been some 5.4 million higher than that further such costs will be incurred during 2013 as remaining reported.
This equates to an underlying earnings per share impact actions are implemented, we expect a substantial reduction in of approximately 0.8p.
exceptional employment costs during 2013. Financing revenue and expenses Exceptional outsourcing expenses of 3.3 million primarily represents project management, implementation and consultancy costs incurred The Groups finance revenue fell to 14.6 million 2011: 17.2 million.
in connection with the outsourcing of our back and middle office to The principal reasons for this change were a reduction in performanceState Street.
Whilst the outsourcing contract became effective during related carried interest income of 2.6 million, offset by gains on debt 2011, we have incurred significant project costs associated with the repurchases of some 1.1 million.
transfer of our administration arrangements to State Streets long-term, Our finance costs fell by 2.0 million to 33.4 million, with reductions in strategic platform.
We previously anticipated that this project would interest costs arising from senior and subordinated loan notes have been completed during 2012: the final implementation was repurchased during the year of 0.4 million and reduced bank completed in Q1 2013 and, accordingly, associated implementation and loan facility fees and costs of 0.7 million.
Repurchases of loan costs will cease at that date.
notes during 2012 will reduce our annualised interest costs by some 1.3 million per annum.
When we announced our outsourcing contract in 2011, we indicated that the reduction in headcount through the transfer of personnel to Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets State Street would allow the Group to reduce its premises costs by Under IFRS, when an acquisition is made, there is a requirement to approximately 3.0 million per annum.
This saving has now been recognise separately the fair value attributed to intangible assets, in our realised, with an associated net cost of implementation of 1.3 million.
The excess of consideration over the The final matters associated with F&C Partners litigation were settled fair value of net assets acquired represents the business value and during 2012.
Both the litigation and settlement were complex and infrastructure and is recognised as goodwill.
although the economic consequences were substantially recognised in Management contracts are separated by client category and are the 2011 financial statements, the nature of the final settlement agreed amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Where an indicator of in 2012 resulted in an exceptional accounting charge of 1.3 million impairment occurs, such as greater than anticipated fund losses, we being recognised in the year.
are required to review the carrying value of these contracts.
No such indicators of impairment arose during 2012 and, accordingly, Operating margin no impairment charges were recognised.
The Groups underlying operating margin for 2012 was 29.2 per cent compared to 24.4 per cent in 2011.
The successful implementation of We are also required to conduct an annual impairment review of the the cost reduction programme has been a key contributor to the carrying value of goodwill.
This review demonstrated that there was no increase in margin.
Operating margin represents one of managements impairment and hence no requirement to write-down goodwill.
key performance indicators, and its importance will increase as a Thames River acquisition measure of success of the Groups strategy, whereby we are seeking to leverage on areas of scale and competitive advantage.
As a result of The Group continues to incur various acquisition-related expenses this, we are more agnostic on the fee margins associated with new arising from the acquisition of the Thames River group: in line with the ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 | 17 treatment adopted in previous years, these amounts have been future dates and a liability for this potential obligation is included in our excluded from underlying earnings.
As this option is required to be carried at its exercise value, it is revalued each year, with any revaluation gain or loss Firstly, the Group established a Management Retention Plan MRP to reflected in the Income Statement.
During 2012, a downward retain and incentivise certain key individuals within Thames River.
revaluation resulted in a gain of 11.5 million being included in the 2012 Under this plan some 21.7 million F&C shares were awarded, of which Income Statement.
This gain is excluded from underlying earnings.
we currently expect some 19.2 million shares to be issued and vest to employees in September 2013.
At the date of announcing the Underlying earnings acquisition, these share awards had a value of some 15.0 million.
The The Board utilises underlying earnings per share as one of its key value of the share awards at the date of grant is treated as an expense metrics in assessing financial performance.
The reconciliation between over the vesting period and a cost of 6.2 million under this plan has underlying earnings and statutory earnings is provided in note 10 to been recognised in the 2012 results.
the Consolidated Financial Statements and is summarised on page Secondly, at the time of the acquisition, the Group entered into 118.
Underlying earnings per share for the year ended 31 December agreements the Commutation Arrangements with the Individual 2012 were 7.1p 2011: 5.5p.
Members of the Thames River Limited Partnerships.
Under the Commutation Arrangements, the Group agreed, under certain Dividends circumstances, to purchase part of the Individual Members profit An interim dividend of 1.0 pence per share was paid during the year.
share in the partnerships by issuing F&C shares in consideration.
As After a review of the results for the year, the market conditions that the Commutation Arrangements can only be exercised by members prevailed during the year and the business outlook for 2013, the Board who are still actively involved in the Thames River business and those has declared a final dividend of 2.0 pence per share.
If approved by members must continue in the business for a further two years in order shareholders, this dividend, together with the interim dividend, will to receive the full amount of their consideration, IFRS requires the result in a total dividend for the year of 3.0 pence per share.
The Board estimated value of the shares which may be issued under the is conscious of the need to balance returns to shareholders through Commutation Arrangements to be treated as an expense, recognised dividends with the profit enhancing objective of repaying the Groups between the date of award and the expiry of the period in which the senior and subordinated loans over the medium term.
member must remain in the business.
The Commutation Arrangements can be split into two parts.
Cash resources The Group has gross debt of some 258.0 million 2011: 274.7 Under the first commutation, an investment team which had positive fund flows in the 12 months prior to the commutation date could million, comprising 116.0 million of subordinated loan notes and require the Group to purchase a proportion of their profit share.
This 142.0 million of senior loan notes.
Neither the subordinated loan commutation option was exercisable in H1 2012 and under these notes nor the senior loan notes include any financial covenants.
During arrangements, the Group purchased approximately 1.4 million of 2012, the Group repurchased for cancellation 9.0 million of profit entitlement, in return for the issuance of 10.7 million shares, of subordinated loan notes and 7.7 million of senior loan notes, in line which 5.35 million vested immediately and the remaining 5.35 million with the stated intention of reducing its gross debt.
These loan notes vest in March 2013. were, in aggregate, repurchased for 1.1 million less than their par value.
Under the second commutation, the Group can, if it wishes, acquire profit share from each or any investment team.
The maximum amount At 31 December 2012, the Group held cash resources of of profit share which can be acquired through the first and second 165.2 million 2011: 225.0 million, of which some 4.5 million commutation is typically 20 per cent of the profit share of each 2011: 28.1 million relates to policyholders and is not available for investment team.
An accounting cost of 1.4 million has been corporate purposes.
A significant portion of cash is held in our recognised in the 2012 Financial Statements in respect of those teams regulated subsidiaries against their capital requirements.
As asset where it appears economically attractive at December 2012 to management is a cash-generative business, we should not require exercise the commutations.
If the second commutation had occurred significant cash for working capital purposes beyond our regulatory at 31 December 2012, the Group would have issued approximately capital requirements.
3.8 million new shares in satisfaction of its obligations.
No commitment Our borrowings carry fixed rates of interest.
The subordinated loan to exercise those commutation rights has been made.
notes currently bear interest at 6.75 per cent and the senior loan notes The aggregate commutation expense of 1.6 million therefore reflects carry a fixed 9 per cent interest rate.
Our cash resources earn interest the charge of 3.5 million for those commutation options which have based on bank deposit rates.
We use multiple counterparties for our been exercised or assumed to be exercisable, less a 1.9 million cash deposits, which are approved by the Groups credit committee.
credit, which primarily relates to options which are no longer assumed The maximum amount that can be held with a single counterparty is to be exercisable.
F&C REIT Our minority interest partners in F&C REIT, the Groups property asset manager, currently own 30 per cent of the business.
In certain circumstances, they can require F&C to purchase their interests at
