20 | GOVERNANCE | Company Directors 5 12 3 4 67 9 10 8 from its formation in 1992 until 1999 when he Non-executive Directors Executive Directors became chief financial officer at Achmea.
He 2 Keith Bedell-Pearce CBE 1 Edward Bramson returned to the board of Eureko in 2002 shortly Senior Independent Director Executive Chairman after its merger with Achmea and Seguros e Mr Bedell-Pearce, a solicitor, joined the Board Mr Bramson joined the Board and was Pensoes as chief financial officer until his in December 2002.
Until December 2001, appointed Chairman in February 2011 and retirement in 2004.
Mr Bedell-Pearce was an executive director of Executive Chairman in October 2011.
He is 6 Derham ONeill Prudential plc with over 30 years experience in currently a partner of Sherborne Investors and the financial services industry.
He is currently was formerly chairman of Spirent Independent Director chairman of 4D Data Centres Ltd and a member Communications plc, Elementis plc, 4imprint Mr ONeill joined the Board in February 2011. of the Council of the University of Warwick.
Group plc, Nautilus, Inc and Ampex Corporation.
Prior to his appointment, Mr ONeill was a senior partner of Clifford Chance LLP.
He is currently 3 Ian Brindle 9 Richard Wilson the chairman of Schroder Asian Property Chief Executive Mr Brindle joined the Board in February 2011.
Managers Limited Bermuda and was formerly Mr Brindle was UK chairman of Mr Wilson joined the Board in December 2012 the chairman of Scotty Group plc and a  LLP and deputy and became Chief Executive on 1 January 2013. non-executive director of Cedar plc, Georgica chairman of the Financial Reporting Review He joined F&C in 2004 and held a number of plc, and Schroder Venture Managers Limited Panel.
He is currently the chairman of senior positions within F&C prior to joining the Bermuda.
Sherborne Investors Guernsey A Limited and Board.
Mr Wilson has 24 years experience in the O Sherborne Investors Guernsey B Limited and 7 Keith Percy Fund Management industry.
Prior to F&C he was a non-executive director of Spirent Independent Director Head of International Equities at Gartmore and Communications plc, Elementis plc and Managing Director, Global Equities at Deutsche Mr Percy joined the Board in November 2011. formerly a director of 4imprint Group plc.
He started his fund Mr Percy was most recently executive chairman management career at HSBC as a fund O and chief executive officer of Socit Gnrale 4 Keith Jones manager.
Asset Management UK and was previously chief Independent Director executive of Morgan Grenfell Asset 10 David Logan Mr Jones joined the Board in November 2011.
He is a director of Brunner Chief Financial Officer Mr Jones is a former chief executive officer of Investment Trust plc, Standard Life Equity Morley Fund Management, former CEO of NPI Mr Logan joined the Board on 31 July 2006.
Income Trust plc, Henderson Smaller Investments and a past chairman of the Prior to his appointment, Mr Logan spent 17 Companies Trust plc, JP Morgan Japanese Investment Committee of the Association of years in the accounting profession, including 4 Investment Trust plc and The Childrens Mutual.
He currently holds non-executive years as a partner at Deloitte & Touche LLP and O positions at Just Retirement Holdings Ltd, 8 Kieran Poynter 3 years as a partner at Andersen.
Espirito Santo Investment Bank and Aon Hewitt, Independent Director and advisory positions at Lloyds Bank and Mr Poynter joined the Board in June 2009.
to his appointment, Mr Poynter was chairman Member of the Nomination Committee O and senior partner of  5 Jeff Medlock Member of the Remuneration Committee LLP having spent 37 years with the firm.
He is a Independent Director Member of the Audit & Compliance Committee director of Nomura International plc, International O Mr Medlock joined the Board in October 2004.
Member of the Risk Committee Consolidated Airlines Group SA and British Mr Medlock was chief executive officer of Eureko American Tobacco plc.
