12 | BUSINESS REVIEW | Our view of the market We remain positive on the long-term outlook for the asset The retail and wholesale markets continue to undergo structural management industry.
Reform of pension systems in developed change, primarily through the growing importance of platforms and markets provides opportunity for growth, and increasing personal regulatory reform, both of which have a significant impact on the wealth in emerging economies continues to create new pools of distribution of investment funds.
The end of 2012 saw the assets for the industry to manage.
implementation of RDR, which has already prompted advisers to restructure their business models and shift from commission-based Governments across much of the developed world continue to seek remuneration to an explicit fee-based structure.
As well as ways of reducing liabilities arising from universal welfare provision increasing the popularity of lower cost passive options RDR has something that is increasingly unsustainable against a backdrop of given significant impetus to outsourced investment solutions.
In many developed countries individuals are Advisers are increasingly compelled to outsource the management likely to spend more than 20 years in retirement.
For example, in the of client portfolios to either Multi-managers or discretionary fund UK the number of retirees is expected to rise by more than one-third managers.
Management groups capable of providing high quality by the mid point of the century, whilst the working population is differentiated Multi-asset and Multi-manager products should benefit expected to decline.
Similar trends are forecast in other countries from stable and reliable fund flows into their outsourced investment and these changes are prompting governments to encourage management solutions.
individuals and employers on behalf of their employees to assume greater responsibility for their future financial well-being.
The broader application of fee-based charging models was widely anticipated to prompt an increase in the size and importance of the October 2012 saw the introduction of a legal obligation for UK self-directed channel as investors shunned paid-for advice and companies to auto-enrol employees between the ages of 22 and chose to make their own investment decisions.
Early indications the state pension age and earning more than 8,105 into a pension suggest this trend is likely to be significant, with Hargreaves scheme and make a minimum contribution on their behalf.
This new Lansdown attributing a 27 per cent increase in new client numbers initiative is aimed at overcoming savings inertia.
A number of high street banks have also announced Employment Savings Trust NEST similarly seeks to encourage changes to their financial advice propositions and we believe they long-term savings, providing an option for individuals with no access add further impetus to the self-direct channel.
Asset managers with to a company pension scheme.
a strong brand and capabilities in areas such as Multi-manager The number of open defined benefit pension schemes continues to could see a significant increase in inflows from this area.
fall with schemes now having to counter the problem of RDR is widely cited as being a positive development for the underfunding and achieve a balance between fide-risking and return investment trust sector.
The wider application of fee-based advice generation.
These trends provide opportunities to the asset has certainly levelled the playing field between investment trusts and management industry and asset managers capable of providing open-ended funds.
In order to generate momentum, however, we innovative and dynamic liability management and return-generation believe that investment trust providers have an ongoing solutions should be well placed going forward.
responsibility to educate advisers about the benefits of investment The defined contribution DC pensions market is likely to see rapid trusts and their inherent characteristics and we believe it will be growth with further impetus provided by the auto-enrolment and some time until the full implications of RDR are reflected in NEST initiatives outlined above.
Within DC schemes the emphasis fund flows.
continues to shift from a focus on return generation towards fide-risking and immunisation of future liabilities.
Fixed income remains the core asset class for DC schemes but, again, we believe that asset managers need to create new solutions capable of delivering returns within defined risk parameters.
We expect to see greater demand for credit and emerging market debt as well as more esoteric options such as diversified alternative strategies.
Corporate governance-related issues remain to the fore and pension schemes are under increasing pressure to be transparent and active owners with regards to sustainability, governance and engagement issues.
Asset managers capable of assisting clients alleviate this burden through demonstrable expertise are increasingly at a competitive advantage over their peers.
 issues and developments are also growing in importance from a return generation perspective and solutions capable of leveraging themes, such as climate change, water and agriculture, are likely to be well placed for future asset gathering.
