Directors R eport exchange rate movements between UK sterling and these other DIRECTORS REPORT GENERAL currencies.
It is the Companys policy not to hedge against All appointments to the Board, elections, re-elections and currency risks.
Borrowings are denominated in US dollars and, replacements of Directors take place in accordance with the therefore, the effect of US dollar exchange rate movements on Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association.
assets denominated in US dollars will be offset by the effect Details of the Directors who served in the year ended 31 March on these loans.
Further details can be found in Note 18 to the 2012 are set out on page 17.
Financial Statements on pages 47 to 53.
Elisabeth Scott and Andrew Wells are subject to election at the Financial and financial instrument risks forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The financial instrument risks faced by the Company are shown in Note 18 to the Financial Statements on pages 47 to 53.
Other risks All other Board members are subject to re-election at the monitored on a regular basis include derivative positions, which forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Information on the process are subject to daily monitoring, together with the Companys of appointment, election and replacement of Directors is included cash position.
in the Corporate Governance Statement.
Counterparty risk On 1 November 201 1, Elisabeth Scott was appointed as a The Company relies on a number of main counterparties, namely non-executive Director and on 26 March 2012 Gary Shaughnessy the Managers, Registrar and Custodian.
The Managers are the resigned as a non-executive Director of the Company.
On 21 May members of a privately owned group of companies on which 2012, the Board appointed Andrew Wells as a non-executive a regular risk report is provided to the Board.
Registrar and Custodian are subject to regular audits by Fidelitys internal controls teams and the counterparties own No Director has a contract of service with the Company and no internal controls are received by the Board and any concerns contracts existed during or at the end of the financial period in investigated.
which any Director was materially interested and which were significant in relation to the Companys business except as Governance, operational, financial, compliance, disclosed in relation to Mr Shaughnessy and Mr Wells interests administration etc in the Management Agreement.
There have been no other While it is believed that the likelihood of poor governance, related party transactions requiring disclosure under International compliance and operational administration by other third party Accounting Standard 24. service providers is low, the financial consequences could be The interests of FIL Limited and the Directors in the Ordinary serious, including the associated reputational damage to the Shares of the Company as at 31 March 2012 are shown below Company.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of and on page 22. internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Details of this process are provided in the Corporate Governance Statement DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE within this Annual Report.
In addition to benefits enjoyed under the Managers global Directors and Officers liability insurance arrangements, the ENVIRONMENTAL, EMPLOYEE, SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY Company maintains insurance cover for its Directors under its own MATTERS policy as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
Directors are The portfolio is managed by FIL Investment Management Hong also covered by the Director Indemnity provisions in accordance Kong Limited.
The Company has no employees and all of its with the Articles of Association as approved by the shareholders.
The Companys day-to-day activities are carried out by third parties.
There are therefore no disclosures ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION to be made in respect of employees.
Any amendments to the Companys Articles of Association must be made by special resolution.
The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas or diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable carbon SUBSTANTIAL SHARE INTERESTS footprint.
The Secretary and Unlisted Investment Manager, FIL The following notifications had been received of interests in 3% or Investments International, is registered with the Carbon Reduction more of the voting rights and or issued ordinary share capital of Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme administered by the UK the Company: Environment Agency.
Holding at Holding at The Companys financial reports are printed by a company which 31 March 2012 12 June 2012 has received accreditations for its environmental awareness and 1 2 FIL Limited 45.31% 44.97 further details of this may be found on the back cover of this report.
1 Direct holding on own account 6.37% and indirect holdings for Fidelitys ISA Financial reports and other publicly available documentation are and Share Plan clients 38.94% also available on the Companys website www.
2 Dir ect holding on own account 6.40% and indirect holdings for Fidelitys ISA Details about Fidelitys own community involvement may be found and Share Plan clients 38.57% on its website, www.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 21 Directors R eport An analysis of ordinary shareholders as at 31 March 2012 is Shares for cancellation.
The total number of Ordinary Shares in detailed in the table below.
issue at the date of this report is 657,879,480.
% of issued At the Annual General Meeting held on 27 July 2011, the Analysis of ordinary shareholders share Companys shareholders passed a special resolution which as at 31 March 2012 capital granted the Directors authority to purchase up to 99,331,900 Ordinary Shares in the market for cancellation.
The authority Institutions and wealth managers 49.09 expires on 24 July 2012 and a special resolution to renew the 1 Private shareholders 40.35 authority will therefore be put to shareholders for approval at Pension companies 5.60 the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Insurance companies 4.30 Pursuant to this authority, during the period from 1 August 2011 Other 0.66 to 31 March 2012, 2,900,000 Ordinary Shares of 1 penny each were repurchased for cancellation.
In aggregate the total shares 1 Includes Fidelity Share Plan and ISA investors repurchased during the year ended 31 March 2012 was 2,900,000 Ordinary Shares of 1 penny each 2011: nil representing 0.44% of SHARE CAPITAL the issued share capital as at 31 March 2012 2011: nil and for a The Companys share capital comprises Ordinary Shares of total consideration of 2,323,000 2011: nil.
Each share carries POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS one vote.
Deadlines for the exercise of voting rights and details The Company has not made any political or charitable donations of arrangements by which someone other than the shareholder during the year under review.
can exercise voting rights are detailed in the Notes to the Notice of Meeting on pages 56 and 57.
The Companys Ordinary Shares PAYMENT OF CREDITORS have a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and the The Companys principal supplier is the Investment Manager who Company is a constituent member of the FTSE 250 Index.
is paid in the month following the end of each calendar quarter, in accordance with the terms of the Management Agreement SHARE ISSUES detailed below.
During the year to 31 March 2012, the Company issued 6,250,000 Ordinary S hares.
The Companys policy for the year to 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2013, for all suppliers, is to fix terms of payment when The authority to issue shares and disapply pre-emption rights agreeing the terms of each business transaction to ensure that granted by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, the supplier is aware of these terms and to abide by the agreed held on 27 July 2011, expires at the conclusion of the next Annual terms of payment.
The Company did not have any trade creditors General Meeting and therefore, resolutions renewing the authority in the year under review and to date.
Other suppliers are paid in will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be accordance with the individual payment terms agreed with them.
MANAGEMENT COMPANY DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS During the year ended 31 March 2012, the investments of the There have been no changes to Directors shareholdings since the Company, other than in unlisted securities, were managed by FIL year ended 31 March 2012.
Investment Management Hong Kong Limited, which provides Shares held at Shares held at portfolio management services to the Company pursuant to the 31 March 31 March Management Agreement dated 25 February 2011.
2012 2011 The investments in unlisted securities are managed by FIL John Owen 53,433 53,433 Investments International, which provide s portfolio management Nicholas Bull 65,804 65,804 services to the Company pursuant to the Discretionary Investment Management Agreement dated 5 January 2011.
David Causer 65,804 65,804 Peter Pleydell-Bouverie 59,224 59,224 For the year to 31 March 2012, the respective Management 1 Agreements provided for an annual management fee of 1.5% of Elisabeth Scott 12,200 n a the net asset value of the Company which totalled 8,312,000.
2 Andrew Wells n a n a In addition, the Investment Managers are entitled to an annual 3 Gary Shaughnessy 66,993 66,993 performance fee of 15% of any change in NAV attributable to 1 appointed on 1 November 2011 performance which is more than 2% above the returns on the 2 appointed on 21 May 2012 MSCI China Index, subject to a maximum performance fee 3 resigned on 26 March 2012 payable in any year equal to 1.5% of the arithmetic mean of the SHARE REPURCHASES value of assets with valuations calculated at the end of each During the year to 31 March 2012, the Company repurchased month during the year.
Any out-performance above this cap will 2,900,000 Ordinary Shares for cancellation.
Since the year end, be carried forward.
If the Company under-performs, the the Company has repurchased a further 1,875,000 Ordinary under-performance must be made good before any further Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 22 Directors R eport performance fee becomes payable.
For the year ended social, environmental and ethical issues into account when, in 31 March 201 2, no performance fee was payable.
the Managers view, these have a material impact on either investment risk or return.
In addition, FIL Investments International provide s accounting, administrative and secretarial services to the Company pursuant ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING to the Secretarial Services Agreement dated 25 February 2010 THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE under which the Company has agreed to pay a secretarial fee of ATTENTION.
up to 600,000 per annum, payable quarterly in arrears.
For the If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you year to 31 March 2012, a secretarial fee of 600,000 was payable should seek your own personal financial advice from your 2011: 568,000. stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
The Board reviews the services provided by the Manager and also the terms of the Management Agreement on a regular The Board is recommending to shareholders resolutions which basis.
The Management Agreement will continue unless and give the Directors authority to allot securities in the Company.
The until terminated by either party giving to the other not less than authorities sought by these resolutions are to provide the Directors six months notice in writing.
The Management Agreement may, with the flexibility to issue further Ordinary Shares if they deem it however, be terminated without compensation if the Company is appropriate to do so.
However, these authorities will expire on the liquidated in 2012, or in any subsequent year thereafter, pursuant date of the next Annual General Meeting AGM in 2013. to the procedures laid down in the Articles of Association of the By law, directors are not permitted to allot new shares or to Company.
grant rights over shares unless authorised to do so by shareholders.
The Management Agreement may also be terminated forthwith Resolution 12 provides the Directors with a general authority to as a result of a material breach of the Agreement or on the allot securities in the Company up to an aggregate nominal value insolvency of the Manager or the Company.
If passed, this resolution will enable the Directors to Company may terminate the agreement by six months notice if allot a maximum of 65,787,900 Ordinary Shares which represents the Manager ceases to be a subsidiary of FIL Limited or if the approximately 10% of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Board shall resolve at two successive quarterly meetings that Company as at 12 June 2012.
The Directors would not intend to there has been a material and continuing under-performance in use this power unless they considered that it was in the interests the portfolio of assets.
The Management Engagement Committee has reviewed Resolution 1 3 is a special resolution disapplying pre-emption the performance of the Investment Managers taking into rights and granting authority to the Directors, without further consideration those items in the Corporate Governance Statement specific shareholder approval, to make allotments of equity on page 29 of this Annual Report.
The Committee concluded securities for cash by way of a rights issues and b other issues that it was in the interests of shareholders that the Management up to an aggregate nominal value of 657,879 approximately Agreements should continue.
Fidelity also provides certain 10% of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company as at services, including marketing and administration, in connection 12 June 2012. with the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan and the Fidelity ISA Resolution 14 is a special resolution which, if approved, will renew under an agreement dated 19 February 2010. the Companys authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the number RESPONSIBILITY AS AN INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER of Ordinary Shares in issue on 12 June 2012 for cancellation.
The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of Ownership in Purchases of Ordinary Shares will be at the discretion of the relation to investments.
These Principles include the pursuit of an Board and within guidelines set from time to time by the Board active investment policy through portfolio management decisions, in the light of prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be voting on resolutions at general meetings and maintaining a made in the market at prices below the prevailing net asset value continuing dialogue with the management of investee companies.
per share, thereby resulting in an increased Net Asset Value per The Manager, in its Principles of Ownership, expressly declares share.
that it supports the FRCs Stewardship Code setting out the Recommendation: The Board considers that each of the responsibilities of institutional shareholders and agents.
Further resolutions is likely to promote the success of the Company and details of the Managers Principles of Ownership and voting may is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as be found at www.
The Directors unanimously recommend that you vote SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of The Managers primary objective is to produce superior financial their own beneficial holdings.
returns for the Companys shareholders.
It believes that high standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make good CORPORATE GOVERNANCE business sense and have the potential to protect and enhance Full details are given in the Corporate Governance Statement, investment returns.
Consequently, its investment process takes which forms part of the Directors Report, on pages 26 to 30.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 23 Directors Report AUDITORS RIGHT TO INFORMATION As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 the Directors in office as at the date of this report each confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditor is unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Auditor is aware of that information.
AUDITORS APPOINTMENT A resolution to reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM together with a resolution to authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
GOING CONCERN The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 19 to 21.
The financial position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Statements and Notes thereto on pages 33 to 54.
The Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, financial risk management objectives, details of financial instruments and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk are also set out on pages 19 to 21 and in Note 18 to the Financial Statements on pages 47 to 53.
The Companys assets consist mainly of securities which are readily realisable and, where outsourcing arrangements are in place, alternative service providers are readily available.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Board receives regular reports from the Investment Managers and the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
By Order of the Board FIL Investments International Secretary 12 June 2012 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 24
