The Boards Policies INVESTMENT POLICY The Company is permitted to invest up to 5% of Gross Assets in The Company invests in a diversified portfolio consisting primarily unlisted securities issued in companies which carry on business, of securities issued by companies listed in China or Hong Kong or which have significant interests, in China or Hong Kong.
and China related companies listed on other stock exchanges.
Foreign exchange hedging policy The Company may also obtain exposure to other listed companies The Companys financial statements are denominated in UK which have significant interests in China or Hong Kong.
sterling, while investments are made and realised in currencies Investment instruments other than UK sterling, including Chinese renminbi, Hong Kong During the year the Company invested in forward currency dollars and US dollars.
It is the policy not to hedge the underlying contracts, equity linked notes, call & put options, index futures, currencies of the holdings in the portfolio but rather to take long and short contracts for difference and utilised the QFII the currency risk into consideration when making investment licen ce of the Investment Manager.
The Company may invest through equities, index linked, equity Cash management linked and other debt securities, cash deposits, money market The Investment Managers are not required to ensure that the instruments, foreign currency exchange transactions, equity related Companys cash resources are fully invested at all times.
securities, forward transactions and other interests including DIVIDEND POLICY derivative instruments.
Forward transactions and derivatives, The Board recommends the payment of a final dividend of 0.75 including futures, options and contracts for difference, may be pence per Ordinary Share for the year ended 31 March 2012. used to enhance portfolio performance as well as for efficient portfolio management and hedging.
As the Companys objective is to achieve long-term capital growth, the Board does not expect that dividends will constitute a In addition, the Company gains exposure to the China A Shares material element of any return to shareholders.
However, in order through the Investment Managers QFII licen ce and through third to continue to qualify as an investment company, the Com pany parties who have a QFII facility.
is required by Section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 to Borrowing and gearing policy distribute sufficient net income so that it retains no more than 15% During the year, the gross asset exposure of the Company did not of the income it derives from shares and securities.
exceed the 30% limit of net assets.
INVESTMENT IN OTHER INVESTMENT COMPANIES: LIMIT OF 15% The Board considers that long-term capital growth can be As at 31 March 2012, the Company held no investments in other enhanced through the use of borrowing.
The Board is responsible for the level of gearing in the Company The Board has set a limit of 15% on the proportion of the and reviews the position on a regular basis.
Companys total assets that can be invested in the securities of other listed investment companies including listed investment The Company may borrow up to 25% of net assets and the trusts which themselves do not have stated investment policies.
Board has adopted the policy that the Gross Asset Exposure of the Company, whether from borrowing or derivatives, should PREMIUM & DISCOUNT MANAGEMENT not exceed the net assets of the Company by more than 30%.
During the year to 31 March 2012, the Company issued 6,250,000 The Portfolio Manager is responsible for operating within Ordinary Shares and repurchased 2,900,000 Ordinary Shares these parameters.
through its share issue and repurchase authorities approved by shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Derivative instruments The Company may use derivative instruments for efficient portfolio The Board has no rigid premium management or discount management, gearing and hedging.
They may also be used in control policy but will exercise its authority to issue or repurchase order to achieve the investment objective i. e. to enhance portfolio the Companys shares if deemed to be in the best interests of performance.
The Board has adopted a policy that the gross notional value The Board has adopted an approach whereby the level of of short exposures held by the Company will not in aggregate premium discount is actively managed by attempting to ensure exceed 15% of Gross Assets.
the share price of the Company tracks as closely as possible the It is the Boards policy that total exposure to any single underlying Net Asset Value of the Portfolio.
counterparty from all activities, including, but not limited to, C ORPORATE ENGAGEMENT the management of cash and the use of derivatives should not The Board believes that the Company should, where necessary exceed 15% of gross assets.
Derivative exposures are included take an active interest in the affairs of the companies in which it after the netting of offsetting positions and allowing for any invests and that it should exercise its voting rights at their general collateral placed by the counterparty with the Company.
Unless there are any controversial issues which are Unlisted investments then referred to the Board it delegates the responsibility for During the year the Company held one unlisted investment with a corporate engagement and shareholder voting to the Managers.
value of 2.5m, representing 0.4% of Gross Assets.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 18
