Board of Directors 1,2, 3 John Owen CMG MBE DL The Hon.
Peter Pleydell-Bouverie 1,2, 3 Chairman date of appointment: DL 4 February 2010.
Mr Owen has Chairman of the Investment enjoyed careers in both the Committee date of appointment: 4 diplomatic service and industry.
Mr Pleydell-Bouverie served in the diplomatic service is an investment professional for 30 years until his retirement in with over 30 years of investment 1999, serving in Indonesia, Vietnam, experience, particularly in the Far France, El Salvador, Iran, Brazil, East and emerging markets.
Mr Owen was current non-executive positions British Consul General in Boston, USA from 1992 to 1995, and include acting as a trustee on investment committees for family Governor of the Cayman Islands from 1995 to 1999.
He also and charitable trusts.
He is also a Deputy Lieutenant of the worked in industry for seven years.
Mr Owen is currently chairman County of Wiltshire.
Previously, Mr Pleydell-Bouverie spent ten of several companies including Iceman Capital Advisors Limited, years with FIL where he was investment director until 1996, an investment advisory company specialising in investment in the managing Japanese-focused unit trusts, offshore funds, pension developing markets of Asia.
He has a number of directorships funds and the Fidelity Emerging Markets Fund.
Prior to this, he including Queensgate Bank Limited and Queensgate Trust was an associate director at Kleinwort Grieveson Investment Company Limited.
Mr Owen is also chairman of the Friends of Management and fund manager at Grieveson, Grant and Co, Cayman in London.
He is an Honorary Fellow of the University where he also managed Asia-focused investment funds.
of Wales and also a Deputy Lieutenant of the County of Isle of 1,2, 3 Wight.
Elisabeth Scott Date of appointment: 1 November 1,2, 3 Nicholas Bull FCA 2011.
Ms Scott worked in the asset Senior Independent Director and management industry in Hong Chairman of the Nomination and Kong from 1992 to 2008, where Remuneration Committee date of she was managing director and appointment: 4 February 2010.
Mr country head of Schroder Investment Bull is chairman of hotel group fide Management Hong Kong Limited Vere and a non-executive director of and chair of the Hong Kong the AIM quoted Westhouse Holdings Investment Funds Association.
plc and chairman of its division Ms Scott is also a non-executive director of Pacific Horizon Smiths Corporate Advisory.
He is Investment Trust PLC and Dunedin Income Growth Investment also a Member of Council of the University of Exeter, a trustee of Trust PLC.
the Design Museum and deputy chairman of the trustees of the 2,3 Conran Foundation.
Previously Mr Bull worked for 30 years as a Andrew Wells corporate finance practitioner with Morgan Grenfell subsequently Date of appointment: 21 May Deutsche Bank, Socit Gnrale and ABN AMRO in London, 2012.
Mr Wells is FILs Global Chief Sydney, Singapore and Hong Kong.
He is a qualified chartered Investment Officer, Fixed Income, accountant.
leads FILs Investment Solutions Group ISG and has been a 1,2, 3 David Causer FCA member of FILs Global Operating Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee since November 2010. date of appointment: 4 February Mr Wells has over 20 years of 2010.
Mr Causer is a non-executive investment experience, particularly director and audit committee in Asia, having worked as a portfolio manager in FILs Hong Kong chairman of Schroder Income office from 2002 becoming FILs Chief Investment Officer for Asian Growth Fund plc, an investment Fixed Income in 2005.
In 2007, Mr Wells became Global CIO company listed on the London Fixed Income for FIL, responsible for developing the fixed income Stock Exchange.
He is a qualified investment process, team and structure.
chartered accountant and a member of the Securities Institute.
Mr Causer has held a number All the Directors are non-executive directors and all are of senior positions within financial services organisations, independent, with the exception of Andrew Wells.
including as finance director of Mercury Asset Management Group plc and as a managing director of Merrill Lynch Investment 1 Member of the Audit Committee and the Management Engagement Committee Managers until 2001.
He was finance director of The British Red 2 Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee Cross Society until December 2007.
He is a trustee of a number of 3 Member of the Investment Committee charities and of a pension fund.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 17
