Mar 12 Sep 11 Mar 11 Sep 10 Apr 10 Managers Report Anthony Bolton has more than 30 years 2.
I am focusing on private medium and small-sized businesses experience of managing equity funds and rather than the large state owned enterprises.
These are the began investing in Chinese equities in 2004. entrepreneur-run businesses on which I believe Chinas He previously acted as portfolio manager long-term prospects are based.
Yes, they can be more risky but for a number of Fidelity funds, including the good ones have the potential to be much more rewarding.
Fidelity Special Situations Fund, which he managed from 1979 until 2007.
I am trying to find business models with which I am familiar also managed the portfolios of two listed from my experience of investing in the UK and continental investment trusts, Fidelity Special Values PLC Europe.
These are the models that I know work.
If well run, from 1994 to 2007 and Fidelity European they should be able to do well for the next 5-10 years as they Values PLC from 1991 to 2001. are normally at an early stage of their development in China.
It is now just over two years since the launch of Fidelity China 4.
I am trying to buy shares in these companies on reasonable Special Situations PLC and I admit I am not where I had hoped or, if possible, cheap valuations.
At the time of writing, I to be.
The value of the funds net assets NAV has fallen by 20.0% believe that there are many bargains available among the since launch and the share price by 26.3% as at 11 June 2012. smaller stocks.
I particularly like stocks that look cheap against There has been a recovery in the second half of the reporting their international peers or where the sum of the parts is much year, with the NAV up 14.6%, but the share price is up by only greater than the valuation of the whole.
7% over that period but markets have again been difficult in the last couple of months.
As outlined in the interim financial report, In the next section of my report on pages 6 to 9 I describe a the fund has suffered from its ability to employ bank borrowings, number of companies the fund holds, all of which fit these criteria.
which has magnified the impact of market movements, and from I have picked fourteen companies from a selection of sectors I a relatively high exposure to more volatile medium and smaller like and I hope these examples will give a better understanding companies in an environment where for much of the last 18 of the types of business I am focusing on.
months their performance has been disappointing.
Below is a chart showing the share price and NAV against the performance Let me start with a few words about the macro situation in China.
figures of the Hong Kong-listed Chinese mid and small cap As the C hairman has already mentioned, for most of the last indices, which I believe are better short-term benchmarks.
year or so the debate has continued between those who expect 130 a soft landing for the Chinese economy and those who expect a hard one, albeit that the definitions of what constitutes a 120 hard landing differ.
The consensus expects GDP growth of 110 8-8.5% this year, with many thinking that the second quarter will be the trough.
I have to say that I am not as optimistic as this.
100 When I look at economic growth from a bottom-up perspective, -9.7% 90 -14.2% I get to a somewhat lower figure although its possible that we -19.0% may never see lower numbers published.
Yes, consumption will 80 -27.1% remain strong, but fixed asset investment, particularly residential 70 -28.8% property, and exports are likely to see significant reductions in their growth rates.
I am not in the hard landing camp which 60 generally expects growth of 5% or less but I am below the consensus.
This does not make me negative about the outlook for Chinese equities, for which the key measure is growth 6-12 months NAV Share Price MSCI China hence rather than growth now, but it does make me even keener MSCI China Mid Cap MSCI China Small Cap to be in the areas that are doing best.
I hope these figures will help explain the performance of the I continue to believe that the biggest medium-term challenges Company, although I must stress that if I did not believe my for China are social and political as it shifts from being a poor strategy could out-perform the broader MSCI China Index in the society to a wealthier one, as the middle classes aspirations medium to long-term, I would not be pursuing it.
To recap, there grow, as it changes from a rural to an urban economy and from are four main planks to my investment strategy: a closed to a more open society and as it shifts out of low-value 1.
To be exposed mainly to the consumption and service sectors exports into higher-value manufacturing as well as domestic which depend on the domestic economy in China.
After two consumption and services.
As I have argued in previous reports, years here I feel even more strongly about the attractions of I think the financial challenges that worry some of the most vocal these areas.
Not a week goes by without statements from China bears are generally surmountable China has the financial Chinese politicians and leaders or evidence from our company resources and resolve to address them.
Let me give you a quick meetings that support this stance.
The fact that April was update on some of these.
Chinas national consumption promotion month says it all.
Inflation has fallen back sharply in recent months as I thought it would and many now expect it to fall further to 3% or lower later Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 5 Managers Report this year.
Although the short-term outlook for prices is good, the I still believe world equity markets offer attractive returns over the high wage increases expected over the next few years in China next few years, even more so since the last ten years or so have mean the structural level in the mediumterm is likely to be higher, been so disappointing.
Specifically on Chinese stocks, valuations at say 5-7%.
In my view this is not an alarming rate but something are still near their ten-year lows and sentiment has again become that will need to be monitored closely.
Sentiment regarding the A share market remains especially depressed despite a new policy in China designed to The bad debts of the local government financing vehicles have, help it recover a significant policy change.
I continue to believe as expected, been pushed into the future.
I continue to feel the that those who stick the course in China will be amply rewarded.
authorities have enough financial fire power at the centre to I am very pleased that we have recently been able to announce manage these.
Also, this problem is well understood today by that my tenure in managing the portfolio is extended for at least regulators and investors.
one further year to April 2014.
I remain cautious on the outlook for Chinese residential property As referenced earlier in my report, I list below fourteen developers and the Company holds none of these although companies from a selection of sectors, all of which I like, it does hold shares in several Hong Kong-based developers.
and I hope they will give you a greater understanding of Despite the fact that the stocks have recovered strongly from their the types of businesses I focus on.
lows and many argue that the worst is over, I am not so sure about this.
Also, unlike in 2009, I think the recovery, if it has started, REX Lot Market capitali sation: 460m will be a slow one.
With the exception of support for property Portfolio weighting: 3.1% purchases by first time buyers, I expect the Chinese authorities to There is only one legali sed form of gambling in China the two keep their current property controls in place for some time.
state-owned lotteries, namely the Welfare Lottery and the Sports Lottery.
These raise money by selling a range of products such as I maintain my view that the current backcloth of falling inflation scratch cards, computer-generated tickets, bets on single-match and a slow loosening of monetary policy should be a favourable sports games and on video lottery terminals.
Interestingly the one for the stock market.
total size of the two lotteries in terms of take is about US$35bn, a bit larger than the size of the total take in Macau and this figure I often get asked about the quality of corporate governance in is growing at about 30% a year.
Exciting new products are being China, including the quality of management and of published brought in that will allow tickets to be sold via mobile phones and financial data.
I strongly believe that the best companies are as the internet.
Because of the involvement of the state the area is good as any in the West but the worst can be much worse and not without risks.
REX Lot is one of the largest service providers to there are more of these in China.
The very worst are scams or the lottery sector and is actively involved in developing the newer frauds as we have seen from some high-profile examples over products.
It is growing at about 20% a year, but only sells at about the last year or two.
This is why I have put an increasing effort 8 times this years estimated earnings.
into our due-diligence process, both internally but also externally, using several speciali sed firms in this area.
I am sure we will not Asia InfoLinkage 520m 2.3% spot every problem but I hope we can spot most.
I recently did a This is a US-listed Chinese company that Fidelitys Chinese five-day trip to Hong Kong and China with half a dozen leading private-equity business invested in before it listed on the stock UK financial journalists.
We met about 18 companies, mainly market.
Its main business is providing IT services and systems for companies the Company holds, and the journalists appeared to the three large telecom carriers in China.
It is a similar business be impressed by the quality of the managements they saw and to the US-listed Amdocs.
The stock has done poorly over the last this was reflected in their generally positive coverage.
12 months or so until recently due to general fears about US-listed I continue to see Hong Kong as a major beneficiary of the Chinese companies and some softness in its business at a time trends in China.
The population is about 7 million people but when costs have continued to rise.
The growth rate is about 15% 42 million people visited Hong Kong last year, including while the shares sell at about 11 times this years estimated 28 million mainlanders a number that is likely to continue earnings or only 6.6 times, stripping out the companys net cash to grow.
The Company has exposure to Hong Kong-based from the market capitali sation.
Amdocs is growing at about 6% banks, small property companies, hotel companies, the largest and sells on a similar valuation.
The company has recently been telephone company and the leading TV company that is approached by Chinese private equity investors who are looking expanding its involvement in the mainland.
CSI Properties 205m 1.2% To date the road has been hard but my enthusiasm for this CSI is a small Hong Kong-based property developer.
I was amazing country remains unabated.
Every time I visit mainland originally attracted to it because of the very cheap valuation China my conviction about it increases and I return more of the shares which sold at a 75% discount to net assets, a impressed about the investment opportunities there.
I strongly level of discount I have only rarely come across in the West.
I believe that China is not the house of cards some have suggested thought that if this could sell at a 50% discount still a very high and it is not about to collapse.
Of course, like most places it is level the shares could double in price.
The portfolio also owns not risk-free.
One of the regional risks I have written about before several other small Hong Kong property developers on similarly is North Korea.
Here the situation has deteriorated again after a high discounts.
What makes CSI different is the fact that it is run period of improvement.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 6 Managers Report by an entrepreneur who is active in the property market and organi sation CRO in China, several times bigger than its wants to see a higher share price over time.
Some of the others nearest rival.
As global pharmaceutical companies find the going are controlled by families, who appear to have little interest tougher, with product patent expiries and the cost of developing in the share price although I believe in a better stock market new drugs escalating, they are putting more focus on cost control environment the shares might still do well.
CSI Properties shares and a lot of the development process they used to do internally have risen recently and now sell on a discount of 69%.
I believe is now being outsourced to companies like WuXi.
Costs in China, that in the developer market small companies can often be more even with wages rising, are still considerably below those in attractive than larger ones as they are more geared to successful Western economies.
India, which has been very successful in property deals, provided they are well-financed as CSI is.
other outsourcing businesses, has made little impact in the CRO area, which needs a highly-skilled scientific workforce.
The largest Hutchison China Medi Tech 230m 1.2% listed CRO business in America, Covance, is growing revenues at I have spent some time trying to find Chinese companies a rate in the mid to high single digits and sells at about 17 times developing Western-type small molecule drugs in China.
WuXi has guided in vestors towards 15-20% searches led me to this company and an A listed company I revenue growth this year and sells on about 12 times this years also hold in the portfolio.
It is a 71% subsidiary of a large Hong earnings or 9.7 times excluding cash.
Last year, Charles River, Kong-listed conglomerate, Hutchison Whampoa Group, and is, another US-listed CRO, tried unsuccessfully to take over WuXi and somewhat surprisingly, listed in the UK on the AIM market.
It in the long run we may see further consolidation in this industry.
has three main businesses: a drug-discovery business which has some very interesting drugs in the pipeline, including one the Daphne International 1,425 m 1.2% company has recently joint-ventured with AstraZeneca on very Daphne is a shoe retailer with 5,600 stores in China and over attractive terms, and a later-stage drug aimed at colitis which the half of these are in the smaller tier 4 to 6 cities.
It is one of the company estimates has the potential to have US$1bn in sales.
best ways, in my view, to play the growth of consumption in these The company also has a healthcare division growing at about lower tier cities, which in some cases is growing faster than in 20% a year selling traditional Chinese medicines in China.
This is the tier 1 and 2 cities.
TPG, the private equity house, became a a partnership with local pharmaceutical state-owned enterprises 14.5% shareholder in 2009 via the issue of convertible bonds and which themselves are poor at marketing.
The company also owns warrants.
It revitali sed the management and improved operations a smaller consumer business selling food and beverages, beauty through areas such as supply chain management, IT systems care and baby care products.
The valuation of the shares can and product focus.
Today the company is growing earnings at be justified by the latter two businesses alone while the drug about 20% a year and the shares sell at about 17 times this years discovery business, which could be very valuable if it finds a estimated earnings.
They have performed well recently and the winner, is thrown in effectively for free.
Company purchased stock at lower levels.
3SBio 180m 1.5% Natural Beauty Bio-Technology 240m 1.1% Sadly, one of the fastest-growing diseases in China is diabetes.
The cosmetics industry in China has excellent growth prospects This is due to the changing nature of the Chinese diet as the as women become more affluent and take greater interest in country becomes better off and the fact that, in general, Chinese their appearance.
Unfortunately, from this Companys point of people are not particularly focused on healthy eating.
Diabetes view, it is largely dominated by large multinationals such as is the most common cause of kidney failure for which the usual LOreal and Estee Lauder.
As a result I became quite excited treatment is kidney dialysis.
A large number of people who need when I came cross this small company that was historically based kidney dialysis go untreated in China due to a lack of dialysis in the spa business.
In 2010 the founding family sold half its centres, although this is slowly changing.
To benefit from these shareholding to the private equity group Carlyle.
Carlyle changed favourable industry dynamics, I used to own United Laboratories the management, bringing in experienced Chinese businessmen in the portfolio, a company that had developed an analogue and women who had previously worked for large multinationals insulin product, but I sold this holding as I became less sure and completely revamped the store look and layout.
The stores about the prospects for its traditional antibiotic business.
3SBios are mainly run by franchisees and Natural Beauty makes its main product is Erythropoietin EPO which is used to help money by selling products to them, the stores today being more maintain red blood cell counts.
All patients who go through focused on product sales than in the past.
It is also developing dialysis need to take an EPO.
3SBios EPO has a 41% share a counter business in department stores.
The store conversion to by value of the EPO market in China, nearly 3 times that of its the new style is progressing apace, a new advertising campaign nearest competitor.
It is also developing a number of other drugs is just starting and the number of stores is growing quickly.
New and, in the future, is looking to sell its EPO outside China.
The stores refurbishment typically pays back in about six months.
The stock is growing at about 20% a year and sells on about 14 times earnings are growing at about 25% a year and the valuation is this years earnings or 8.4 times excluding cash.
about 20 times this years earnings or 16.5 times excluding cash.
Although not at bargain levels I think this will look attractive WuXi PharmaTech 640m 1.3% as returns improve.
Natural Beauty aims to be the number one Wu Xi, a US-listed Chinese company, is another business Fidelity beauty spa business in China by 2014.
This is a brand about knows well as its China-based private equity business was a which I expect we will hear a lot more in the future.
It is the largest contract research Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 7 Managers Report Kingdee International Software 365m 0.9% arranged a meeting.
Its main business is magazines, including Kingdee is one of the leading software companies in China.
Its the leading current affairs weekly magazine in China called origins were in packaged software products but it is also now in Modern Weekly.
Three years ago saw the launch of a womens middleware and enterprise resource planning systems.
As Chinese magazine, U Weekly, and this has become the most popular businesses moderni se there is great demand for better systems womens magazine in China, overtaking international titles like particularly amongst the smaller and mediumsized companies Marie Claire and Cosmopolitan.
Last year was a difficult one for the company: it let costs business magazine jointly with Bloomberg.
The most exciting expand significantly at a time when there was some softness growth area is its move into digital delivery.
It has one of only among its SME clients due to Chinas financial tightening.
The seven national digital publishing licenses in China.
In 2010 it stock performed poorly and the chief executive was replaced.
This acquired the Chinese media application iWeekly and this has given the opportunity for me to increase the funds holding.
is now the most popular media app in China, with 6 million The long-term growth rate should be around 25-30% while the downloads.
Modern has other interesting plans in the digital, stock is on about 15 times this years estimated earnings.
Kingdee TV called iTV which was a case of dj vu for me!
and has some similarities to the UKs Sage when I first came across it e-commerce areas.
It is growing at about 30% a year and sells on in the 1980s and 1990s.
about 10 times this years earnings.
The chairman is one of the most impressive media people I have met in China.
China Lodging Group 480m 1.0% As the Chinese become more affluent and travel more, the hotel Ajisen 765m 0.6% sector should benefit.
The sector is dominated by traditional Ajisen is an example of how I hope I can transfer the techniques state-owned inns and small lodging houses and the chains of buying recovery shares from the UK to China.
It is a restaurant with purpose-built product only account for 2% of the market, a chain with 670 outlets in 118 cities in China selling a Japanese, much lower proportion than in the developed world.
It has expanded strongly with a logisticsthree US-listed companies in the budget chain area.
I believe based model of central kitchens and noodle factories which China Lodging is the most impressive and it was started by the keeps cooking preparation in the restaurants to a minimum.
In founder of Ctrip the leading travel internet site.
Today it has 675 July last year an article was published saying their soups were hotels in 100 cities consisting of three brands: Hanting Express not fresh and prepared on the spot but made from powder in the economy area, Hanting hi inn in the budget area and they are not actually made from powder but from paste.
In a Hanting Seasons Hotels in the mid-scale, limited service area.
market that is very focused on food quality and ingredients, sales The company has very ambitious plans, looking to open 2,000 were adversely affected especially in Ajisens Shanghai base.
hotels by 2016 and 5,000 by 2021 and it believes the rollout can It came as a surprise to many customers that the ingredients be funded by net cash, new debt and cash flow.
Customers are were not fresh despite the fact that many chains use this model.
split 60% business and 40% leisure and two-thirds of bookings The share price collapsed from $18 to $10 and I repurchased come from a 4.4m strong loyalty scheme membership.
China a holding I had held it earlier but sold out when the valuation Lodging is growing at about 35% a year and sells on about 35 reached a high level.
Sales have since been recovering, not as times this years earnings or 10 times earnings before interest, fast as the company had hoped, but I take encouragement that taxes, depreciation and amortisation.
However, earnings are same-store sales in Hong Kong where they have a few units being penali sed by new opening costs and without these the 5% turned positive in November and in Beijing earlier this year.
The operating profit margin would be nearer 13%.
company admits it was slow to react to the article, particularly as it had never experienced anything like it in its history and, for example, it now has a public relations office which it did not Sou Fun 900m 1.2% before.
The company is continuing with its rollout and plans 1,000 SouFun, a US-listed Chinese business, owns the leading residential units by 2013.
The stock should return to growth of 25% a year and property website in China with an estimated 40% market share.
The currently sells at about 22 times this years earnings or 17.5 times number of unique daily users is about 2.9m.
Because most property excluding cash, not a cheap level but this reflects the fact that transactions today are in new properties, property developers earnings are depressed by the incident.
are the biggest advertisers and information providers but, as a secondary market grows in China, estate agents will become a bigger source of revenue.
The downturn in the residential property P AX Global Technology 110m 0.5% market has given a chance to buy this leader growing long-term at Credit card use will mushroom in China over the next 5-10 years.
about 25% a year on only 11.5 times this years estimated earnings Banks will benefit from this trend but, in my view, a better way or 10 times excluding cash.
Although I do not own any Chinese to play this is via the growth of electronic payment systems.
The residential property developers in the portfolio at the moment, as I penetration of these in China is about 3 per 1,000 inhabitants believe the market will be tough for a while, I am happy to hold this compared with 20-30 per 1,000 in the West.
The global industry very attractive franchise.
We could be seeing a Chinese Rightmove is dominated by two big listed international companies, VeriFone in development the UK website that dominates property sear ch.
in the US and Ingenico in France a company I used to follow when I was running European funds.
Although a small company, Modern Media 90m 0.9% PAX Global is one of the biggest in China with about 70% of its I came across this company quite by chance as I screened revenue arising there.
Ingenico, often recommended by brokers Chinese media businesses listed in Hong Kong.
I asked my for its emerging market exposure, is growing earnings at 10-15% assistant to have a quick look and on the back of this we a year and sells on 18 times this years estimated earnings.
PAX Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 8 Managers Report is growing at about 30% and sells on 8 times this years estimated earnings or, amazingly, only 1 times excluding cash.
Provided the management continues to execute its strategy well, I believe at some stage the valuation could be materially higher.
These investments have been chosen from the hundreds that our team in Hong Kong analyse on a continuing basis and are only a small proportion of the companies that I personally visit in China and in Hong Kong.
Since arriving in China I have conducted over 780 company meetings, and the ones we like are then researched before the Company makes an investment.
all data as at 27th April 2012 Anthony Bolton Portfolio Manager 12 June 2012 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 9
