Managers Review FIL Investments International Sam Morse Portfolio Manager from 1 January 2011 The Company is managed by FIL Investments International which is Sam is a portfolio manager with FIL Investments International based in authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Sam has more than 25 years investment experience.
He also Investments International is part of the FIL Limited group which, as at manages the Fidelity European Fund.
31December 2012, had total assets under management exceeding 148.7billion.
PERFORMANCE REVIEW and sectors were re-appraised in a more confident and liquid As shown in the Financial Summary on page 2, the NAV per environment.
Telecoms and utilities, however, continued to share of the Company returned 24.7% in the year to 31 December struggle as dividends were cut.
In the end, 2012 ended up 2012, outperforming the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index, which being a very rewarding year for investors in European returned 17.8%.
All performance gures are quoted on a total companies.
This was not predicted by many at the outset return basis and in sterling.
MARKET BACKGROUND PORTFOLIO REVIEW 2012 was a much better year for the European markets.
Your Manager continues to focus on identifying and investing in attractively valued companies, with sound balance sheets, The turning point, in terms of confidence, came in July, when which can deliver consistent dividend growth.
The portfolio is constructed from the bottom up: this means that stock selection Mario Draghi, President of the European Central Bank ECB, reassured market participants by stating that the ECB would act drives sector and country positioning rather than the other way as the lender of last resort to highly indebted sovereign states to around.
Your Manager does, however, apply top-down risk limit the risk of any nation exiting the Eurozone.
His plan, titled control to make sure that the Company will not be blown too far outright monetary transactions OMT, envisaged unlimited o course, relative to its European Benchmark, in the event of a purchases of short-dated sovereign bonds but only on the change in the economic or market back-drop.
proviso that new borrowers such as Spain or Italy would have to commit to a programme to improve their deficit and debt In 2012, the NAV outperformed a rising Benchmark by around 7%.
outlook while existing borrowers such as Greece, Portugal and The bulk of this outperformance came in the first half of the Ireland would have to demonstrate access to credit markets.
year when the market made little absolute progress: the NAV No action on OMT was required in the second half of the year.
struggled to keep up with a rapidly rising market in the second Draghis re-assuring words were sucient to bring down half of the year.
The strong relative performance, over the whole sovereign bond yields in Spain and Italy, quite dramatically, year, was mainly achieved through stock selection although giving local politicians hope that they could avoid signing up gearing also contributed.
to a programme with scal conditions imposed by the ECB.
In terms of stock selection, the key positive contributions came from many dierent sectors ranging from economy-sensitive Before July, the sovereign debt crisis had reared its ugly head again, when it became clear that global growth was likely to nancials to the less cyclical healthcare sector.
KBC, a Belgian slow as the scal cli approached in the US and as the slowing bank, saw a dramatic recovery in its share price as the year rate of growth in China, and other emerging economies, became progressed as fears of a rescue rights issue waned and as the increasingly evident.
This dragged markets down in the second company demonstrated that it had a growing capacity to pay quarter, such that almost all the progress of the first quarter back capital sourced from the Belgian and Flemish governments.
Schibsted, a newspaper company, which has developed a very attractive portfolio of on-line classied websites, enjoyed Following Draghis commitment, however, the market enjoyed a significant re-rating as investors began to appreciate the a strong reversionary rally, despite earnings and dividends sustainability of growth in some of their major on-line properties continuing to be revised down.
Leadership was provided by such as Finn, Blocket and Leboncoin.
Two winners from 2011 areas of the market, such as nancials and other cyclical repeated their strong performance in 2012.
SAP, enjoyed another sectors, that had hitherto been weak.
Lowly valued companies strong year as new products enhanced the underlying growth of Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 5 Managers Review their core Enterprise Resource Planning business and Novotail-risk of a Eurozone disintegration, with no real action or OMT required.
There is, of course, still a risk that complacency sets in, Nordisk performed well too on continuing growth in their insulin franchise and anticipation of a new indication for such that much needed progress on structural reforms and deficit Victoza in obesity.
reduction is deferred, risking the possibility that the sovereign debt crisis returns rapidly if global growth stalls again.
Stocks which performed poorly during the year were largely victims of specic issues rather than being dragged down by To summarise, your Manager is cautiously optimistic about the general concerns about their sector.
Swedish Match, a tobacco outlook for your Company but future returns are likely to be more company, with a dominant smokeless franchise in Scandinavia, modest than those enjoyed in 2012 given that the starting level is performed poorly as the company lost market share in snus in that much higher.
Sweden and appeared to lose pricing power in its premium brand and its value brands by raising the latters prices.
FIL Investments International If the competition follows suit, then your Manager expects the 26 February 2013 shares to perform better.
Saipem, a global leader in the oil services industry, based in Italy, suered as it became apparent that major new oil projects, and cash ows, were being delayed.
This was exacerbated when it was announced that Italian prosecutors were investigating possible corruption relating to a gas pipeline project in Algeria leading to the resignation of the chief executive and the suspension of two other Saipem executives.
The holding in Saipem was reduced, given the increased risk prole.
Finally, Royal Dutch Shell, which is a large holding for your Company, had a lacklustre year in terms of stock market performance, along with many other large integrated oil companies, which did not keep pace with the market rally in the second half of the year.
Encouragingly, Royal Dutch Shell has started to grow its dividend, which is covered by its cash ows even in conservative oil-price scenarios, again, from an attractive and above-market level.
OUTLOOK While not expensive by historical standards, the European equity market is certainly not as cheap as it was a year ago.
Share prices have risen handsomely but aggregate dividends paid by European companies have fallen marginally, such that the Benchmark dividend yield of 3.7% at 31 December 2012 is now only at a small premium to longer term averages.
If the market is going to continue on an upward path then dividend growth will have to resume.
Such growth may prove elusive because longer term issues such as fide-leveraging, rising unemployment and scal austerity in some countries, will continue to restrain earnings and dividend growth in Europe.
Elections in Italy and, later in the year in Germany will cause some uncertainty too, both for businesses and investors.
Optimists will point out that there has lately been an improvement in business confidence which may, in time, lead to a pick-up in investment, employment and economic growth.
Commentators are also becoming more optimistic about the outlook for growth in important economies such as the US and China, which would certainly benefit those European-listed companies that derive much of their revenues from outside Europe.
Private clients and savings institutions still hold large balances in cash and bonds: some of this may nd its way into equities, if the outlook for growth improves.
What about the Eurozone crisis?
So far Draghis words have done the trick, in terms of reducing the Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 6
