Board of Directors 1,2 2,3 HUMPHREY VAN DER KLUGT JAMES ROBINSON date of appointment as Director: 1 June 2007: date of appointment: 1 June 2007 was date of appointment as Chairman: 19 May Chief Investment Officer, Investment Trusts 2010 is a Chartered Accountant and was and Director of Hedge Funds at Henderson previously a Director of Schroder Investment Global Investors prior to his retirement in 2005.
In a 22 year career at A Chartered Accountant, he has 33 years Schroders, he was a member of the Group investment experience and is currently Investment and Asset Allocation Committees.
Chairman of Polar Capital Global Healthcare He is a Director of BlackRock Commodities Income Investment Trust plc, Growth and Income Trust plc, a director of Aberdeen New Thai Murray Income Trust plc and JPMorgan Claverhouse Investment Trust plc.
Investment Trust PLC, Invesco Asia Trust plc and J PMorgan Elect plc.
He is also a Council Member and Chairman of the Investment Committee of the British Heart Foundation.
2 SIMON FRASER ROBIN NIBLETT date of appointment: 26 July 2002 spent date of appointment: 14 January 2010 has 27years at Fidelity but retired from his been Director and Chief Executive of Chatham executive responsibilities at the end of 2008.
House the Royal Institute of International He started his career at Fidelity as an analyst Affairs since 2007.
Prior to this he worked and spent a number of years in Japan, most for the Center for Strategic and International recently as Chief Investment Officer for the Studies in Washington, DC, becoming Asia Pacific region.
He returned to the UK in Executive Vice President in 2001 and also 1999 to take up the position of Chief Investment Officer for Fidelity serving as Director of its Europe Programme from 2004 to 2006.
He is International, a position he held until 2005.
He is Chairman of Foreign currently vice Chairman of the World Economic Forums Global Agenda and Colonial Investment Trust plc and Merchants Trust plc.
He is also a Council on Europe and a Council Member of the Overseas director of Fidelity Japanese Values PLC, Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank Development Institute.
PLC and Ashmore Group plc.
2 2 SIMON DUCKWORTH, DL MARION SEARS date of appointment: 24 February 2003 date of appointment: 17 January 2013 has has been a member of the City of London been a Senior Independent non-executive Corporation since 2000 where he serves on Director of the retailers Dunelm Group plc the Corporations Policy, Police, Finance and since 2004.
She is also a non-executive Investment Committees.
He currently chairs the Director of Octopus AIM VCT plc and Advisory Board of Barings Targeted Return Persimmon plc.
Previously she was a Fund, and is a director of Accumuli PLC, the Managing Director of Investment Banking Association of Police and Crime Commissioners and the Serious Fraud at JPMorgan and she has served on the boards of Boehringer Office SFO.
A member of the Home Offices Economic Crime CoIngleheim Ltd, LGC Holdings Ltd and Prelude Trust PLC.
She has held ordination Board, he is also one of HMs Lieutenants for the City of executive positions at Glaxo, UBS and Baring Brothers.
London, and holds a number of other public and charitable appointments.
1 Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee 2 Member of the Audit and Management Engagement Committees 3 Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 14
