Directors Report Stock Exchange or a qualied audit report.
The Board receives The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas or diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable regular reports from the Manager conrming regulatory compliance during the year.
FIL Investments International is registered with the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Eciency Scheme administered by the Environment Agency.
There are a number of prospective regulations which could impact the Company.
Of greatest signicance is the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD.
The Companys financial reports are printed by a company which The implementation date for the Directive is scheduled to be July has won awards for its environmental awareness and further 2013 but with a transitional period whereby investment trusts will details of this may be found on the back cover of this report.
not be required to apply for AIFMD authorisation until July 2014.
Financial reports and other publicly available documentation are The Board monitors the changes at each Board meeting and is also available on the Companys website www.
provided with regular briengs from the Association of Details about Fidelitys own community involvement may be Investment Companies as well as details of industry and the found on its website www.
co. uk Managers lobbying activities.
SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT Operational Risks The Managers primary objective is to produce superior financial The Company has no employees and relies on a number of third returns to investors.
It believes that high standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make good business sense and party service providers, principally the Manager, Registrar and Custodian.
The Company is dependent on the Managers control have the potential to protect and enhance investment returns.
systems and those of its Custodian and Registrar, both of which Consequently, its investment process takes social, environmental are monitored and managed by the Manager in the context of and ethical issues into account when, in its view, these have a the Companys assets and interests on behalf of the Board.
material impact on either investment risk or return.
The security of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, The Manager recognises and supports the view that social, accounting records and the maintenance of regulatory and legal environmental and ethical best practice should be encouraged requirements, among other things, rely on the eective operation so long as the potential for financial return is not reduced.
favours companies committed to high standards of CSR and to the principles of sustainable development.
The Manager, Registrar and Custodian are subject to a riskbased programme of internal audits by the Manager.
In The Manager does not set out to manage an ethical investment fund and does not screen out companies from its investment addition, service providers own internal controls reports are received by the Board and any concerns investigated.
universe purely on the grounds of poor social, environmental or subjective ethical records.
Instead it adopts a positive engagement approach whereby social, environmental and While it is believed that the likelihood of poor governance, compliance and operational administration by third party service ethical matters are discussed with management with the aim of providers is low, the financial consequences, for example, of improving procedures and attitudes.
The Manager believes that cyber crime, could be serious, including the associated this is the most eective way to improve the attitude of business reputational damage to the Company.
towards CSR and the Board endorses this approach.
Other Risks GENERAL A continuation vote takes place every two years.
This takes the form of an ordinary resolution to shareholders which requires a DIVIDENDS simple majority of votes cast in favour to ensure that the The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 27.75 pence Company continues in existence for a further two years until the 2011: 26.50 pence per share be paid on 24 May 2013 to next continuation vote is put to shareholders.
There is a risk that shareholders on the register at the close of business on shareholders do not vote in favour of the continuation vote during 15March 2013 ex-dividend date 13 March 2013. periods when performance is poor.
Further details are provided in the Chairmans Statement, in relation to the next continuation SHARE CAPITAL vote and a review of the Companys performance.
The Companys issued share capital comprises ordinary shares of 25 pence each.
As at 31 December 2012, 43,127,073 shares ENVIRONMENTAL, EMPLOYEE, SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY were in issue 2011: 44,294,946.
Each share in issue carries one MATTERS vote.
Deadlines for the exercise of voting rights and details of The Company is managed by FIL Investments International, arrangements by which someone other than the shareholder can has no employees and all of its Directors are non-executive, exercise voting rights in respect of this years Annual General the Companys day to day activities being carried out by third Meeting are detailed in the Notes to the Notice of Meeting on parties.
There are therefore no disclosures to be made in pages 56 and 57. respect of employees.
The Board fully endorses Fidelitys strong procedures which are involved in the making of its investments.
The Companys ordinary shares have a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 18 Directors Report SHARE ISSUES performance related fee of 15% 2011: 20% of any change in net asset value in excess of the returns on the FTSE World Europe No shares were issued during the year 2011: nil and none have been issued since the year end.
The authority to issue ex UK Index plus 0.5%.
shares and dis-apply pre-emption rights, granted by Both the net asset value and the Benchmark Index are calculated shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 16 May 2012, expires at the conclusion of this years Annual general on a total return basis, while the fee is based on the weighted Meeting and therefore resolutions to renew the authority will be average number of shares in issue.
put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 16 May 2013.
In the event of underperformance of the NAV relative to the Benchmark Index in any year, no performance fee is payable SHARE REPURCHASES for a subsequent accounting year unless and until such At the Annual General Meeting held on 16 May 2012 the and all cumulative underperformance has been made good.
Companys shareholders passed a special resolution which The performance related fee is subject to an upper limit of 1.0% granted the Directors authority to purchase up to of net assets 2011: 1.5%.
If performance is such that the 6,549,332ordinary shares in the market for cancellation.
1,167,873 performance related fee would exceed this cap, any excess ordinary 25p shares were repurchased for cancellation during outperformance would be carried forward and oset against the year 2011: 5,155,040 representing 2.7% of the issued share any future underperformance deficit but will not be counted towards future performance related fees.
31December 2012 a performance fee of 2,243,000 was payable 2011: nil.
The authority to repurchase shares expires on 16 May 2013 and a special resolution to renew the authority in respect of up to The Board reviews the services provided by the Manager and 14.99% of the issued share capital as at 26 February 2013 will be also the terms of the Management Agreement on a regular put to shareholders for approval at the forthcoming Annual basis.
The Management Agreement will continue unless and General Meeting.
until terminated by either party giving to the other not less than six months notice in writing.
The Management Agreement may, Since the year end, a further three share repurchases have been however, be terminated without compensation if the Company made totalling 143,041 ordinary 25p shares.
The issued share is liquidated in 2013, or in any subsequent year thereafter, capital as at 26 February 2013 was 42,984,032. pursuant to the procedures laid down in the Articles of Association of the Company.
POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS The Company has not made any political or charitable donations The Management Agreement may also be terminated forthwith in the year 2011: nil.
as a result of a material breach of the Agreement or on the insolvency of the Manager or the Company.
In addition, the PAYMENT OF CREDITORS Company may terminate the agreement by six months notice if The Companys principal supplier is the Manager who is paid the Manager ceases to be a subsidiary of FIL Limited or if the in the month following the end of each calendar quarter in Board shall resolve at two successive quarterly meetings that accordance with the terms of the Management Agreement there has been a material and continuing underperformance in detailed below.
The Companys policy for the year to the portfolio of assets.
31December 2013 2012: same for all suppliers, is to x terms of payment when agreeing the terms of each business transaction The Management Engagement Committee met on 17 January to ensure that the supplier is aware of these terms and to abide 2013 and reviewed the performance of the Manager for the year by the agreed terms of payment.
The Company did not have any to 31 December 2012.
Further details of this review are included trade creditors in the year 2011: nil.
in the Companys Corporate Governance Statement on page 27.
The Committee concluded that it was in the interests of MANAGEMENT COMPANY shareholders that the appointment of the Manager should continue.
During the year to 31 December 2012, the Manager, FILInvestments International, a subsidiary of FIL Limited, provided management, accounting, administrative and The Manager also provides certain services, including marketing and administration, in connection with the Fidelity secretarial services to the Company pursuant to the Management Agreement dated 18 October 2012.
Investment Trust Share Plan and the Fidelity Individual Savings Account.
The amount payable for these services for the year to For the year ended 31 December 2012, the Management 31December 2012 was 60,000 2011: 119,000.
An amount of Agreement provided a quarterly base fee of 0.2125% of net 3,616,000 2011: 1,350,000 was due to the Manager under assets 2011: 0.2125% of net assets.
The Management Agreement the above agreements at 31 December 2012 and is disclosed in excludes the value of any investment in any other fund which is Note 12 to the financial statements on page 45.
It is made up of managed by the Manager or an Associate of the Manager in performance fee payable 2,243,000 2011: nil and 1,373,000 the calculation of fees.
There was no additional company 2011: 1,350,000 included in other creditors.
In addition there was an annual Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 19 Directors Report Fidelity has adopted a broker segmentation policy which has DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS reduced the number of brokers used and allows it to concentrate 31 December 31 December on those brokers who, in its opinion, oer the best service in 2012 2011 terms of overall execution.
These brokers are Fidelitys core Humphrey van der Klugt 4,000 4,000 brokers.
At the same time, the Manager evaluates the research provided by other brokers and uses some of them for their Simon Duckworth, DL 2,000 2,000 research.
These brokers are called Secondary State Research 1 rms SSRs.
As a consequence of the policy, the core brokers Simon Fraser 27,022 6,970 earn a larger percentage of the commission paid.
These core 2 Robin Niblett 500 brokers pay away some of the increased commission earned to the SSRs to compensate them for the research provided to James Robinson 3,000 3,000 Fidelity.
Under FSA regulations this type of payment from one 1 Dividend reinvestment resulted in purchase of 52 ordinary shares and broker to another is currently treated as softing.
The Managers acquisition of 20,000 ordinary shares as shareholder in Triptych SA soft commission policy complies with the UK regulations.
Fidelity 2 Purchase of 500 ordinary shares adopts a best execution policy that applies to all transactions in All holdings beneficial all instruments, regardless of the fund or account or location of the trading desk.
Following her appointment Ms Sears purchased 1,200 ordinary shares on 18 January 2013.
The Manager has an arrangement with certain brokers whereby a portion of commissions from security transactions may be paid The Board complies with the AIC Code of Corporate Governance to the Company to reduce transaction costs.
Amounts received requirements for all Directors of FTSE 350 Companies to be by the Company under this arrangement are credited to capital.
Further details on re-election can In the year to 31 December 2012, 19,000 was received be found in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 26.
No Director is under a contract of service with the Company and There is a regulatory requirement on the Manager to obtain best no contracts existed during or at the end of the financial period execution and no individual deal is entered into which prevents in which any Director was materially interested and which were compliance with this requirement.
significant in relation to the Companys business, except as disclosed previously in relation to Mr Frasers interest in the Mr Fraser was employed by the FIL Limited group until the end Management Agreement and his directorship of Barclays Bank of December 2008.
Mr Fraser is a Director of Barclays PLC and PLC.
There have been no other related party transactions Barclays Bank PLC.
Mr Fraser had no influence over the decision requiring disclosure under Financial Reporting Standard 8. by Barclays Bank PLC in its former lending relationship with The interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the the Company.
Company as at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 are shown above.
FIL Limited has no interest in shares of the Company 2011: same.
Information on the Companys Articles of Association is included in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 29.
Any DIRECTORS amendments to the Companys Articles of Association must be Details of the Directors who served during the year to made by special resolution.
31December 2012 are set out on page 14 with a brief description of their careers, each of which indicates their DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE qualications for Board membership.
Further details of the In addition to benets enjoyed under the Managers global contribution made by the Directors may also be found in the Directors and Ocers insurance arrangements, the Company Chairmans Statement on page 4.
All of the Directors served maintained insurance cover for its Directors and Ocers under throughout the year to 31December 2012 with the exception of its own policy as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
Marion Sears who was appointed as a non-executive Director of the Company on 17January 2013.
Ms Sears was recruited via an external agency which has no other connection with the Company.
Mr Duckworth will be resigning as a Director at the conclusion of business at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 20 Directors Report SUBSTANTIAL SHARE INTERESTS This authority provides the Directors with a degree of exibility As at 26 February 2013 notication had been received of the to increase the assets of the Company by the issue of new following interests in 3% or more of the voting rights of shares should any favourable opportunities arise to the the Company: advantage of shareholders.
If new ordinary shares are allotted for cash, the Companies Act 2006 requires such new shares to Shareholders be oered to existing holders of ordinary shares pre-emption rights.
In certain circumstances it is beneficial for the Directors Fidelity ISA and Share Plan 23.87 to allot shares for cash otherwise than pro rata to existing 1607 Capital Partners 7.30 shareholders and the Companies Act 2006 provides for shareholders to give such power to the Directors by waiving their Brewin Dolphin 4.97 pre-emption rights.
1 Rathbone Brothers PLC 4.87 Resolution 12 is a special resolution disapplying pre-emption 2 Legal & General Investment Management 3.29 rights and granting authority to the Directors, without the need for further specic shareholder approval, to make allotments of 1 Indirect holding for Rathbone Group companies 2 equity securities for cash by way of a rights issues where Direct holding for various Legal & General entities practical considerations, such as fractions and foreign securities laws, make this desirable, and b other issues up to an Analysis of Ordinary Shareholders % of issued aggregate nominal value of 537,300 approximately 5% of the as at 31 December 2012 share capital issued share capital of the Company as at 26 February 2013.
Private individuals 51.37 The authority to issue ordinary shares for cash under Resolution 11 will, inter alia, enable the Directors to issue additional new Mutual funds 36.28 ordinary shares to participants in the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan and the Fidelity ISA in the event that the ordinary Pension funds 5.00 shares are trading at a premium to their net asset value.
Insurance companies 4.81 The Directors would only intend to use this power if they considered that it was in the interests of shareholders to do so.
Hedge funds 2.04 Trading companies 0.50 Resolution 13 is a special resolution which renews the Directors authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation.
Total 100.00 It is proposed that the Board be authorised to make arrangements to purchase through the London Stock Exchange ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING up to 6,443,306 ordinary shares of 25 pence each equivalent to THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR 14.99% of the shares in issue at 26 February 2013.
By utilising this IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
power to repurchase shares when they are trading at a discount to net asset value, the Company will increase the resulting net If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you asset value per share for remaining shareholders.
Purchases of should seek your own personal financial advice from your shares will be made at the discretion of the Board and within stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other financial adviser guidelines set from time to time by the Board in the light of authorised under the Financial Services and Markets prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be made in the Act 2000. market at prices below the prevailing net asset value.
At the 2013 Annual General Meeting resolutions will be Resolution 14 is an ordinary resolution regarding the continuation of the Company as an investment trust.
The Board undertook to proposed to renew the Directors authority to allot securities in the Company.
The authorities sought by these resolutions are to give shareholders the opportunity to vote on the continuation of replace the existing powers of the Directors which expire on the the Company in 2001 and every two years thereafter.
Accordingly a resolution for the continuation of the Company as date of the Annual General Meeting and will provide the Directors with the exibility to issue further ordinary shares if an investment trust will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming they deem it appropriate to do so.
By law, directors are not Annual General Meeting.
permitted to allot new shares or to grant rights over shares unless authorised to do so by shareholders.
Resolution 11 The Board recommends the continuation of the Company.
provides the Directors with a general authority to allot securities in the Company up to an aggregate nominal value of 537,300.
The full text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of Meeting If passed, this resolution will enable the Directors to allot a contained on pages 55 to 57. maximum of 2,149,200 ordinary shares which represents approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Recommendation: The Board considers that each of the Company as at 26 February 2013. resolutions is likely to promote the success of the Company and is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 21 Directors Report recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they CONTINUATION VOTE In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, a intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
continuation vote is required every two years.
The next CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continuation vote will take place at this years Annual General Full details are given in the Corporate Governance Statement on Meeting on 16 May 2013 and the Board recommends voting in pages 24 to 29.
The Corporate Governance Statement forms part favour of the continuation of the Company.
By order of the Board AUDITORS RIGHT TO INFORMATION FIL Investments International As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 the Secretary Directors in oce as at the date of this report each confirm that, 26 February 2013 so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditor is unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Auditor is aware of that information.
AUDITORS APPOINTMENT A resolution to reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting together with a resolution to authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
GOING CONCERN The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to aect its future development, performance and position are set out on pages 15 and 16.
The financial position of the Company, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial statements and notes thereto on pages 33 to 52.
The Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, financial risk objectives, details and financial instruments and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk are also set out in the Business Review on pages 15 to 18 and in the notes to the financial statements on pages 37 to 52.
The Companys assets consist mainly of securities which are readily realisable.
Where outsourcing arrangements are in place, including registrar and custodian services, alternative providers are readily available.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The Board receives regular reports from the Manager and the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 22
