Your Company in todays world Income Objective Well-positioned for income flows and To secure long-term growth in capital and with significant income reserves for future income through a policy of investing primarily increases in dividends.
The dividend has in an internationally diversified portfolio of increased every year for the past 42 years publicly listed equities, as well as unlisted and over the last ten years is up 142.9% or securities and private equity, with the use of 9.3% compound compared with inflation gearing.
Heritage Cost effective Founded in 1868 as the first ever investment With an Ongoing Charge ratio of 0.90% trust and continually evolves: keeping pace Foreign & Colonial compares favourably with with new investment opportunities and open-ended investment companies and maintaining its relevance in todays world.
The cumulative benefits of low costs are very significant for Core investment long-term investors.
Conservatively managed and offering investors a globally diversified portfolio.
Stability and liquidity Foreign & Colonial aims to be the centre of A discount control mechanism operates to an investors portfolio alongside other assets achieve a low volatile discount with a ceiling creating a wider investment solution.
of 10%, in normal market conditions, as well as enhancing net asset value per share.
Consistent outperformance In the last ten years Foreign & Colonial has Suitable for all investors outperformed its benchmark by around 1% Foreign & Colonial is suitable for retail per annum: that turned a 1,000 investment, investors in the UK, professionally advised with dividends reinvested, into 2,470 private clients and institutional investors compared with 2,290 from the market who seek growth in capital and income benchmark and with lower volatility.
A 1,000 from investment in global markets and who investment over 20 years would have grown understand and are willing to accept the risks to 4,417. of exposure to equities.
com Potential investors are reminded that the value of investments and the income from them may go down as well as up and investors may not receive back the full amount invested.
Tax benefits may vary as a result of statutory changes and their value will depend on individual circumstances.
Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
