Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Our Services This has become my preferred Hargreaves Lansdown aims to help each client make more way to trade.
It allows me to of their money throughout their life.
We have established a react any time any where.
reputation for providing high quality service and value-forHL are fantastic and so is money products to private investors, whether they are making this app.
their own investment decisions or looking for an advisory or App review 05 10 2012 discretionary service.
Over the last year we have saved our clients more than 200 million in discounts on initial and annual charges along with rebates paid to clients via our Loyalty Bonus.
Vantage Service wealth of other information to support Massively impressed.
Whether a first time investor or wanting to novice and experienced investors alike with Changed all my small their investment decisions.
improve the way that existing investments pension plans gathered over are managed, our aim is to give our the years to HL.
They fully clients all the tools, help and information Timely, free, independent research to help they need to make their own investment make better investment decisions kept me informed of each decisions and save money.
In effect we Our research team headed by investment stage of the process and want to help people become their own experts Mark Dampier and Lee Gardhouse progress.
investigate thousands of different had were dealt with quickly investments and meet hundreds of The Vantage Service allows clients to bring fund managers a year.
Its findings are and efficiently - would highly all their ISAs, Pensions SIPPs, and funds available free via our Wealth 150 list recommend.
and share accounts into one easy to manage of favourite funds in each sector, latest Mr Wade, Norwich, January 2012 place.
Clients investment ideas and our Investment can consolidate their investments for Times newsletter.
For those Vantage clients seeking some guidance on setting up an example, pensions accumulated in previous employment into the Vantage service to investment portfolio we have set up our keep track of their investments and manage Master Portfolios which are readythem in one place.
Clients can manage to-go, diversified portfolios their investments by telephone, post, online for lump sum investments or mobile.
Either way, by dealing with us or regular savings.
Access to free education, interactive tools and guides Mobile technology We keep clients up to date with tax and economic information in our regularly updated free guides, expert comments and HLTV webcasts.
Our Investment Times magazine contains investment ideas and 60,000 expert comments.
Our online Knowledge Centre contains expert guides, such as the number of HL Live Apps downloaded Guide to Fund Prices and Yields, interactive tools such as Pension calculators, and a Our investment research team 4 5 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction
