Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 The impact of regulation The coming year will see two new We shall have to work hard to promote Our strategy and objectives the benefits of investing.
Reduced state A by-product of perceived public and regulators, the Financial Conduct support for the public means saving and political disenchantment with financial Authority FCA and Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA.
Hargreaves investing is more important than ever.
services is the likelihood of more There is little prospect of higher interest regulation.
Whilst Hargreaves Lansdown Lansdown will be regulated by the rates on cash in the near future so equities has delivered excellent service and is an FCA.
As a reputable firm we continue to consider ourselves to have a constructive and bonds remain good alternatives for example of what a good financial services Hargreaves Lansdown predominantly Hargreaves Lansdown aims potential higher income.
The depressed company should represent, there is no relationship with regulators and do not derives earnings based on the value of Our ongoing aims are: to help investors make more levels of equity markets also offer patient carve-out from regulation in our country foresee any disruption from the changing investments under administration or Attract and retain clients by investors the opportunity for future capital for those with a good record.
The Group is renowned identifying and satisfying their of their money by aiming to growth.
expect regulatory change to continue.
for innovative marketing, and a focus on investment requirements provide the best information, Costs for contributions to the Financial client satisfaction and retention through Improving the quality of Company outlook Additional regulation presents challenge Services Compensation Scheme FSCS first class service and information.
The earnings through increasing the best service and the best and cost, but also opportunity.
Whilst we are highly Hargreaves Lansdowns position is strong.
Company employs a unique marketing recurring income prices in its areas of operation.
We are estimated to have 28.6% of the Lansdown has the scale, resources and supportive of a safety net for retail driven formula, which is cost effective, Increase shareholder value direct investing market in the UK Source: innovative skills to cope with additional investors, we remain critical of the This philosophy should create scalable and profitable.
It is an effective barrier to entry conduct of the FSCS and the way it is The Direct Platform Guide Issue 2 February growth in earnings per share value for clients, shareholders 2012, a position built through delivering to new competitors.
Recent proposals suggesting Fundamental to achieving these objectives and a growing stream of and staff.
exceptional service, information and value.
instigators of frauds should be allowed is ensuring the retention of trust of our dividend income to claim compensation for their own As a profitable company with no debt The Retail Distribution Review RDR clients by consistently delivering on Managing risk effectively we present the financial strength to give reforms remain a major theme.
It seems misdemeanours and that checks on commitments.
We have put the long-term Maintaining our entrepreneurial investors comfort over the safety of their that as far as Hargreaves Lansdown is eligibility could be waived have done interests of the client first, regardless culture where we remain investments, to reinvest in our business and concerned the RDR reforms will take place nothing to soften our view.
We continue of short-term pressures, fashions or flexible and responsive to respond to competitive activity.
to campaign for a rational, sensible market conditions.
Our clients have opportunities, competition and compensation scheme.
rewarded us by delivering more assets and the changing environment: and In 2013 we shall continue to enhance our RDR Phase 1 commences on 31 recommending us to others.
By creating Motivate and retain our talented December 2012 and relates mainly to Whilst Hargreaves Lansdown has had great services.
Many of these improvements value for clients, we shall create longemployees through rewarding will be revealed in due course but financial advice.
Hargreaves Lansdown success in promoting Junior ISAs to the To fulfil our objectives our strategy is term value for shareholders and provide roles and incentives aligned to include improved SIPP incentives and is entirely compliant with this regulation public, the fact that many children cannot focused into the four key areas shown fulfilling careers for staff.
the goals of our clients well in advance of its commencement.
take part because they are locked into the an online transfer service.
and improved functionality to allow Our financial advisers are qualified well Child Trust Fund CTF regime is a matter Our strategic focus in the 2013 clients to more easily control their entire beyond the requisite levels and we charge of concern on which we continue to lobby financial year is: the Government.
We support improved familys assets will augment the reasons a fee for any advice.
This regulatory Asset gathering from existing to consolidate assets with Hargreaves change also presents some opportunity, portability of client assets allowing and new clients Lansdown.
in particular improvements in portability retail investors to move easily from old, Continued commercial of client investments which may assist obsolete investment plans to better value improvements to enhance the As we continue to improve our business clients who wish to transfer their assets to modern products such as those offered client experience we share the benefits of scale, technology Hargreaves Lansdown.
We remain the Expansion of digital media use and success with our clients in a virtuous friend of the retail investor and continue to Continued operational circle.
Returning value to clients has Although the proposals are still in work tirelessly to improve their lot.
improvements to improve been key to the success of Hargreaves consultation, it seems RDR Phase 2 efficiency and or reduce risk Lansdown.
Costs and charges for retail is likely to take place on 31 December Conclusion Increased promotion of our 2013.
It is likely the reforms then will I would again like to thank our clients, investors will continue to reduce over SIPP and Corporate Vantage time.
This will affect our revenue margins require the unbundling of pricing on shareholders, staff and my fellow directors.
offering but we expect the market and our clients investment products.
Fees for investment Their continued support, good humour Continued investment in IT and and efforts have delivered exceptional to reward us by increased business.
The management and distribution and scalability internet, dislocation of the financial advice custodianship must be charged separately results.
We shall continue to seek to be Preparation for regulatory market and initiatives such as autoto clients.
Whilst the detail remains a role model for how financial services changes companies can deliver a great service, enrolment should aid further growth.
to be confirmed, we remain confident about these proposals.
Provided they reputable behaviour and profitability in Since the year-end, there has been nothing are applied fairly to all participants in harmony with the UK public.
to change our outlook on the economic the market and well communicated, our backdrop that we operate in, but given proposition of a strong service and value Ian Gorham our strength of service and offering we are offering to a loyal client base should Chief Executive confident that we will continue to enhance help us weather the change well.
We 14 September 2012 have undertaken a range of modelling the brand of Hargreaves Lansdown subsequently rewarding both clients and and preparatory activities and have had shareholders.
10 11 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction
