Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 ended 30th June 2014, 20% of any annual The maximum award that may be made SAYE and SIP Executive Directors contracts of service The percentage of Profit Before Tax reputation of the Company: awarded as annual Bonuses in recent years Performance Bonus will be deferred.
With for any one financial year is 4 times base that the Director has not appropriately The Directors are entitled to participate in which include details of remuneration is shown below.
effect from the year ended 30th June 2015 salary.
The Committee anticipates that the identified serious risks relevant to their the SAYE share option scheme and Share will be available for inspection at the business areas, and or implemented Incentive Plan SIP on the same terms as Annual General Meeting.
and subsequent years, 30% of any annual average award will be in the region of 2 Aggregate Bonuses awarded to Performance Bonus will be deferred.
appropriate controls for identified all other employees.
Directors as a percentage of Profit serious risks Appointment as a non-executive Director Pension arrangements of another company Before Tax PBT LONGER TERM INCENTIVES For awards made in 2012 13 there will be three performance tests.
One third of then the deferred awards, either bonus No Directors or staff participate in a Hargreaves Lansdown recognises that Year % of PBT Share option and award incentives for each set of option grants will depend on or unvested options, may be reduced in defined benefit pension scheme.
The its Executive Directors may be invited to Group operates its own Group Self Invested become non-executive directors of other 2012 3.75% 2011 12 and earlier years performance against each measure.
The whole or in part at the discretion of the 2011 3.74% The Company operated an Executive three performance tests will be: Remuneration Committee.
Such non-executive duties 2010 1.59% Share Option Scheme and an Executive is non-contributory and allows staff to take can broaden experience and knowledge which can benefit the Company.
Subject to Joint Share Ownership Plan JSOP for Share Option grants Shareholding requirements for 2011 2012 more control of their pension planning.
The Performance measured over 3 years Each Director was required to accumulate Company contributes 4% of base salary to approval by the Board, Executive Directors the benefit of the Directors and senior Deferral of annual Performance Bonuses management of the Company and Aggregate Net New Business a minimum shareholding in the Company the scheme which applies to Directors and are allowed to accept non-executive appointments and retain the fees received, for 2011 2012 subsidiary companies.
The exercise price Aggregate Net New Clients of 500,000 shares including JSOP staff.
Employees wishing to make personal shares and options to acquire shares or contributions to the GSIPP can do so via provided that these appointments are not For 2011 2012 the first 300,000 of salary of the options granted under the share Average Growth in Earnings per and annual Performance Bonus earned option schemes is equal to the market share EPS 250,000 in deferred cash bonus.
Until that salary exchange or bonus waiver ensuring likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
for a financial year was paid in cash.
For value of the Companys shares at the time condition was satisfied, salary and annual that they benefit from the maximum, performance bonus over 300,000 had to immediate relief from income tax and Peter Hargreaves currently receives fees of the excess over 300,000, Directors could the options are granted.
Under the JSOP, Performance scale choose to either take the balance as an Directors pay an agreed amount for their 25% vesting at threshold be taken as JSOP shares, share options or National Insurance.
Staff and Directors may 45,000 p. a. in respect of his duties as a immediate cash bonus, or to waive bonus interest in the shares at the outset.
100% vesting at maximum as a deferred cash bonus.
All bar one of the opt out of the scheme should they wish.
non-executive of ITM Power plc.
in favour of deferred share options or JSOP Straight line scale between Directors met this requirement for 2011 12. shares.
Where the minimum shareholding Share option grants performance and maximum Other than salary, no other element of How we fund share awards requirement is not satisfied, rewards must During 2011 12 a total of 655,528 Requirements may be varied for new Directors remuneration is pensionable.
The Employee Benefit Trust EBT is well funded and holds sufficient market be taken as deferred share options, JSOP unapproved share options were taken or at the discretion of the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee will set the Benefits purchased shares to satisfy all share shares or a deferred cash bonus.
The via bonus waiver, and a further 600,000 Committee exercised its discretion not to unapproved share options were granted.
No performance levels required for threshold Shareholding requirements from 2012 13 All staff and Directors are entitled to life awards granted prior to 31 August 2010. apply this deferral to a new Director of a grants were made to Executive Directors.
and maximum vesting before making each Directors are required to accumulate assurance cover of three times their base grant of share options.
minimum personal holdings in Hargreaves salary and, subject to the rules of the Since that date, 2,690,156 share options subsidiary company for this year only.
Provided that the new Share Option Lansdown plc shares.
The Committee scheme, permanent health insurance.
have been granted to staff and Directors Deferral of annual Performance Bonuses Scheme is approved at the AGM, no further For those elements of the award that believes that the shareholding requirement The Directors may also receive certain which are not hedged by shares held by aids retention and ensures that the interests limited benefits-in-kind.
It is currently intended that these for 2012 2013 grants of share options or JSOP shares will depend on Net New Business and Net We are simplifying the way in which annual be made under the existing schemes to New Clients, we are unable to disclose of management and shareholders in the options and any granted under subsequent Performance Bonuses are deferred.
In Directors, other than for the first 30,000 the tests as we regard the information as success of the Group are closely aligned.
Executive Directors contracts share-based awards, will be met by the The Companys policy is that Executive issue of new shares within the limits future 30% of all Performance Bonuses will of market value which we may deliver commercially sensitive.
However after the be waived in favour of deferred awards.
under the Companys existing CSOP end of the three year performance period We are simplifying the shareholding Directors should have contracts with an agreed by shareholders and by shares provided that the performance criteria the Remuneration Committee commits to requirements for Directors from 2012 13. indefinite term and a maximum of one purchased in the market by the EBT.
Accordingly, all Executive limits agreed with shareholders comply The deferred awards will ordinarily shall apply to that award in the same way disclose the performance tests they have be over shares on which dividends set and the extent to which they were met.
Directors will be required to hold a Directors currently have contracts which with the Association of British Insurers as the remainder of the award or dividend equivalents are earned.
minimum shareholding in Hargreaves are subject to one years notice by either guidelines restricting dilution from employee share plans.
The overall limits However, providing the Director satisfies Share Option Plan from 2012 13 Clawback from 2012 2013 Lansdown of 200% of base salary.
The Company may at any time We are introducing formal claw back Directors with less than 6 years service exercise its discretion to pay Executive under the guidelines are that no more the minimum shareholding target with In 2012 13 we are proposing to introduce a reference to base salary, the option is given new Share Option Plan under which regular provisions on the deferred element of will be required to hold a minimum of Directors in lieu of the notice period.
At than 10% of a Groups issued share capital for deferred awards to be in shares on grants will be made each year, to replace annual Performance Bonuses and unvested 100% of base salary.
Newly appointed 30 June 2012, the maximum contractual may be used in any 10-year period.
Within Directors will be given up to 3 years to amount which may be payable to the the 10% limit, up to 5% may be used for which dividends or dividend equivalents ad-hoc grants.
Share Options will be granted awards made under the new Share Option are earned, in cash on which no interest at the market value at the time of grant.
In the event that any comply with this requirement.
Executive Directors under the payment in discretionary share plans.
The Committee will be earned, or a mixture of shares of the following arise in the opinion of the lieu of notice clauses is 701,000. will review the hedging and dilution position of the Company prior to making and cash.
The right to exercise deferred The extent to which a number of Remuneration Committee : Executive Directors current shareholdings awards will vest after 3 years provided performance tests are met over a period that there is later found to be a as a percentage of base salary The details of the Executive Directors grants of new share awards.
Potential the individual remains employed by the of 3 years will determine the proportion material mis-statement of the financial 2012 contracts are summarised in the table: dilution as at 30 June 2012 was 0.5089%.
of the new share options that can be performance on which annual exercised by Directors.
Performance Bonuses were based, Ian Gorham 0% Name of Contract Notice We are proposing that this change will be a serious regulatory problem: Tracey Taylor 1000% director date period phased in for existing employees.
For the The size of awards will be determined Peter Hargreaves 1000% that the Director, or an employee I Gorham 2 Sept 2010 12 months year ended 30th June 2013, 10% of any by reference to the base salary of the for which he is responsible, does or annual Performance Bonus will be waived Executive Director at the time that the Based on share price as at 30th June P Hargreaves 5 Apr 2007 12 months allows to be done, something which in favour of deferred awards.
For the year award is made.
2012 of 529p T Taylor 1 Nov 2008 12 months has a serious detrimental effect on the 52 53 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction
