Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 management.
This approach ensures that standards are particularly important for the approval of the remuneration and of one financially qualified member and our who can appoint and remove Directors and BOARD COMMITTEES our Company Secretary.
The Board also has we act in the long-term best interests of our all staff who fall under the scope of the terms of engagement of the external Committee Chairman currently fulfils this overall responsibility for the Groups system shareholders.
Financial Services Authority Training This section of the report sets out how the auditor: and requirement.
All staff under of internal controls and risk management.
Board and its Committees work within reviewing and monitoring the external Risk management arrangements are Between Board meetings, Directors are the scope of these rules are required to the Groups governance framework and auditors independence and objectivity The Board expects the Audit Committee described below.
provided with monthly information packs perform certain training annually.
and the effectiveness of the audit members to have an understanding of: the principles of financial reporting which include detailed commentary and process, taking into consideration The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive analysis.
To ensure that Directors are as Every director has access to appropriate Certain responsibilities of the Board relevant UK professional and regulatory including applicable accounting The roles of the Chairman and Chief fully informed as possible, minutes are training throughout their appointment are delegated to the Board Committees requirements.
standards and statements of Executive are clearly defined, separate and circulated from each Committee, including as director and we regularly assess the to assist the Board in carrying out its recommended practice: approved by the Board.
the Executive Committee, and each requirement for director training as part of functions and to ensure independent The Audit Committee is required to report key aspects of the Groups operations Board meeting includes a report from the each directors annual appraisal.
oversight of internal control and risk its findings to the Board, identifying any and systems of internal control: The Chairman is responsible for the Committees as appropriate.
The three principal Board matters in respect of which it considers that matters that influence or distort the and non-executive directors have also Board effectiveness and performance action or improvement is needed, and make presentation of accounts and key figures: operation, leadership and governance of Committees Audit, Remuneration, the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and held meetings separate to those with the evaluation and Nomination play an essential role recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
the principles of, and developments in, setting its agenda.
In conjunction with the executive Directors, including meeting This year, the Board carried out an in supporting the Board in fulfilling its company law, sector-specific laws and with the external auditor and the Head of internally facilitated board effectiveness The Audit Committee has also continued other relevant corporate legislation: Chief Executive and Company Secretary, responsibilities.
The minutes of each Board the Chairman plans agenda items and Internal Audit.
The Review was led by Committee meeting are circulated and noted to monitor our public interest disclosure the role of internal and external auditing timings for Board meetings.
The Chairman the Chairman and covered the effectiveness by the Board.
Whistleblowing policy which contains and risk management: of the Board as a whole, its individual the regulatory framework for the Groups ensures that the membership of the Board Directors details of the process by which employees is appropriate to the needs of the business Under the existing Articles of Association Directors and its Committees.
All directors The Board Committees all have formal Terms can raise, in confidence, complaints on businesses: and and that Board committees carry out their all directors have to submit themselves contributed to the review through either of Reference that have been approved by the accounting, risk issues, internal controls, environmental and social responsibility duties, including reporting back to the for re-election annually if they wish to face to face discussions or telephone Board, and performance of the Committees auditing issues and related matters for best practices.
continue serving and are considered conversations.
The conclusions of the are assessed annually by the Board.
Each reporting to the Audit Committee as by the Board to be eligible.
All current review were discussed by the Board at its Committees terms of reference sets out appropriate.
The Board is satisfied that all of the The Chief Executive has executive directors bar one wish to be re-elected meeting in April.
The outcome of the review the specific matters for which delegated Committees members have a level of recent and the Board confirms that all individual was positive, with participants noting The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be and relevant commercial and financial responsibilities for the operations, authority has been given by the Board.
These results and strategic development of the performance reviews demonstrated that the better balance of skills following the terms of reference are reviewed annually available at the Annual General Meeting to knowledge and experience to satisfy the Group.
He is responsible for the delivery the directors continue to demonstrate appointment of the two new independent and the terms of reference of the Audit, answer any questions about the work of the provisions of the Code, by virtue of their effective performance and commitment to non-executives.
The majority of the Committee.
having held various executive and nonof strategy and leads the executive Remuneration and Nomination Committee management team.
Stephen Lansdown has given board meetings now occur over a two are available on the Groups website www.
executive roles in investment management notice that he will be stepping down from day cycle, including an informal dinner hl.
A summary of Composition of the Audit Committee and business management.
The Group facilitating wider discussions.
As a result, provides an induction programme for new Board support the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
the terms of reference for each committee is The members of the Audit Committee at 30 The Company Secretary is responsible to the board is getting greater access to the included in the committee summaries below.
June 2012 were: Audit Committee members and on-going the Board for ensuring Board procedures The Company maintains insurance cover wider executive team and participating in training to enable all of the Committee are followed, applicable rules and for up to 20 million for all directors discussions on a wider set of subjects.
It Audit Committee Jonathan Bloomer members to carry out their duties.
The regulations are complied with and that and officers of Group companies against was agreed in the following year to focus The Audit Committee is responsible for Chairman Chartered Accountant induction programme covers the role of the the Board is advised on governance and liability which may be incurred acting as on achieving a better balance between the assisting the Board in discharging its Appointed 18 September 2006 Audit Committee, its terms of reference and relevant regulatory matters.
All Directors directors and officers.
necessary regulatory, risk and compliance responsibilities for: expected time commitment by members, have access to the services of the Company aspects and the more forward looking Chris Barling and an overview of the Groups business, Secretary.
It was also recognised monitoring of the financial reporting Appointed 26 August 2010 including the main business and financial Our Chairman is responsible for preparing that increased focus on succession process including the integrity of dynamics and risks.
New Committee and implementing a personalised planning is required and that various Dharmash Mistry members also meet some of the Groups staff, In order for Directors to fulfil their the annual and interim reports, duties they can also seek independent induction programme for all new aspects of management information preliminary results and any other formal Appointed 3 October 2011 as appropriate.
On-going training includes professional advice, at the Companys Directors, to include guidance as to their provided to the Board could be enhanced.
announcements relating to financial attendance at formal conferences, internal briefings and briefings by external advisers.
duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a performance: Stephen Robertson director of the Company.
We believe that Individual appraisal of each directors risk reporting: Appointed 3 October 2011 Board meetings the best way to learn about a business is performance is undertaken by either the reviewing the Groups internal financial Meetings Chief Executive or Chairman each year The Audit Committee meets at least four The Board convenes at least four times to spend time within it, and we encourage controls and the Groups internal control On an on-going basis, membership of the each financial year, and five times in the new Directors to spend time with our and involves meetings with each director and risk management systems: Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of times each year but more frequently when last financial year.
senior managers and executives in a on a one-to-one basis.
The non-executive monitoring and reviewing the the Committee at regular intervals and any required, and met five times during this number of business areas and to receive directors, led by the senior independent effectiveness of the Groups Internal recommendations for new appointments financial year.
The attendance by each Meetings are held in such a way as to demonstrations of key operations and director, carry out an appraisal of the Audit function: are made to the Nomination Committee director is set out in the table on page 42. encourage robust and constructive systems where relevant.
The Chief making recommendations to the for onward recommendation to the Board.
The Chairman, Head of Internal Audit, Group challenge and debate which enables Executives performance was evaluated Board, for a resolution to be put to Appointments are for a period of three years Compliance Director, Group Finance Director Our overall objective is to maintain and by the Chairman and the non-executive and are extendable by no more than two and Chief Executive are routinely invited the non-executive directors to use the shareholders for their approval in their knowledge and experience to enhance professional standards for all director team with input from the executive general meetings: in relation to the additional three year periods.
The Audit to, and attend, the majority of meetings, critically review strategies proposed by our employees.
We believe that these Directors.
appointment of the external auditor and Committee structure requires the inclusion although the Committee reserves the right to 38 39 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP her own remuneration.
The Remuneration The Committee is chaired by Jonathan Other committees Group Finance Director, Chief Risk Officer, IT request any of these individuals to withdraw.
The external auditors also attended all report: Committee meet at least twice per year and Bloomer and its other members at 30 June These committees form part of the Director, and a non-executive Director.
The Corporate Governance framework, but Committee reports back to the Board and meetings, and periodically the Committee reviewed the Groups Living Will: and is governed by formal Terms of Reference, 2012 were Michael Evans, Chris Barling, which are reviewed annually.
Dharmash Mistry and Stephen Robertson.
are not formally appointed non-executive the Audit Committee on the management of also meets privately with the external auditor reviewed its own effectiveness.
and the Head of Internal Audit.
The Nomination Committee meets at committees of the Board.
The two main the major risks facing the Group as assessed against the Groups Risk Appetite.
External Auditor The Remuneration Committee met five least twice each year and the Committee Committees are the Executive Committee times during this financial year.
The met three times during the year.
The and the Risk Committee: Overview of the actions taken by the Audit The Audit Committee is responsible Committee to discharge its duties: for the development, implementation attendance by each director is set out in the attendance by each director is set out in We also have a Treasury Committee, and monitoring of the Groups policy table on page 42.
Dharmash Mistry was the table on page 42.
Executive Committee which oversees changes to the treasury The Board has delegated full authority to management policy, an Investment During the 12 months to 30 June 2012 on external audit.
The policy assigns appointed to the Committee on joining the the Audit Committee has undertaken the oversight responsibility for monitoring the Board on 3 October 2011.
The Committee We have a formal, rigorous and the Executive Committee subject to a list Committee, which monitors the following key responsibilities: independence, objectivity and compliance is chaired by Jonathan Bloomer and its transparent procedure for the appointment of matters which are reserved for decision investments held in the HL Multiby the full Board only.
In particular, the Manager funds, as well as an Interest Rate with ethical and regulatory requirements other members at 30 June 2012 were of new directors to the Board.
The process to the Audit Committee, and day to day Michael Evans, Chris Barling and Dharmash involves the Nomination Committee Executive Committee is responsible to Committee and an IT Steering Group.
reviewed the financial statements in the 2011 reports and accounts and the responsibility to the Group Finance Mistry.
None of the Committee has any interviewing suitable candidates who are the Chief Executive for developing and monitoring every aspect of the Groups Relations with shareholders interim report issued in February 2012.
The policy states that the external personal financial interest other than as proposed by existing Board members, auditor is jointly responsible to the Board shareholders, conflicts of interests arising by an external search company, or via business on a continuing basis, for We are committed to maintaining good As part of this review the Committee received a report from the external and the Audit Committee and that the Audit from cross-directorships or day-to-day searches performed by the Company itself.
developing and implementing business communications with our shareholders.
We have a programme of communication auditor on its audit of the annual Committee is the primary contact.
involvement in running the business.
Consideration will be given to ensure strategy as agreed by the Board and appointees have enough time available ensuring that day-to-day operations are with shareholders based on our financial reports and accounts and review of the interim report: The Groups policy on external audit can be The Committees purpose is to: to devote to the role and that the balance conducted in accordance with the relevant reporting calendar including the interim received updates from the Risk found on the Groups website at www.
co. determine and recommend to the of skills, knowledge and experience on regulatory and statutory requirements.
and annual reports, Interim Management the Board will be maintained.
When the Statements, the AGM and the Investor Committee and considered the output uk.
It sets out the categories of non-audit Board the remuneration policy for the from the Group-wide process used to services which the external auditor will and executive Directors of the Company and Committee has found a suitable candidate, The Executive Committee is chaired by Relations section of the corporate website identify, evaluate and mitigate risks: will not be allowed to provide to the Group, of the subsidiary companies: the Chairman of the Committee will make the Chief Executive, Ian Gorham, and in at www.
a proposal to the whole Board and the his absence by Peter Hargreaves.
During reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups subject to fide minimis levels and Audit ensure the level and structure of Committee Chairman approval.
The level remuneration is designed to attract, appointment is the responsibility of the the year the committee also comprised the In addition to this, the CEO, Group internal controls and disclosures made in the annual report and accounts on of non-audit fees during 2012 were 35k retain, and motivate the executive whole Board following recommendation Group Finance Director, Tracey Taylor, and Finance Director and Chairman meet the following: with institutional investors after results this matter: 2011: nil.
Directors needed to run the Company from the Committee.
and the Group: and announcements and upon request on an reviewed and agreed the terms of engagement of the audit work to be The tenure of the current external auditor, monitor the level and structure of During the year the activities of the Nigel Bence Chief Operating Officer ad hoc basis during the year.
They, together with the Company Secretary, also provide undertaken by the external auditors: Deloitte, is 6 years.
The tenure of the remuneration for senior management.
Committee have included: Theresa Barry Group Marketing Director a point of contact for investors who wish to considered a report from the external current audit partner is 3 years.
Having auditor on its observations of controls conducted a review of the independence The performance measurement of the reviewing its terms of reference: Alex Davies Director of Pensions raise queries or concerns.
During the year we have actively sought the views of major across the Group: and the effectiveness of the external auditor Directors and key members of senior reviewing the requirements for Nick Marson Vantage and Broking potential independent non-executive Operations Director investors on our remuneration policy.
agreed the fees to be paid to the the Audit Committee has recommended to management and the determination of external auditor for its audit of the the Board that they are re-appointed.
their annual remuneration packages candidates: Ian Hunter Investment Marketing 2012 accounts and interim report and are undertaken by the Committee.
proposing the appointment of two new Director: and Jonathan Bloomer, our Senior Independent independent non-executive directors: David Davies IT Director appointed Non-Executive Director, was also available reviewed the confirmation of auditor Internal Audit Function The Committee also ensures that the independence: The Audit Committee is required to assist remuneration relationship between the formulation of appropriate succession November 2011. to meet key investors.
undertaken an evaluation of the the Board to fulfil its responsibilities Directors and senior employees of the plans: and Michael Evans, Mark Dampier, Lee Following dialogue with individual performance of the Internal Audit relating to the adequacy of the resourcing Company is appropriate and that the making recommendations to the Board and plans of the Internal Audit department.
remuneration policy complies with the with regard to the appointment of Gardhouse and Stuart Louden are invited to institutional shareholders, the Chairman, function and reviewed the level and nature of non-audit activity performed Having conducted a review of the Internal FSA Remuneration Code.
Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director ensured the Board was fully briefed by Internal Audit: Audit department the Committee is happy remuneration arrangements for senior employees are advised to the Committee.
On 3 October 2011, the Committee Biographies of the above are available on shareholders views such that any reviewed the qualification and with its resources and plans.
experience of the Internal Audit recommended to the Board the on our website: www.
co. uk issues or concerns were fully understood and considered by the Board.
Analyst and department so that they can deliver an Remuneration Committee The Nomination Committee appointment of two non-executive investor-relations.
The Nomination Committee leads the directors: Dharmash Mistry and Stephen broker briefings are regularly provided to agreed programme of work: The Remuneration Committee is responsible undertaken an evaluation of the for the framework or broad policy for the process for Board appointments, re-election Robertson.
The recruitment process The Executive Committee meets at least the Board.
In addition, the Groups brokers performance of the external auditor: fair remuneration of the executive directors and succession of directors and the consisted of a targeted advertisement to quarterly but more frequently when required, sought feedback from investors following the a subset of our clients.
Having mailed and met five times during the current financial 2011 final and 2012 interim results, and this received reports from the Head of of the Company and its subsidiaries as Chairman.
It is responsible for making Internal Audit on the work undertaken well as their performance management.
recommendations to the Board concerning some 6,500 and received approximately year.
The attendance by each director is set feedback was reported to the Board.
by Internal Audit and management The policy is determined with due regard the composition and skills of the Board 100 applications, following the selection out in the table on page 42.
All Directors made themselves available responses to proposals made in the to the interests of the Company and the including proposed appointees to the criteria laid down by the Committee, shareholders.
The Committee makes Board, whether to fill any vacancies that and after two rounds of interviews, the Risk Committee to meet shareholders at our AGM and audit reports issued by the function during the year: recommendations to the Board.
No director may arise or to change the number of Board two candidates were identified and The Risk Committee is chaired by the Chief they value the opportunity of welcoming Operating Officer and also comprises the individual shareholders and other reviewed the Groups Internal Capital plays a part in any discussion about his or members.
40 41 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction
