Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 4.
The BRC represents the interests 1.
Chris Barling, BSc Board of Directors Non-Executive Director, 56.
Executive Director, 65. of UK retail to Governments and media.
Appointed Non-Executive Director in Appointed to his current role in September Stephens career has spanned 14 years on the boards of major UK retailers building August 2010.
Member of the Audit Committee, on earlier management roles with Mars Nomination Committee and Remuneration Peter co-founded Hargreaves Lansdown Inc, Unilever and Alberto-Culver.
Stephen served for seven years as Marketing Committee.
in 1981, and was Chief Executive of the Group until September 2010.
Previously, Director at B&Q plc before leading the Chris became a non-executive director of the he qualified as a Chartered Accountant acquisition of Screwfix Direct which he Company in August 2010.
Chris has over 30 and worked for KPMG, Unisys Group and then chaired.
years IT industry experience and formerly Whitbread Plc.
Non-Executive director of held senior IT roles in Cable & Wireless and ITM Power Plc.
He went on to become Director of Reuters.
He is the co-founder of Actinic, Communications at Kingfisher plc and 5.
Michael Evans, FIA took the helm of the Ellen MacArthur the software company specialising in ecommerce solutions for SMEs.
Chairman of Chairman, 51. sponsorship, followed by three years at Private Software Limited, and wholly owned Appointed Chairman in December 2009.
He is a former Chairman, and now fellow, of the Marketing Society subsidiaries, including SellerDeck Limited, and director of Powered Now Limited.
Michael became a non-executive director and a fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.
of the Company in September 2006.
He is also a non-executive director of Timpson Group plc.
Jonathan Bloomer, FCA Michael is a qualified actuary with 30 years Senior Independent Non-Executive industry experience.
He is a non-executive Director, 58. director of CBRE Global Investors Group 8.
Dharmash Mistry, BA Oxon, Meng Appointed Non-Executive Director in UK Limited and a member of the advisory Non-Executive Director, 42.
September 2006. board of Spectrum Corporate Finance LLP.
Appointed Non-Executive Director in Chairman of the Audit Committee, October 2011.
Nomination Committee and Remuneration He spent two years as director of life Member of the Audit Committee, insurance at Pinsent Masons LLP.
Michael Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee.
was formerly Chief Operating Officer at Committee.
Jonathan is currently a partner in Cerberus Skandia UK Limited.
He is also Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Wessex Heartbeat.
Dharmash is a partner at Balderton Capital European Capital Advisers LLP, Chief Executive of Lucida plc and Chairman of LLC, one of Europes leading venture Scottish RE Group Limited.
Stephen Lansdown, FCA, FSI capital firms and a non-executive director at Dixons Retail plc.
Prior to this he served Jonathan was Chief Executive of Prudential Non-Independent Non-Executive plc.
He also spent twenty years in practice Director, 60. on the board of Lovefilm AMZN and with Arthur Andersen LLP.
Jonathan was Appointed to his current role in August was Group Managing Director of Emap Chairman of the Practitioner Panel of the 2010 formerly Chairman.
He started his career as FSA.
His previous positions also include a Brand Manager at Procter and Gamble, board membership of the Association Stephen co-founded Hargreaves Lansdown followed by a period at The Boston of British Insurers, Geneva Association in 1981, and was Chairman of the Group Consulting group International Association for the Study until November 2009.
Previously, he of Insurance Economics and Railtrack qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 9.
Tracey Taylor, FCCA MSI plc.
Jonathan is also a Trustee and the 1975 and specialised in taxation with Group Finance Director, 40.
Touche Ross & Co. Stephen is a Fellow of Appointed Group Finance Director in Treasurer of the NSPCC.
Ian Gorham, ACA other directorships are Pula Limited, Pula Tracey joined Hargreaves Lansdown in Chief Executive Officer, 40.
Properties Limited, Sustainable Technology Appointed CEO in September 2010.
Her responsibilities within the Limited and St James Parade 122 Limited.
Group have included the operational areas of IT systems and client accounting, Ian joined Hargreaves Lansdown in 2009 as Chief Operating Officer.
Stephen Robertson group finance, treasury and the company as a Chartered Accountant in 1996.
In 2006 Tracey was 3 5 7 2 8 Previously he helped build Deloittes UK Appointed Non-Executive Director in appointed to the role of Group Accounting 1 4 6 financial services operations and was Head October 2011.
Director and to the Executive Committee 9 of Grant Thorntons UK financial services Member of the Audit Committee & before being appointed to the main Board business.
Ian has worked with many Nomination Committee.
Prior to joining Hargreaves Lansdown she qualified as an accountant financial services companies on a wide range of strategic and operational matters.
Stephen has been Director General of in 1994 before working for LloydsTSB.
No No external Director appointments.
British Retail Consortium BRC since external Director appointments.
34 35 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction
