Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Our Services This has become my preferred Hargreaves Lansdown aims to help each client make more way to trade.
It allows me to of their money throughout their life.
We have established a react any time any where.
reputation for providing high quality service and value-forHL are fantastic and so is money products to private investors, whether they are making this app.
their own investment decisions or looking for an advisory or App review 05 10 2012 discretionary service.
Over the last year we have saved our clients more than 200 million in discounts on initial and annual charges along with rebates paid to clients via our Loyalty Bonus.
Vantage Service wealth of other information to support Massively impressed.
Whether a first time investor or wanting to novice and experienced investors alike with Changed all my small their investment decisions.
improve the way that existing investments pension plans gathered over are managed, our aim is to give our the years to HL.
They fully clients all the tools, help and information Timely, free, independent research to help they need to make their own investment make better investment decisions kept me informed of each decisions and save money.
In effect we Our research team headed by investment stage of the process and want to help people become their own experts Mark Dampier and Lee Gardhouse progress.
investigate thousands of different had were dealt with quickly investments and meet hundreds of The Vantage Service allows clients to bring fund managers a year.
Its findings are and efficiently - would highly all their ISAs, Pensions SIPPs, and funds available free via our Wealth 150 list recommend.
and share accounts into one easy to manage of favourite funds in each sector, latest Mr Wade, Norwich, January 2012 place.
Clients investment ideas and our Investment can consolidate their investments for Times newsletter.
For those Vantage clients seeking some guidance on setting up an example, pensions accumulated in previous employment into the Vantage service to investment portfolio we have set up our keep track of their investments and manage Master Portfolios which are readythem in one place.
Clients can manage to-go, diversified portfolios their investments by telephone, post, online for lump sum investments or mobile.
Either way, by dealing with us or regular savings.
Access to free education, interactive tools and guides Mobile technology We keep clients up to date with tax and economic information in our regularly updated free guides, expert comments and HLTV webcasts.
Our Investment Times magazine contains investment ideas and 60,000 expert comments.
Our online Knowledge Centre contains expert guides, such as the number of HL Live Apps downloaded Guide to Fund Prices and Yields, interactive tools such as Pension calculators, and a Our investment research team 4 5 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 For those who prefer more flexibility and award-winning SIPP, ISA, Fund and Share Award-winning accept a higher risk approach, we also accounts.
We also offer a market-leading offer a very competitive Income Drawdown retirement and annuity broking service services service to be used alongside or as an allowing employees to obtain a higher alternative to a secured annuity income.
income via our annuity search engine.
We win prestigious awards every year for delivering exceptional service to Looking for investment advice?
Other Services clients across the financial spectrum.
We understand that not everyone feels We offer a foreign currency service to both confident in making their own investment private clients and companies and for decisions and some prefer individual more sophisticated investors the ability to invest in Venture Capital Trusts VCTs, advice.
Where that is the case we have a team of over 70 highly qualified Enterprise Investment Schemes EIS, independent advisers based nationwide Contracts For Difference and Financial who are able to help clients either face-toSpread Betting.
The full range of our face or over the telephone.
They can give services can be viewed on the website at one-off advice, help build an investment www.
co. uk investment-services Best SIPP Provider - Hargreaves Lansdown portfolio, or provide access to a full 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 ongoing Portfolio Management Service Outstanding Service!
Saving for your family A retirement service that could increase PMS.
We also provide our own range 1.
Transfers speedy and Parents, grandparents and other adults can your income by up to 40% of Multi-Manager funds.
Best Share Fund Dealing Service As the UKs number one annuity broker Lansdown approach is unique and help build a childs investments for a more Hargreaves Lansdown financially secure future using a designated source: MyTouchstone we help individuals represents the best starting point if youre 2.
account, where they can manage the assets obtain a superior retirement income.
Its based upon our belief 3.
Monthly magazine very that you should only pay for things you for a childs benefit.
It is now possible to annuity service enables clients to find a useful Best Stocks & Shares ISA Provider start saving into a Self-Invested Personal better pension income - in some cases it need and value.
We believe this is just as Hargreaves Lansdown 4.
Analytical tools of website Pension SIPP for children shortly after could improve income by up to 40% more.
true for advice as for any other walk of life.
excellent - no need to do my they are born.
In November 2011 the Junior We provide instant personal no obligation ISA was launched in the UK - Vantage quotes completely online in minutes, Corporate Services 2012 spreadsheets now.
Junior ISA clients can receive the Aardman allowing clients to compare live annuity In addition to services for private Best SIPP Provider 07, 08, 09, 10, 11, 12 Mr Wilson, Heath - September 2011 designed Pedro the Penguin moneybox rates from the UKs top annuity providers individuals we are a leading provider and What Investment when they open an account.
Investment across the open market.
The online annuity broker of corporate pension and wrap accounts for the whole family can be service is clear and simple to use, and is solutions.
Our corporate wrap allows Best Stocks & Shares ISA Provider managed easily online using the linked supported by our knowledgeable annuity employees to benefit from the Hargreaves Our Clients What Investment specialists who are available to answer any Lansdown Vantage service via their We have 425,000 active Vantage clients accounts function.
Corporate Vantage includes and 12,000 clients in our Portfolio Best Share Fund Dealing Service Saving for retirement Management Service.
We have client What Investment relationships with over 580 companies A SIPP is one of the most tax efficient ways The setting up of the Junior of saving for retirement which puts you including 34 FTSE 100 companies.
The key Best Online Fund Supermarket ISA was seamless.
Whereas traditional pensions to the growth and success of our services MoneyAM Awards Granny add money which typically limit investment choice to a is that we listen to our clients and respond shorter list of funds, normally run by the was straightforward and my to their needs.
We welcome comments and Best Overall Finance Provider pension companys own fund managers, criticisms so that we can further improve MoneyAM Awards oldest son has used the gena SIPP lets you invest almost anywhere the service and provide clients with eral research pages to check you like.
It can be managed completely what they want.
Our management team Best Corporate Wrap Platform Provider what he would like to invest online, enabling you 24 7 access to your reviews and responds to client feedback Professional Pensions Awards 2012 in - which we check before investments at the click of a mouse.
award-winning Vantage SIPP lets you Pensions IFA of the year Tom McPhail we buy for him.
choose from thousands of funds run by The full range of our services can be Our Corporate annuity and Corporate Unbiased.
co. uk Media Adviser Awards Mr Innes, Renfrewshire.
some of the finest fund managers.
You can viewed on the website at: Vantage wrap services are provided to also take your pick from individual shares, www.
co. uk investment-services many well-known companies.
The Direct Platform Best User corporate bonds, gilts, investment trusts, Experience Ratings ETFs and cash.
Pedro the Penguin The Platforum 6 7 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction
