DIReCtoRs RePoRt continued The practical measures in relation to the design, implementation and maintenance of control policies and procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company and to manage its affairs properly, including the maintenance of effective operational and compliance controls and risk management have also been delegated to HIML.
The Board acknowledges its responsibilities to supervise and control the discharge by the Manager and Secretary of their obligations.
The Manager has a compliance function in accordance with the Financial Services Authority regulations.
The Managers compliance function provides the Board with a report on its monitoring procedures on a regular basis.
The Baillie Gifford & Co Heads of Business Risk & Internal Audit and Regulatory Risk also provide the Board with regular reports on Baillie Gifford & Cos monitoring programmes as they relate to the secretarial and administrative function.
In addition, Baillie Gifford & Co conducts an annual review of its own system of internal controls which is documented within an internal controls report which has been designed to comply with Technical Release AAF 01 06 Assurance Reports on Internal Controls of Service Organisations made available to Third Parties and ISAE 3402.
This report is independently reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos auditors.
A copy of the internal controls report is submitted to the Board.
The Companys investments are segregated from the investment and administration functions through the appointment of The Bank of New York Mellon as independent custodian of the Companys investments.
The custodian prepares a report on its internal controls which is independently reviewed by KPMG LLP.
A detailed risk map is prepared which identifies the significant risks faced by the Company and the key controls employed to manage these risks.
These procedures ensure that consideration is given regularly to the nature and extent of the risks facing the Company and that they are being actively monitored.
Where changes in risk have been identified during the year they also provide a mechanism to assess whether further action is required to manage the risks identified.
The Board confirms that these procedures have been in place throughout the Companys financial year and continue to be in place up to the date of approval of this Report.
Internal Audit The Audit Committee carries out an annual review of the need for an internal audit function.
The Committee continues to believe that the compliance and internal control systems and the internal audit function in place within the Manager and Company Secretary provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards shareholders investment and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function, specific to the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
Accountability and Audit The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the auditors in connection with the Financial Statements are set out on pages 33 to 35. going Concern In accordance with The Financial Reporting Councils guidance on going concern and liquidity risk, the Directors have undertaken a rigorous review of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Companys principal risks are market related and include market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of these risks and how they are managed is contained in Note 20 to the financial statements.
The Companys assets, the majority of which are investments in quoted securities, exceed its liabilities significantly.
All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board.
Gearing levels and compliance with loan convenants are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
The two 25 million loan facilities which were due to expire in May 2013 were replaced on 6 February 2013 with a 50 million facility maturing 31 December 2014.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, shareholders have the right to vote on the continuation of the Company every three years with the next vote at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 23 April 2013.
The Directors have no reason to believe that the continuation vote will not be passed at the Annual General Meeting.
After making enquiries and notwithstanding the above, the financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Audit Committee An Audit Committee has been established consisting of all the independent non-executive Directors.
Its authority and duties are clearly defined within its written terms of reference which are available on request from the Company and on the Managers website: www.
Mr DCP McDougall is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board believes it is appropriate for Mr Cazalet to be a member of the Audit 26
