DIReCtoRs RePoRt The Directors present their Report together with the financial statements of the Company for the year to 31 December 2012. Business Review Business and status The Company is an investment company within the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
It was approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust under Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the year ended 31 December 2011, subject to matters that may arise from any subsequent enquiry by HM Revenue & Customs into the Companys tax return.
In the opinion of the Directors the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so as to enable it to seek such approval.
In accordance with recent changes to Section 1158, the Company has obtained approval as an investment trust from HM Revenue & Customs for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2012. objective Heralds objective is to achieve capital appreciation through investments in smaller quoted companies, in the areas of telecommunications, multi-media and technology TMT.
Investments may be made across the world.
The business activities of investee companies will include information technology, broadcasting, printing and publishing and the supply of equipment and services to these companies.
Investment Policy While the policy is global investment in the above target areas the approach is to construct a diversified portfolio through the identification of individual companies which offer long term growth potential, typically over a five year horizon or more.
The portfolio is actively managed and does not seek to track any comparative index.
With a remit to invest in smaller companies with market capitalisation generally below 1bn, there tends to be a correlation with the performance of smaller companies, as well as those of the technology sector.
A degree of volatility relative to the overall market should be expected.
The risk associated with the illiquidity of smaller companies is reduced by generally restricting the stake in any one company to less than 10% of the shares in issue.
A number of investments are in early stage companies, which have a higher stock specific risk but the potential for above average growth.
Stock specific risk is reduced by having a diversified portfolio of over 200 holdings.
In addition, to contain the risk of any one holding, the Manager generally takes profits when a holding reaches more than 5% of the portfolio.
The Manager actively manages the exposure within the constraint that illiquid positions cannot be traded for short term movements.
The Company has a policy not to invest more than 15% of gross assets in other UK listed investment companies.
From time to time, fixed interest holdings, non equity or unlisted investments may be held on an opportunistic basis.
The Company recognises the long term advantages of gearing and has a maximum gearing limit of 50% of net assets.
Borrowings are invested primarily in equity markets but the Manager is entitled to invest in other securities in the companies in the target areas when it is considered that the investment grounds merit the Company taking a geared position.
The Boards intention is to gear the portfolio when appropriate with borrowings to around 30% of net assets.
Gearing levels are monitored closely by the Manager and reviewed by Directors at each Board Meeting.
The Company may use derivatives which will be principally, but not exclusively, for the purpose of efficient portfolio management i. e. for the purpose of reducing, transferring or eliminating investment risk in its investments, including protection against currency risk.
A detailed analysis of the Companys investment portfolio is set out on pages 16 to 20 and in the Investment Managers Report.
Performance At each Board Meeting, the Directors consider a number of performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving its objectives.
The key performance indicators KPIs used to measure the progress and performance of the Company over time are established industry measures and are as follows: the movement in net asset value per ordinary share compared to the comparative index: the movement in the share price: the discount: and the ongoing charges.
22 DIReCtoRs RePoRt continued A historical record of these measures is shown on pages 2, 3 and 21.
In addition to the above, the Board considers peer group comparative performance.
Borrowings No loans were drawn down or repaid during the year to 31 December 2012.
Results and Dividend The net asset value NAV of the Company at 31 December 2012 was 632.78p per Ordinary share 2011 563.75p.
This represented an increase of 12.3% during the year, compared to an increase in the comparative index of 14.4%.
The discount narrowed from 19.3% to 18.9%.
The Directors recommend a dividend of 1.00p 2011 1.00p per Ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2012.
If approved at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be payable on 3 May 2013 to holders registered on 12 April 2013.
The ex-dividend date is 10 April 2013. Review of the Year and Future trends A review of the year and the investment outlook is contained in the Chairmans Statement and the Investment Managers Report on pages 5 to 11.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities and its principal risks are therefore market related and include market risk comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of those risks and how they are managed is contained in note 20 to the accounts on pages 47 to 54.
Other risks faced by the Company include the following: Regulatory Risk failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements could lead to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange Listing, financial penalties or a qualified audit report.
Breach of Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could lead to the Company being subject to tax on capital gains.
The Managers Compliance Officer and Baillie Giffords Heads of Business Risk & Internal Audit and Regulatory Risk provide regular reports to the Audit Committee on their monitoring programmes.
The Manager monitors investment positions and the Secretary monitors the level of forecast income and expenditure to ensure the provisions of Sections 1158 and 1159 are not breached.
Major regulatory change could impose disproportionate compliance burdens on the Company.
In such circumstances representation is made to ensure that special circumstances of investment trusts are recognised.
Operational Financial Risk failure of the Secretarys accounting systems or those of other third party service providers could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring or a misappropriation of assets.
The Secretary has a comprehensive business continuity plan which facilitates continued operation of the business in the event of a service disruption or major disruption.
The Audit Committee reviews the Secretarys Report on Internal Controls and the reports by other key third party providers are reviewed by the Secretary on behalf of the Audit Committee.
Discount Volatility the discount at which the Companys shares trade can widen.
The Board monitors the level of discount and the Company has authority to buy back its own shares.
Gearing Risk the Company may borrow money for investment purposes.
If the investments fall in value, any borrowings will magnify the extent of this loss.
If borrowing facilities are not renewed, the Company may have to sell investments to repay borrowings.
All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board and gearing levels are discussed by the Board and Managers at every meeting.
The majority of the Companys investments are in quoted securities.
employees The Company has no employees.
social and Community Issues As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social or community responsibilities.
However, the Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and governance factors when selecting and retaining investments.
Details of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment can be found under Corporate Governance and Stewardship on page 27.
