DIReCtoRs RePoRt continued Accordingly, the Directors are now recommending in Resolution 11 that this authority to purchase the Companys own Ordinary shares should be renewed and should now expire at the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held in 2014.
Authority will be sought to purchase up to 14.99% of the Companys Ordinary shares in issue at the date of the passing of the resolution the maximum permitted under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority at a price that is not less than 25p per share the nominal value of each share and must not exceed the higher of a 5% above the average closing price as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the day of purchase and b the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange.
The full text of the authority being sought can be found in Resolution 11 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The decision as to whether the Company repurchases any shares will be at the absolute discretion of the Board and will only be considered when it is in the interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
It is the intention that purchases will only be made at a discount to net asset value.
Articles of Association Resolution 12 proposes that two principal changes be made to the Articles of Association.
Firstly, it is proposed that the maximum aggregate amount of fees that may be paid to the Directors, without having to obtain additional shareholder approval, be increased from 100,000 to 125,000 per annum Article 95.
Secondly, in order to reflect technological changes, it is proposed to amend the Articles of Association Article 11.1 to permit certificates for shares and debentures to be issued with a securities seal attached or printed by any mechanical, electronic, laser or other means approved by the directors.
In addition, it is proposed that certain definitions in Article 2 be updated.
A copy of the new Articles marked to show the changes being made is available for inspection at the registered address of the Company and at the offices of Macfarlanes LLP, 20 Cursitor Street, London, EC4A 1LT during normal business hours on any day Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the date of the notice of the AGM until the conclusion of the AGM.
Recommendation The Directors unanimously recommend all holders to vote in favour of all the Resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting by completing and returning the enclosed form of proxy.
The proxy form should be returned to the Companys Registrar as soon as possible but in any event so as to arrive no later than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time of the Annual General Meeting.
Payment of suppliers It is the Companys payment policy to obtain the best possible terms for all business.
The Company negotiates with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place and abides by such terms.
The Company did not have any trade creditors at 31 December 2011 or 2012.
Disclosure of Information to the Auditor The Directors confirm that so far as each of the Directors is aware there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Independent Auditors The Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, are willing to continue in office and in accordance with sections 489 and 491 1 of the Companies Act 2006 resolutions concerning their reappointment and remuneration will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Julian Cazalet Chairman 27 February 2013 30
