InvestMent MAnAgeRs RePoRt 2012 has been a more challenging year for the global TMT sector.
One of the cornerstone markets, the PC, has seen steady downward revisions, as the tablet and the economy has eroded demand for notebooks.
According to IDC, volumes declined 3.2% to c350m in 2012.
There are some high profile large companies that have been challenged such as Nokia and RIM which fell with the rise of the iPhone, and look-a-likes from Samsung in 2011.
2012 was the year when the iPad and its clones rocked the PC market.
HP and Dell are high profile casualties, but the less visible supply chain in Asia has also had a tough time.
Meanwhile a sluggish economy has reduced demand for office fit outs, and corporate IT budgets have been constrained.
Against this background the UK sector has done remarkably well, and European companies have bounced after a poor year in 2011.
In part this reflects the fact that Europe no longer has a manufacturing sector, and this price sensitive volume sensitive market is now in Asia.
The UK sector has been more service led and IP or design oriented.
Meanwhile the smartphone market is still showing good volume growth, and internet usage growth continues unabated.
Additional competition in the tablet market followed the launch of new Kindle devices from Amazon, a new Nexus product from Google, and the Surface from Microsoft.
Different regions have different characteristics.
UK The UK portfolio remains the most important within the Company, and now accounts for over 70% of the equity portfolio.
The total return for Heralds UK portfolio was 18% versus the Numis Smaller Companies Index extended to include AIM returning 22.5%.
Although over the long term Herald Investment Trust has dramatically outperformed the Numis Index there have been years when the UK return has lagged.
This is the first year when it has lagged when the relevant sectors have outperformed the Index.
The reasons for the underperformance are as follows: 1 Poor share price performance of the two largest investments Imagination and SDL.
In declining 25% and 23.5% respectively these effectively accounted for half the underperformance.
Material profits have already been realised on these investments, which have been outstanding over the last decade.
At the start of 2012 the Imagination holding had been reduced from over 15m shares to less than 5m, and SDL reduced somewhat less.
In spite of the poor performance in 2012 these companies had a realised and unrealised profit of 62m on a maximum invested value of 8.2m.
2 Certain large stocks that performed particularly well which were not owned by HIT and peripheral to the defined remit.
Firstly Renishaw 111%, which is a company that I knew well pre Herald as analyst at its corporate advisor.
I have great respect for the way they have built the business, but have not perceived it to be in the TMT defined remit in which we invest.
Secondly TalkTalk 81% which was previously in the retail sector.
3 Certain stocks which we ought to have owned Oxford Instruments and Dialight and possibly Perform.
Other stocks such as Johnston Press, Trinity Mirror, Pace, CSR and Wolfson have bounced strongly.
We have benefited from being underweight or not owning them in the past, but in consequence have had modest positions for the rally.
4 The weighted return of AIM stocks in the target sector is far lower, and the portfolio is skewed to these smaller companies.
Over the long term the UK has performed well, and compounded in capital terms since 1994 at c14%.
We do not have a formal benchmark, and in any one accounting period divergences are inevitable.
HERALD INVESTMENT TRUST plc 7 InvestMent MAnAgeRs RePoRt continued Us The US market performed much less well than the UK.
In sterling, the Russell 2000 Technology Index rose 4.5%, and the large cap Russell 1000 index returned 7.4%.
The star performer was Mellanox, which appreciated 116% $10.4m rise.
They are market leader in Infiniband which has been adopted more widely since Intel launched the Romley server processors for high speed datacentre connections.
The share price peaked at $120 in September.
Abovenet, Standard Microsystems, Retalix and MIPS have all performed on takeover offers, albeit Retalix and MIPS have yet to complete.
Offsetting this Ceva and Silicon Motion have been particularly poor performers declining 48% and 28% respectively in $, both of which had been star performers in previous years.
In 2011 Silicon Motion had risen 341% in $.
In addition there were lacklustre performances from holdings such as Advent Software, Websense and Pegasystems.
The US portfolio has been derated this year, and stands at a modest 10% premium to the UK portfolio in p e terms on 2013 numbers, which is the smallest premium in HITs history.
The US sector is strong, and the economy will benefit from cheap domestically produced energy.
europe The European portfolio is small, but rallied 20% in local currency or 17.5% in.
Far east The Far East portfolio has delivered a return of 10.3%.
Taiwan returned 19.3%, and Korea returned 8.2%.
Companies domiciled in these two countries account for the majority of the Far East portfolio.
The Far East is now significant in terms of number of companies, but we have struggled to find companies with pricing power, and a structure which will respect outside shareholders.
We have watched the feeding frenzy of mindless money invest as they did in TMT in the UK and US in 19992000, and to a lesser extent in the AIM market in 20052006.
It seems probable that there will be some worthwhile investments as we have found post bubble in the UK.
Regrettably that legal environment is much less developed than in the UK or the US.
We have purposefully targeted resource in this area, which has thus far been productively deployed to keep us out of trouble.
the Addressable Market Ultimately we invest in companies, not a concept.
We have expressed our concern for a number of years about the proliferation of takeovers in the UK in particular.
The numbers are stark, and it is now inevitable that the UK will fall as a percentage of the portfolio, but we have enjoyed the harvest.
A screen of stocks in the technology and media sectors as defined by Bloomberg is summarised in the table below.
number of quoted companies with market capitalisation 1bn 30m W n Asia sector UK europe America Asia Dev emerging World Technology 64 183 353 667 283 1,635 Media 30 64 76 131 75 421 Electronic & Electrical Equipment 18 78 90 441 278 943 total 112 325 519 1,239 636 2,999 Source: Bloomberg 31 12 2012 8 InvestMent MAnAgeRs RePoRt continued Prior to the financial crisis there were as many companies in the UK as the rest of Europe put together.
That reflected a bigger investment sector, and heavy investing by pension funds and insurance companies in smaller early stage companies as well as entrepreneurialism and creativity.
We have migrated to the European model of no new equity, or worse equity withdrawal, but remained with the Anglo-Saxon openness with regard to take-overs hence the dramatic contraction.
The list is not the entire investable orbit for two reasons.
Firstly we do invest in companies with a market capitalisation below 30m, and eliminating the 30m market capitalisation floor changes the numbers as shown in the table below.
Secondly a number of companies classified within support services, electrical and electronic equipment and industrials are also in the remit, but for illustrative purposes this table highlights how small the UK quoted sector has become in a global context.
number of quoted companies with market capitalisation 1bn W n Asia sector UK europe America Asia Dev emerging World Technology 140 521 1,075 1,369 666 4,174 Media 80 195 354 228 185 1,222 Electronic & Electrical Equipment 46 162 342 863 448 2,082 total 266 878 1,771 2,460 1,299 7,478 number of quoted companies with market capitalisation 1bn W n Asia sector UK europe America Asia Dev emerging World Technology 7 18 137 64 23 258 Media 11 24 38 14 13 112 Electronic & Electrical Equipment 3 6 29 34 14 88 total 21 48 204 112 50 458 Source: Bloomberg 31 12 2012 The TMT sector targeted remains dynamic, and we shall continue to be vigilant in targeting value in any geographic market.
However, the UK and US remain preferred locations for the reliable auditing and minority protections.
The US is the best environment for companies to scale to address the largest markets, but has inefficiencies in the smaller companies market, and is rather too efficient in larger companies valuations.
Unlike the UK there is no system of house brokers to promote companies.
The micro-cap market in the US and UK seems to be where value lies, and to find the same value in Asia and Europe requires greater selectivity.
I draw attention to the fact that there are only 25 companies in Europe including the UK in the Bloomberg defined technology sector with a market value exceeding 1bn.
This list includes a number of depressingly challenged companies such as Nokia, Alcatel Lucent, STMicro and Infineon.
The UK boasts companies with momentum such as ARM, Imagination and Aveva, Germany has SAP and the Netherlands ASML and ASM.
In contrast the US has companies with an order of magnitude greater in scale such as Apple, Google, Qualcomm, Intel, Microsoft and IBM.
While we continue to find value in smaller UK and European companies, Europe really is marginal in terms of larger capitalisation technology companies, because at the year end there were 137 US technology companies with a market value exceeding 1bn.
The Japanese technology sector is in poor shape.
We have elected not to invest in Japan because there do not appear to be sufficient opportunities to justify the required resource.
There is a paucity of entrepreneurialism, and the big companies are challenged.
Elpida, Sharp, Panasonic and Sony have had particularly challenging years.
The TV market has moved to Korea, and the computer games consoles have had a terrible Christmas as smart phones take the spending $.
Korea has an extraordinarily strong company in Samsung and LG is not far behind.
Taiwan has TSMC, and a HERALD INVESTMENT TRUST plc 9 InvestMent MAnAgeRs RePoRt continued number of challenged companies in the PC supply chain.
China has many jobs, but few with pricing power.
Furthermore, China is ceasing to be a low cost manufacturer.
With increased automation and component integration the labour cost is low versus import tariffs into the US and Europe.
It seems probable that there will be selective repatriation of manufacturing to the US.
They own the companies with brands, innovation and low energy costs.
Apple have already announced a modest initiative to build Macs in the US.
In a global economy beset by Government deficits the spotlight is on companies with subnormal tax charges.
The technology sector in particular has the ability to move IP and manufacturing around the world with its global supply chain.
Many of the large companies have significant offshore earnings with low tax charges, but are not repatriating profits to the US because they face 35% Federal tax charges, and state taxes on top.
It has to be a major consideration on Capitol Hill to adjust these taxes.
It is anomalous that the tax system is incentivising Apple to fund the capital investment of its supply chain in the Far East rather than repatriating profits to invest at home.
The US Government may consider charging companies a reduced tax of say 10% on foreign earnings, but then permit repatriation.
This tax anomaly has been an additional reason why so many UK companies have been acquired by US companies who have cash offshore not worth face value.
The Company continues to have a 50m loan facility and an associated interest swap, which continues to trade at a similar loss as a year ago.
Whilst we value the flexibility, and have benefited from the use of the capital that the facility affords clearly the timing of the swap was ill-judged.
After consideration it seems appropriate to continue the position.
summary 2012 has been adequate, but could have been better.
The five year performance is good.
The outlook for 2013 remains uncertain, but from the perspective of the sectors targeted by Herald the US seems to be better placed to address its economic issues than elsewhere.
There remains more value in microcaps, but the ability for companies to grow profits appears to be more challenging than it has been.
The UK portfolio seems likely to decline as a percentage of the whole.
While a degree of caution seems rational it remains a mandate that seems to have attractions relative to most other asset classes.
10 InvestMent MAnAgeRs RePoRt continued Performance Attribution in sterling terms Comparative Comparative Herald Herald Contribution Contribution index index asset asset Performance Contribution attributable attributable allocation allocation allocation allocation Performance Comparative to relative to stock to asset 01.01.12 31.12.12 01.01.12 31.12.12 Herald index return selection allocation equity markets % % % % % % % % % UK 66.7 66.7 68.6 72.2 18.0 22.4 2.4 2.5 0.1 Europe ex.
Source: HSBC The above returns are calculated on a total return basis with net income reinvested.
Dividends and interest are reinvested on a cash basis, unlike the NAV calculation where income is recognised on an accruals basis.
Relative performance may differ as a result.
Contributions cannot be added together, as they are geometric: for example, to calculate how a return of 13.5% against a comparative index return of 16.3% translates into a relative return of 2.4%, divide the portfolio return of 113.5 by the comparative index return of 116.3 and subtract one.
Asset allocation includes the contribution attributable to currency movements.
Equities includes convertibles and warrants.
