Investment Policy Investment Objective The Company seeks to provide investors with long-term Project Companies with demand based concessions distributions, at levels that are sustainable, and to preserve the where the Investment Adviser considers that demand and capital value of its investment portfolio over the long-term with stability of revenues are not yet established, and or Project potential for capital growth.
The Company targets a progressive Companies which do not have public sector sponsored distribution policy and growth of its annual distributions to 7p awarded or government-backed concessions per Ordinary Share by March 2013.
The Company is targeting an and to a lesser extent but counting towards the same aggregate IRR of 7 to 8 per cent.
On the original issue price of its Ordinary 35 per cent.
and again at the time the relevant investment is Shares in March 2006, to be achieved over the long-term via made in: active management, including the acquisition by the Group being the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries of other funds that make infrastructure investments and or further investments to complement the Current Portfolio and by the prudent use of gearing.
financial instruments and securities issued by companies that make infrastructure investments, or whose activities are similar or comparable to infrastructure investments.
Investment Criteria The Groups Investment Policy is to ensure a diversied Geographic Focus portfolio which has a number of similarly sized investments and is not dominated by any single investment.
The Group will The Directors believe that attractive opportunities for the Group seek to acquire Infrastructure Equity with similar risk reward to enhance returns for investors are likely to arise outside as characteristics to the Current Portfolio, which may include but is well as within the UK where the majority of the projects in the not limited to : Current Portfolio are based.
The Group may therefore make investments in the European Union, Norway, Switzerland, the public sector, government-backed or regulated revenues: Americas and selected territories in Asia and Australasia.
The Group may also make investments in other markets should concessions which are predominantly availability based suitable opportunities arise.
i. e. the payments from the concession do not generally depend on the level of use of the project asset : and or The Group will seek to mitigate country risk by concentrating on investment opportunities in jurisdictions where it considers that companies in the regulated utilities sector.
contract structures and enforceability are reliable, where to the The Group will also seek to enhance returns for Shareholders by extent applicable public sector obligations carry a satisfactory acquiring more diverse infrastructure investments.
The Directors credit rating and where financial markets are relatively mature.
currently intend that the Group may invest in aggregate up to 35 per cent.
of its total assets at the time the relevant investment is made in: Project Companies which have not yet completed the construction phases of their concessions but where prospective yield characteristics and associated risks are deemed appropriate to the investment objectives of the Company.
This may include investment in companies which are in the process of bidding for concessions, to the extent that such companies form part of a more mature portfolio of investments which the Group considers it appropriate to acquire: and or HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 13 Investment Policy continued Single Investment Limit and Diversity Gearing of Clients and Suppliers The Group intends to make prudent use of leverage to finance the acquisition of investments, to enhance returns to investors When any new acquisition is made, the Company will ensure and to finance outstanding subscription obligations.
that the investment acquired does not have an acquisition value or, if it is an additional stake in an existing investment, the Under the Articles, the Groups outstanding borrowings, combined value of both the existing stake and the additional excluding intra-group borrowings and the debts of underlying stake acquired greater than 20 per cent.
of the total gross investee companies but including any financial guarantees to assets of the Company immediately post acquisition.
support subscription obligations, are limited to 50 per cent.
of the Adjusted Gross Asset Value meaning the fair market value, The total gross assets will be calculated based on the last without deductions for borrowed money or other liabilities or published gross investment valuation of the portfolio plus accruals, and including outstanding subscription obligations of acquisitions made since the date of such valuation at their cost its investments and cash balances at any time.
The Group may borrow in currencies other than pounds sterling The purpose of this limit is to ensure the portfolio has a number as part of its currency hedging strategy.
of investments and is not dominated by any single investment.
In selecting new investments to acquire, the Investment Adviser Amendments will seek to ensure that the portfolio of investments has a range of public sector clients and supply chain contractors, in Any material amendments to the Investment Policy will require order to avoid over-reliance on either a single client or a single the approval of Shareholders.
Other Investment Restrictions The Company is subject to certain investment restrictions pursuant to the UKLA Listing Rules.
These are as follows: a The Companys primary objective is investing and managing the assets with a view to spreading or otherwise managing investment risk.
The Company must, at all times, invest and manage its assets in a way which is in accordance with the Investment Policy: b The Company will not conduct a trading activity which is significant in the context of the Group as a whole.
The Company will not cross-finance businesses forming part of the Groups investment portfolio: and c No more than 10 per cent.
in aggregate, of the Companys assets will be invested in other listed closed-ended investment funds.
The Listing Rules may be amended or replaced over time.
To the extent that the above investment restrictions are no longer imposed under the Listing Rules those investment restrictions shall not apply to the Company.
14 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
