Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and independent of the Investment Adviser, are listed below.
Mr John Hallam 63 Appointed to the Board 12 January 2006 John Hallam British, resident in Guernsey, is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and qualied as an accountant in 1971.
He is a former partner of  having retired in 1999 after 27 years with the rm both in Guernsey and in other countries.
He is currently Chairman of Cazenove Absolute Equity Ltd, Dexion Absolute Ltd and Partners Group Global Opportunities Ltd as well as being a director of a number of other financial services companies, some of which are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
He served for many years as a member of the Guernsey Financial Services Commission from which he retired in 2006, having been its Chairman for the previous three years.
Other public company directorships listed in London unless noted otherwise BH Global Limited listed on London, Bermuda and Dubai Cazenove Absolute Equity Limited Dexion Absolute Limited NB Distressed Debt listed on SFM London NB Private Equity Partners Limited listed on SFM London and Amsterdam Partners Group Global Opportunities Limited listed in Ireland Vision Opportunity China Fund Limited listed on AIM Mr Graham Picken 63 - Chairman Appointed to the Board 12 January 2006 Graham Picken British, resident in the UK, is an experienced banker and financial practitioner and has been Chairman of the Company since its launch.
Recently appointed a Non-Executive Director of Skipton Building Society, he was formerly, a Non-Executive Director of the Derbyshire Building Society, where he became Chief Executive in February 2008 and led the society to a merger with Nationwide Building Society in December 2008, before standing down at the end of March 2009.
Until 2003, Grahams career spanned over thirty years with Midland and HSBC Banks where, before he retired, he was General Manager of HSBC Bank plc responsible for commercial and corporate banking including specialised and equity finance.
Before that Graham was Chief Executive of Forward Trust Group, an authorised bank, and Chairman of First Direct, a division of HSBC Bank plc.
Graham has no other listed company directorships 46 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Mr Chris Russell 63 Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2010 Chris Russell British, is a Guernsey resident non-executive director of investment and financial companies in the US, UK, Hong Kong and Guernsey.
He is also Deputy Chairman of the UK trade body, the Association of Investment Companies.
Chris was formerly a Director of Gartmore Investment Management Plc, where he was Head of Gartmores businesses in the US and Japan.
Before that he was a holding board Director of the Jardine Fleming Group in Asia.
He is a Fellow of the UK Society of Investment Professionals and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales.
Other public company directorships listed in London unless noted otherwise JP Morgan Japan Smaller Companies Trust plc F&C Commercial Property Trust Ltd Korea Fund Inc listed in New York Macau Property Opportunities Fund Limited Mrs Sarah Evans 56 Appointed to the Board 9 June 2008 Sarah Evans British, resident in Guernsey, is a Chartered Accountant and a non-executive director of several other listed investment funds, as well as an unlisted fund of hedge funds.
She spent over six years with the Barclays Bank PLC group from 1994 to 2001.
During that time she was a Treasury Director and from 1996 to 1998 she was Finance Director of Barclays Mercantile, where she was responsible for all aspects of financial control and operational risk management.
Prior to joining Barclays Sarah ran her own consultancy business advising financial institutions on all aspects of securitisation.
From 1982 to 1988 Sarah was with Kleinwort Benson, latterly as head of group finance.
She is a member of the Institute of Directors.
Other public company directorships listed in London Crystal Amber Fund Limited listed on AIM CQS Diversied Fund Limited Harbourvest Senior Loans Europe Limited Certain of the Directors maintain additional directorships that are also listed but not actively traded on various exchanges.
Details may be obtained from the Corporate Secretary.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 47
