HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions Other information FuM Property EDTF Other information Other FuM increased by 3% to US$194bn, primarily due to favourable equity market Funds under management and assets held in movements partly offset by the disposal of the full custody service retail brokerage business in Canada.
Funds under management Assets held in custody and under 2012 2011 administration US$bn US$bn Funds under management Custody is the safekeeping and servicing of At 1 January 847 925 securities and other financial assets on behalf of Net new money 5 2 clients.
This At 31 December 910 847 was mainly driven by favourable market movements together with increased new business and favourable At 31 December movements in foreign exchange.
2012 2011 US$bn US$bn Our assets under administration business, which Funds under management by includes the provision of various support function business Global Asset Management......... 425 396 activities including the valuation of portfolios of Global Private Banking.............. 288 259 securities and other financial assets on behalf of Affiliates 3 3 clients, complements the custody business.
At Other 194 189 31 December 2012, the value of assets held 910 847 under administration by the Group amounted to US$2.9 trillion, compared with US$2.6 trillion Funds under management FuM at 31 December in 2011.
2012 amounted to US$910bn, an increase of 7% compared with 31 December 2011.
Total fund Property holdings increased in 2012, reflecting favourable At 31 December 2012, we operated from some market movements, the inclusion of custody assets 8,650 operational properties worldwide, of which in client assets in GPB and net new money inflows approximately 2,150 were located in Europe, 2,600 from Global Asset Management.
in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, 550 in North Global Asset Management funds, including America, 2,950 in Latin America and 400 in the emerging market funds, increased by 7% to Middle East and North Africa.
These properties had US$425bn compared with 31 December 2011, an area of approximately 59.7m square feet 2011: driven by favourable global market movements and 65.7m square feet.
net inflows of US$16bn, mainly from sales of longOur freehold and long leasehold properties, term funds, notably fixed income and multi-asset together with all our leasehold land in Hong Kong, products, in Rest of Asia-Pacific, Hong Kong and were valued in 2012.
The value of these properties Latin America.
was US$9.7bn 2011: US$8.9bn in excess of their GPB funds increased by 11% on 31 December carrying amount in the consolidated balance sheet an 2011 to US$288bn, mainly due to the inclusion of historical cost based measure.
In addition, properties custody assets in client assets and favourable equity with a net book value of US$1.3bn 2011:US$1.3bn market and foreign exchange movements.
Negative were held for investment purposes.
net new money was driven by net outflows in Our operational properties are stated at cost, Europe, primarily due to a programme to reposition being historical cost or fair value at the date of our client base towards higher net worth transition to IFRSs their deemed cost less any international and domestic relationships, and a impairment losses, and are depreciated on a basis review of certain client relationships with a view to calculated to write off the assets over their estimated reducing control risk, largely offset by net inflows useful lives.
Properties owned as a consequence of originating from emerging markets.
an acquisition are recognised initially at fair value.
Further details are included in Note 24 on the Financial Statements.
118 Detailed list of disclosures in this report arising from EDTF recommendations Type of risk Recommendation Disclosure Page General 1 The risks to which the business is exposed.
124 to 126 2 Our risk appetite and stress testing.
126 to 128 3 Top and emerging risks, and the changes during the reporting period.
130 to 134 4 Discussion of future regulatory developments affecting our business model and Group profitability, and its implementation in Europe.
132 and 288 to 292 Risk governance, risk 5 Group Risk Committee, and their activities.
323 to 328 management and 6 Risk culture and risk governance and ownership.
124 business model 7 Diagram of the risk exposure by global business segment.
20 8 Stress testing and the underlying assumptions.
127 to 128 Capital adequacy and 9 Pillar 1 capital requirements, and the impact for global systemically 295 to 296 and 291 to risk-weighted assets important banks.
292 For calculation of Pillar 1 capital requirements, see pages 10 to 14 of the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012 document.
10 Reconciliation of the accounting balance sheet to the regulatory 288 balance sheet.
11 Flow statement of the movements in regulatory capital since the 285 previous reporting period, including changes in core tier 1, tier 1 and tier 2 capital.
12 Discussion of targeted level of capital, and the plans on how to 288 establish this.
13 Analysis of risk-weighted assets by risk type, global business and 282 to 283 geographical region, and market risk RWAs.
14 For analysis of the capital requirements for each Basel asset class, see pages 10 to 14, 23, 58 and 61 of the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012 document.
15 For analysis of credit risk for each Basel asset class, see pages 23 to 28 and 32 to 38 of the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012 document.
16 Flow statements reconciling the movements in risk-weighted assets 283 and 284 for each risk-weighted asset type.
17 For discussion of Basel credit risk model performance, see pages 39 to 41 of the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012 document.
Liquidity 18 Analysis of the Groups liquid asset buffer.
206 to 207 Funding 19 Encumbered and unencumbered assets analysed by balance sheet 211 category.
20 Consolidated total assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet 485 to 492 commitments analysed by remaining contractual maturity at the balance sheet date.
21 Analysis of the Groups sources of funding and a description of our 209 to 211 funding strategy.
Market risk 22 Relationship between the market risk measures for trading and non- 218 to 219 trading portfolios and the balance sheet, by business segment.
23 Discussion of significant trading and non-trading market risk factors.
220 to 223 24 VAR assumptions, limitations and validation.
266 to 267 25 Discussion of stress tests, reverse stress tests and stressed VAR.
267 Credit risk 26 Analysis of the aggregate credit risk exposures, including details of 139 to 141 both personal and wholesale lending.
27 Discussion of the policies for identifying impaired loans, defining 162 and 254 to 259 impairments and renegotiated loans, and explaining loan forbearance policies.
28 Reconciliations of the opening and closing balances of impaired loans 163 and 172 and impairment allowances during the year.
29 Analysis of counterparty credit risk that arises from derivative 452 to 453 transactions.
30 Discussion of credit risk mitigation, including collateral held for all 163 to 168 sources of credit risk.
Other risks 31 Quantified measures of the management of operational risk.
227 to 230 32 Discussion of publicly known risk events.
131 to 134 119 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Footnotes Footnotes to pages 2 to 119 Financial highlights 1 Dividends recorded in the financial statements are dividends per ordinary share declared in a year and are not dividends in respect of, or for, that year.
The third interim dividend for 2011 of US$0.09 was paid on 18 January 2012.
The fourth interim dividend for 2011 of US$0.14 was paid on 2 May 2012.
First, second and third interim dividends for 2012, each of US$0.09 per ordinary share, were paid on 5 July 2012, 4 October 2012 and 12 December 2012, respectively.
Note 10 on the Financial Statements provides more information on the dividends declared in 2012.
On 4 March 2013 the Directors declared a fourth interim dividend for 2012 of US$0.45 per ordinary share in lieu of a final dividend, which will be payable to ordinary shareholders on 8 May 2013 in cash in US dollars, or in pounds sterling or Hong Kong dollars at exchange rates to be determined on 29 April 2013, with a scrip dividend alternative.
The reserves available for distribution at 31 December 2012 were US$38,175m.
Quarterly dividends of US$15.50 per 6.2% non-cumulative Series A US dollar preference share, equivalent to a dividend of US$0.3875 per Series A American Depositary Share, each of which represents one-fortieth of a Series A US dollar preference share, were paid on 15 March 2012, 15 June 2012, 17 September 2012 and 17 December 2012.
Quarterly coupons of US$0.508 per security were paid with respect to 8.125% capital securities on 17 January 2012, 16 April 2012, 16 July 2012 and 15 October 2012.
Quarterly coupons of US$0.50 per security were paid with respect to 8% capital securities on 15 March 2012, 15 June 2012, 17 September 2012 and 17 December 2012.
2 The return on average ordinary shareholders equity is defined as profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company divided by average ordinary shareholders equity.
3 Return on average invested capital is based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders.
Average invested capital is measured as average total shareholders equity after adding back goodwill previously amortised or written-off directly to reserves, deducting average equity preference shares issued by HSBC Holdings and deducting adding average reserves for unrealised gains losses on effective cash flow hedges and available-for-sale securities and property revaluation reserves.
This measure reflects capital initially invested and subsequent profit.
4 The cost efficiency ratio is defined as total operating expenses divided by net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
5 Each American Depositary Share represents five ordinary shares.
6 Total shareholder return is defined as the growth in share value and declared dividend income during the relevant period.
7 The Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 Index.
8 The Morgan Stanley Capital International World Index.
9 The Morgan Stanley Capital International World Bank Index.
10 The core tier 1 capital ratio for 2012 and 2011 includes the effect of the Basel 2.5 rules.
Business and operating models and KPIs 11 Based upon pro forma post-tax profits allocation.
12 Intermediation of securities, funds and insurance products, including Securities Services in GB&M.
13 Merger and acquisition, ECM, event and project financing, and co-investments in GPB.
14 Including Foreign Exchange, Rates, Credit and Equities.
16 Including private trust and estate planning for financial and non-financial assets.
17 Including hedge funds, real estate and private equity.
18 Vehicle Finance was sold in 2010.
19 Transactions refers to the sale or closure of non-strategic businesses or non-core investment.
20 Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, Middle East and North Africa, and Latin America.
21 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as revenue.
22 The sum of balances presented does not agree to consolidated amounts because inter-company eliminations are not presented here.
23 For definitions of HSBC UK, HBAP and HSBC US, see footnotes 40 to 42, respectively, on page 249.
Subsidiaries of these entities are not included unless there is unrestricted transferability of liquidity between the subsidiaries and the parent.
Other entities footnote 43 on page 249 comprise our other main banking subsidiaries and, as such, includes businesses spread across a range of locations, in many of which we may require a higher ratio of net liquid assets to customer liabilities to reflect local market conditions.
Reconciliations of reported and underlying profit loss before tax 24 Currency translation adjustment is the effect of translating the results of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year at the average rates of exchange applicable in the current year.
25 Positive numbers are favourable: negative numbers are unfavourable.
26 Changes in fair value due to movements in own credit spread on long-term debt issued.
This does not include the fair value changes due to own credit spread on structured notes issued, derivatives and other hybrid instruments included within trading liabilities.
27 Other income in this context comprises where applicable net trading income, net income expense from other financial instruments designated at fair value, gains less losses from financial investments, dividend income, net earned insurance premiums and other operating income less net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders.
28 Individual reconciliations by global businesses and geographical regions are available on www.
29 Underlying performance eliminates the effects of acquisitions, disposals and changes of ownership levels of subsidiaries, associates and businesses so we can view results on a like-for-like basis.
We achieve this by eliminating gains and losses on disposal or dilution in the year incurred and by removing material results of operations from all the years presented.
For example, if a disposal was made in the current year after four months of operations, the results of the disposed of business would be removed from the results of the current year and the previous year as if the disposed of business did not exist in those years.
30 In addition, the operating results of these disposals were removed from underlying results.
31 The presentation of the Reconciliation of reported and underlying profit loss before tax for 2011 compared with 2010 has not been updated to reflect the change in presentation in 2012 splitting underlying reconciliations from the constant currency reconciliations.
The presentational change had no material impact on results.
32 These columns comprise the net increments or decrements in profits in the current year compared with the previous year which are attributable to acquisitions or disposals, gains on the dilution of interests in associates and or movements in fair value of own debt 120 attributable to credit spread.
The inclusion of acquisitions and disposals is determined in the light of events each year.
Financial summary 34 In 2008, an impairment charge of US$10,564m to fully write off goodwill in PFS in North America was reported in Total operating expenses.
This amount is excluded from Total operating expenses in calculating the ratio.
35 The effect of the bonus element of the rights issue in 2009 has been included within the basic and diluted earnings per share.
36 Dividends per ordinary share expressed as a percentage of basic earnings per share.
37 For full description of the Ping An forward contract, see page 470.
38 In 2011, Deferred variable compensation awards-accelerated amortisation was included as a notable cost item.
In 2012, this item recurs but is now considered part of our operating cost base and therefore has been excluded from notable items in both years.
39 Net interest income includes the cost of funding trading assets, while the related external revenues are reported in Trading income.
In our global business results, the cost of funding trading assets is included with GB&Ms net trading income as interest expense.
40 Gross interest yield is the average annualised interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets AIEA.
41 Net interest spread is the difference between the average annualised interest rate earned on AIEA, net of amortised premiums and loan fees, and the average annualised interest rate paid on average interest-bearing funds.
42 Net interest margin is net interest income expressed as an annualised percentage of AIEA.
43 In 2011, Other interest-earning assets includes the average assets of disposal groups held for sale.
In prior years other interestearning assets included intercompany eliminations.
In 2012, intercompany eliminations have been included in the relevant line item.
44 Interest income on trading assets is reported as Net trading income in the consolidated income statement.
45 Interest income on financial assets designated at fair value is reported as Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value in the consolidated income statement.
46 Including interest-bearing bank deposits only.
47 Interest expense on financial liabilities designated at fair value is reported as Net income on financial instruments designated at fair value in the consolidated income statement, other than interest on own debt which is reported in Interest expense.
48 Including interest-bearing customer accounts only.
49 The cost of internal funding of trading assets was US$511m 2011: US$1,161m: 2010: US$902m and is excluded from the reported Net trading income line and included in Net interest income.
However, this cost is reinstated in Net trading income in our global business reporting.
50 Net trading income includes a charge of US$629m 2011: income of US$458m: 2010: income of US$23m, associated with changes in the fair value of issued structured notes and other hybrid instrument liabilities derived from movements in HSBC issuance spreads.
51 Other changes in fair value include gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are managed in conjunction with HSBCs long-term debt issued.
53 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders arise from both life and non-life insurance business.
For non-life business, amounts reported represent the cost of claims paid during the year and the estimated cost of notified claims.
For life business, the main element of claims is the liability to policyholders created on the initial underwriting of the policy and any subsequent movement in the liability that arises, primarily from the attribution of investment performance to savings-related policies.
Consequently, claims rise in line with increases in sales of savings-related business and with investment market growth.
Consolidated balance sheet 54 Net of impairment allowances.
55 The calculation of capital resources, capital ratios and risk-weighted assets for 2012 and 2011 is on a Basel 2.5 basis.
All other comparatives are on a Basel II basis.
56 Capital resources are total regulatory capital, the calculation of which is set out on page 286.
57 Including perpetual preferred securities, details of which can be found in Note 33 on the Financial Statements.
58 The definition of net asset value per share is total shareholders equity, less non-cumulative preference shares and capital securities, divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
59 Currency translation adjustment is the effect of translating the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year-end at the rates of exchange applicable at the current year-end.
60 See Note 26 on the Financial Statements.
61 France primarily comprises the domestic operations of HSBC France, HSBC Assurances Vie and the Paris branch of HSBC Bank plc.
62 The classification of customer accounts by country within Europe has changed from amounts formerly disclosed.
Certain balances which were previously presented within the country of domicile of the consolidating legal entity are now presented on the basis of the country of account origination.
The most significant effect of this change is on Switzerland, where the balance of US$45,283m previously disclosed at 31 December 2011 has been restated as US$19,888m on the new basis.
Economic profit 63 Expressed as a percentage of average invested capital.
64 Average invested capital is measured as average total shareholders equity after: adding back the average balance of goodwill amortised pre-transition to IFRSs or subsequently written-off, directly to reserves less goodwill previously amortised in respect of the French regional banks sold in 2008 : deducting the average balance of HSBCs revaluation surplus relating to property held for own use.
This reserve was generated when determining the deemed carrying cost of such properties on transition to IFRSs and will run down over time as the properties are sold: deducting average preference shares and other equity instruments issued by HSBC Holdings: and deducting average reserves for unrealised gains losses on effective cash flow hedges and available-for-sale securities.
65 Return on invested capital is profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company, which can be found in Note 11 on the Financial Statements on page 426.
121 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Footnotes Risk Risk profile Reconciliation of RoRWA measures 66 Risk-weighted assets RWAs and pre-tax return on average risk-weighted assets RoRWA.
67 Underlying RoRWA is calculated using underlying pre-tax return and reported average RWAs at constant currency and adjusted for the effects of business disposals.
68 Other includes treasury services related to the US Consumer and Mortgage Lending business and commercial operations in run-off.
US CML includes loan portfolios within the run-off business that are designated held for sale.
Disposals, held for sale and run-off portfolios 69 The results of operations of disposed businesses are stated up to and including the date of disposal.
The results of operations of businesses held for sale and run-off portfolios are for 2012.
70 The summary income statements present the historical results of disposals, held-for-sale and run-off portfolios to provide information on trends.
The historical results are those which appear in the Group IFRS income statement and include fixed allocated costs which will not necessarily be removed or reduced upon disposal or run-off.
Fixed allocated costs included in total operating expenses are disclosed separately on page 38.
The results of disposed businesses exclude gains on sale and post disposal income and expenditure items: for example, restructuring costs.
The results of businesses held for sale exclude losses recognised upon reclassification to the held-for-sale category.
These losses are disclosed in Note 26 on the Financial Statements.
71 US CML includes non-real estate personal loans that were reclassified to Assets held for sale during 2012.
At 31 December 2012, the carrying value of this portfolio, net of transferred impairment allowances, was US$3.4bn.
The portfolio contributed interest income of US$813m and loan impairment charges of US$347m to profit before tax in 2012.
Other includes treasury services related to the US Consumer and Mortgage Lending business and commercial operations in run-off.
72 Reduction in RWAs on disposal for disposal and held-for-sale portfolios are shown exclusive of operational risk RWAs as these are not immediately released on disposal.
RWAs for held-for-sale and run-off portfolios are shown inclusive of operational risk RWAs.
Global businesses and geographical regions 73 The main items reported under Other are certain property activities, unallocated investment activities, centrally held investment companies, gains arising from the dilution of interests in associates and joint ventures, part of the movement in the fair value of our long-term debt designated at fair value the remainder of the Groups movement on own debt is included in GB&M and HSBCs holding company and financing operations.
The results also include net interest earned on free capital held centrally, operating costs incurred by the head office operations in providing stewardship and central management services to HSBC, and costs incurred by the Group Service Centres and Shared Service Organisations and associated recoveries.
In addition, fines and penalties as part of the settlement of investigations into past inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering and sanctions laws together with the UK bank levy are recorded in Other.
74 Assets by geographical region and global businesses include intra-HSBC items.
These items are eliminated, where appropriate, under the heading Intra-HSBC items or inter-segment elimination, as appropriate.
75 For divested businesses, this includes the gain or loss on disposal and material results of operations as described on page 26.
76 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
77 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures.
78 In the analysis of global businesses, net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities classified as held for trading, together with related external and internal interest income and interest expense, and dividends received: in the statutory presentation internal interest income and expense are eliminated.
79 In 2012, Global Markets included an adverse fair value movement of US$629m on the widening of credit spreads on structured liabilities 2011: favourable fair value movement of US$458m: 2010: favourable fair value movement of US$23m.
80 Total income earned on payments and cash management products in the Group amounted to US$6.2bn 2011: US$5.6bn: 2010: US$4.4bn, of which US$4.5bn was in CMB 2011: US$4.0bn: 2010: US$3.3bn and US$1.7bn was in GB&M 2011: US$1.5bn: 2010: US$1.1bn.
81 Total income earned on other transaction services in the Group amounted to US$3.6bn 2011: US$3.2bn: 2010: US$2.7bn, of which US$2.8bn was in CMB relating to trade and receivables finance 2011: US$2.6bn: 2010: US$2.1bn and US$753m was in GB&M of which US$738m related to trade and receivables finance 2011: US$601m: 2010: US$523m and US$15m related to banknotes and other 2011: US$33m: 2010: US$113m.
82 In each Group entity, Balance Sheet Management is responsible for managing liquidity and funding under the supervision of the local Asset and Liability Management Committee.
Balance Sheet Management also manages the non-trading interest rate positions of the entity transferred to it within a Global Markets limit structure.
Balance Sheet Management revenues include notional tax credits on income earned from tax-exempt investments of US$116m in 2012, US$85m in 2011 and US$50m in 2010, which are offset within Other.
83 Other in GB&M includes net interest earned on free capital held in the global business not assigned to products, allocated funding costs and gains resulting from business disposals.
Within the management view of total operating income, notional tax credits are allocated to the businesses to reflect the economic benefit generated by certain activities which is not reflected within operating income, for example notional credits on income earned from tax-exempt investments where the economic benefit of the activity is reflected in tax expense.
In order to reflect the total operating income on an IFRS basis, the offset to these tax credits are included within Other.
84 Client assets are translated at the rates of exchange applicable for their respective period-ends, with the effects of currency translation reported separately.
The main components of client assets are funds under management, which are not reported on the Groups balance sheet, and customer deposits, which are reported on the Groups balance sheet.
85 Inter-segment elimination comprises i the costs of shared services and Group Service Centres included within Other which are recovered from global businesses, and ii the intra-segment funding costs of trading activities undertaken within GB&M.
HSBCs Balance Sheet Management business, reported within GB&M, provides funding to the trading businesses.
To report GB&Ms Net trading income on a fully funded basis, Net interest income and Net interest income expense on trading activities are grossed up to reflect internal funding transactions prior to their elimination in the inter-segment column.
86 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders.
87 Employee expenses comprise costs directly incurred by each global business.
The reallocation and recharging of employee and other expenses directly incurred in the Other category are shown in Other operating expenses.
88 RWAs are non-additive across geographical regions due to market risk diversification effects within the Group.
89 CMB results include US$128m 2011: US$110m of net operating income and US$43m 2011: US$23m of profit before tax, related to low income housing tax credit investments in the US which are offset within the Other segment.
Risk culture 124 Our risk management framework is supported by Risk governance and ownership 124 strong forward-looking risk identification.
Personal lending US lending 130 Our ratio of customer advances to deposits 2 Top and emerging risks...... 130 remains below 90%.
Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk............. 131 Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks Strong governance to our business model 132 Risks related to our business operations, Robust risk governance and accountability is governance and internal control systems.... 134 embedded across the Group.
3 Risk management of insurance operations 232 273 Our top and emerging risks 2 Other material risks 246 Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk.
Sustainability risk 249 280 Risks related to our business operations, 1 Appendix to Risk risk policies and practices.
governance and internal control systems.
For details of HSBCs policies and practices regarding risk management and governance see the Appendix to Risk on page 252.
123 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Managing risk Managing risk on our attitude towards risk and the behaviours Unaudited expected by our policies.
Our risk culture is reinforced by our approach to Risks faced by HSBC remuneration, which is discussed in the Report of the All of our activities involve, to varying degrees, the Remuneration Committee on page 347.
Individual analysis, evaluation, acceptance and management of awards are based on the achievement of both risks or combinations of risks.
These are described in financial and non-financial relating to our values the table below.
objectives which are aligned to our global strategy.
Risk culture Risk governance and ownership All staff are required to identify, assess and An established risk governance framework and manage risk within the scope of their assigned ownership structure ensures oversight of and responsibilities.
Our global standards set the tone accountability for the effective management of risk from the top and are central to our approach to at Group, regional and global business levels.
The balancing risk and reward.
Personal accountability governance structure for the management of risk is is reinforced by our HSBC Values, with staff set out in the report of the Group Risk Committee on expected to act with courageous integrity in page 323, with similar arrangements in place in conducting their duties and being: major operating subsidiaries.
This structure has been dependable, doing the right thing: augmented by the establishment of the Financial open to different ideas and culture: and System Vulnerabilities Committee, details of which connected to our customers, regulators and each are set out on page 328.
framework fosters the continuous monitoring of the risk environment and an integrated evaluation of Staff are supported by a disclosure line which risks and their interactions.
Integral to our risk enables them to raise concerns in a confidential management framework are risk appetite, stress manner.
We also have in place a suite of mandatory testing and the identification of top and emerging training to ensure a clear and consistent attitude is risks, all of which are discussed below.
communicated to staff: our mandatory training not only focuses on the technical aspects of risk but also Description of risks Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk Credit risk The risk of financial loss if a Credit risk arises principally Credit risk: customer or counterparty fails from direct lending, trade is measured as the amount which could be lost if a customer or to meet an obligation under a finance and leasing business, counterparty fails to make repayments.
In the case of derivatives, the contract.
but also from certain other measurement of exposure takes into account the current mark to products such as guarantees market value to HSBC of the contract and the expected potential and derivatives.
change in that value over time caused by movements in market rates: is monitored within limits, approved by individuals within a framework of delegated authorities.
These limits represent the peak exposure or loss to which HSBC could be subjected should the customer or counterparty fail to perform its contractual obligations: and is managed through a robust risk control framework which outlines clear and consistent policies, principles and guidance for risk managers.
Liquidity and funding risk The risk that we do not have Liquidity risk arises from Liquidity and funding risk: sufficient financial resources mismatches in the timing of is measured using internal metrics including stressed operational cash to meet our obligations as they cash flows.
flow projections, coverage ratio and advances to core funding ratios: fall due or that we can only do Funding risk arises when the is monitored against the Groups liquidity and funding risk framework so at excessive cost.
liquidity needed to fund and overseen by regional Asset and Liability Management illiquid asset positions cannot Committees ALCOs, Group ALCO and the Risk Management be obtained at the expected Meeting: and terms and when required.
is managed on a stand-alone basis with no reliance on any Group entity unless pre-committed or central bank unless this represents routine established business as usual market practice.
124 Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk Market risk The risk that movements in Exposure to market risk is Market risk: market factors, including separated into two portfolios: is measured in terms of value at risk, which is used to estimate foreign exchange rates and Trading portfolios comprise potential losses on risk positions as a result of movements in market commodity prices, interest positions arising from rates and prices over a specified time horizon and to a given level of rates, credit spreads and market-making and confidence, augmented with stress testing to evaluate the potential equity prices, will reduce our warehousing of customerimpact on portfolio values of more extreme, though plausible, events income or the value of our derived positions or movements in a set of financial variables: portfolios.
Non-trading portfolios is monitored using measures including the sensitivity of net interest comprise positions that income and the sensitivity of structural foreign exchange which are primarily arise from the applied to the market risk positions within each risk type: and interest rate management of is managed using risk limits approved by the GMB for HSBC our retail and commercial Holdings and our various global businesses.
These units are allocated banking assets and across business lines and to the Groups legal entities.
liabilities, financial investments designated as available for sale and held to maturity, and exposures arising from our insurance operations Operational risk The risk of loss resulting from Operational risk arises from Operational risk: inadequate or failed internal day to day operations or is measured using both the top risk analysis process and the risk processes, people and systems external events, and is relevant and control assessment process, which assess the level of risk and or from external events, to every aspect of our business effectiveness of controls: including legal risk along is monitored using key indicators and other internal control activities: with accounting, tax, security and and fraud, people, systems, projects, operations and is primarily managed by global business and functional managers.
They identify and assess risks, implement controls to manage them and monitor the effectiveness of these controls utilising the operational risk management framework.
The Global Operational Risk and Internal Control function is responsible for the framework and for overseeing the management of operational risks within businesses and functions.
Compliance risk The risk that we fail to observe Compliance risk is part of Compliance risk: the letter and spirit of all operational risk, and arises is measured by reference to identified metrics, incident assessments relevant laws, codes, rules, from rules, regulations, other whether affecting HSBC or the wider industry, regulatory feedback regulations and standards of standards and Group policies, and the judgement and assessment of the managers of our global good market practice, and including those relating to businesses and functions: incur fines and penalties and anti-money laundering, antiis monitored against our compliance risk assessments and metrics, the suffer damage to our business bribery and corruption, results of the monitoring and control activities of the second line of as a consequence.
conduct of business, counterdefence functions, including the Global Compliance function, and the terrorist financing and results of internal and external audits and regulatory inspections: and sanctions compliance.
is managed by establishing and communicating appropriate policies and procedures, training employees in them, and monitoring activity to assure their observance.
Proactive risk control and or remediation work is undertaken where required.
Insurance risk The risk that over time, the Insurance risk arises from Insurance risk: combined cost of acquiring mortality and morbidity is measured in terms of life insurance liabilities and non-life written and administering a contract, experience.
Lapse and premiums for their respective contract types: claims and benefits may surrender rates and if, the is monitored by the Group Insurance Risk Management Committee, exceed the aggregate amount policy has a savings element, which checks the risk profile of the insurance operations against a risk of premiums received and the performance of the assets appetite for insurance business agreed by the GMB: and investment income.
held to support the liabilities also impact the cost of claims is managed both centrally and locally using product design, and benefits.
The performance underwriting, reinsurance and claims-handling procedures.
of assets supporting insurance liabilities depends on financial risks such as market, credit and liquidity.
125 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Managing risk Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk Fiduciary risk The risk of breaching our Fiduciary risk arises from our Fiduciary risk: fiduciary duties.
business activities where we is measured by monitoring against risk appetite: act in a fiduciary capacity as is monitored through the use of key indicators: and Trustee, Investment Manager or as mandated by law or is managed within the designated businesses via a comprehensive regulation.
Reputational risk The risk that illegal, unethical Reputational risk encompasses Reputational risk: or inappropriate behaviour by negative reaction not only to is measured by reference to our reputation as indicated by our dealings the Group itself, members of activities which may be illegal with all relevant stakeholders, including media, regulators, customers staff or clients or or against regulations, but also and employees: representatives of the Group to activities that may be is monitored through a reputational risk management framework, will damage HSBCs counter to societal standards, taking into account the results of the compliance risk monitoring reputation, leading, values and expectations.
It activity outlined above: and potentially, to a loss of arises from a wide variety of business, fines or penalties.
causes, including how we is managed by every member of staff and is covered by a number of conduct our business and the policies and guidelines.
There is a clear structure of committees and way in which clients to whom individuals charged with mitigating reputational risk, including the we provide financial services, Group Reputational Risk Policy Committee and regional business and bodies who represent equivalents.
Pension risk The risk that contributions Pension risk arises from Pension risk: from Group companies and investments delivering an is measured in terms of the schemes ability to generate sufficient members fail to generate inadequate return, economic funds to meet the cost of their accrued benefits: sufficient funds to meet the conditions leading to is monitored through the specific risk appetite that has been developed cost of accruing benefits for corporate failures, adverse at both Group and regional levels: and the future service of active changes in interest rates or members, and the risk that the inflation, or members living is managed locally through the appropriate pension risk governance performance of assets held in longer than expected structure and globally through the Risk Management Meeting.
pension funds is insufficient to longevity risk.
cover existing pension Pension risk includes liabilities.
Sustainability risk The risk that the Sustainability risk arises from Sustainability risk: environmental and social the provision of financial is measured by assessing the potential sustainability effect of a effects of providing financial services to companies or customers activities and assigning a Sustainability Risk Rating to services outweigh the projects which run counter to all high risk transactions: economic benefits.
the needs of sustainable is monitored quarterly by the Risk Management Meeting and monthly development.
by Group Sustainability Risk management: and is managed using sustainability risk policies covering project finance lending and sector-based sustainability polices for sectors with high environmental or social impacts.
These processes are discussed in further detail below.
Risks are assumed by our global businesses in accordance with their risk appetite and are managed Credit, market and operational risks are measured at Group, global business and regional levels.
All using the Pillar 1 framework for regulatory capital risks are identified through our risk map process, through the allocation of risk-weighted assets.
We which sets out the Groups risk profile in relation to measure other risks using our economic capital model key risk categories in different regions and global under Pillar 2 as described in our Pillar 3 Disclosures businesses.
In addition to those listed above, risks 2012 report.
including model, financial management, capital, Islamic finance and strategic risk are identified and Risk appetite monitored through the risk map process.
Risk appetite is set out in the Groups Risk Appetite These risks are then regularly assessed through Statement, which describes the types and levels of our risk appetite framework, subjected to stress risk that the Group is prepared to accept in executing testing and considered for classification as top and our strategy.
It is approved by the Board on the advice of the Group Risk Committee, and is a key 126 component of our risk management framework.
It Stress testing is central to the annual planning process, in which Our stress testing and scenario analysis programme global businesses, geographical regions and is central to the monitoring of top and emerging risks.
functions are required to articulate their risk We conduct a range of Group stress-testing scenarios appetite statements.
These are aligned with Group including, but not limited to, severe global economic strategy, and provide a risk profile of each global downturn, country, sector and counterparty failures business, region or function in the context of the and a variety of projected major operational risk risk categories discussed above.
The outcomes of the stress testing are used Quantitative and qualitative metrics are assigned to assess the potential demand for regulatory capital to nine key categories: earnings, capital, liquidity under the various scenarios.
We also participate, and funding, securitisations, cost of risk, intra-group where appropriate, in scenario analyses requested by lending, strategic investments, risk categories and regulatory bodies.
Measurement In the course of 2012, we examined several against the metrics: scenarios reflecting potential developments in the guides underlying business activity, ensuring eurozone and more widely.
Those reported to senior it is aligned to risk appetite statements: management during 2012 included an assessment of informs risk-adjusted remuneration: the annual operating plan 2012 under two enables the key underlying assumptions to be macroeconomic stress scenarios, as described below.
monitored and, where necessary, adjusted The results of the two scenarios demonstrated that through subsequent business planning cycles: HSBC would remain satisfactorily capitalised under and the mild and severe scenarios after taking account of promptly identifies business decisions needed assumed management actions.
In addition to the suite of risk scenarios Some of the core metrics that are measured, considered for the Group, each major HSBC monitored and presented to the Board monthly are subsidiary conducts regular macroeconomic and tabulated below: event-driven scenario analyses specific to their region.
Stress testing is used across risk categories such Risk appetite metrics as market risk, liquidity and funding risk and credit Target Actual risk to evaluate the potential impact of stress scenarios Core tier 1 ratio........... 9.5% to 10.5% 12.3% on portfolio values, structural long-term funding Return on equity......... 12% to 15% 8.4% positions, income or capital.
Return on RWAs........ 1.8% to 2.6% 1.8% Dividend payout ratio.
40% to 60% 55.4% Cost efficiency ratio... 48% to 52% 62.8% Advances to customer accounts ratio........... Below 90% 74.4% Cost of risk LICs...... Below 20% of operating income 9.9% Stress scenario assumptions Scenario Mild scenario assumptions Severe scenario assumptions Assumptions the situation in Greece worsens and there is a disorderly default in Greece, where the eurozone an orderly default in Greece: governments are unable to ring-fence peripheral Greek banks also default and, with support from the countries and their banks: EU and the International Monetary Fund, are bailed default of Portugal and Ireland with increases in out: bond yields for high debt countries: increasing bond yields in Portugal, Ireland, Spain the ensuing credit crunch together with declining and Italy trigger further fiscal austerity measures, business and consumer confidence more than offset and governments strive to disassociate their any relief gained from the depreciation of the euro: countries from Greece: investors become increasingly uncomfortable with through financial and trade linkages, an orderly the US and the UKs fiscal positions, with the severe default in Greece results in the spread of contagion scenario resulting in a global slowdown: and to the rest of the world: emerging economies are less affected by the the UK, US and emerging markets are adversely financial shock.
affected, albeit to varying degrees: and slower global demand curbs growth and increases the risk premium on interest rates as well as commodity prices.
127 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Managing risk Areas of special interest We also conduct reverse stress testing.
effectiveness programme and our five economic filters strategy: Reverse stress testing is a process of working developing a sixth global risk filter which backwards from the event of non-viability of the should help to standardise our approach to business model to identification of a range of events doing business in higher risk countries: that could bring that event about.
Non-viability might occur before the banks capital is depleted, substantially increasing resources, doubling and could result from a variety of events.
These global expenditure and significantly include idiosyncratic, systemic or combinations of strengthening Compliance as a control events, and or could imply failure of the Groups rather than as an advisory function: holding company or one of its major subsidiaries and continuing to roll out the HSBC Values does not necessarily mean the simultaneous failure programme that defines the way everyone of all the major subsidiaries.
in the Group should act: We use reverse stress testing as part of our risk appointing a new Chief Legal Officer and Head management process to strengthen resilience by of Group Financial Crime Compliance with helping to inform early-warning triggers, particular expertise and experience in US law management actions and contingency plans to and regulation: mitigate against potential stresses and vulnerabilities appointing a new Global Head of Regulatory which the Group might face.
Compliance and starting to restructure the Global Compliance function accordingly: Areas of special interest designing and implementing new global Unaudited standards by which we conduct our businesses: and Compliance enforcing a consistent global sanctions policy.
In 2012, we experienced increasing levels of compliance risk as regulators and other agencies It is clear from both our own and wider industry pursued investigations into historical activities, experience that the level of activity among regulators and we continued to work with them in relation and law enforcement agencies in investigating to existing issues.
Manifestation of these risks possible breaches of regulations has increased, and included an appearance before the US Senate that the direct and indirect costs of such breaches can Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations and the be significant.
Coupled with a substantial increase in Deferred Prosecution Agreement reached with US the volume of new regulation, much of which has authorities in relation to investigations regarding some element of extra-territorial reach, and the inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering geographical spread of our businesses, we believe and sanctions law, plus a related undertaking with that the level of inherent compliance risk that we the FSA.
We have also been involved in face as a Group will continue to remain high for the investigations into the mis-selling of interest foreseeable future.
rate derivative products to SMEs in the UK and investigations and reviews related to certain past Commercial real estate submissions made by panel banks and the process Our exposure to commercial real estate lending for making submissions in connection with the continued to be concentrated in Hong Kong, the UK, setting of Libor, Euribor and other benchmark Rest of Asia-Pacific and North America.
The market interest and foreign exchange rates.
in Hong Kong and most other Asian markets in With a new senior leadership team and a new which we conduct commercial real estate lending, strategy in place since 2011, we have already taken after relative buoyancy in 2011, began to stabilise significant steps to address these issues including in 2012, partly due to initiatives taken by various making changes to strengthen compliance, risk supervisory authorities.
In the UK, many regions management and culture.
These steps, which should were negatively affected by weak growth in the also enhance our compliance risk management economy, though London and the South East, where capabilities, include the following: more than 50% of our UK CRE lending is based, continued to exhibit relative strength.
In North the creation of a new global structure which will America, the market remained stable, in part make HSBC easier to manage and control: supported by the continued low levels of interest simplifying our business through the ongoing rates.
implementation of our organisational 128 Refinance risk, which is subject to close The relevance of current market conditions to scrutiny in key commercial real estate markets, is impairment assessment is particularly relevant over the risk that a loan which is due to be repaid through a 12-month period.
Over a 12 to 24-month horizon, refinancing over the short term cannot, at maturity, US$3.3bn of UK commercial real estate and be refinanced on current market terms.
Such cases other property-related lending loans are due to be may either lead to the loan being treated as impaired refinanced.
Reviews of more sensitive assets due because the borrowers ability to pay is considered between 12 and 24 months have been conducted doubtful or, if refinanced by HSBC, may result in it to ensure that there are no further cases currently being treated as a renegotiated loan because of the requiring special management or that should be degree of forbearance required see page 161 for considered impaired.
In commercial real estate markets, refinance risk can arise Eurozone crisis particularly when a loan is serviced exclusively by Eurozone countries are members of the EU and the property to which it relates, i. e. when the bank part of the euro single currency bloc.
The peripheral does not, or is not able to, place principal reliance eurozone countries are those that have exhibited on other cash flows available to the borrower.
levels of market volatility that exceeded other We monitor the commercial real estate portfolio, eurozone countries, demonstrating fiscal or political assessing those drivers that may indicate potential uncertainty which may persist through the first half issues with refinancing.
The principal driver is the of 2013.
In 2012, in spite of improvements through vintage of the loan, where origination reflected austerity and structural reforms, the peripheral previous market norms which no longer apply in the eurozone countries of Greece, Ireland, Italy, current market.
Examples are higher loan-to-value Portugal, Spain and Cyprus continued to exhibit ratios and or lower interest cover ratios.
The range a high ratio of sovereign debt to GDP or short to of refinancing sources in the local market is also an medium-term maturity concentration of their important consideration, with concern increasing liabilities, with Greece, Spain and Cyprus seeking when this is restricted to banks and when bank assistance.
In addition, the quality of underlying fundamentals such as tenant reliability, Exposure to eurozone countries is analysed in ability to let, and the condition of the property itself the table on page 193. is also important, as it influences property value.
With the exception of the UK, in our material Risk reduction in 2012 commercial real estate portfolios globally, the At 31 December 2012, our net exposure to the behaviour of the market and the quality of assets peripheral eurozone countries was US$38bn, does not cause undue concern.
In the UK, the above including net exposure to sovereign borrowers, drivers combine to cause a concern regarding our agencies and banks of US$12bn.
During the year, sensitivity to risks of refinance that warrant we continued to reduce our overall net exposure enhanced management attention.
to sovereigns, agencies and banks of peripheral At 31 December 2012, the UK had US$24.5bn eurozone countries.
In addition, we continued to of commercial real estate loans, of which US$7.4bn actively reduce exposures to counterparties were due to be refinanced within the next 12 months, domiciled in other eurozone countries that had of which US$2.4bn were assessed as possessing exposures to sovereigns and or banks in peripheral characteristics that indicated an increased risk of eurozone countries of sufficient size to threaten their refinancing difficulty.
Such cases are monitored on-going viability in the event of an unfavourable closely with US$1.9bn already under special conclusion to the current crisis.
management within our Loan Management Units.
This was undertaken through an analysis of US$0.9bn were disclosed as impaired with publicly available information, reviews of external impairment allowances of US$0.4bn.
Where these analyst reports and meetings with the counterloans are not considered impaired it is because, parties officials.
Vulnerable counterparties were while they may possess characteristics that indicate a identified and subjected to enhanced monitoring, and potential issue with refinancing, as described above, our exposure was managed in a similar manner to there is no evidence to indicate that all contractual the monitoring and management of direct exposures cash flows will not be recovered or that the loans to the peripheral eurozone countries.
One of the will need to be refinanced on terms we would primary issues underpinning this process was the consider below market norms.
management of our surplus liquidity, resulting in the 129 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Areas of special interest Top and emerging risks placement of funds directly with central banks in the Finance were US$43bn at 31 December 2012, a most highly-rated countries.
decline of US$6.8bn compared with the end of 2011.
The rate at which balances in the CML portfolio are Our businesses in peripheral eurozone countries declining continues to be affected by the lack of are funded from a mix of local deposits, local refinancing opportunities available to customers and wholesale funding and intra-Group loans extended the continued impact of the temporary suspension of from HSBC operations with surplus funds.
Foreclosure processing Group funding carries the risk that a member country has now resumed in substantially all states, although might exit the eurozone and redenominate its there continues to be a backlog of loans which have national currency, which could result in a significant not yet been referred to foreclosure.
In addition, our currency devaluation.
A description of risks relating loan modification programmes, which are designed to currency redenomination in the event of the exit to improve cash collections and avoid foreclosure, of a eurozone member is provided on page 131. continued to slow repayment rates.
Risk management and contingency planning In the third quarter of 2012, we reclassified nonreal estate personal loan balances of US$3.7bn, There is an established framework for dealing with net of impairment allowances, from our consumer counterparty and systemic crisis situations, both finance portfolio to Assets held for sale as we regionally and globally, which is complemented by actively marketed the portfolio.
We also identified regular specific and enterprise-wide stress testing real estate secured loan balances, with a carrying and scenario planning.
The framework functions amount of US$3.8bn which, as part of our strategy, both in pre and in-crisis situations and ensures that we have announced that we plan to actively market we have detailed operational plans in the event of in multiple transactions generally over the next two an adverse scenario materialising.
At 31 December 2012, the carrying value of 2011 and has continued to operate throughout 2012 the non-real estate and the real estate secured loans to ensure that pre-crisis preparation remains apposite which we intend to sell was approximately US$1bn and robust.
greater than their estimated fair value.
We expect to The main focus of preparation for eurozone exit recognise a loss on sale for these loans over the next continues to be on Greece and Spain although, as the few years, the actual amount of which will depend eurozone situation has developed in 2012, we have on market conditions at the time of the sales.
also considered other scenarios including contagion Total mortgage lending in the US was US$55bn risk to non-eurozone countries or the exit of a higher at 31 December 2012, a decline of 7% compared impact eurozone member.
Management actions with the end of 2011, mainly due to the continued include regular meetings of a Eurozone Major run-off of the CML portfolio.
Incident Group and a tested regional eurozone contingency plan covering all global businesses and Top and emerging risks functions.
The plan considers payments, legal, client Unaudited account, internal and external communication and regulatory and compliance issues associated with Identifying and monitoring top and emerging risks eurozone breakup.
is integral to our approach to risk management.
We define a top risk as being a current, emerged risk which has arisen across any of our risk categories, Personal lending US lending regions or global businesses and has the potential to The slight improvement in US economic conditions have a material impact on our financial results or our continued throughout 2012.
Real GDP grew by 2.2% reputation and the sustainability of our long-term and consumer spending growth remained moderate.
business model, and which may form and crystallise Threats to economic growth remained, primarily within a one-year horizon.
We consider an with the uncertainty in the housing market and emerging risk to be one which has large uncertain elevated unemployment levels, although both of outcomes that may form beyond a one-year horizon them demonstrated modest improvements during the which, if they were to crystallise, could have a year.
material effect on our long-term strategy.
Our top and emerging risk framework enables us to focus We remained focused on managing the run-off on current and forward looking aspects of our risk of balances in our HSBC Finance portfolio and exposures and ensure our risk profile remains in line completed the sales of our US Card and Retail with our risk appetite and that our appetite remains Services business and 195 retail branches principally appropriate.
Our current top and emerging risks are in upstate New York in 2012.
Total lending as follows: balances, including loans held for sale, within HSBC 130 Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk in 2012.
Even without a eurozone break-up, the currency will remain vulnerable to market Emerging market slowdown.
Banks in some countries remain very fragile and the rest of the European banking industry Macroeconomic risks within developed could be affected through its exposure to the weakest economies.
Banks are therefore expected to continue Increased geopolitical risk in certain to deleverage.
In the current context of very low regions.
growth due to austerity measures, this could further aggravate the economic crisis and could push Emerging market slowdown European countries into a vicious circle of economic crisis and sovereign difficulties.
Although our World growth is slowing as demand in mature exposure to the peripheral eurozone countries is economies is subdued and credit availability and relatively limited, we are exposed to counterparties investment activity remain constrained.
A number in the core European countries which could be of mature economies are implementing austerity affected by any sovereign or currency crisis.
Our measures in order to reduce their deficits and public eurozone exposures are described in more detail on debt.
This is expected to help resolve the sovereign page 192. and banking crisis in the medium term but, in the short term, it is limiting growth, leaving labour Potential impact on HSBC markets weak and thereby making fiscal consolidation a bigger challenge.
This is affecting We could incur significant losses stemming the rest of the world through lower trade, reduced from the exit of one or more countries from international financing as banks are deleveraging, the eurozone and the redenomination of their and the potential disruption to capital flows.
addition, it makes emerging countries more Our exposures to European banks may come vulnerable to a slowdown in mature economies.
under stress, heightening the potential for credit and market risk losses, if the sovereign debt and Potential impact on HSBC banking system crisis in the region increases the Trade and capital flows may contract as a result need to recapitalise parts of the sector.
of lower world production, banks deleveraging, In the event of contagion from stress in the the introduction of protectionist measures in peripheral eurozone sovereign and financial certain markets or the emergence of geopolitical sectors, our ability to borrow from other risks, which in turn might curtail profitability.
financial institutions or to engage in funding A prolonged period of low interest rates due transactions may be adversely affected by to policy actions taken to address the economic market dislocation and tightening liquidity.
crisis in mature economies will constrain A sovereign default without co-ordinated through spread compression and low returns intervention to protect the rest of the eurozone on assets the interest income we earn from could trigger banking defaults in companies investing our excess deposits.
with which we do business and have a knock-on During 2012, we continued to reduce our effect on the global banking system.
We have sovereign and financial institution counterparty actively managed the risk of sovereign defaults credit positions in peripheral eurozone during 2012 by reducing exposures and other countries.
In addition, we actively sought to measures.
identify and reduce exposures to those In seeking to manage and mitigate these risks, counterparties domiciled in core European we have prepared and tested detailed operational countries that had exposures to sovereigns contingency plans to deal with such a scenario.
and or banks in peripheral eurozone countries of However, such plans may not be adequate or sufficient size to threaten their ongoing viability may not prove effective.
in the event of an unfavourable conclusion to the current situation.
Increased geopolitical risk in certain regions Macroeconomic risks within developed Weak global economic growth is exacerbating the economies risk of protectionism and some countries may impose restrictions on trade or on capital flows to There is still some risk of one or more countries protect their domestic economies.
leaving the euro, although the situation improved 131 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Top and emerging risks In Egypt, the political process remains in Regulatory developments affecting our transition with a continuing risk of instability.
In business model and Group profitability addition, the fighting in Syria may disrupt global Several regulatory changes are likely to affect our international relations, with tensions between Israel activities, both of the Group as a whole and of some and Iran adding to the risks in the region.
or all of our principal subsidiaries.
These changes include i the introduction of Basel III measures in Potential impact on HSBC the EU through CRD IV and uncertainty on both the Our results are subject to the risk of loss from timing and final form of implementation given that unfavourable political developments, currency certain areas, such as, the operation of capital buffers fluctuations, social instability and changes in have yet to be finalised and the technical guidance government policies on matters such as from the European Banking Authority EBA expropriation, authorisations, international across numerous areas has yet to be published, ii a ownership, interest-rate caps, foreign exchange new regulatory structure within the UK comprising transferability and tax in the jurisdictions in the Financial Policy Committee FPC, Prudential which we operate.
Actual conflict could bring Regulatory Authority PRA and Financial about loss of life among our staff and physical Conduct Authority FCA and, in particular, the damage to our assets.
effects of the ability of the FPC to seek additional capital for lending to sectors perceived as higher We have increased our monitoring of the risk, iii the designation of the Group by the geopolitical and economic outlook, in particular Financial Stability Board as a global systemically in countries where we have material exposures important bank: iv proposed legislation in the UK and a physical presence.
Our internal credit risk to give effect to the recommendations of the ICB in rating of sovereign counterparties takes these relation to ring-fencing of the UK retail banking factors into account and drives our appetite for from wholesale banking activities, the structural conducting business in those countries.
Where separation of other activities envisaged in legislative necessary, we adjust our country limits and proposals in the US including the Volcker Rule exposures to reflect our appetite and mitigate proposed under the Dodd-Frank Act and in France these risks as appropriate.
and, in the EU, considerations following the Liikanen Group recommendations: v changes in Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks the regime for the operation of capital markets with to our business model increasing standardisation, central clearing, reporting and margin requirements: vi requirements flowing Regulatory developments affecting our from arrangements for the recovery and resolution of business model and Group profitability.
the Group and its main operating entities: and v Regulatory investigations, fines, changing standards for the conduct of business.
sanctions and requirements relating to There is also continued risk of further changes to conduct of business and financial crime regulation relating to remuneration and other taxes.
negatively affecting our results and brand.
Potential impact on HSBC Dispute risk.
Proposed changes relating to capital and liquidity requirements, remuneration and or Financial service providers face increasingly taxes could increase the Groups cost of doing stringent and costly regulatory and supervisory business, reducing future profitability.
requirements, particularly in the areas of capital Proposed changes in and the implementation of and liquidity management, conduct of business, regulations for derivatives and central operational structures and the integrity of financial counterparties, the ICB ring-fencing proposals, services delivery.
Increased government intervention recovery and resolution plans, the Volcker Rule and control over financial institutions, together with and the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act measures to reduce systemic risk, may significantly FATCA may affect the manner in which we alter the competitive landscape.
These measures may conduct our activities and structure ourselves, be introduced as formal requirements in a suprawith the potential both to increase the costs of equivalent manner and to differing timetables across doing business and curtail the types of business regulatory regimes.
we can carry out, with the risk of decreased profitability as a result.
Due to the fact that the development and implementation of many of 132 these various regulations are in their early Bank USA is not in compliance with the stages, it is not possible to estimate the effect, requirements which provide that a national bank and if any, on our operations.
each depository institution affiliate of the national bank must be both well capitalised and well We are closely engaged with the governments managed in order to own or control a financial and regulators in the countries in which we operate subsidiary.
As a result, HSBC Bank USA and its to help ensure that the new requirements are properly parent holding companies, including HSBC, no considered and can be implemented in an effective longer meet the qualification requirements for manner.
We are also ensuring that our capital and financial holding company status, and may not liquidity plans take into account the potential effects engage in any new types of financial activities of the changes.
Capital allocation and liquidity without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve management disciplines have been expanded to Board.
In addition, HSBC Bank USA may not incorporate future increased capital and liquidity directly or indirectly acquire control of, or hold an requirements and drive appropriate risk management interest in, any new financial subsidiary, nor and mitigating actions.
commence a new activity in its existing financial subsidiary, unless it receives prior approval from the Regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions OCC.
and requirements relating to conduct of business and financial crime negatively In the UK, the FSA has continued to increase its affecting our results and brand focus on conduct risk including attention to sales processes and incentives, product and investment Financial service providers are at risk of regulatory suitability and conduct of business concerns more sanctions or fines related to conduct of business generally.
These measures are concerned principally, and financial crime.
The incidence of regulatory but not exclusively, with the conduct of business proceedings and other adversarial proceedings with retail customers and in conjunction with this against financial service firms is increasing.
focus, the UK regulators are making increasing use In December 2012, HSBC reached agreement of existing and new powers of intervention and with US authorities in relation to investigations enforcement, including powers to consider past regarding inadequate compliance with anti-money business undertaken and implement customer laundering, the US Bank Secrecy Act and sanctions compensation and redress schemes or other, law.
This includes a DPA with the US Department of potentially significant remedial work.
We also reached agreement to the UK and other regulators increasingly take actions achieve a resolution with all other US government in response to customer complaints either specific to an institution or more generally in relation to a agencies that have investigated our past conduct related to these issues, and finalised an undertaking particular product.
We have seen recent examples of with the FSA to comply with certain forwardthis approach in the context of the mis-selling of looking obligations with respect to anti-money payment protection insurance and of interest rate laundering and sanctions requirements over a fivederivative products to SMEs.
Under these agreements, we made The Group also continues to be subject to a payments totalling US$1,921m to US authorities number of other regulatory proceedings, including and undertook to continue cooperating fully with US investigations and reviews by various regulators and and UK regulatory and law enforcement authorities competition and enforcement authorities around the and take further action to strengthen our compliance world, including in the UK, the US, Canada, the policies and procedures.
Over the five-year term EU, Switzerland and Asia, who are conducting of the agreement with the DoJ and the FSA, an investigations and reviews related to certain past independent monitor who will, for FSA purposes, submissions made by panel banks and the process be a skilled person under section 166 of the for making submissions in connection with the Financial Services and Markets Act FSMA will setting of London interbank offered rates Libor, evaluate and assess our progress in fully European interbank offered rates Euribor and implementing these and other measures it other benchmark interest and foreign exchange rates.
recommends and will produce regular assessments of As certain HSBC entities are members of such the effectiveness of our Compliance function.
panels, HSBC and or its subsidiaries have been the As reflected in the agreement entered into with subject of regulatory demands for information and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency are cooperating with those investigations and OCC in December 2012 the GLBA reviews.
In addition, HSBC and other panel banks Agreement, the OCC has determined that HSBC have been named as defendants in private lawsuits 133 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Top and emerging risks filed in the US with respect to the setting of Libor, Steps to address many of the requirements of including putative class action lawsuits which have the DPA and the GLBA Agreement have either been consolidated before the US District Court for already been taken or are under way.
These the Southern District of New York.
The complaints include simplifying the Groups control structure, in those actions assert claims against HSBC and strengthening the governance structure with new other panel banks under various US laws including leadership appointments, revising key policies and US antitrust laws, the US Commodities Exchange establishing bodies to implement single global Act, and state law.
standards shaped by the highest or most effective standards available in any location where the Group Potential impact on HSBC operates, as well as substantially increasing spending and staffing in the anti-money laundering and It is difficult to predict the outcome of the regulatory compliance areas in the past few years.
regulatory proceedings involving our There can be no assurance that these steps will be businesses.
Unfavourable outcomes may have effective or that HSBC will not have to take a material adverse effect on our reputation, additional remedial measures in the future to comply brand and results, including loss of business with the terms of the DPA or the GLBA Agreement.
In relation to the DPA, the Group has committed Dispute risk to take or continue to adhere to a number of The current economic environment has increased the remedial measures.
Breach of the DPA at any Groups exposure to actual and potential litigation.
time during its term may allow the DoJ or the Further details are provided in Note 43 on the New York County District Attorneys Office to Financial Statements.
prosecute HSBC in relation to the matters which are the subject of the DPA.
Potential impact on HSBC In relation to the GLBA Agreement, if all of our Dispute risk gives rise to potential financial loss affiliate depositary institutions are not in and significant reputational damage which could compliance with these requirements within the adversely affect customer and investor confidence.
time periods specified in the GLBA Agreement, HSBC could be required either to divest HSBC Risks related to our business operations, Bank USA or to divest or terminate any governance and internal control systems financial activities conducted in reliance on the Gramm-Leach Bliley Act GLB Act.
Similar Regulatory commitments and consent consequences could result for subsidiaries of orders including under the Deferred HSBC Bank USA that engage in financial Prosecution Agreements.
activities in reliance on expanded powers Challenges to achieving our strategy in provided for in the GLB Act.
divestiture or termination of activities would have an adverse material effect on the Internet crime and fraud.
consolidated results and operation of HSBC.
Level of change creating operational The UK and other regulators may identify future complexity and heightened operational industry-wide mis-selling or other issues that risk.
This may lead from Information security risk.
time to time to: i significant direct costs or liabilities including in relation to mis-selling : Model risk.
and ii changes in the practices of such businesses which benefit customers at a cost Regulatory commitments and consent to shareholders.
Further, decisions taken in the orders including under the Deferred UK by the Financial Ombudsman Service in Prosecution Agreements relation to customer complaints or any overseas There is a risk that we fail to meet our deadlines or equivalent that has jurisdiction could, if applied we are judged to have material gaps in our plans or to a wider class or grouping of customers, have implementation compared with the requirements of a material adverse effect on the operating the DPAs and other orders.
Further details of this results, financial condition and prospects of risk are provided on page 128. the Group.
134 Potential impact on HSBC rely on external suppliers or vendors to provide services to us and our customers.
If, during the term of the DPA, HSBC is determined to have breached the DPA, the DoJ or the New York We have increased our defences through County District Attorneys Office may prosecute enhanced monitoring and have implemented HSBC in relation to the matters which are the additional controls, such as two-factor subject of the DPA.
The FSA may, in similar vein, authentication, to reduce the possibility of take enforcement action against the Group as a result losses from fraud.
We continually assess these of a breach of the DPA or of our related threats as they evolve and adapt our controls to undertakings to the FSA.
Challenges to achieving our strategy in a Level of change creating operational downturn complexity and heightened operational risk The external environment remains challenging There are many drivers of change affecting HSBC and the structural changes which the financial and the banking industry, including new banking sector is going through are creating obstacles to regulations, the increased globalisation of economic the achievement of strategic objectives.
This, and business activities, new products and delivery combined with the prolonged global economic channels and organisational change.
slowdown, could affect the achievement of our Operational complexity has the potential to strategic targets for the Group as a whole and our heighten all types of operational risk arising from global businesses.
These risks include process errors, systems failures and fraud.
Complexity can also Potential impact on HSBC increase operational costs.
The slowdown may put pressure on our ability The implementation of our strategy to simplify to earn returns on equity in excess of our cost our business, which involves withdrawing from of equity while operating within the overall certain markets, presents disposal risks which parameters of our risk appetite.
Implementing Through our strategic initiatives, which have organisational changes to support the Groups heightened the focus on capital allocation and strategy also requires close management oversight.
cost efficiency, we are actively seeking to manage and mitigate this risk.
Potential impact on HSBC The implementation of our strategy has involved Internet crime and fraud the re-organisation and clarification of With the ever-growing acceptance of and demand management accountabilities.
There is for internet and mobile services by customers, HSBC consequently a risk that issues are missed during is increasingly exposed to fraudulent and criminal the transition.
This change activity is being activities via these channels.
Internet crime could monitored through a comprehensive review result in financial loss and or customer data and programme and robust governance sensitive information being compromised.
with internet fraud, the overall threat of external Critical systems failure and a prolonged loss of fraud may increase during adverse economic service availability could cause serious damage conditions, particularly in retail and commercial to our ability to serve our customers, breach banking.
regulations under which we operate and cause We also face the risk of breakdowns in long-term damage to our business, reputation processes or procedures and systems failure or and brand.
Systems and controls could be unavailability, and our business is subject to degraded as a result of organisational disruption from events that are wholly or partially effectiveness initiatives unless there is strong beyond our control, such as internet crime and acts governance and an oversight framework to of terrorism.
monitor the risk and control environment.
We seek to ensure that our critical systems Potential impact on HSBC infrastructure, including IT services, essential buildings, offshore processes and key vendors, Internet crime and fraud may give rise to losses is constantly monitored and properly resourced in service to customers and or economic loss to to mitigate against systems failures.
The same threats apply equally when we 135 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Top and emerging risks Credit risk We pro-actively review relevant external events Information security risk and assess the impact they may have on our The security of our information and technology systems.
Within HSBC, we have a strong focus infrastructure is crucial for maintaining our banking on industry best practices.
We rigorously test applications and processes while protecting our and review all planned updates to our systems customers and the HSBC brand.
All changes are risk-assessed, and appropriate mitigating controls are required for Potential impact on HSBC any planned changes classified as high risk.
During periods of heightened risk, comprehensive These risks give rise to potential financial loss change embargoes are imposed to minimise the and reputational damage which could adversely risk of customers being affected.
Following the affect customer and investor confidence.
Loss systems outage at a major UK bank in 2012, we of customer data would also trigger regulatory assessed our own exposure to similar risks and breaches which could result in fines and implemented appropriate steps in mitigation.
We also assessed the systems scheduling tools We have invested significantly in addressing used in the Group.
There are controls in place to this risk through increased training to raise staff manage inter-dependencies, report exceptions awareness of the requirements and enhanced and alert file data corruption.
These additional multi-layered controls protecting our controls are intended to ensure that the effect of information and technical infrastructure.
any similar product failure at HSBC would be limited.
In addition, a continuity test of a similar Model risk problem within our major datacentres in the UK and Hong Kong was conducted in the second More stringent regulatory requirements governing half of 2012. the development of parameters applied to and controls around models used for measuring risk can The potential effects of disposal risks include give rise to changes, including increases in capital regulatory breaches, industrial action, loss of requirements.
Furthermore, the changing external key personnel and interruption to systems and economic and legislative environment and changes processes during business transformation, and in customer behaviour can lead to the assumptions they can have both financial and reputational we have made in our models becoming invalid.
Steps taken to manage these risks proactively include maintaining a close dialogue Potential impact on HSBC with regulators and customers and involving These model risks can result in a potentially HR, legal, compliance and other functional experts.
Some disposals also involve increased and volatile capital requirement.
Transitional Service Agreements where there We continue to address these risks through are ongoing risks, which are subject to close enhanced model development, independent management oversight.
review and model oversight to ensure our models remain fit for purpose.
159 Gross loan portfolio of HSBC Finance real estate secured balances 161 Movement in HSBC Finance renegotiated real estate balances.............. 161 Number of renegotiated real estate secured accounts remaining in HSBC Finances portfolio 161 Corporate and commercial forbearance................ 161 Impaired loans. 162 Movement in impaired loans by geographical region.......... 163 Collateral........ 163 Collateral and other credit enhancements held..... 163 Residential mortgage loans. 164 Commercial real estate loans and advances by collateral... 165 Other corporate, commercial and financial non-bank loans and advances by collateral.......... 166 Loans and advances to banks including loan commitments by collateral....... 167 Collateral and other credit enhancements obtained 168 Carrying amount.... 168 Impairment of loans and advances.................... 168 258 Impairment allowances on loans and advances to customers by geographical region......... 169 Net loan impairment charge to the income statement by geographical region.... 170 2012 compared with 2011.......... 170 Further analysis of impairment... 172 Movement in impairment allowances by industry sector..... 174 Movement in impairment allowances on loans and advances to customers and banks.......... 175 137 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Summary in 2012 1 Page App Tables Page Impairment of loans and advances Individually and collectively assessed impairment charge Further analysis of impairment continued to the income statement by industry sector 175 Net loan impairment charge to the income statement.......... 176 Charge for impairment losses as a percentage of gross loans and advances to customers by geographical region 176 Charge for impairment losses as a percentage of average gross loans and advances to customers. 177 Reconciliation of reported and constant currency changes by geographical region... 177 Impairment assessment............... 258 Concentration of exposure....... 178 259 Trading assets......... 178 Gross loans and advances by industry sector. 179 Gross loans and advances to customers by industry sector and by geographical region................... 181 Loans and advances to banks by geographical region......... 182 Gross loans and advances to customers by country............. 182 HSBC Holdings.. 184 HSBC Holdings maximum exposure to credit risk............ 184 Securitisation exposures and other structured products...... 184 259 Business model 185 Exposure in 2012. 185 Overall exposure of HSBC.. 185 Movement in the available-for-sale reserve.. 186 Securities investment conduits... 186 Available-for-sale reserve and economic first loss protection in SICs, excluding Solitaire.. 186 Impairment methodologies......... 186 260 Analysis of exposures and significant Carrying amount of HSBCs consolidated holdings of ABSs, movements... 186 and direct lending held at fair value through profit or loss 187 Transactions with monoline insurers 189 HSBCs exposure to derivative transactions entered into directly with monoline insurers............. 189 Leveraged finance transactions... 190 HSBCs exposure to leveraged finance transactions............ 190 Representations and warranties related to 191 mortgage sales and securitisation activities.. 1 Appendix to Risk - risk policies and practices.
138 Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a represented 30% of total gross loans and advances, customer or counterparty fails to meet an mainly in the UK, the US and Hong Kong.
It arises personal lending including second lien residential principally from direct lending, trade finance mortgages made up the bulk of the remaining and leasing business, but also from certain exposure.
other products such as guarantees and credit Loans and advances excluding held for sale: total derivatives and from holding assets in the exposure, impairment allowances and charges form of debt securities.
Unaudited 2012 2011 There were no material changes to our policies and US$bn US$bn practices for the management of credit risk in 2012.
At 31 December Total gross loans and advances A 1,166.3 1,139.1 Impairment allowances................... 16.2 17.6 A summary of our current policies and as a percentage of A................ 1.39% 1.55% practices regarding credit risk is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 252.
Loans and advances net of impairment allowances.................. 1,150.2 1,121.5 Summary of credit risk in 2012 Year ended 31 December Unaudited Impairment charges 8.2 11.5 Maximum exposure to credit risk At 31 December The increase in corporate and commercial 2012 2011 lending stemmed mainly from Europe, due to a rise US$m US$m in overdrafts which did not meet accounting criteria Trading assets........ 367,177 309,449 for netting against corresponding current account Financial assets designated at balances.
The disposal of the Card and Off-balance sheet exposures.......... 624,462 694,228 Retail Services business in the US during the year financial guarantees and similar contracts.................... 44,993 39,324 did not contribute to the decline as the related loan and other credit-related balances had been transferred to Assets held for commitments 579,469 654,904 sale during 2011.
3,140,137 3,107,064 The increase in first lien residential mortgages reflected the success of marketing campaigns and In 2012, net loans and advances to customers competitive pricing in the UK, the continued strength continued to represent our most significant exposure of the property market in Hong Kong and distribution to credit risk, making up 32% of total credit network expansion in Rest of Asia-Pacific.
Other Within net loans and advances, loan impairment significant components of our credit exposures were allowances fell by US$1.4bn, driven by run-off in the financial investments at 13%, unchanged from 2011, CML portfolio and the reclassification of non-real trading assets at 12% 2011: 10% and derivatives at estate personal loan balances to Assets held for sale.
Loans and advances to banks fell as a proportion of the Groups credit Trading assets include debt securities exposure from 6% in 2011 to 5% in 2012.
Offprincipally government and government-related balance sheet assets contributed 20% of our total securities, reverse repo and stock borrowing credit exposure, mainly relating to loan and other balances.
Balances recovered in 2012 from the credit-related commitments 2011: 22%.
subdued levels seen at the end of 2011, when client activity declined due to the eurozone debt concerns Of our net loans and advances to customers, dominating the global economy.
corporate and commercial lending made up the largest proportion at 51% 2011: 49%, with Loans and advances to banks fell, driven by a significant exposures in Europe, Hong Kong and reduction in reverse repo balances, in part reflecting Rest of Asia-Pacific.
First lien residential mortgages the redeployment of liquidity in Europe to central 139 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Summary in 2012 banks, together with maturities and repayments in reduction in exposure in 2012 was largely driven by Hong Kong.
the sale of Card and Retail Services in the US.
For a more detailed analysis of our maximum exposure Loan and other credit-related commitments to credit risk, see page 144. declined from US$655bn to US$579bn.
Our personal lending balances increased from Colombia, Peru and Paraguay to Assets held for US$394bn at 31 December 2011 to US$415bn at sale in the second quarter of 2012, as well as lower 31 December 2012, compared with the end of 2011. balances in Brazil, where we continued to manage This was primarily due to growth in residential down our exposure to non-strategic portfolios.
mortgages in Europe, Hong Kong and Rest of AsiaImpairment allowances declined by 16%, Pacific.
In Europe, this was due to successful primarily in North America in the CML portfolio, marketing campaigns and competitive pricing in the reflecting the reclassification of non-real estate UK.
The growth in mortgage balances in Hong Kong personal loan balances to Assets held for sale and was driven by the low interest rate environment, and the continued run-off.
In Hong Kong and Rest of robust residential property market.
The latter was Asia-Pacific, impairment allowances remained at also a factor in Rest of Asia-Pacific, most notably in low levels throughout 2012.
In Europe, in other Singapore, mainland China, Australia and Malaysia.
personal lending, impairment allowances as a This growth in total personal lending balances was percentage of lending balances, declined from 2.4% partly offset by a decline in North America, in part to 1.9% as we focused our lending growth on higher due to the run-off of the CML portfolio and the quality assets.
reclassification of non-real estate personal loan For a more detailed analysis of our personal lending, see balances to Assets held for sale.
At 31 December 2012, our corporate and redeployed to central banks, together with maturities commercial lending balances were US$517bn.
The and repayments in Hong Kong and Rest of Asiaincrease of 8% compared with the end of 2011 was Pacific.
mainly in the international trade and services sector, Impairment allowances remained at low levels largely in Europe despite muted demand for credit, as a percentage of wholesale lending balances.
In and in Hong Kong, driven by growth in trade finance North America, impairment allowances as a volumes as we capitalised on trade and capital flows.
percentage of financial lending balances declined In the manufacturing sector in Europe, balances from 0.49% to 0.14% reflecting a few large writeincreased due to growth in the UK of overdraft offs in 2012.
Lending balances in this category balances and corresponding customer accounts remained broadly unchanged.
In Europe, impairment which did not, however, meet netting criteria under allowances declined from US$484m to US$358m accounting rules.
reflecting the disposal of a small number of Financial sector lending decreased from exposures.
US$267bn at 31 December 2011 to US$234bn For a more detailed analysis of our wholesale lending, at 31 December 2012.
This was an increase of 3%, mainly in the end of 2011.
North America accounted for the Europe and in Rest of Asia-Pacific.
largest volume of renegotiated loans which amounted to US$26bn or 62% of total renegotiated At 31 December 2012, US$19bn of gross loans loans at 31 December 2012 2011: US$28bn or and advances were classified as past due but not 62%, most of which were first lien residential impaired compared with US$20bn at the end of mortgages held by HSBC Finance.
The largest concentration of these balances renegotiated loans in North America, US$17bn were was in HSBC Finance.
The decline of 5% was presented as impaired at 31 December 2012 2011: mainly in North America due to the reclassification US$18bn.
Of total renegotiated loans, US$3.8bn of non-real estate personal loan balances to Assets were presented as past due but not impaired at held for sale, as well as the continued run-off of the 31 December 2012, down from US$4.9bn at 31 mortgage balances in the CML portfolio.
This was mainly in North America partly offset by an increase in Rest of Asia-Pacific in the CML portfolio due to the reclassification of in the personal and corporate and commercial non-real estate personal loan balances to Assets sectors.
held for sale as well as the continued run-off of the Gross loans and advances classified as impaired lending balances.
decreased by 7%, mainly in North America due to For a more detailed analysis of the credit quality of the continued run-off of the CML portfolio, as well financial instruments, see page 154. as the reclassification of non-real estate personal loan balances to Assets held for sale in our CML portfolio.
142 Impairment of loans and advances This was in part reduced by higher loan Unaudited impairment charges in Latin America.
In Brazil, delinquencies in RBWM and CMB increased, Loan impairment charges by geographical region reflecting lower economic growth in 2012.
In Rest US$m of Asia-Pacific, loan impairment charges increased 7,500 2012 2011 as a result of individually assessed impairments on a 6,000 single corporate exposure in Australia and a small 4,500 number of corporate exposures in other countries.
3,000 For a more detailed analysis of the impairment of loans 1,500 and advances, see page 154.
0 Europe Hong Kong Rest of MENA North Latin Assets held for sale Asia-Pacific America America During 2012, the growth in gross loans and advances Loan impairment charges by industry was affected by a reclassification of certain lending US$m balances to Assets held for sale.
Disclosures 6,000 2012 2011 relating to assets held for sale are provided in the 5,000 4,000 following credit risk management tables, primarily 3,000 where the disclosure is relevant to the measurement 2,000 of these financial assets: 1,000 0 Maximum exposure to credit risk page 146 : First lien Other Corporate Commercial Financial Distribution of financial instruments by credit residential personal commercial real estate mortgages lending quality page 155 : and Ageing analysis of days past due but not impaired gross financial instruments page 157.
Loan impairment charges decreased from US$12bn to US$8.2bn on a reported basis, a decline of 29% Although gross loans and advances and related compared with 2011.
On a constant currency basis, impairment allowances are reclassified from Loans they were 27% lower.
and advances to customers and Loans and advances to banks in the balance sheet, there is no The improvement in loan impairment charges equivalent income statement reclassification.
As a was most significant in RBWM in North America result, charges for loan impairment losses shown in due to the continued decline in the CML portfolio the credit risk disclosures include loan impairment that is in run-off and the sale of the Card and Retail charges relating to financial assets classified as Services business.
Loans and advances to customers and banks measured at amortised cost Audited At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Impairment Impairment allowances allowances Gross Gross loans and on loans and loans and on loans and advances advances advances advances US$m US$m US$m US$m Reported in Loans and advances to customers and banks......... 1,166,338 16,169 1,139,052 17,636 Reported in Assets held for sale 7,350 718 37,273 1,614 1,173,688 16,887 1,176,325 19,250 143 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Summary in 2012 Credit exposure The lending balances in Assets held for sale Maximum exposure to credit risk table page 146 at the end of 2012 included non-real estate personal The table presents our maximum exposure to credit risk from loan balances from our CML portfolio in North balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments before taking account of any collateral held or other credit America and balances associated with the disposal enhancements unless such enhancements meet accounting of our operations in Colombia, Paraguay and Peru, offsetting requirements.
For financial assets recognised on net of impairment allowances.
The lending balances the balance sheet, the maximum exposure to credit risk equals their carrying amount: for financial guarantees and similar and impairment allowances reported in Assets held contracts granted, it is the maximum amount that we would for sale at the end of 2011 included the US Card have to pay if the guarantees were called upon.
For loan and Retail Services portfolio which was disposed commitments and other credit-related commitments that are irrevocable over the life of the respective facilities, it is of in 2012.
As the latter was reclassified in 2011, generally the full amount of the committed facilities.
the disposal had no impact on the year on year movement in loans and advances or impairment Loans and advances allowances in 2012.
Our maximum exposure to loans and advances Lending balances held for sale continue to be carried at amortised cost increased by 3% compared measured at amortised cost less allowances for with the end of 2011.
The rise primarily reflected impairment: such carrying amounts may differ from growth in residential mortgage balances in the UK fair value.
Any difference between the carrying following the continued focus on sales and amount and the sales price, which is the fair value competitive pricing, the ongoing strength of the at the time of sale, would be recognised as a gain or property market in Hong Kong and in Rest of Asialoss.
See Note 16 on the Financial Statements for the Pacific, coupled with expansion of our distribution carrying amount and the fair value at 31 December network in the latter.
Term and trade-related lending 2012 of loans and advances to banks and customers rose in Europe despite muted demand for credit in classified as held for sale.
the UK and in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, The table below analyses the amount of loan reflecting our focus on corporate and commercial impairment charges and other credit risk provisions customers that trade internationally.
Lending also LICs arising from assets held for sale.
They rose in Europe as overdraft balances that did not primarily related to the non-real estate personal loans meet netting criteria increased in the UK, with a reclassified to held-for-sale in the CML portfolio, as corresponding rise in related customer accounts.
In well as to the US Card and Retail Services business North America corporate and commercial lending classified as such at 31 December 2011 which was increased, reflecting our focus on target segments in sold in 2012. the US.
These increases were partly offset by a decline Loan impairment charges and other credit risk in North America from repayments and write-offs provisions Unaudited on the run-off CML portfolio.
In addition, during 2012 the year we reclassified US$3.7bn of non real estate US$m personal loan balances in the CML portfolio and LICs arising from: US$2.2bn of lending balances associated with disposals and assets held for sale........ 766 assets not held for sale 7,545 certain operations in Latin America, net of impairment allowances, to Assets held for sale.
8,311 Reverse repo balances also declined, mainly in Europe.
Credit exposure Our exposure to loans and advances to banks Maximum exposure to credit risk Audited decreased in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific due to maturities and repayments, and in Europe as In 2012, our exposure to credit risk remained well reverse repo balances declined due, in part, to the diversified across asset classes.
We increased our redeployment of liquidity to central banks.
Balances overall exposure to credit risk in 2012, largely from also decreased in Latin America.
increases in trading assets in Europe and North America, driven by higher client trading activity.
The loans and advances offset adjustment in the Loans and advances to customers also rose, mainly table on page 146 primarily relates to customer loans in the UK, Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific.
and deposits and balances arising from repo and reverse repo transactions where there is a legally enforceable right of offset in the event of counterparty default and where, as a result, there is a net exposure for credit risk management purposes.
144 However, as there is no intention to settle these This was partly offset by a decrease in the fair value balances on a net basis under normal circumstances, of credit derivative contracts, primarily in Europe they do not qualify for net presentation for and the US, as credit spreads tightened.
of all trades are exchange traded or otherwise settled centrally, the majority of these being interest rate Financial investments derivatives.
Maximum exposure to financial investments The derivative offset amount in the table on increased by 6% compared with the end of 2011. page 146 relates to exposures where the counterparty This largely reflected the deployment of surplus has an offsetting derivative exposure with HSBC, a liquidity into available-for-sale investments, notably master netting arrangement is in place and the credit treasury bills in Hong Kong and highly rated debt risk exposure is managed on a net basis, or the securities in North America.
position is specifically collateralised, normally in the form of cash.
At 31 December 2012, the total Trading assets amount of such offsets was US$311bn 2011: US$306bn, of which US$270bn 2011: US$272bn In 2012, our exposure to trading assets rose by 19% were offsets under a master netting arrangement, reflecting increased client activity compared with the US$39bn 2011: US$33bn was collateral received subdued levels seen in 2011.
This resulted in higher in cash and US$1.8bn 2011: US$0.7bn was other reverse repo balances in Europe and North America, collateral.
These amounts do not qualify for net and higher securities borrowing balances in Rest of presentation for accounting purposes as settlement Asia-Pacific and Europe, which vary in line with is not intended to be made on a net basis.
Other credit risk mitigants Cash and balances at central banks While not disclosed as offset in the maximum The Groups maximum exposure to cash and exposure to credit risk table on page 146, other balances at central banks increased by 9%, driven arrangements including short positions in securities by redeployment of excess liquidity in Europe and and financial assets held as part of linked insurance Hong Kong to central banks.
This reflected the investment contracts where the risk is predominately Groups risk appetite coupled with growth in borne by the policyholder, reduce our maximum customer deposit balances.
In North America, we exposure to credit risk.
In addition, we hold reduced balances at the US Federal Reserve as collateral in respect of individual loans and advances surplus liquidity was redeployed into highly-rated see page 163. financial investments.
Loans and other credit-related commitments Derivatives Loans and other credit-related commitments remain Our maximum exposure to derivatives increased well diversified across geographical regions.
For slightly, primarily reflecting a rise in the fair value more details, see page 146. of interest rate derivative contracts in Europe and, to a lesser extent, in the US due to downward movements in yield curves in major currencies.
In commitments is set out in Note 40 on the Financial the table above, Asia includes amounts in Hong Statements.
The reduction in the total amount from Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and the Middle East and 2011 to 2012 is mainly due to the disposal of the US North Africa.
146 Personal lending Personal lending includes advances to customers Unaudited for asset purchases, such as residential property, where the loans are typically secured by the assets We provide a broad range of secured and unsecured being acquired.
We also offer loans secured on personal lending products to meet customer needs.
existing assets, such as first and second liens on Given the diverse nature of the markets in which residential property: unsecured lending products we operate, the range is not standard across such as overdrafts, credit cards and payroll loans: all countries but is tailored to meet the demands and debt consolidation loans which may be secured of individual markets.
147 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Personal lending In 2012, the credit quality of the majority of At 31 December 2012, total personal lending our personal lending portfolios improved, reflecting increased by US$13.7bn reflecting growth in first the continued low levels of interest rates and strong lien residential mortgages, notably in the UK, Hong customer repayments in many markets, as well Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific.
Balances in the as actions taken in previous years to tighten our UK increased following the success of marketing lending criteria and focus on higher quality and campaigns and competitive pricing.
The rise in Hong secured assets.
Kong reflected the low interest rate environment and active property market, whereas growth in the In the US, the origination of new personal Rest of Asia-Pacific, mainly in Singapore, mainland lending was limited as we have discontinued all China, Australia and Malaysia, reflected the new consumer finance real estate lending following continued strength of property markets and the closure of the consumer finance distribution expansion of our distribution network.
Customer lending balances across HSBC Finance portfolios continued to decline and, in May Total personal lending balances in the US at and August 2012 respectively, we completed the 31 December 2012 were US$57bn, a decrease of sales of the Card and Retail Services business and 15% compared with the end of 2011.
The decline non-strategic branches, in the US.
We continue to reflected the run-off of our CML portfolio, which explore options to accelerate the liquidation of the also fell due to the reclassification of non-real estate CML portfolio and, to this effect, reclassified certain personal loan balances to Assets held for sale.
non-real estate personal loan balances, net of In Latin America, personal lending decreased by impairment allowances, to Assets held for sale 4% compared with 31 December 2011, following a as we actively marketed this portfolio.
reduction in other personal lending in Brazil, where The commentary that follows is on a constant we managed down our exposure to non-strategic currency basis.
portfolios and focused on higher quality lending including first lien residential mortgage lending.
At 31 December 2012, the Groups exposure This complemented a range of corrective actions, to personal lending was US$415bn, 3% higher than including improving our collections capabilities, at 31 December 2011, reflecting a rise in first lien reducing third party originations and improving residential mortgage lending, partly offset credit scoring models.
These actions were by a reduction in other personal lending.
Loan implemented to limit our exposure to further market impairment allowances on our personal lending weakness following a rise in delinquency in 2011 portfolios were US$8.2bn compared with US$9.8bn which continued in 2012.
We also reclassified at the end of 2011, while the ratio of loan lending balances in Colombia, Paraguay and Peru to impairment allowances to total personal lending Assets held for sale.
This decline reflected Mortgage lending volume and performance-based improvements, Unaudited predominantly in our US portfolios, due to the We offer a wide range of mortgage products continued run-off of the CML portfolio as well as designed to meet customer needs, including capital the reclassification of impairment allowances on repayment, interest-only, affordability and offset non-real estate personal loan balances to Assets mortgages.
We also continued to focus on growing our lower-risk residential mortgage Group credit policy prescribes the range of portfolios in the UK, Hong Kong and rest of Asiaacceptable residential property loan-to-value Pacific, where our loss experience and impairment LTV thresholds with the maximum upper limit allowance requirements are typically lower.
for new loans set between 75% and 95%.
Specific LTV thresholds and debt-to-income ratios are Loan impairment charges in our personal managed at regional and country levels and, lending portfolios were US$5.4bn in 2012, although the parameters must comply with Group US$3.8bn or 41% lower than in 2011 and policy, strategy and risk appetite, they differ in the representing 66% of the overall Groups LICs.
various locations in which we operate to reflect the The decline was predominantly in the US reflecting local economic and housing market conditions, the reduction in balances in the CML portfolio and regulations, portfolio performance, pricing and other the sale of the Card and Retail Services business in product features.
148 The commentary that follows is on a constant mortgages, was US$309bn, 5% higher than at the currency basis.
Our most significant concentrations of mortgage lending were in the UK, the US and At 31 December 2012, total mortgage lending, Hong Kong.
Mortgage lending in the UK was US$128bn at The credit quality of our UK mortgage portfolio 31 December 2012, representing the Groups largest remained high, reflecting actions taken in previous concentration of mortgage exposure, an increase of years which included restrictions on lending to 9% compared with the end of 2011. purchase residential property for the purpose of 149 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Personal lending rental.
Almost all lending was originated through our Mortgage lending in the US Unaudited own sales force, and the self-certification of income was not permitted.
The majority of our mortgage In the US, total mortgage lending balances were US$ lending in the UK was to existing customers who 55bn at 31 December 2012, a decline of held current or savings accounts with HSBC.
The 7% compared with the end of 2011.
Overall, US average LTV ratio for new business was 59% during mortgage lending represented 13% of our total December 2012, while loan impairment charges and personal lending and 18% of our total mortgage delinquency levels in our UK mortgage book lending, compared with 15% and 20%, respectively, remained stable, aided by the continued low levels at 31 December 2011. of interest rates.
HSBC Finance Interest-only mortgage products in the UK totalled US$50bn or 39% of the UK mortgage At 31 December 2012, mortgage lending balances portfolio, US$23bn or 47% of which related to the at HSBC Finance were US$39bn, a decline of 12% first direct offset product where customers may compared with the end of 2011 due to the continued adopt a capital repayment profile or make significant run-off of the CML portfolio.
regular or one-off repayments, but are able to redraw Our CML portfolio continued to be affected additional funds within the agreed limit.
by high unemployment levels and a housing market Our affordability underwriting criteria for that is slow to recover.
In addition, our loan interest-only products are consistent with those modification programmes, which are designed for equivalent capital repayment mortgages, and to manage customer relationships, improve cash such products are typically originated at more collections and avoid foreclosure, contributed to conservative LTV ratios.
We monitor specific risk slower loan repayment rates.
characteristics within the interest-only portfolio, 6 such as current LTV ratio, age at expiry, current HSBC Finance US CML residential mortgages income levels and credit bureau scores.
There Unaudited At 31 December are currently no concentrations of higher risk 2012 2011 characteristics that cause the interest-only portfolio US$m US$m to be considered as carrying unduly high credit Residential mortgages risk, and delinquency and impairment charges First lien 35,092 39,608 remain low, demonstrating similar performance Second lien 3,651 4,520 characteristics to our capital repayment products.
Total A 38,743 44,128 We run contact programmes to ensure we build an Impairment allowances................ 4,480 5,088 informed relationship with customers whereby they as a percentage of A........... 11.6% 11.5% receive the appropriate support in meeting the final repayment of principal and understand the For footnote, see page 249. alternative repayment options available.
HSBC Bank USA In Hong Kong, mortgage lending was US$52bn, In HSBC Bank USA, we continued to sell a an increase of 11% compared with the end of 2011. substantial portion of new originations to the The quality of our mortgage book was strong with secondary market as a means of managing our loan impairment charges at very low levels.
The interest rate risk and improving structural liquidity.
average LTV ratio on new mortgage lending was Mortgage lending balances of US$17bn at 31 48% and the average LTV for the overall portfolio December 2012 remained broadly unchanged was 32%.
compared with the end of 2011, despite an increase in first lien residential mortgages, driven by Mortgage balances in Rest of Asia-Pacific grew increased origination to our Premier customers by 10% to US$37bn, mainly in Singapore, mainland including higher balances of adjustable-rate China, Australia and Malaysia reflecting the mortgages.
This was offset by a decline in other continued strength of property markets and mortgages.
expansion of our distribution networks.
150 Credit quality of personal lending in the US balances were US$477m at 31 December 2012 Unaudited compared with US$674m at 31 December 2011.
For further information on renegotiated loans in The majority of second lien residential North America, see page 158. mortgages are taken up by customers who hold a first lien mortgage issued by a third party.
Second Mortgage lending lien residential mortgage loans have a risk profile characterised by higher LTV ratios, because in In our CML first lien residential mortgage portfolio, the majority of cases the loans were taken out two months and over delinquent balances were to complete the refinancing of properties.
Loss US$7.6bn at 31 December 2012, compared with severity on default of second lien loans has typically US$7.9bn at 31 December 2011.
The decline mainly approached 100% of the amount outstanding, as any reflected the continued run-off of balances and the equity in the property is consumed through the improvement in economic conditions.
The reduction repayment of the first lien loan.
was partly offset by the increase in late stage delinquency driven by the suspension of foreclosure Impairment allowances for these loans are activities which began in late 2010.
In our HSBC determined by applying a roll-rate migration analysis Bank USA portfolio, two months and over which captures the propensity of these loans to delinquent balances increased by 8% to US$1.4bn default based on past experience.
Once we believe due also to foreclosure delays.
that a second lien residential mortgage loan is likely to progress to write-off, the loss severity assumed in In the US, second lien mortgage balances establishing our impairment allowance is close to declined by 16% to US$6.0bn at 31 December 2012, 100% in the CML portfolios, and more than 80% in representing 11% of the overall US mortgage HSBC Bank USA.
In late 2010, we suspended all new foreclosure properties added to the inventory will increase proceedings and, in early 2011, ceased foreclosures and this will continue to be affected by ongoing where judgement had yet to be entered while we refinements to our processes and extended enhanced our processes.
We have now resumed the foreclosure timelines.
processing of suspended foreclosures in substantially The average total loss on foreclosed properties all states, although there remains a significant and the average loss on sale of foreclosed properties backlog which will take time to resolve.
This reflected a severities may be increased by any additional delays greater proportion of properties sold where we in the processing of foreclosures.
Typically, losses on a The number of foreclosed properties at HSBC deed-in-lieu are lower than losses from properties Finance at 31 December 2012 decreased compared acquired through a standard foreclosure process.
with the end of December 2011 as the rate at which The decrease in the loss on sale also reflected a properties were added to real estate owned inventory slowdown in the rate of decline in house prices was slow as a result of the backlog in foreclosure during 2012 and, in some markets, improvements activities and the continuing sales of these properties in pricing compared with 2011. during 2012.
We expect that the number of foreclosed 151 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Personal lending Wholesale lending Credit cards Valuation of foreclosed properties in the US We obtain real estate by foreclosing on the collateral pledged In the first half of 2012 we completed the sale as security for residential mortgages.
Prior to foreclosure, of our US Card and Retail Services business, carrying amounts of the loans in excess of fair value less costs to sell are written down to the discounted cash flows expected transferring general and private label credit card to be recovered, including from the sale of the property.
lending balances to the purchaser.
The residual Broker price opinions are obtained and updated every 180 days balances in the US at 31 December 2012 were and real estate price trends are reviewed quarterly to reflect related to HSBC Bank USAs credit card any improvement or additional deterioration.
Our methodology is regularly validated by comparing the discounted cash flows programme.
expected to be recovered based on current market conditions including estimated cash flows from the sale of the property Personal non-credit card lending to the updated broker price opinion, adjusted for the estimated historical difference between interior and exterior appraisals.
Personal non-credit card lending balances and two The fair values of foreclosed properties are initially determined based on broker price opinions.
Within 90 days of foreclosure, months and over delinquent balances in the US fell, a more detailed property valuation is performed reflecting largely due to the reclassification of non-real estate information obtained from a physical interior inspection of personal loan balances to Assets held for sale and the property and additional allowances or write-downs are recorded as appropriate.
Updates to the valuation are portfolio run-off, as this business is closed to new performed no less than once every 45 days until the property advances.
is sold, with declines or increases recognised through changes to allowances.
Our wholesale portfolios Unaudited are well diversified across geographical and industry sectors, with certain exposures subject to specific Wholesale lending covers the range of credit portfolio controls.
153 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Wholesale lending Credit quality of financial instruments Corporate and commercial with a decline in reverse repos in Europe reflecting, in part, the redeployment of liquidity to central banks.
Corporate and commercial lending, excluding commercial real estate and other property-related Credit quality of financial instruments lending, increased from US$365bn at 31 December Audited 2011 to US$400bn at 31 December 2012.
A summary of our current policies and practices regarding the credit quality of At 31 December 2012, this represented 39% financial instruments is provided in the of total gross loans and advances to customers, Appendix to Risk on page 253. compared with 38% at 31 December 2011.
The growth was mainly in the international trade and The five classifications describing the credit services sector, where balances mainly increased quality of our lending, debt securities portfolios in Europe despite muted demand for credit and, in and derivatives are defined on page 253.
Additional Hong Kong, driven by growth in trade finance credit quality information in respect of our volumes as we capitalised on trade and capital flows.
consolidated holdings of ABSs is provided In the manufacturing sector, balances increased in on page 259.
Europe due to growth in the UK of overdraft balances For the purpose of the following disclosure, and corresponding customer accounts which did not retail loans which are past due up to 89 days and are meet netting criteria under accounting rules.
not otherwise classified as impaired in accordance The aggregate of our commercial real estate with our disclosure convention see page 253, are and other property-related lending was US$117bn not disclosed within the expected loss EL grade at 31 December 2012, 3% higher than at 31 December to which they relate, but are separately classified as 2011, representing 12% of total loans and advances to past due but not impaired.
This growth was mainly in Hong Kong, where demand for funds remained strong despite a 2012 compared with 2011 degree of market stabilisation after a sustained period Unaudited of buoyancy in the property investment and property We assess credit quality on all financial instruments development sectors.
Commercial real estate and which are subject to credit risk, as shown in the table other property-related lending also grew in North on page 155.
The balance of these financial America due to an increase in originations in instruments was US$2,516bn at 31 December 2012, commercial mortgages, which reflected our continued an increase of 4% over 2011, of which US$1,690bn focus on expanding our core offering to gain a larger or 67% was classified as strong.
This percentage presence in key growth markets, including the West declined marginally compared with 68% at Coast, Southeast and Midwest of the US.
The proportion of financial For information on refinancing in commercial instruments classified as good remained broadly real estate lending, see page 128. stable at 16% and the proportion of satisfactory balances increased marginally from 12% to 14%.
Financial non-bank The proportion of sub-standard financial instruments remained low at 2% in both 2012 Financial non-bank lending decreased from and 2011.
This was mainly in Europe due The proportion of trading assets classified as to a decline in reverse repo activity, partly offset strong declined from 75% to 65%.
Overall trading by higher balances in North America, due to an assets rose, largely in Europe, due to an increase in increase in reverse repo balances in Canada, and holdings of debt securities from 2011s subdued in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, driven by levels which, coupled with the downgrading of an increase in loans drawn by financial planning certain eurozone countries, resulted in an absolute companies, leasing companies and insurance and relative increase in debt securities classified as companies reflecting higher demand for funds good.
In addition, holdings of strong treasury and from a small number of corporates.
other eligible bills fell both absolutely and relative to the rest of trading assets primarily in Hong Kong due Loans and advances to banks to maturities without replacement of government bonds, while increased levels of reverse repo and Loans and advances to banks decreased from stock lending balances with customers increased US$181bn at 31 December 2011 to US$153bn at the proportion of good and satisfactory 31 December 2012.
This was mainly driven by classifications compared with strong.
maturities and repayments in Hong Kong together 154 The proportion of financial investments central banks in Europe, Hong Kong and Rest of categorised as strong remained high at 86% and Asia-Pacific.
87%, at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 The proportion of loans and advances held at respectively, as the year-on-year increase in amortised cost and categorised as strong remained balances was mainly due to the deployment of broadly flat compared with the end of 2011 at 54%.
surplus liquidity into highly-rated government, Derivative balances classified as strong declined quasi-government and supranational debt securities marginally from 81% to 79%: the movement in in North America and Hong Kong.
balances was mainly in Europe reflecting fair value The proportion of cash and balances at central movements of existing contracts.
Past due but not impaired gross financial Further examples of exposures past due but not instruments impaired include individually assessed mortgages Audited that are in arrears more than 90 days, but there are no other indicators of impairment and the value of Past due but not impaired loans are those in respect collateral is sufficient to repay both the principal of which the customer is in the early stages of debt and all potential interest for at least one year, or delinquency and has failed to make a payment or a short-term trade facilities past due more than partial payment in accordance with the contractual 90 days for technical reasons such as delays in terms of the loan agreement.
This is typically when documentation but there is no concern over the a loan is less than 90 days past due and there are no creditworthiness of the counterparty.
When groups other indicators of impairment.
of loans are collectively assessed for impairment, 156 collective impairment allowances are recognised for continued run-off of the lending balances.
This was loans classified as past due but not impaired.
partly offset by increases in Rest of Asia-Pacific relating to a number of corporate exposures across the At 31 December 2012, US$19bn of loans and region.
The rise in Latin America was mainly in advances held at amortised cost were classified as Panama in the corporate and commercial sector across past due but not impaired 2011: US$20bn.
In Europe, the increase in past due largest concentration of these balances was in HSBC but not impaired loans mainly related to business Finance.
The decrease in 2012 was primarily in expansion in Turkey.
In Hong Kong, the rise was North America in the CML portfolio, due to the mainly in overdrafts and term lending.
For the purposes of this described in the Appendix to Risk on page disclosure, the term forbearance is synonymous 254. with the renegotiation of loans for these reasons.
The contractual terms of a loan may be modified for The following tables show the gross carrying a number of reasons, which include changing market amounts of the Groups holdings of renegotiated conditions, customer retention and other factors not loans and advances to customers by industry sector, related to the current or potential credit deterioration geography and credit quality classification.
2012 compared with 2011 and international trade services sector lending of Unaudited 30% 2011: 26%.
Renegotiated loans totalled US$42bn at Forbearance within Latin America primarily in 31 December 2012 2011: US$46bn.
North Mexico and Brazil was predominantly undertaken America accounted for the largest volume of in the manufacturing and international trade services renegotiated loans which amounted to US$26bn or sector.
The largest increase in renegotiated loans 62% of total renegotiated loans at 31 December 2012 compared with 2011 was in this sector in Mexico.
2011: US$28bn or 62%, most of which were first In addition, renegotiation activity in the personal lien residential mortgages held by HSBC Finance.
lending portfolios increased in Brazil, where a Of the total renegotiated loans in North America, collections campaign led to a significant increase US$17bn were impaired at 31 December 2012 in both the refinancing and debt consolidation 2011: US$18bn.
The ratio of total impairment portfolios.
allowances to impaired loans at 31 December 2012 In the Middle East and North Africa, was 23% 2011: 28%.
This decrease was driven by renegotiated loans decreased compared with 2011, a reduction in both impaired loans and impairment mainly in the corporate and commercial sector due to allowances as we continued to run-off the CML repayments and reduced exposures.
As the portfolio has been closed to new activity in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific business since 2007, the volume of first time remained insignificant.
In Europe, renegotiated loans at 31 December HSBC Finance loan modifications and re-ageing 2012 amounted to US$10bn 2011: US$11bn, Unaudited constituting 24% of total renegotiated loans 2011: HSBC Finance maintains loan modification and 25%.
Of the total renegotiated loans in Europe, re-age loan renegotiation programmes in order to US$5.7bn were impaired at 31 December 2012 manage customer relationships, improve collection 2011: US$6.0bn, and the ratio of total impairment opportunities and, if possible, avoid foreclosure.
allowances to impaired loans at 31 December 2012 Since 2006, HSBC Finance has implemented was 27% 2011: 30%.
This decline was driven by a an extensive loan renegotiation programme, and a reduction in both impaired loans and impairment significant portion of its loan portfolio has been allowances due to releases and write-offs of a subject to renegotiation at some stage in the life of number of non-performing loans as well as the sale the customer relationship as a consequence of the of a number of exposures.
The renegotiated loans in economic conditions in the US and the nature of Europe largely consisted of commercial real estate HSBC Finances customer base.
and other property-related sector lending of 37% 2011: 43% mainly in the UK, and manufacturing 159 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Credit quality of financial instruments The volume of loans that qualify for modification Qualifying criteria has reduced significantly in recent years.
We expect For an account to qualify for renegotiation it must this trend to continue as HSBC Finance believes the meet certain criteria.
However, HSBC Finance percentage of its customers with unmodified loans retains the right to decline a renegotiation.
The who would benefit from loan modification in a way extent to which HSBC Finance renegotiates that would avoid non-payment of future cash flows accounts that are eligible under its existing policies is decreasing.
In addition, volumes of new will vary depending upon its view of prevailing loan modifications are expected to decrease due to economic conditions and other factors which may gradual improvements in economic conditions, the change from year to year.
In addition, exceptions cessation of new real estate secured and personal nonto policies and practices may be made in specific credit card receivables originations and the continued situations in response to legal or regulatory run-off of the CML portfolio.
Renegotiated real estate secured and personal Types of loan renegotiation programme in HSBC Finance lending receivables are not eligible for a subsequent A temporary modification is a change to the contractual terms of a loan that results in the giving up of a right to renegotiation for twelve or six months, respectively, contractual cash flows over a pre-defined period.
With a with a maximum of five renegotiations permitted temporary modification the loan is expected to revert back within a five-year period.
Borrowers must be to the original contractual terms, including the interest rate charged, after the modification period.
An example is approved for a modification and generally make reduced interest payments.
two minimum qualifying monthly payments within A substantial number of HSBC Finance modifications 60 days to activate a modification.
These modifications lower the amount of interest income HSBC Finance is In certain circumstances where the debt has contractually entitled to receive in future periods.
been restructured in bankruptcy proceedings, fewer Historically, modifications have generally been for six or no payments may be required.
Accounts whose months, although extended modification periods are now more common.
borrowers are subject to a Chapter 13 plan filed Loans that have been re-aged are classified as impaired with with a bankruptcy court generally may be re-aged the exception of first-time loan re-ages that were less than upon receipt of one qualifying payment, whereas 60 days past due at the time of re-age.
These remain accounts whose borrowers have filed for Chapter 7 classified as impaired until they have demonstrated a history of payment performance against their original contracted bankruptcy protection may be re-aged upon receipt terms for at least 12 months.
In addition, for A permanent modification is a change to the contractual some products, accounts may be re-aged without terms of a loan that results in giving up a right to contractual receipt of a payment in certain special circumstances cash flows over the life of the loan.
An example is a permanent reduction in the interest rate charged.
e. g. in the event of a natural disaster or a hardship programme.
Permanent or long-term modifications which are due to an underlying hardship event remain classified as impaired for their full life.
2012 compared with 2011 The term re-age describes a renegotiation by which the contractual delinquency status of a loan is reset to current At 31 December 2012, renegotiated real estate secured after demonstrating payment performance.
The overdue accounts in HSBC Finance represented 86% 2011: principal and or interest is deferred and paid at a later date.
86% of North Americas total renegotiated loans: Loan re-ageing enables customers who have been unable to make a small number of payments to have their loan US$14bn 2011: US$16bn of these renegotiated real delinquency status reset to current so that their credit score estate secured loans were classified as impaired.
This is not affected by the overdue balances.
decline was mainly due to lower lending balances as Loans that have been re-aged remain classified as impaired we continued to run-off the CML portfolio.
A until they have demonstrated a history of payment significant portion of HSBC Finances renegotiated performance against the original contractual terms for at least 12 months.
portfolio has received multiple renegotiations.
A temporary or permanent modification may also lead to a Consequently, a significant proportion of loans re-ageing of a loan although a loan may be re-aged without included in the table below have undergone multiple any modification to its original terms and conditions.
In this regard, multiple Where loans have been granted multiple concessions, modifications have remained consistent at 75% to subject to the qualifying criteria discussed below, the concession is deemed to have been made due to concern 80% of total modifications.
Further details of HSBC regarding the borrowers ability to pay, and the loan is Finances real estate secured accounts and disclosed as impaired.
The loan remains disclosed as renegotiation programmes are provided below.
impaired from that date forward until the borrower has demonstrated a history of repayment performance for the period of time required for either modifications or re-ages, as described above.
160 Gross loan portfolio of HSBC Finance real estate secured balances Unaudited Total ImpairTotal reTotal nonTotal impairment Modified negotiated renegotiated gross ment allowances 13 Re-aged and re-aged Modified loans loans loans allowances gross loans US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m % 31 December 2012........ 9,640 11,660 1,121 22,421 16,261 38,743 4,481 12 31 December 2011......... 10,265 12,829 1,494 24,588 19,540 44,128 5,088 12 For footnote, see page 249.
Within the constraints of our Group credit renegotiated loan balances fell as refinements in policy, HSBC Finances policies allow for multiple forbearance identification procedures reduced the renegotiations under certain circumstances, and a renegotiated loan balances in UK commercial real significant number of accounts received a second or estate and other property-related lending.
Excluding further renegotiation during the year which does not the change in basis of reporting renegotiated loans, appear in the statistics tabulated above because they total renegotiated loans in the commercial real estate present a loan as an addition to the volume of and other property-related sector remained broadly renegotiated loans on its first renegotiation only.
At 31 December 2012, renegotiated loans were 58% Within the commercial real estate and other 2011: 56% of the total portfolio of HSBC property-related loans, the balances classified as Finances real estate secured accounts.
impaired declined marginally compared with 2011.
Balances classified as past due but not impaired Corporate and commercial forbearance declined by US$112m, mainly in the Middle East Unaudited and North Africa relating to a small number of For the current policies and procedures exposures in the UAE.
Balances classified as regarding forbearance in the corporate and neither past due nor impaired declined by 39%, commercial sector, see the Appendix to Risk on page 257. mainly in Europe reflecting the reduction in balances in the commercial real estate sector described above.
Renegotiated loan balances in the corporate and The commercial real estate mid-market commercial sector decreased by US$1.8bn.
The sector continued to experience higher levels of majority of the decrease was due to falling renegotiation activity than larger corporates, where renegotiated loan balances in the commercial real borrowers remained generally better capitalised estate and other property-related sector in 2012, with access to wider funding market opportunities.
This was primarily in When considering acceptable restructuring terms Europe although the commercial real estate sector, for commercial real estate loans in Europe, we take particularly in the UK, continued to experience into account the ability of the customer to service 161 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Credit quality of financial instruments Collateral the revised interest payments as a prerequisite.
renegotiated loans and advances that have been Similarly, for principal payment modifications, subject to a change in contractual cash flows as we require the customer to be capable of complying a result of a concession which the lender would with the revised terms as a necessary pre-condition.
not otherwise consider, and where it is probable When principal payments are modified and that without the concession the borrower would permanent forgiveness results, or when it is be unable to meet its contractual payment otherwise considered that there is no longer a obligations in full, unless the concession is realistic prospect of recovering outstanding insignificant and there are no other indicators principal, the affected balances are written off.
Renegotiated loans remain When principal repayments are postponed, the classified as impaired until there is sufficient customer is expected to be able to pay in line with evidence to demonstrate a significant reduction the renegotiated terms, including meeting the in the risk of non-payment of future cash flows, postponed principal repayment if due from and there are no other indicators of impairment.
In all cases, a loan renegotiation is For loans that are assessed for impairment only granted when it is expected that the customer on a collective basis, the evidence to support will be able to meet the revised terms.
reclassification as no longer impaired typically Renegotiated loan balances in the manufacturing comprises a history of payment performance against and international trade services sector increased in the original or revised terms, depending on the 2012, mainly in Latin America from the restructuring nature and volume of forbearance and the credit of a small number of loans in Mexico.
In the Middle risk characteristics surrounding the renegotiation.
East and North Africa, renegotiated loan balances For loans that are assessed for impairment on an decreased, partly due to the repayment of a significant individual basis, all available evidence is assessed loan in the UAE.
Impaired loans In HSBC Finance, where a significant majority Audited of HSBCs loan forbearance activity occurs, the history of payment performance is assessed with Impaired loans and advances are those that meet reference to the original terms of the contract, any of the following criteria: reflecting the higher credit risk characteristics of loans and advances classified as CRR 9, this portfolio.
The payment performance periods are CRR 10, EL 9 or EL 10 a description of our monitored to ensure they remain appropriate to the internal credit rating grades is provided on levels of recidivism observed within the portfolio.
page 253 : Further disclosure about loans subject to retail exposures 90 days or more past due, forbearance is provided on page 254.
Renegotiated unless individually they have been assessed loans and forbearance disclosures are subject to as not impaired: or evolving industry practice and regulatory guidance.
Collateral satisfying a debt in the event of the borrower failing to meet its contractual obligations, and where the Collateral and other credit enhancements collateral is cash or can be realised by sale in an held established market.
The collateral valuation in the Audited tables below excludes any adjustments for obtaining Loans and advances held at amortised cost and selling the collateral.
Although collateral can be an important mitigant We may also manage our risk by employing of credit risk, it is the Groups practice to lend on other types of collateral and credit risk the basis of the customers ability to meet their enhancements, such as second charges, other obligations out of cash flow resources rather than liens and unsupported guarantees, but the valuation rely on the value of security offered.
Depending on of such mitigants is less certain and their financial the customers standing and the type of product, effect has not been quantified.
In particular, loans facilities may be provided unsecured.
However, for shown in the tables below as not collateralised or other lending a charge over collateral is obtained and partially collateralised may benefit from such credit considered in determining the credit decision and mitigants.
In the event of default, the bank may utilise Certain credit mitigants are used strategically in the collateral as a source of repayment.
While single name Depending on its form, collateral can have a concentrations arise in portfolios managed by Global significant financial effect in mitigating our exposure Banking and Corporate Banking, it is only in Global to credit risk.
Banking that their size requires the use of portfolio level credit mitigants.
Across Global Banking risk The tables below provide a quantification of limits and utilisations, maturity profiles and risk the value of fixed charges we hold over a borrowers quality are monitored and managed pro-actively.
specific asset or assets where we have a history This process is key to the setting of risk appetite of enforcing, and are able to enforce, the collateral in for these larger, more complex, geographically 163 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Collateral distributed customer groups.
While the principal dedicated Global Banking portfolio management form of risk management continues to be at the team.
Hedging activity is carried out within agreed point of exposure origination, through the lending credit parameters, and is subject to market risk limits decision-making process, Global Banking also and a robust governance structure.
CDS mitigants utilises loan sales and credit default swap CDS are held at portfolio level and are not reported in the hedges to manage concentrations and reduce risk.
Valuations must be updated on including off-balance sheet loan commitments by a regular basis and, as a minimum, at intervals of level of collateral.
Off-balance sheet commitments every three years.
Valuations are conducted more include loans that have been approved but which the frequently when market conditions or portfolio customer has not yet drawn, and the undrawn portion performance are subject to significant change or of loans that have a flexible drawdown facility such when a loan is identified and assessed as impaired.
as the offset mortgage product.
The collateral The LTV ratio bandings are consistent with included in the table above consists of first charges our internal risk management reporting.
do have mortgages in the higher LTV bands, our The LTV ratio is calculated as the gross onappetite for such lending is restricted and the larger balance sheet carrying amount of the loan and any portion of our portfolio is concentrated in the lower off-balance sheet loan commitment at the balance risk LTV bandings of 75% and below.
sheet date divided by the value of collateral.
The methodologies for obtaining residential property Other personal lending collateral values vary throughout the Group, but Other personal lending consists primarily of are typically determined through a combination overdrafts, credit cards and second lien mortgage of professional appraisals, house price indices or 164 portfolios.
Second lien lending is supported by Corporate, commercial and financial non-bank collateral but the claim on the collateral is lending subordinate to the first lien charge.
The majority of Collateral held is analysed separately below for our second lien portfolios were originated in North commercial real estate and for other corporate, America where loss experience on defaulted commercial and financial non-bank lending.
This second lien loans has typically approached 100%: reflects the difference in collateral held on the consequently, we do not generally attach any portfolios.
In each case, the analysis includes offsignificant financial value to this type of collateral.
balance sheet loan commitments, primarily undrawn Credit cards and overdrafts are usually unsecured.
These from guarantees, which are not quantified for the 165 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Collateral Impairment of loans and advances purposes of this disclosure.
In Hong Kong, market relation to the transaction which may reflect on the practice is for lending to major property companies underlying performance of the collateral, or in to be typically secured by guarantees or unsecured.
circumstances where an obligors credit quality In Europe, facilities of a working capital nature are has declined sufficiently to cause concern that generally not secured by a first fixed charge and are the principal payment source may not fully meet therefore disclosed as not collateralised.
the obligation i. e. the obligors credit quality classification indicates it is at the lower end, The value of commercial real estate collateral is that is sub-standard, or approaching impaired.
determined through a combination of professional Where such concerns exist the revaluation method and internal valuations and physical inspection.
selected will depend upon the loan-to-value Due to the complexity of valuing collateral for relationship, the direction in which the local commercial real estate, local valuation policies commercial real estate market has moved since the determine the frequency of review based on local last valuation and, most importantly, the specific market conditions.
Revaluations are sought with characteristics of the underlying commercial real greater frequency when, as part of the regular credit estate which is of concern.
While such commercial and industrial sector, and charges over mitigants have value, often providing rights in cash and marketable financial instruments in the insolvency, their assignable value is insufficiently financial sector.
Government sector lending is certain and they are assigned no value for disclosure generally unsecured.
It should be noted that the table above excludes As with commercial real estate, the value of other types of collateral which are commonly taken real estate collateral included in the table above is 166 generally determined through a combination of The difference between the collateral value and professional and internal valuations and physical the value of partially collateralised lending disclosed inspection.
The frequency of revaluation is in the tables above cannot be directly compared with undertaken on a similar basis to commercial real any impairment allowances recognised in respect of estate loans and advances: however, for financing impaired loans, as the loans may be performing in activities in corporate and commercial lending that accordance with their contractual terms.
When are not predominantly commercial real estateloans are not performing in accordance with their oriented, collateral value is not as strongly correlated contractual terms, the recovery of cash flows may be to principal repayment performance.
Collateral affected by other cash resources of the customer, or values will generally be refreshed when an obligors other credit risk enhancements not quantified for the general credit performance deteriorates and it is tables above.
The Groups policy for determining necessary to assess the likely performance of impairment allowances, including the effect of secondary sources of repayment should reliance collateral on these impairment allowances, is upon them prove necessary.
For this reason, the table described on page 258. above reports values only for customers with CRR 8 to 10, recognising that these loans and advances Loans and advances to banks generally have valuations which are comparatively The following table shows loans and advances to recent.
For the table above, cash is valued at its banks, including off-balance sheet loan nominal value and marketable securities at their commitments by level of collateral.
Loans and advances to banks netting across all outstanding transactions covered are typically unsecured.
Certain products such as by an agreement if either party defaults or another reverse repos and stock borrowing are effectively pre-agreed termination event occurs.
It is common, collateralised and have been included in the and our preferred practice, for the parties to execute above as fully or partly collateralised.
The fully a Credit Support Annex CSA in conjunction collateralised loans and advances to banks for with the ISDA Master Agreement.
Under a CSA, Europe in the table above consist primarily of collateral is passed between the parties to mitigate reverse repo agreements and stock borrowing.
the counterparty risk inherent in outstanding positions.
The majority of our CSAs are with Derivatives financial institutional clients.
The International Swaps and Derivatives Association We manage our counterparty exposure arising ISDA Master Agreement is our preferred due to market risk on OTC derivative contracts agreement for documenting derivatives activity.
It through the use of collateral agreements with provides the contractual framework within which counterparties and netting agreements.
We do not dealing activity across a full range of over-thecurrently undertake active management of our 167 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Collateral Impairment of loans and advances general OTC derivative counterparty exposure Collateral and other credit enhancements in the credit markets, although we may manage obtained Audited individual exposures in certain circumstances.
The carrying amount of assets obtained by taking A description of the derivative offset amount possession of collateral held as security, or calling in the Maximum exposure to credit risk table is upon other credit enhancements, is as follows: provided on page 145.
Carrying amount at 31 December Other credit risk exposures 2012 2011 US$m US$m In addition to collateralised lending described above, Nature of assets other credit enhancements are employed and Residential property 353 420 methods used to mitigate credit risk arising from Commercial and industrial property............... 88 64 financial assets.
444 501 Securities issued by governments, banks and other financial institutions may benefit from The significant reduction in residential additional credit enhancement, notably through properties was due to the suspension of foreclosure government guarantees that reference these assets.
activities at the end of 2011 and during the first half Details of government guarantees are included in of 2012 see page 151.
Notes 6, 10 and 12 on the Financial Statements.
We make repossessed properties available for Corporate issued debt securities are primarily sale in an orderly fashion, with the proceeds used unsecured.
Debt securities issued by banks and to reduce or repay the outstanding indebtedness.
If financial institutions include ABSs and similar excess funds arise after the debt has been repaid, instruments, which are supported by underlying they are made available to repay other secured pools of financial assets.
Credit risk associated with lenders with lower priority or returned to the ABSs is reduced through the purchase of CDS customer.
We do not generally occupy repossessed protection.
Disclosure of the Groups holdings of properties for our business use.
ABSs and associated CDS protection is provided on page 184.
Impairment of loans and advances Trading assets include loans and advances held Audited with trading intent, the majority of which consist of A summary of our current policies and reverse repos and stock borrowing which, by their practices regarding impairment assessment nature, are collateralised.
Collateral accepted as is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 258. security that the Group is permitted to sell or repledge under these arrangements is described The tables below analyse by geographical region the in Note 36 on the Financial Statements.
Trading impairment allowances recognised for impaired assets also include money market term placements, loans and advances that are either individually which are unsecured.
assessed or collectively assessed, and collective The Groups maximum exposure to credit impairment allowances on loans and advances risk includes financial guarantees and similar classified as not impaired.
arrangements that we issue or enter into, and loan commitments that we are irrevocably committed to.
Depending on the terms of the arrangement, we may have recourse to additional credit mitigation in the event that a guarantee is called upon or a loan commitment is drawn and subsequently defaults.
Further information about these arrangements is provided in Note 40 on the Financial Statements.
This resulted in lower Unaudited delinquency rates across both the secured and unsecured lending portfolios.
Individually assessed The following commentary is on a constant currency new loan impairment allowances increased by 21% basis.
across a range of sectors reflecting the challenging Loan impairment allowances were US$16.2bn, a economic conditions in the UK, Greece, Spain and decline of 9% compared with 2011, reflecting lower Turkey.
In addition, a rise in impairments in Turkey lending balances in our US CML portfolio which was due to strong balance sheet growth in customer included the reclassification of impairment loans and advances in RBWM, notably in credit allowances on non-real estate personal loan cards and personal loans, driven by business balances to Assets held for sale.
Impaired loans of US$11.1bn were 9% recoveries of US$2.1bn were 3% lower, mainly in lower than at 31 December 2011, mainly due to North America due to lower customer repayments in increased focus on higher quality loans, lower the corporate and commercial sector, as well as the delinquency rates and the continued low interest non-recurrence of a number of releases and rate environment.
recoveries incurred in 2011 in Hong Kong and Rest Releases and recoveries in Europe were of Asia-Pacific.
Impaired loans were 3% of total gross loans and In Hong Kong, new individually assessed loan advances at the end of 2012, compared with 4% at impairment allowances fell by 28% compared 31 December 2011. with 2011 due to lower specific impairment charges In Europe, new loan impairment allowances in CMB.
New collectively assessed loan impairment were US$2.8bn, broadly unchanged compared with allowances also declined as delinquency rates 2011.
New collectively assessed loan impairment continued to improve, reflecting stable loan growth allowances declined by 28%, mainly in the UK and sound underlying economic conditions.
Impaired personal lending book, as we focused our lending loans declined by 22% from 31 December 2011, as a growth on higher quality assets and continued to number of corporate loans in the international pro-actively identify and monitor customers 170 trade sector were written off or upgraded following US$3.7bn.
New collectively assessed loan repayments, and delinquency rates reduced.
impairment allowances declined, largely in the CML portfolio due to the reclassification of impairment Releases and recoveries in Hong Kong were allowances on non-real estate personal loan balances US$65m, 27% lower than at the end of 2011 when to Assets held for sale as well as the continued runan allowance relating to a loan in GB&M that was off in the residential portfolios.
This was partly no longer considered impaired was released.
offset by a portfolio risk factor adjustment of New loan impairment allowances in Rest of US$225m which was made to increase the collective Asia-Pacific increased by 8% to US$607m.
loan impairment allowances for our US mortgage This reflected higher new collectively assessed lending portfolios.
The adjustment was made loan impairment allowances, mainly from the following a review completed in the fourth quarter growth in Singapore of RBWMs credit card of 2012 which concluded that the estimated average portfolio.
New individually assessed loan period of time from current status to write-off was impairment allowances also increased, as a result of ten months for real estate loans previously a period the impairment of a corporate exposure in Australia of seven months was used.
During 2013, this and individual charges on a small number of revised estimate will be incorporated into the corporate exposures in India.
Impaired loans in the statistical impairment allowance models.
It region increased by 4% to US$1.1bn in 2012 due to was also partly offset by new loan impairment the downgrade of a number of customers in Australia allowances by HSBC Bank Bermuda on a small and Taiwan, partly offset by the restructuring of a number of exposures.
Releases and recoveries in significant loan in Singapore following the North America declined by 11% to US$214m.
This renegotiation of terms, which is therefore regarded reflected lower levels of impairments being booked as no longer impaired.
due to improving market conditions within the corporate and commercial sector.
Releases and recoveries in the region decreased by 7%, mainly in India as the cards portfolio Impaired loans decreased by 11% in 2012 to continued to run off, and in Thailand following US$20.3bn, due to the continued run-off of the CML the sale of the RBWM business.
These were portfolio which included the reclassification partly offset by an impairment allowance release of certain non-real estate personal loan balances to in Singapore compared with a charge in 2011. held for sale.
In the Middle East and North Africa, new In Latin America, new loan impairment loan impairment allowances decreased by 2% to allowances increased by 23% to US$2.5bn.
The increase in new collectively assessed loan US$463m in 2012.
New collectively assessed loan impairment allowances declined, primarily in the impairment allowances was mainly in Brazil, driven UAE, due to the improvement in credit quality by higher delinquency rates in RBWM and CMB, reflecting the repositioning of the book towards particularly in the Business Banking portfolio, higher quality lending in previous years.
New reflecting lower economic growth in 2012.
Impaired individually assessed loan impairment allowances loans were 9% higher than at the end of 2011, driven rose due to significant loan impairment charges by past growth in the CMB portfolio in Brazil.
recorded for a small number of large exposures Releases and recoveries in Latin America in GB&M.
Impaired loans remained broadly decreased by 2% from the end of 2011 to US$401m, unchanged compared with 31 December 2011. mainly in Brazil.
Releases and recoveries in the region increased For an analysis of loan impairment charges and by 14% to US$208m in 2012, mainly relating to other credit risk provisions by global business, see a small number of exposures in UAE.
Including these loans and advances to 0.93%.
US$bn US$bn An analysis of credit quality is provided on 23 page 154.
Trading securities 213 186 Loans and advances to banks......... 78 76 The diversification of our lending portfolio across Loans and advances to customers.. 118 69 the regions, together with our broad range of global 409 331 businesses and products, ensured that we were not For footnote, see page 249. overly dependent on a few countries or markets to generate income and growth in 2012.
Our The largest concentration of securities held-forgeographical diversification also supported our trading within trading assets was in government strategies for growth in faster-growing markets and government agency debt securities.
We had and those with international connectivity.
significant exposures to US Treasury and government agency securities US$28bn and 178 UK US$12bn and Hong Kong US$6bn to derivatives increased, mainly due to a rise in the government securities.
For an analysis of securities fair value of interest rate contracts following the held for trading, see Note 14 on the Financial downward movements in yield curves in major Statements.
However, this was partly offset by a rise in netting from an increase in Financial investments trading through clearing houses coupled with the rise in fair values.
For an analysis of derivatives, see Our holdings of available-for-sale government and Note 19 on the Financial Statements.
government agency debt securities, corporate debt securities, ABSs and other securities were spread Loans and advances across a wide range of issuers and geographical regions, with 14% invested in securities issued by Gross loans and advances to customers excluding banks and other financial institutions.
We also hold the financial sector of US$932bn increased by assets backing insurance and investment contracts.
US$61bn or 7% at 31 December 2012 compared For an analysis of financial investments, see Note 20 with 2011, or 5% on a constant currency basis.
The following tables analyse loans by industry sector and by the location of the principal operations Derivatives of the lending subsidiary or, in the case of the Derivative assets were US$357bn at 31 December operations of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 2012 2011: US$346bn, of which the largest Corporation, HSBC Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East concentrations were interest rate and, to a lesser and HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the lending extent, foreign exchange derivatives.
The following commentary is on a constant Commercial real estate lending represented 8% currency basis see page 179 : of total gross lending to customers.
Lending increased marginally, as the demand for funds Personal lending was 41% of gross lending to in property investment and development remained customers at 31 December 2012.
Personal lending strong in Hong Kong.
The main concentrations of balances of US$415bn were 3% higher than at commercial real estate lending were in the UK and 31 December 2011 for reasons explained under Hong Kong.
First lien residential mortgage lending continued to represent Lending to non-bank financial institutions the Groups largest concentration in a single was US$81bn, a decrease of 8% compared with exposure type, the most significant balances being 31 December 2011 due to a decline in reverse repo in the UK 42%, Hong Kong 17% and the balances, mainly in Europe.
Our exposure was spread across a range of institutions, with the most US 16%.
significant concentration in the UK, France and Corporate and commercial lending was 51% the US.
of gross lending to customers at 31 December 2012, representing our largest lending category.
Loans and advances to banks were widely International trade and services was the biggest distributed across many countries and decreased by portion of the corporate and commercial lending 16% in 2012 as reverse repo balances declined, category, which increased by 9% compared with reflecting redeployment of liquidity to central banks, 31 December 2011, mainly in Hong Kong and Rest mainly in Europe.
of Asia-Pacific as we focused on corporate and The tables that follow provide information commercial customers that trade internationally as on loans and advances by geographical region and well as in the UK, despite muted demand for credit.
The commentary on these loans and The most significant concentrations of international advances can be found in the Personal lending and trade and services lending were in the UK, Hong Wholesale lending sections on pages 147 to 152.
Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific.
Our concentration in respect of the manufacturing sector increased, mainly driven by higher lending balances in Europe, due to growth in the UK of overdraft balances and corresponding customer accounts which did not meet netting criteria under accounting rules.
Risk in HSBC Holdings is overseen by the HSBC Holdings Asset and Liability Management HSBC Holdings maximum exposure to credit Committee ALCO.
The major risks faced by risk at 31 December 2012 is shown below.
Its HSBC Holdings are credit risk and market risk in financial assets principally represent claims on the form of interest rate risk and foreign exchange Group subsidiaries in Europe and North America.
risk, of which the most significant is credit risk.
All of the derivative transactions are with HSBC Credit risk in HSBC Holdings primarily arises undertakings which are banking counterparties from transactions with Group subsidiaries and from 2011: 100% and for which HSBC Holdings has in guarantees issued in support of obligations assumed place master netting arrangements.
From 2012, the by certain Group operations in the normal conduct credit risk exposure has been managed on a net basis of their business.
and the remaining net exposure specifically collateralised in the form of cash.
These risks are reviewed and managed within regulatory and internal limits for exposures by our HSBC Holdings maximum exposure to credit risk Audited At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Exposure to Exposure to Maximum credit risk Maximum credit risk exposure Offset net exposure Offset net US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand: balances with HSBC undertakings.............. 353 353 316 316 Derivatives 3,768 3,768 3,568 3,568 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings...... 41,675 41,675 28,048 28,048 Financial investments 1,208 1,208 1,078 1,078 Financial guarantees and similar contracts........ 49,402 49,402 49,402 49,402 Loan and other credit-related commitments...... 1,200 1,200 1,810 1,810 97,606 3,768 93,838 84,222 84,222 The credit quality of the loans and advances to leveraged finance transactions: and HSBC undertakings is assessed as strong or good, representations and warranties related to with 100% of the exposure being neither past due mortgage sales and securitisation activities.
The financial Within the above is included information on investments held by HSBC Holdings were rated by the GB&M legacy credit activities in respect of Standard and Poors S&P at A 2011: within the Solitaire, the securities investment conduits SICs, range of A to A. the ABSs trading portfolios and derivative transactions with monolines.
Further information Securitisation exposures and other in respect of Solitaire and the SICs is provided in structured products Note 42 on the Financial Statements.
Audited This section contains information about our exposure Accounting policies to the following: Our accounting policies for the classification and measurement of financial instruments are in accordance with the asset-backed securities ABSs, including requirements of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation mortgage-backed securities MBSs and and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, as described in Note 2 on the Financial related collateralised debt obligations CDOs : Statements, and the use of assumptions and estimates in direct lending at fair value through profit or respect of the valuation of financial instruments is described loss: in Note 15 on the Financial Statements.
monoline insurance companies monolines : 184 Business model improvement coincided with decreasing concerns Unaudited around sovereign credit, particularly in the second half of the year, and gave rise to price appreciation Balance Sheet Management see page 222 holds across this range of ABS asset classes.
Unrealised ABSs primarily issued by government agency and losses in our available-for-sale portfolios reduced in sponsored enterprises as part of our investment the year from US$5.1bn to US$2.2bn, mainly as a portfolios.
Our investment portfolios include SICs and Within the following table are assets held in money market funds.
We also originate leveraged the GB&M legacy credit portfolio with a carrying finance loans for the purpose of syndicating or value of US$31.6bn 2011: US$35.4bn.
selling them down to generate trading profit or holding them to earn interest margin over their lives.
A summary of the nature of HSBCs exposures is provided in the Appendix to Risk Exposure in 2012 on page 260.
Audited 2012 saw an improvement in the US housing market with home prices rising during the year.
ABSs classified as available for sale with the benefit of external investor first loss protection support, together with positions held Our principal holdings of available-for-sale ABSs directly and by Solitaire, where we provide first are in GB&M through special purpose entities loss protection of US$1.2bn through credit SPEs, which were established from the outset enhancement and a liquidity facility.
185 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Securitisation exposures and other structured products Movement in the available-for-sale reserve Audited 2012 2011 Directly Directly held held 28 28 Solitaire SPEs Total Solitaire SPEs Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Available-for-sale reserve at 1 January.............. 3,085 2,061 5,146 4,102 2,306 6,408 Increase decrease in fair value of securities.... 1,195 914 2,109 622 137 485 29 Effect of impairments 339 394 733 383 339 722 Repayment of capital.... 164 174 338 162 183 345 Other movements.......... 86 141 227 150 140 290 Available-for-sale reserve at 31 December........ 1,473 720 2,193 3,085 2,061 5,146 For footnotes, see page 249.
Securities investment conduits credit to the impairment line for the amount of the Unaudited loss allocated to capital note holders, subject to the carrying amount of the capital notes being The total carrying amount of ABSs held through sufficient to offset the loss.
During the year SPEs in the above table represents holdings in impairment charges in one SPE, Mazarin Funding which significant first loss protection is provided Ltd Mazarin, exceeded the carrying value of the through capital notes issued by SICs, excluding capital notes liability and a charge of US$119m Solitaire.
2011: US$26m was borne by HSBC as shown in At each reporting date, we assess whether the table below.
In respect of the SICs, the capital there is any objective evidence of impairment in notes held by third parties are expected to absorb the value of the ABSs held by SPEs.
Impairment the cash losses in the vehicles.
The assets in the table below included US$2.2bn 2011: US$2.4bn relating to US-originated assets A summary of our impairment and US$1.3bn 2011: US$1.0bn relating to UK methodologies is provided in the Appendix non-conforming residential mortgage-related to Risk on page 260. assets.
At 31 December 2012, 13% US$0.5bn of our sub-prime residential mortgage-related assets were rated AA or AAA 2011: 25% US$0.9bn.
The above table excludes leveraged finance transactions, which are shown separately on page 190.
Of the non-high grade assets held of US$3.1bn Transactions with monoline insurers Audited 2011: US$2.7bn, US$1.4bn 2011: US$1.2bn related to US-originated assets.
HSBCs exposure to derivative transactions entered into directly with monolines There was an increase in market prices for subprime assets during the course of 2012.
Write-backs Our principal exposure to monolines is through of US$44m on assets were recognised in 2012 a number of OTC derivative transactions, mainly 2011: impairments of US$42m.
We entered into these CDSs primarily to write-backs, there were US$67m of write-backs purchase credit protection against securities held 2011: US$5m of write-backs in the SICs, of which at the time within the trading portfolio.
US$27m 2011: US$5m were attributed to capital During 2012, our overall credit exposure to noteholders.
monolines decreased, primarily as a result of the tightening of credit spreads which reduced the fair US Alt-A residential mortgage-related assets value of the derivatives.
The table below sets out the In respect of US Alt-A securities, there were writefair value, essentially the replacement cost, of the backs of US$19m 2011: impairments of US$687m.
remaining derivative transactions at 31 December Despite the overall write-backs, impairments of 2012, and hence the amount at risk if the CDS US$190m 2011: US$344m occurred in the SICs, protection purchased were to be wholly ineffective of which US$32m 2011: US$318m was borne by because, for example, the monoline insurer was the capital noteholders.
unable to meet its obligations.
In order to further analyse that risk, the value of protection purchased At 31 December 2012, 5% US$0.2bn of these is shown subdivided between those monolines assets were rated AA or AAA 2011: 9% that were rated by S&P at BBBor above at US$0.4bn.
31 December 2012, and those that were below BBB BBB is the S&P cut-off for an investment Commercial property mortgage-related assets grade classification.
The Credit valuation Of our total of US$8.6bn 2011: US$9.5bn adjustment column indicates the valuation of commercial property mortgage-related assets, adjustment taken against the net exposures, and US$4.1bn related to US-originated assets 2011: reflects our best estimate of the likely loss of US$4.9bn.
Spreads tightened on both US and nonvalue on purchased protection arising from the US commercial property mortgage-related assets deterioration in creditworthiness of the monolines.
Impairments of US$125m were These valuation adjustments, which reflect a recognised in 2012 2011: US$36m.
measure of the irrecoverability of the protection purchased, have been charged to the income statement.
HSBCs exposure to derivative transactions entered into directly with monoline insurers Audited Net exposure Net exposure before credit Credit after credit Notional valuation valuation valuation 33 34 amount adjustment adjustment adjustment US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2012 Derivative transactions with monoline counterparties Monoline investment grade BBB or above.............. 4,191 606 121 485 Monoline sub-investment grade below BBB........... 957 303 158 145 5,148 909 279 630 At 31 December 2011 Derivative transactions with monoline counterparties Monoline investment grade BBB or above.............. 4,936 873 87 786 Monoline sub-investment grade below BBB........... 1,552 370 217 153 6,488 1,243 304 939 For footnotes, see page 249.
189 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Securitisation exposures Leveraged finance transactions Representations and warranties Market prices are generally not readily available is reflected through the income statement.
For for CDSs, so they are valued on the basis of market wrapped bonds held in the available-for-sale prices of the referenced securities.
portfolio, the mark-to-market movement is reflected in equity unless there is objective evidence of As described on page 56, during 2012 we impairment, in which case the impairment loss is amended our methodology for the calculation of reflected in the income statement.
No wrapped bonds credit valuation adjustments and debit valuation were included in the reclassification of financial adjustments to reflect evolving market practice.
assets described in Note 17 on the Financial As a result, our monoline credit and debit valuation Statements.
adjustment calculations utilise a methodology based on CDS spreads with no adjustments being made based on the credit rating of the monoline.
Leveraged finance transactions Audited Credit valuation adjustments for monolines Leveraged finance transactions include subFor monolines, the standard credit valuation adjustment investment grade acquisition or event-driven methodology as described on page 56 applies, with financing.
The following table shows our exposure the exception that the future exposure profile is deemed to be constant equal to the current market value over the weighted to leveraged finance transactions arising from average life of the referenced security.
Our additional exposure to leveraged finance loans through holdings of ABSs from our trading and investment activities is shown HSBCs exposure to debt securities which benefit in the table on page 187. from guarantees provided by monolines We held leveraged finance commitments of Within both the trading and available-for-sale US$2.8bn at 31 December 2012 2011: US$3.7bn, portfolios, we hold bonds that are wrapped with of which US$2.6bn 2011: US$3.3bn was funded.
As the bonds are traded explicitly with the benefit of this At 31 December 2012, our principal exposures enhancement, any deterioration in the credit profile were to companies in two sectors: US$0.7bn to of the monoline is reflected in market prices and, data processing 2011: US$1.3bn and US$1.8bn therefore, in the carrying amount of these securities to communications and infrastructure 2011: at 31 December 2012.
For wrapped bonds held in US$1.9bn.
190 Representations and warranties related to Participants in the US mortgage securitisation mortgage sales and securitisation activities market that purchased and repackaged whole loans Unaudited have been the subject of lawsuits and governmental and regulatory investigations and inquiries which We have been involved in various activities related have been directed at groups within the US mortgage to the sale and securitisation of residential mortgages market such as servicers, originators, underwriters, which are not recognised on our balance sheet.
trustees or sponsors of securitisations.
Further These activities include: information is provided in Note 43 on the Financial the purchase of US$24bn of third-party Statements.
originated mortgages by HSBC Bank USA and At 31 December 2012, a liability of US$219m the securitisation of these by HSBC Securities was recognised in respect of various representations USA Inc. HSI between 2005 and 2007: and warranties relating to the origination and sale by HSI acting as underwriter for third-party HSBC Bank USA of mortgage loans, primarily to issuance of private label MBSs with an original government sponsored entities 2011: US$237m.
issuance value of US$37bn, most of which were These relate to, among other things, the ownership of sub-prime: and the loans, the validity of the liens, the loan selection and origination process and compliance with the the origination and sale by HSBC Bank USA of origination criteria established by the agencies.
In mortgage loans, primarily to government the event of a breach of our representations and sponsored entities.
warranties, HSBC Bank USA may be obliged to In sales and securitisations of mortgage loans, repurchase the loans with identified defects or to various representations and warranties regarding the indemnify the buyers.
The liability is estimated loans may be made to purchasers of the mortgage based on the level of outstanding repurchase loans and MBSs.
In respect of the purchase and demands, the level of outstanding requests for loan securitisation of third party originated mortgages and files and estimated future demands in respect of the underwriting of third party MBSs, the obligation mortgages sold to date which are either two or to repurchase loans in the event of a breach of more payments delinquent or expected to become loan level representations and warranties resides delinquent at an estimated conversion rate.
predominantly with the organisation that originated Repurchase demands of US$89m were outstanding the loan.
When such Audited relationships exist, an element of the risk will remain where the short and long positions do not match The tables in this section summarise our exposures exactly, for example, the maturity of the short to selected eurozone countries, including: position is less than the trading asset or the short governments and central banks along with quasi position does not represent an identical security.
The government agencies: remaining risk is reflected in the gross balance sheet banks: exposure shown before risk mitigation.
However, as other financial institutions and corporates: and the net position best reflects the effects of a credit personal lending.
event should it occur at the balance sheet date, we consider that this measure is a key view of risk Exposures to banks, other financial institutions, at that date.
other corporates and personal lending are based upon the counterpartys country of domicile.
Credit risk mitigation includes derivative liabilities with the same counterparty when a master Basis of preparation netting arrangement is in place and the credit risk exposure is managed on a net basis or the position The gross exposure represents the on-balance sheet is specifically collateralised, normally in the form carrying amounts recorded in accordance with IFRSs of cash.
These amounts do not qualify for net and off-balance sheet exposures.
presentation for accounting purposes as settlement The net exposure is stated after taking into may not actually be made on a net basis, though we account mitigating offsets that are incorporated into consider the net presentation more accurately reflects the risk management view of the exposure but do the risk exposure.
not meet accounting offset requirements.
These risk The effect of the transfer of risk to policyholders mitigating offsets include: under unit linked insurance contracts, as well as short positions managed together with trading trading assets which represent collateral to support assets: associated liabilities, are separately disclosed in the derivative liabilities for which a legally detailed peripheral country exposures, but are not enforceable right of offset with derivative assets deducted from the total net exposure.
exists: and CDSs reported in the detailed peripheral collateral received on derivative assets.
eurozone country tables are not included in the Short positions managed together with trading derivative exposure line as they are typically assets mitigate risk to which HSBC is exposed at the transacted with counterparties incorporated or balance sheet date when, in the event of default, the domiciled outside the country whose exposure they trading asset and related short position crystallise reference.
192 Credit default swaps and off-balance sheet between the counterparties.
Such credit events exposures normally include bankruptcy, payment default on a reference asset or assets, restructuring and The CDSs were transacted with banks with repudiation or moratoria.
investment grade credit ratings, and would pay out Off-balance sheet exposures mainly relate to in the event of the default of the referenced security commitments to lend and the amounts shown in the and certain other credit events.
CDS contracts tables represent the amounts that could be drawn disclosed in the tables below were principally down by the counterparties.
In some instances, entered into for customer facilitation with banks limitations are imposed on a counterpartys ability and financial institutions where their terms are to draw down on a facility.
These limitations are typically drawn up in accordance with the guidance governed by the documentation, which differs from set out in the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives counterparty to counterparty.
In the majority of Definitions and the 2009 Supplement.
The credit cases, we are bound to fulfil commitments made events that trigger the payout of CDSs may differ to third parties.
Commentary on exposures Italian other financial institutions and corporates mainly comprised large multinational companies Spain and other financial institutions with significant At 31 December 2012, our total net exposure to operations outside Italy, which mitigated the risk.
Spain was US$12.1bn, US$0.2bn lower than at the end of 2011.
Greece Our total net exposure to Spanish sovereign and At 31 December 2012, our total net exposure to agencies was US$1.0bn, US$1.2bn lower than at the Greece was US$5.8bn, US$1.8bn lower than at the end of 2011.
The reduction was primarily due to end of 2011.
Although there was a reduction in lower off-balance sheet positions.
exposure levels to all Greek counterparties in the first half of 2012, the majority of the reduction was Our total net exposure to Spanish banks was in respect of exposures to other financial institutions US$2.8bn, US$0.7bn lower than at the end of 2011. and corporates.
The reduced exposure was due to increased risk mitigation.
Our total net exposure to Spanish other Our total net exposure to Greek sovereign and financial institutions and corporates was US$8.3bn, agencies was US$0.1bn, US$0.3bn lower than at the an increase of US$1.7bn primarily due to higher end of 2011.
Our Greek sovereign exposure off-balance sheet commitments.
Our exposure to decreased as a result of the debt restructuring in Spanish other financial institutions and corporates March 2012 and the associated settlement of CDS mainly comprised large multinational companies contracts.
and other financial institutions with significant Our total net exposure to Greek banks was operations outside Spain, which mitigated the risk.
US$0.6bn, US$0.3bn lower than at the end of 2011.
Exposure to the commercial real estate sector in The decrease was primarily due to lower off-balance Spain remained insignificant.
Ireland Our total net exposure to Greek other financial At 31 December 2012, our total net exposure to institutions and corporates was US$4.1bn, US$1.2bn Ireland was US$9.9bn, US$4.1bn higher than at the lower than at the end of 2011.
This increase was in respect of exposures primarily due to lower level of off-balance sheet to other financial institutions and corporates.
At 31 December 2012, our exposure to Greek shipping companies amounted to US$2.2bn.
Our total net exposure to Irish other financial We believe the industry is less sensitive to the Greek institutions and corporates was US$7.6bn, US$4.1bn economy as it is mainly dependent on international higher than at the end of 2011.
primarily in financial investments available for sale for which the underlying risk is not predominantly Portugal Irish.
A significant portion of our exposure related to foreign-owned entities incorporated in Ireland.
At 31 December 2012, our total net exposure to Portugal was US$1.0bn, similar to the end of 2011.
Italy Our total net exposure to Portuguese other At 31 December 2012, our total net exposure to Italy financial institutions and corporates was US$0.4bn, was US$9.6bn, US$1.2bn higher than at the end of US$0.3bn higher than at the end of 2011.
The 2011. increase was primarily due to higher off-balance sheet commitments, which were in support of Our total net exposure to Italian sovereign internationally active corporates with significant agencies was US$2.7bn, US$0.4bn higher than at the operations outside Portugal, which reduced the risk.
This was due to a decrease in risk mitigation.
Cyprus Our total net exposure to Italian banks was Our gross on-balance sheet exposure to Cyprus of US$1.6bn, US$0.5bn lower than at the end of 2011.
US$0.3bn 2011: US$0.2bn consisted primarily of The reduced exposure was primarily due to lower loans and advances to other financial institutions and amounts of loans and advances.
We have Our total net exposure to other financial also provided off-balance sheet commitments and institutions and corporates at 31 December 2012 was guarantees to other financial institutions and US$5.2bn, an increase of US$1.3bn.
Our exposure to corporates of US$0.1bn 2011: US$0.1bn.
Our second largest exposure was in Finland with US$4.3bn of net on-balance sheet exposure to Our net on-balance sheet exposure to the sovereign sovereign, agencies and banks of which US$2.6bn and agency debt of France, Germany and the was cash collateral held in respect of derivative Netherlands was US$70bn, US$17bn lower than at the liabilities.
We also had US$3.3bn of net on-balance end of 2011.
Our exposure to France and Germany was sheet exposure to sovereign and agencies in Belgium commensurate with the size of our operations in these of which US$1.4bn was fully collateralised and countries.
In 2012, cash balances held with the Dutch US$1.2bn to other financial institutions and Central Bank were reduced and redirected to the French corporates.
Our remaining net on-balance sheet Central Bank to align more closely with our underlying exposure to the eurozone was less than 5% of the operations.
The cash placements continued to be put into Groups total equity.
the euro clearing system managed by the ECB.
At 31 December 2012, our net on-balance sheet Redenomination risk Unaudited exposure to the bank debt of France, Germany, and the Netherlands was US$48bn, US$35bn lower than at the As the peripheral eurozone countries continue to end of 2011.
The decrease reflected our ongoing efforts exhibit distress, there is continuing possibility of a to reduce exposure to counterparties domiciled in these member state exiting from the eurozone.
There countries with exposures to sovereigns and or banks in remains no established legal framework within the peripheral eurozone countries of sufficient size to European treaties to facilitate such an event: threaten the counterparties on-going viability in the consequently, it is not possible to accurately predict event of an unfavourable conclusion to the current the course of events and legal consequences that crisis.
At 31 December 2012, our net on-balance sheet Our current view is that there would be a greater exposure to the corporate and other financial institution impact on HSBC from a euro exit of Greece, Italy or debt of France, Germany and the Netherlands was Spain than from Ireland, Portugal or Cyprus.
US$64bn, US$13bn higher than at the end of 2011.
Key risks associated with an exit by a eurozone Off-balance sheet exposures increased by US$5.3bn in member include: France.
Our exposure in Germany and France was commensurate with the size of our operations and was Foreign exchange losses: an exit would well diversified across portfolios, sectors and products.
probably be accompanied by the passing of laws in the country concerned establishing a new local Our relationships in these countries are mostly with currency and providing for a redenomination of large global entities that have significant operations euro-denominated assets into the new local currency.
outside their respective domestic markets.
This The value of assets and liabilities in the country mitigates our risk as these corporates have diversified would immediately fall assuming the value of the the sources of their revenue and, more importantly, redenominated currency is less than the original their ability to raise finance internationally should their euros when translated into the carrying amounts.
It domestic markets become strained.
is not possible to predict what the total consequential In France, our net exposure to personal lending at loss might be as it is uncertain which assets and 31 December 2012 was US$16bn, US$1bn higher than liabilities would be legally re-denominated or what at the end of 2011.
The exposure was mainly in the extent of the devaluation would be.
However, residential mortgages, loans secured by a national in order to provide an indication of one part of the guarantee scheme and unsecured personal loans, and possible exposure, the table below identifies assets both delinquency and impairment charges remained and liabilities booked in our banking operations in low.
Greece, Italy and Spain described as in-country.
These assets and liabilities predominantly comprise Exposure to other eurozone countries loans and deposits arising from our commercial banking operations in these countries.
The net assets In addition to the countries disclosed above, represent our net funding exposure to those countries HSBC had net on-balance sheet exposures of which we consider most likely to be affected by a US$24bn, US$1.6bn higher than in 2011 to redenomination event.
The table also identifies ineurozone countries that were not significant to country off-balance sheet exposures as these are at the Group.
Of these, the largest exposure was risk of redenomination should they be called, giving represented by our retail and corporate banking 201 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Eurozone exposures Redenomination risk Liquidity and funding rise to a balance sheet exposure.
It is to be noted that sanctioned under EU law may be different.
In this analysis can only be an indication as it does not addition, capital controls could be introduced which include euro-denominated exposures booked by may affect the ability to repatriate funds including HSBC outside the countries at risk which are currencies not affected by the redenomination event.
connected with those countries see external We continue to identify and monitor potential contracts below.
redenomination risks and, where possible, take steps External contracts redenomination risk: to mitigate them and or reduce our overall exposure contracts entered into between HSBC businesses to losses that might arise in the event of a based outside a country exiting the euro with inredenomination.
We continue to emphasise, country counterparties or those otherwise closely however, that a euro exit could take different forms connected with the relevant country, may be affected in a number of different scenarios.
These give rise to by redenomination.
The effect remains subject to a distinct legal consequences which could significantly high level of uncertainty.
Factors such as the country alter the potential effectiveness of any steps taken, law under which the contract is documented, the and it is accordingly not possible to predict how HSBC entity involved and the payment mechanism effective particular measures may be until they are may all be relevant to this assessment, as will the tested against the precise circumstances of a precise exit scenario as the consequences for redenomination event.
210 Funding of HSBC Finance 211 Encumbered and unencumbered assets............ 211 Summary of assets available to support potential future funding and collateral needs on and off-balance sheet.. 211 The effect of active collateral management.......... 212 Off-balance sheet collateral received and pledged for reverse repo and stock borrowing transactions.................... 212 Off-balance sheet non-cash collateral received and pledged for derivative transactions............ 212 Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and unencumbered assets..... unencumbered assets..................... 212 213 Additional contractual obligations 213 Additional information...... 214 Contractual maturity of financial liabilities..... 214 Cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities. 215 Management of cross-currency liquidity and funding risk............. 265 HSBC Holdings................ 215 265 Cash flows payable by HSBC Holdings under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities................ 216 Liquidity regulation......... 216 1 Appendix to Risk risk policies and practices 203 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Liquidity and funding In 2012 Management of liquidity and funding risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does recorded a decrease in its advances to core funding not have sufficient financial resources to ratio to 73% at 31 December 2012 2011: 75%, meet its obligations as they fall due, or will mainly as a result of its core deposits increasing have to do so at an excessive cost.
The risk more than advances.
arises from mismatches in the timing of cash The completion of the sale of the US cards flows.
business and branch network during 2012 improved the liquidity and funding position of both HSBC There were no material changes to our policies and Finance and HSBC USA see footnote 42 on page practices for the management of liquidity and 249, the latter recording a decrease in its advances funding risks in 2012. to core funding ratio to 78% as at 31 December 2012 2011: 86%.
A summary of our current policies and practices regarding liquidity and funding is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 261.
Customer deposit markets Customer accounts increased by 7% year on year.
Our liquidity and funding risk management framework After excluding repo balances, the year-on-year The objective of our liquidity framework is to allow us to increase was 7%.
withstand very severe liquidity stresses.
It is designed to be adaptable to changing business models, markets and Retail Banking and Wealth Management regulations.
Our liquidity and funding risk management framework We continued to grow our RBWM customer requires: accounts, which increased by 6%, by providing liquidity to be managed by operating entities on a standdifferentiated products and services to different alone basis with no implicit reliance on the Group or central segments.
The growth in retail deposits benefited banks: from the wider macroeconomic trend of expanded all operating entities to comply with their limits for the advances to core funding ratio: and money supply, customer deleveraging and weak loan all operating entities to maintain a positive stressed cash growth, which partially offset the competitive flow position out to three months under prescribed pressure in some of our key markets for retail Group stress scenarios.
deposits and savers reluctance to place funds into Further details of the metrics are provided in the Appendix low-rate deposits.
Global Private Banking Liquidity and funding in 2012 Unaudited As economic conditions remained subdued and interest rates continued to fall, part of the GPB The liquidity position of the Group strengthened customer base realigned its risk appetite and made in 2012, and we continued to enjoy strong inflows use of the wide range of products available, with of customer deposits and maintained good access some asset reallocation to higher yielding offto wholesale markets.
During 2012, customer balance sheet products including equities, funds and accounts grew by 7% US$86bn while loans bonds.
As a result, customer accounts decreased by and advances to customers increased by 6% 5% year on year.
US$57bn, leading to a small decrease in our advances to deposits ratio to 74% 2011: 75%.
Commercial Banking HSBC UK see footnote 40 on page 249 Customer accounts increased by 11% year on year, recorded an increase in its advances to core funding with the majority of this increase resulting from ratio to 106% at 31 December 2012 2011: 100%.
increases in Payments and Cash Management During 2012, HSBC UK continued to fund the accounts.
The growth in these customer accounts and majority of its growth in advances with growth in the strong growth in payment volumes demonstrated core deposits and remained within its advances to a funding source that is correlated to the operational core funding limit.
services that HSBC provides to the CMB customer The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking base.
Corporation see footnote 41 on page 249 204 Global Banking and Markets Advances to core funding ratio Customer accounts increased by 8% year on year.
The table below shows the extent to which loans After excluding repo balances with customers, and advances to customers in our principal banking GB&M deposits increased by 10% year on year, entities were financed by reliable and stable sources with the majority of this rise resulting from increases of funding.
in Payments and Cash Management accounts.
The Advances to core funding limits set for growth in these customer accounts and the strong operating entities at 31 December 2012 ranged growth in payment volumes demonstrated a funding between 70% and 115%, except for one operating source that is strongly linked to the operational entity reported within the total of HSBCs other services that HSBC provides to the GB&M customer principal entities which operated with a limit of base.
This limit has been reduced to 115% for 2013.
Wholesale funding markets 39 Wholesale funding markets gradually improved Advances to core funding ratios Audited during 2012, although the volume of term debt At 31 December issued by banks was low by recent standards, 2012 2011 influenced to a significant extent by reduced bank % % 40 funding requirements.
Globally, market conditions HSBC UK Year-end 106 100 across public wholesale funding markets were Maximum 106 103 predominantly driven by sovereign-related and more Minimum. 100 98 general events in the eurozone.
Average 103 101 The Hongkong and Shanghai HSBC continued to have good access to debt 41 Banking Corporation capital markets throughout 2012 with Group entities Year-end 73 75 issuing US$10.5bn of public transactions of which Maximum 75 79 US$9.8bn was senior unsecured debt.
Average 78 85 Total of HSBCs other Management of liquidity and funding risk 43 Audited principal entities Year-end 91 86 Our liquidity and funding risk management Maximum 92 90 Minimum. 85 86 framework LFRF employs two key measures to Average 88 89 define, monitor and control the liquidity and funding risk of each of our operating entities.
The advances For footnotes, see page 249. to core funding ratio is used to monitor the structural long-term funding position, and the stressed Stressed coverage ratios coverage ratio, incorporating Group-defined stress The stressed coverage ratios tabulated below express scenarios, is used to monitor the resilience to severe stressed cash inflows as a percentage of stressed cash liquidity stresses.
outflows over both one-month and three-month time The three principal entities listed in the tables horizons.
Operating entities are required to maintain below represented 62% 2011: 61% of the Groups a ratio of 100% or greater out to three months.
Including other Inflows included in the numerator of the principal entities, the percentage was 94% 2011: stressed coverage ratio are those that are assumed to 96%.
be generated from liquid assets net of assumed haircuts, and cash inflows related to assets contractually maturing within the time period.
In general, customer advances are assumed to be renewed and as a result do not generate a cash inflow.
The stressed coverage ratios for HSBC UK Liquid assets of HSBCs principal operating remained broadly unchanged.
entities The stressed coverage ratios for The Hongkong The table below shows the estimated liquidity value and Shanghai Banking Corporation improved as the before assumed haircuts of assets categorised as increase in core deposits exceeded the increase in liquid used for the purposes of calculating the threeloans and advances to customers.
The resulting month stressed coverage ratios, as defined under the surplus was deployed in liquid assets, thereby LFRF.
improving the stressed coverage ratios.
Any unencumbered asset held as a consequence The stressed coverage ratios for HSBC USA of a reverse repo transaction with a residual improved as a result of the net effect of selling the contractual maturity within the stressed coverage US Card and Retail Services business and nonratio time period and unsecured interbank loans strategic branches during 2012, which resulted in a maturing within three months are not included in reduction in core deposits that was lower than the liquid assets, as these assets are reflected as reduction in loans and advances to customers.
resulting surplus was deployed in liquid assets, Liquid assets are held and managed on a thereby improving the stressed coverage ratios.
Most of the liquid The three-month stressed coverage ratio for assets shown are held directly by each operating the total of HSBCs other principal entities remained entitys Balance Sheet Management function, broadly unchanged.
The one-month stressed primarily for the purpose of managing liquidity risk, coverage ratio improved as a result of an increase in line with the LFRF.
in contractual maturities between one month and Liquid assets also include any unencumbered three months.
liquid assets held outside Balance Sheet Management for any other purpose.
The LFRF gives ultimate control of all unencumbered assets and sources of liquidity to Balance Sheet Management.
Our liquid asset policy was refined at 1 January Liquid assets held by HSBC USA decreased 2012 to apply a more granular classification of liquid as a result of the sale of the US Card and Retail assets, as described in the Appendix to Risk on page Services business and non-strategic branches during 261.
Under the previous framework, liquid assets 2012. were classified into two categories: central government, central bank and US agency MBS Net contractual cash flows exposures: and all other non-government exposures.
The following table quantifies the contractual cash Central government, central bank and US agency flows from interbank and intergroup loans and MBS exposures qualify as Level 1 or Level 2 under deposits, and reverse repo, repo including the new policy and are shown as such in the intergroup transactions and short positions for the comparatives.
These contractual cash All assets held within the liquid asset portfolio inflows and outflows are reflected gross in the are unencumbered.
numerator and denominator, respectively, of the one and three-month stressed coverage ratios and should Liquid assets held by HSBC UK increased as a be considered alongside the level of liquid assets.
result of a rise in customer accounts, which led to an increase in the level of non-core deposits and, Outflows included in the denominator of the consequently, liquid assets.
stressed coverage ratios include the principal outflows associated with the contractual maturity Liquid assets held by The Hongkong and of wholesale debt securities reported in the table Shanghai Banking Corporation also rose as a result headed Wholesale funding cash flows payable of an increase in customer accounts.
As the growth by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining in core deposits exceeded the increases in loans and contractual maturities on page 210. advances to customers, the difference was deployed into liquid assets and the level of liquid assets held grew accordingly.
Net cash flow arising from interbank and Contingent liquidity risk arising from intragroup loans and deposits committed lending facilities Audited Under the LFRF, a net cash inflow within three The Groups operating entities provide commitments months arising from interbank and intragroup loans to various counterparts.
In terms of liquidity risk, the and deposits will give rise to a lower liquid asset most significant risk relates to committed lending requirement.
Conversely, a net cash outflow within facilities which, whilst undrawn, give rise to three months arising from interbank and intragroup contingent liquidity risk, as these could be drawn loans and deposits will give rise to a higher liquid during a period of liquidity stress.
given to customers and committed lending facilities are provided to consolidated multi-seller conduits, Net cash flow arising from reverse repo, repo, established to enable clients to access a flexible stock borrowing, stock lending and outright short market-based source of finance see page 209, positions including intragroup consolidated securities investment conduits and A net cash inflow represents additional liquid third-party sponsored conduits.
resources, in addition to liquid assets, because any The consolidated securities investment conduits unencumbered asset held as a consequence of a primarily represent Solitaire and Mazarin see reverse repo transaction with a residual contractual pages 186.
These conduits issue asset-backed maturity within the stressed coverage ratio time commercial paper secured against the portfolio of period is not reflected as a liquid asset.
securities held by these conduits.
At 31 December The impact of net cash outflow depends on 2012, HSBC UK had undrawn committed lending whether the underlying collateral encumbered as a facilities to these conduits of US$18bn 2011: result will qualify as a liquid asset when released at US$22bn, of which Solitaire represented US$13bn the maturity of the repo.
The majority of the Groups 2011: US$16bn and the remaining US$5.1bn repo transactions are collateralised by liquid assets 2011: US$6.2bn pertained to Mazarin.
At and, as such, any net cash outflow shown is offset by 31 December 2012, the commercial paper issued by the return of liquid assets, which are excluded from Solitaire and Mazarin was entirely held by HSBC the liquid asset table above.
Since HSBC controls the size of the portfolio The table below shows the level of undrawn of securities held by these conduits, no contingent commitments to customers outstanding for the five liquidity risk exposure arises as a result of these largest single facilities and the largest market sector, undrawn committed lending facilities.
and the extent to which they are undrawn.
The Groups contractual undrawn exposures at 31 December monitored under the contingent liquidity risk limit structure Audited The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking HSBC UK HSBC USA HSBC Canada Corporation 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn Commitments to conduits Consolidated multi-seller conduits total lines 7.8 11.4 2.3 0.9 1.0 0.7 largest individual lines...... 0.7 0.7 0.5 0.3 0.8 0.5 Consolidated securities investment conduits total lines. 18.1 22.1 Third party conduits total lines. 0.8 1.4 Commitments to customers 45 five largest 6.0 3.4 6.0 5.7 1.7 1.8 2.1 1.9 46 largest market sector....... 11.0 7.5 7.5 6.5 4.5 3.8 2.4 2.5 For footnotes, see page 249.
Sources of funding liabilities that do not arise from operating activities Audited are presented as a net balancing source or deployment of funds.
Our primary sources of funding are customer current accounts and customer savings deposits payable on The level of customer accounts continued to demand or at short notice.
We issue wholesale exceed the level of loans and advances to customers.
securities secured and unsecured to supplement Excluding the effect of repos from customer our customer deposits and change the currency accounts and reverse repos from loans and advances mix, maturity profile or location of our liabilities.
to customers, the adjusted advances to deposits ratio at 31 December 2012 was 73.4% 2011: 73.5%.
The The funding sources and uses table, which positive funding gap was predominantly deployed provides a consolidated view of how our balance into liquid assets: cash and balances with central sheet is funded, should be read in the light of the banks and financial investments, as required by the LFRF, which requires operating entities to manage LFRF.
liquidity and funding risk on a stand-alone basis.
Loans and other receivables due from banks The table analyses our consolidated balance continued to exceed deposits taken from banks.
sheet according to the assets that primarily arise The Group remained a net unsecured lender to the from operating activities and the sources of funding banking sector.
all cash flows relating to principal and future coupon The table below summarises the total on payments.
and off-balance sheet assets that are capable of supporting future funding and collateral needs and Funding of HSBC Finance shows the extent to which these assets are currently We do not expect the professional markets to be pledged for this purpose.
a source of funding for HSBC Finance in the future in view of the sale of the Card and Retail Services Summary of assets available to support potential business and the run-off of its remaining portfolio.
future funding and collateral needs on and offHSBC Finance expects to meet future funding balance sheet Unaudited needs by asset sales and affiliate funding.
As a 2012 consequence, no new external third-party funding, US$bn including commercial paper, is being originated by Total on-balance sheet assets 2,693 HSBC Finance.
Less: Reverse repo stock borrowing receivables and derivative assets 562 Encumbered and unencumbered assets Other assets that cannot be pledged as Unaudited collateral.................. 247 The objective of this disclosure is to facilitate an Total on-balance sheet assets that can support funding and collateral needs 1,884 understanding of available and unrestricted assets that could be used to support potential future funding Add off-balance sheet assets: Fair value of collateral received from and collateral needs.
reverse repo stock borrowing that is available to sell or repledge.................. 296 An asset is defined as encumbered if it has been Fair value of collateral received from pledged as collateral against an existing liability, derivatives that is available to sell or and as a result is no longer available to the bank to repledge 6 secure funding, satisfy collateral needs or be sold Total assets that can support funding and to reduce the funding requirement.
An asset is collateral needs on and off-balance sheet 2,186 therefore categorised as unencumbered if it has Less: On-balance sheet assets pledged............... 233 not been pledged against an existing liability.
Off-balance sheet collateral received from Unencumbered assets are then further analysed into reverse repo stock borrowing which has four separate sub-categories: readily realisable been repledged or sold 203 Off-balance sheet collateral received from assets, other realisable assets, reverse repo stock derivative transactions which has been borrowing receivables and derivative assets and repledged or sold........ 1 cannot be pledged as collateral.
Assets available to support funding and collateral needs 1,749 The disclosure is not designed to identify assets which would be available to meet the claims of 211 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Liquidity and funding Encumbered and unencumbered assets At 31 December 2012, the Group held Off-balance sheet collateral received and US$1,749bn of unencumbered assets that could pledged for reverse repo and stock be used to support potential future funding and borrowing transactions collateral needs, representing 80% of the total assets The fair value of assets accepted as collateral that that can support funding and collateral needs on HSBC is permitted to sell or repledge in the absence and off-balance sheet.
Of this amount, US$764bn of default was US$296bn at 31 December 2012 US$666bn on-balance sheet were assessed to be 2011: US$302bn.
The fair value of any such readily realisable.
collateral that has been sold or repledged was US$203bn 2011: US$189bn.
HSBC is obliged The effect of active collateral management to return equivalent securities.
These transactions Collateral is managed on an operating entity basis, are conducted under terms that are usual and consistent with the operating entity management of customary to standard reverse repo and stock liquidity and funding.
The available collateral held borrowing transactions.
by each operating entity is managed as a single The fair value of collateral received and collateral pool.
In managing this collateral and repledged in relation to reverse repo and stock deciding which collateral to pledge, each operating borrowing are reported on a gross basis.
The related entity will seek to optimise the use of the available balance sheet receivables and payables are reported collateral pool, within the confines of the LFRF, on a net basis where required under IFRS netting irrespective of whether the collateral pledged is criteria.
recognised on-balance sheet or was received in respect of reverse repo, stock borrowing or As a result of reverse repo and stock borrowing derivative transactions.
transactions where the collateral received can be sold or re-pledged, but has not been sold or re-pledged, As a result of managing collateral in this we held US$93bn of unencumbered collateral manner, in terms of asset encumbrance presentation, available to support potential future funding and we may encumber on-balance sheet holdings while collateral needs at 31 December 2012. maintaining available unencumbered off-balance sheet holdings, even though we are not seeking to Off-balance sheet non-cash collateral directly finance the on-balance sheet holdings received and pledged for derivative pledged.
transactions In quantifying the level of encumbrance of The fair value of assets accepted as collateral related negotiable securities, the encumbrance has been to derivative transactions that we are permitted to analysed on an individual security basis.
In doing so sell or repledge in the absence of default was where a particular security has been encumbered and US$6.0bn.
The fair value of any such collateral HSBC has holdings of the security both on-balance that has been sold or repledged was US$0.8bn.
We sheet and off-balance sheet with the right to are obliged to return equivalent securities.
These repledge, it is assumed for the purpose of this transactions are conducted under terms that are disclosure that the off-balance sheet holding is usual and customary to derivative transactions.
encumbered ahead of the on-balance sheet holding.
An on balance-sheet encumbered and offAnalysis of on-balance sheet encumbered balance sheet unencumbered asset will occur, for and unencumbered assets example, if we receive a specific security as a result The table on page 213 presents an analysis of of a reverse repo stock borrow transaction, but on-balance sheet holdings only, and shows the finance the cash lent by pledging a generic collateral amounts of balance sheet assets that are encumbered.
basket, even if the security received is eligible for The table therefore excludes any available offthe collateral basket pledged.
This will also occur if balance sheet holdings received in respect of we receive a generic collateral basket as a result of a reverse repo, stock borrowing or derivatives.
reverse repo transaction but finance the cash lent by pledging specific securities, even if the securities pledged are eligible for the collateral basket.
or advances to banks and loans and advances to customers.
Additional contractual obligations The US$41bn of loans and advances to Under the terms of our current collateral obligations customers reported in the table above as encumbered under derivative contracts, we estimate based on the have been pledged predominantly to support the positions as at 31 December 2012 that HSBC could issuance of secured debt instruments, such as be required to post additional collateral of up to covered bonds and ABSs including asset-backed US$1.5bn 2011: US$3bn in the event of a one commercial paper issued by consolidated multinotch downgrade in credit ratings, which would seller conduits.
It also includes those pledged in increase to US$2.5bn 2011: US$3.8bn in the event relation to any other form of secured borrowing.
213 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Liquidity and funding Encumbered and unencumbered assets Contractual maturity of financial liabilities Definitions of the categories included in the table Analysis ABSs and covered bonds where the amount of of encumbered and unencumbered assets: liabilities issued plus the required mandatory Encumbered assets are assets on our balance sheet which  is lower than the book have been pledged as collateral against an existing liability, value of assets pledged to the pool.
Any and as a result are assets which are unavailable to the bank difference is categorised in the table above to secure funding, satisfy collateral needs or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements.
as Unencumbered readily realisable assets: Unencumbered readily realisable assets are assets negotiable securities held by custodians or regarded by the bank to be readily realisable in the normal course of business, to secure funding, meet collateral needs, settlement agents, where a floating charge has or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements, been given over the entire holding to secure and are not subject to any restrictions on their use for these intra-day settlement liabilities, are only reported purposes.
as encumbered to the extent that we have a Unencumbered other realisable assets are assets where liability to the custodian or settlement agent at there are no restrictions on their use to secure funding, meet collateral needs, or be sold to reduce potential future the reporting date, with the balance reported as funding requirements, but are not readily realisable in the Unencumbered readily realisable assets: and normal course of business in their current form.
Unencumbered reverse repo stock borrow receivables and assets pre-positioned with central banks or derivative assets are assets related specifically to reverse government agencies are only reported as repo, stock borrowing and derivative transactions.
These are encumbered to the extent that we have secured shown separately as these on-balance sheet assets cannot be pledged, but often give rise to the receipt of non-cash assets funding with the collateral.
The unutilised which are not recognised on the balance sheet, and can pre-positioned collateral is reported as additionally be used to raise secured funding, meet Unencumbered readily realisable assets.
additional collateral requirements or be sold.
Unencumbered cannot be pledged as collateral are assets Contractual maturity of financial liabilities that have not been pledged but which we have assessed Audited could not be pledged and therefore could not be used to secure funding, meet collateral needs, or be sold to reduce The balances in the table below will not agree potential future funding requirements, for example assets held by the Groups insurance subsidiaries that back directly with those in our consolidated balance sheet liabilities to policyholders and support the solvency of these as the table incorporates, on an undiscounted basis, entities.
all cash flows relating to principal and future Historically, the Group has not recognised any contingent coupon payments except for trading liabilities liquidity value for assets other than those assets defined under the LFRF as being liquid assets, and any other negotiable and derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives.
instruments that under stress are assumed to be realisable after Undiscounted cash flows payable in relation to three months, even though they may currently be realisable.
hedging derivative liabilities are classified according This approach has generally been driven by our risk appetite not to place any reliance on central banks.
In a few cases, we to their contractual maturities.
Trading liabilities and have recognised the contingent value of discrete pools of derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives are assets, but the amounts involved are insignificant.
As a result, included in the On demand time bucket and not we have reported the majority of our loans and advances to by contractual maturity.
A maturity analysis of repos customers and banks in the category Other realisable assets as management would need to perform additional actions in and debt securities in issue included in trading order to make the assets transferable and readily realisable.
liabilities is presented on page 487.
In addition, loan and other credit-related Additional information commitments and financial guarantees and similar contracts are generally not recognised on our balance The amount of such assets reported in Note 36 on the sheet.
The undiscounted cash flows potentially Financial Statements may be greater than the book payable under financial guarantees and similar value of assets reported as being encumbered in the contracts are classified on the basis of the earliest table on page 213.
Examples of where such date they can be called.
HSBC Holdings derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives.
Audited Undiscounted cash flows payable in relation to hedging derivative liabilities are classified according During 2012, HSBC Holdings issued US$2.0bn to their contractual maturities.
Derivatives not of senior debt 2011: US$5.3bn.
The eligibility treated as hedging derivatives are included in the requirements for non-equity instruments under On demand time bucket.
Basel III rules have not been clearly defined in the UK, so HSBC Holdings issued no debt instruments In addition, loan commitments and financial which qualified as capital in 2012 2011: nil.
guarantees and similar contracts are generally not recognised on our balance sheet.
The undiscounted The balances in the table below will not cash flows potentially payable under financial agree directly with those on the balance sheet guarantees and similar contracts are classified on of HSBC Holdings as the table incorporates, on the basis of the earliest date they can be called.
the International framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring.
The A significant level of interpretation is required framework comprises two liquidity metrics: the applying the definitions as currently drafted, in liquidity coverage ratio LCR and the net stable particular, the definition of operational deposits.
The ratios are subject to Uncertainty around LCR also arises from the fact that an observation period that began in 2011, and are the implementation of the Basel LCR framework still expected to become established standards by 2015 and requires EU endorsement.
In addition, the final 2018, respectively.
During the observation period, the calibration of the NSFR is highly uncertain and is standards are under review by the Basel Committee.
217 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Market risk In 2012 Trading and non-trading portfolios Market risk is the risk that movements in improved market sentiment, primarily because the market factors, including foreign exchange ECB pledged to support the euro.
This led to a rates and commodity prices, interest rates, more benign market environment and generally credit spreads and equity prices, will reduce subdued volatilities of credit spreads and other our income or the value of our portfolios.
There were no material changes to our policies and Trading and non-trading portfolios Audited practices for the management of market risk in 2012.
The following tables provide an overview of the A summary of our current policies and practices types of risks within the different global businesses.
regarding market risk is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 265.
Types of risk by global business Risk types Global businesses Exposure to market risk Trading risk GB&M including Balance Exposure to market risk is separated into two portfolios: Foreign exchange Sheet Management BSM Trading portfolios comprise positions arising from marketand commodities making and warehousing of customer-derived positions.
Interest rate Non-trading portfolios comprise positions that primarily Equities arise from the interest rate management of our retail and Credit spread commercial banking assets and liabilities, financial investments designated as available for sale and held to Non-trading risk GB&M including BSM, maturity, and exposures arising from our insurance Foreign exchange structural RBWM, CMB and GPB operations see page 232.
Interest rate Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures Credit spread Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures while maintaining a market profile consistent with our risk The market risk for insurance operations is appetite.
We use a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk exposures, including: Market risk reporting measures sensitivity measures include sensitivity of net interest income and sensitivity for structural foreign exchange, The following table provides an overview of the which are used to monitor the market risk positions within each risk type: reporting of risks within this section: value at risk VAR is a technique that estimates the potential losses that could occur on risk positions as a Overview of risk reporting result of movements in market rates and prices over a Portfolio specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence: Trading Non-trading and Risk type in recognition of VARs limitations we augment VAR with Foreign exchange and stress testing to evaluate the potential impact on portfolio commodity VAR VAR values of more extreme, though plausible, events or Interest rate.... VAR VAR movements in a set of financial variables.
Examples of Sensitivity scenarios reflecting current market concerns are the Equity VAR Sensitivity slowdown of mainland China and the potential effects of a Credit spread VAR VAR sovereign debt default, including its wider contagion Structural foreign exchange.... n a Sensitivity effects.
Structural foreign exchange risk is monitored Market risk in 2012 using sensitivity analysis see page 268.
The Audited reporting of commodity risk is consolidated with foreign exchange risk.
There is no commodity risk Some credit spread and interest rate exposures to in the non-trading portfolios.
The interest rate risk sovereign borrowers were managed down during on the fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC 2012 against the backdrop of continued concerns Holdings is not included in the Group VAR.
around eurozone sovereigns and financial The management of this risk is described on institutions, the global economic slowdown and page 270. uncertainty about fiscal policy in the US.
The second half of the year was characterised by 218 Market risk linkages to the accounting balance sheet Trading assets and liabilities create risk management solutions for clients, to manage the portfolio risks arising from client business and to manage and The Groups trading assets and liabilities are in substantially all hedge HSBCs own risks.
Most of HSBCs derivative exposures cases originated by GB&M.
As described on page 393, the assets arise from sales and trading activities within GB&M and are and liabilities are classified as held for trading if they have been treated as traded risk for market risk management purposes.
acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term, or form part of a portfolio of Within derivative assets and liabilities there are portfolios of identified financial instruments that are managed together and for derivatives which are not risk managed on a trading intent basis which there is evidence of a recent pattern of short-term profitand are treated as non-traded risk for VAR measurement purposes.
These assets and liabilities are treated as traded risk for the These arise when the derivative was entered into in order to purposes of market risk management, other than a limited number manage risk arising from non-traded exposures.
These include of exceptions, primarily in Global Banking where the short-term non-qualifying hedging derivatives, and derivatives qualifying for acquisition and disposal of the assets are linked to other nonfair value and cash flow hedge accounting.
The use of nontrading related activities such as loan origination.
qualifying hedges whose primary risks relate to interest rate and foreign exchange exposure is described on page 397.
Details of Financial assets designated at fair value derivatives in fair value and cash flow hedge accounting relationships are given in Note 19 on the Financial Statements.
Financial assets designated at fair value within HSBC are HSBCs primary risks in respect of these instruments relate to predominantly held within the Insurance entities.
The majority of interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
these assets are linked to policyholder liabilities for either unitlinked or insurance and investment contracts with DPF.
Further Loans and advances to customers information in respect of these assets is given on page 393.
The risks of these assets largely offset the market risk on the liabilities The primary risk on assets within loans and advances to under the policyholder contracts, and are risk managed on a noncustomers is the credit risk of the borrower.
The risk of these trading basis.
Market risk for insurance operations is covered on assets is treated as non-trading risk for market risk management page 239. purposes.
Financial liabilities designated at fair value Financial investments Financial liabilities designated at fair value within HSBC are Financial investments include assets held on an available-for-sale primarily fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC entities for and held-to-maturity basis.
An analysis of the Groups holdings funding purposes.
As described on page 393, an accounting of these securities by accounting classification and issuer type is mismatch would arise if the debt securities were accounted for shown on page 457 and by business activity on page 20.
The at amortised cost because the derivatives which economically majority of these securities are mainly held within Balance Sheet hedge market risks on the securities would be accounted for at Management in GB&M.
The positions which are originated in fair value with changes recognised in the income statement.
The order to manage structural interest rate and liquidity risk are market risks of these liabilities are treated as non-traded risk, the treated as non-trading risk for the purposes of market risk principal risks being interest rate and or foreign exchange risks.
Available-for-sale security holdings within We also incur liabilities to customers under investment contracts, insurance entities are treated as non-trading risk and are largely where the liabilities on unit-linked contracts are based on the fair held to back non-linked insurance policyholder liabilities.
Market value of assets within the unit-linked funds.
The exposures on risk for insurance operations is covered on page 239. these funds are treated as non-traded risk and the principal risks The other main holdings of available-for-sale assets are the are those of the underlying assets in the funds.
ABSs within GB&Ms legacy credit business, which are treated as non-trading risk for market risk management purposes, the Derivative assets and liabilities principal risk being the credit risk of the obligor.
As described in Note 19 on the Financial Statements HSBC The Groups held-to-maturity securities are principally held undertakes derivative activity for three primary purposes: to within the Insurance business.
Risks of held-to-maturity assets are treated as non-trading for risk management purposes.
Value at risk of the trading and non-trading Daily trading and non-trading VAR US$m Unaudited portfolios 400 Our Group VAR, both trading and non-trading, was 350 as tabulated below.
For a description of HSBCs 300 fair value and price verification controls, see 250 page 438.
219 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Market risk Trading portfolios Non-trading portfolios For a description of the parameters used in Almost all trading VAR resides within Global calculating VAR, see the Appendix to Risk on Markets.
The VAR for trading activity at page 266.
31 December 2012 was lower than at 31 December 2011 due primarily to the reduced contribution of Trading portfolios credit spread exposures to sovereigns.
This reduction Audited was driven by positions being managed down, together with the lower credit spread volatilities Value at risk of the trading portfolios and baselines in the VAR calculations.
Our Group trading VAR was as shown below: We routinely validate the accuracy of our VAR Trading value at risk models by back-testing the actual daily profit and 2012 2011 loss results, adjusted to remove non-modelled US$m US$m items such as fees and commissions, against the corresponding VAR numbers.
The actual number of losses in Maximum 130.9 143.9 excess of VAR over this period can therefore be used to gauge how well the models are performing.
In 2012, there were no exceptions at the Group level.
Stressed value at risk of the trading Most of the Group non-trading VAR relates to portfolios Balance Sheet Management BSM or local Unaudited treasury management functions.
Contributions to Group non-trading VAR are driven by interest rates Stressed VAR is primarily used for regulatory capital and credit spread risks arising from all global purposes but is integrated into the risk management businesses as illustrated on page 265.
The decrease process to facilitate efficient capital management and of non-trading VAR during 2012 was due primarily to highlight potentially risky positions based on to the reduced contribution of credit spread risks as a previous market volatility.
result of lower volatilities and credit spread baselines Our Group stressed VAR for trading portfolios utilised in the VAR calculations.
This movement was as follows: includes the reduction in credit spread risks relating to the Groups holdings of available for sale debt Stressed value at risk 1-day equivalent securities excluding those held in insurance Unaudited 2012 2011 operations, which is discussed further in the US$m US$m following section.
At 31 December 172.4 293.6 Non-trading VAR also includes the interest rate risk of non-trading financial instruments held Stressed VAR for trading portfolios reduced by the global businesses and transferred into primarily as a result of the fide-risking of exposures to portfolios managed by Global Markets or local eurozone sovereigns and managing down of interest treasury functions.
In measuring, monitoring and rate risks, together with the impact of lower credit managing risk in our non-trading portfolios, VAR is spread levels on the VAR calculation.
just one of the tools used.
The management of interest rate risk in the banking book is described Non-trading portfolios further in Non-trading interest rate risk below, Audited including the role of Balance Sheet Management.
Value at risk of the non-trading portfolios Non-trading VAR excludes equity risk on Non-trading value at risk available for sale securities, structural foreign 2012 2011 exchange risk, and interest rate risk on fixed US$m US$m rate securities issued by HSBC Holdings, the management of which is described in the relevant At 31 December 119.2 310.9 Average............. 197.9 244.2 sections below.
The daily levels of non-trading VAR over the course Credit spread risk for available-for-sale debt of 2012 are set out in the graph below.
securities Daily VAR non-trading portfolios US$m Credit spread VAR for available-for-sale debt Unaudited securities, excluding those held in insurance 350 operations, is included in the Group non-trading VAR.
300 250 At 31 December 2012, the sensitivity of equity 200 capital to the effect of movements in credit spreads 150 on our available-for-sale debt securities, including 100 the gross exposure for the SICs consolidated within 50 our balance sheet, based on credit spread VAR, was 0 US$150m 2011: US$389m.
This sensitivity was Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12 Aug-12 Oct-12 Dec-12 221 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Market risk Structural FX exposures Non-trading interest rate risk BSM Sensitivity of NII calculated before taking into account losses which to define the rules governing the transfer of would have been absorbed by the capital note interest rate risk from the global businesses to holders.
Excluding the gross exposure for SICs BSM: consolidated in our balance sheet, this exposure to ensure that all market interest rate risk reduced to US$119m 2011: US$325m.
that can be hedged is transferred from the global The decrease in this sensitivity at 31 December businesses to BSM: and 2012 compared with 31 December 2011 was due to define the rules and metrics for monitoring mainly to the effect of the lower volatility in credit the residual interest rate risk in the global spreads observed during 2012. businesses.
At 31 December 2012, the capital note holders The different types of non-trading interest would absorb the first US$2.3bn 2011: US$2.3bn rate risk and the controls which we use to quantify of any losses incurred by the SICs before we incur and limit exposure to these risks can be categorised any equity losses.
as follows: Equity securities classified as available risk which is transferred to BSM and managed for sale by BSM within a defined risk mandate see below : Fair value of equity securities Audited risk which remains outside BSM because it 2012 2011 cannot be hedged or which arises due to our US$bn US$bn behaviouralised transfer pricing assumptions.
53 Private equity holdings............ 2.9 3.0 This risk is captured by our net interest income Funds invested for short-term or Economic Value of Equity EVE sensitivity cash management................... 0.2 0.2 and corresponding limits are part of our global Investment to facilitate 54 ongoing business.................. 1.1 1.1 and regional risk appetite statements for nonOther strategic investments........ 1.6 2.9 trading interest rate risk.
A typical example would be margin compression created by 5.8 7.2 unusually low rates in key currencies: For footnotes, see page 249. basis risk which is transferred to BSM when The fair value of the constituents of equity securities it can be hedged.
Any residual basis risk classified as available for sale can fluctuate remaining in the global businesses is reported to considerably.
The table above sets out maximum ALCO.
A typical example would be a managed possible loss on shareholders equity from availablerate savings product transfer-priced using a for-sale equity securities.
Libor-based interest rate curve: and For details of the impairment incurred on model risks which cannot be captured by net available-for-sale equity securities, see interest income or EVE sensitivity, but are Securitisation exposures and other structured controlled by our stress testing framework.
A products on page 184. typical example would be prepayment risk on residential mortgages or pipeline risk.
Structural foreign exchange exposures Unaudited Balance Sheet Management Unaudited Our policies and procedures for managing structural foreign exchange exposures are described on Effective governance across BSM is supported by page 268.
For details of structural foreign exchange the dual reporting lines it has to the CEO of GB&M exposures see Note 35 on the Financial Statements.
and to the Group Treasurer.
In each operating entity, BSM is responsible for managing liquidity and Non-trading interest rate risk funding under the supervision of the local ALCO.
It Unaudited also manages the non-trading interest rate positions transferred to it within a Global Markets limit Asset, Liability and Capital Management ALCM structure.
is responsible for measuring and controlling nontrading interest rate risk under the supervision of the BSM reinvests excess liquidity into highly Risk Management Meeting RMM.
Its primary rated liquid assets.
The majority of the liquidity is responsibilities are: invested in central bank deposits and government, supranational and agency securities with most of 222 the remainder held in short-term interbank and BSM does not manage the structural credit risk of central bank loans.
any Group entity balance sheets.
BSM is permitted to enter into single name and Analysis of third party assets in Balance Sheet index credit derivatives activity, but it does so to Management manage credit risk on the exposure specific to its Unaudited securities portfolio in limited circumstances only.
At 31 December The risk limits are extremely limited and closely 2012 monitored.
At 31 December 2012 and 31 December US$m 2011 BSM had no open credit derivative index risk.
Cash and balances at central banks............. 93,946 Trading assets 8,724 VAR is calculated on both trading and nonFinancial assets designated at fair value..... 74 trading positions held in BSM.
Positions and the associated VAR were not significant during 2012 Central bank deposits are accounted for as cash and 2011. balances.
Interbank loans and loans to central banks are accounted for as loans and advances to banks.
Sensitivity of net interest income BSMs holdings of securities are accounted for as Unaudited available-for-sale or to a lesser extent, held to The table below sets out the effect on our future net maturity assets.
interest income of an incremental 25 basis points BSM is permitted to use derivatives as part of parallel rise or fall in all yield curves worldwide at its mandate to manage interest rate risk.
Derivative the beginning of each quarter during the 12 months activity is predominantly through the use of vanilla from 1 January 2013.
Assuming no management interest rate swaps which are part of cash flow actions, a sequence of such rises would increase hedging and fair value hedging relationships.
planned net interest income for 2013 by US$1,391m 2012: US$1,571m, while a sequence of such falls Credit risk in BSM is predominantly limited would decrease planned net interest income by to short-term bank exposure created by interbank US$1,471m 2012: US$1,909m.
These figures lending and exposure to central banks as well as high incorporate the effect of any option features in the quality sovereigns, supranationals or agencies which underlying exposures.
constitute the majority of BSMs liquidity portfolio.
55 Sensitivity of projected net interest income Unaudited Rest of Hong Kong Rest of US dollar Americas dollar Asia Sterling Euro bloc bloc bloc bloc bloc bloc Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Change in 2013 projected net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter..... 133 64 246 237 679 44 1,403 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter..... 366 52 305 168 602 57 1,550 Change in 2012 projected net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter..... 209 62 263 232 729 76 1,571 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter..... 465 59 443 166 708 68 1,909 For footnote, see page 249.
223 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Market risk Sensitivity of NII DBS Scheme Parent company The interest rate sensitivities set out above assets, while related revenue is reported in Net are illustrative only and are based on simplified trading income.
The limitations of this analysis are We monitor the sensitivity of reported reserves discussed in the Appendix to Risk on page 269. to interest rate movements on a monthly basis by The year-on-year change in the sensitivity of assessing the expected reduction in valuation of the Groups net interest income to the change in rates available-for-sale portfolios and cash flow hedges shown in the table above is largely driven by lower due to parallel movements of plus or minus 100bps implied yield curves, reducing the capacity to shock in all yield curves.
The table below describes the interest rates down.
The table shows 2012 2011 the potential sensitivity of reported reserves to US$bn US$bn valuation changes in available-for-sale portfolios and Liabilities present value........ 38.1 35.0 from cash flow hedges following the specified shifts % % in yield curves.
These particular exposures form only Assets: a part of our overall interest rate exposures.
The Equities 18 15 Debt securities 71 73 accounting treatment of our remaining interest rate Other including property....... 11 12 exposures, while economically largely offsetting the 100 100 exposures shown in the above table, does not require revaluation movements to go to reserves.
For details of our defined benefit schemes, see Note 7 on the Financial Statements, and for pension Defined benefit pension schemes Audited risk management, see page 269.
Market risk arises within our defined benefit pension Additional market risk measures applicable schemes to the extent that the obligations of the only to the parent company schemes are not fully matched by assets with Audited determinable cash flows.
The principal tools used in the management of market risk are VAR for foreign exchange rate risk, and the projected sensitivity of HSBC Holdings net interest income to future changes in yield curves and interest rate gap re-pricing tables for interest rate risk.
224 Foreign exchange risk Sensitivity of net interest income Audited Total foreign exchange VAR arising within HSBC HSBC Holdings monitors net interest income Holdings in 2012 was as follows: sensitivity over a 5-year time horizon reflecting the longer-term perspective on interest rate risk HSBC Holdings foreign exchange VAR management appropriate to a financial services Audited 2012 2011 holding company.
The foreign exchange risk largely arises from Assuming no management actions, a sequence loans to subsidiaries of a capital nature that are not of such rises would increase planned net interest denominated in the functional currency of either the income for the next five years by US$532m 2011: provider or the recipient and which are accounted decrease of US$269m, while a sequence of such for as financial assets.
Changes in the carrying falls would decrease planned net interest income amount of these loans due to foreign exchange rate by US$329m 2011: increase of US$248m.
These differences are taken directly to HSBC Holdings figures incorporate the effect of any option features income statement.
These loans, and most of the in the underlying exposures.
associated foreign exchange exposures, are eliminated on a Group consolidated basis.
The interest rate sensitivities tabulated above interest income sensitivity was a change in the are illustrative only and are based on simplified assumptions for projected capital funding.
The figures represent hypothetical to the GBP projected net interest income sensitivity movements in net interest income based on our was caused by changes in the composition of HSBC projected yield curve scenarios, HSBC Holdings Holdings investments.
Changes to assumptions current interest rate risk profile and assumed changes concerning the risk profile over the next five years to that profile during the next five years.
The main can have a significant impact on the net interest income driver of the change in the US dollar projected net sensitivity for that period.
However, the figures do not 225 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Market risk Parent company Operational risk ORMF take into account the effect of actions that could be issued by HSBC Holdings is not included within the taken to mitigate this interest rate risk.
Group VAR but is managed on a repricing gap basis.
The interest rate repricing gap table below analyses Interest rate repricing gap table the full-term structure of interest rate mismatches within HSBC Holdings balance sheet.
Operational risk is relevant to every aspect Operational risk management framework of our business, and covers a wide spectrum The Group Operational Risk function and the ORMF of issues, in particular legal, compliance, assist business management in discharging their security and fraud.
breaches of regulation and law, unauthorised activities, error, omission, inefficiency, fraud, The ORMF defines minimum standards and systems failure or external events all fall processes, and the governance structure for within the definition of operational risk.
operational risk and internal control across the Group.
Inherent to the ORMF is a three lines of We continued to enhance our operational risk defence model for the management of risk, as management framework ORMF policies and described below: procedures in 2012, including the implementation Three lines of defence of a top risk analysis process to improve the quantification and management of material risks Every employee at HSBC is responsible for the risks that are a part of their day to day jobs.
This provides a top down, First The first line of defence ensures all key risks line of forward-looking view of risks to help determine within their operations are identified, mitigated defence and monitored by appropriate internal controls whether they are being effectively managed within within an overall control environment.
our risk appetite or whether further management action is required.
Consists of the Global Functions such as Global Second Risk, Finance and HR who are responsible for Responsibility for minimising operational line of providing assurance, challenge and oversight defence risk management lies with HSBCs management and of the activities conducted by the first line.
Each regional, global business, country, business unit and functional head is required to maintain oversight over operational risk and internal Third Internal Audit provides independent assurance line of control covering all business and operational over the first and second lines of defence.
defence activities for which they are responsible.
A summary of our current policies and practices regarding operational risk is provided in the A diagrammatic representation of the ORMF is Appendix to Risk on page 270. presented below: 227 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Market risk Operational In 2012 Operational risk management framework Operational risks 1 Risk and Control Assessment RCA Operations Accounting Compliance 2 Key indicators KIs Fiduciary Top Risk Internal fraud Analysis External fraud TRA 3 Internal incidents Physical Action Business continuity Information Legal 4 External events Tax Technology People Capital Modelling Project Political Set risk Governance Identify Assess Control Report appetite RCAs are used to inform the evaluation of the effectiveness of controls over top risks.
KIs are linked to TRAs to help monitor the risks and controls in the operational risk system.
Internal incidents are used to forecast typical losses.
External sources e. g. Fitch and ORX databases are used to inform the assessment of extreme TRAs.
Operational risk in 2012 described on page 6.
For further information, see Note 43 on the Financial Statements.
During 2012, our top and emerging risk profile was dominated by compliance and legal risks as referred Other significant operational risks included: to in the Top and emerging risks section and Note challenges to achieving our strategy in a 43 on the Financial Statements.
A number of other downturn: businesses and geographical regions material losses were realised in 2012, which related have prioritised strategy and annual operating largely to events that occurred in previous years.
plans to reflect current economic conditions.
These events included the possible historical misPerformance against plan is monitored through a selling of PPI and interest rate protection products in number of means including the use of balanced the UK see Note 32 on the Financial Statements.
A scorecards and performance reporting at all number of mitigating actions continue to be taken to relevant management committees: prevent future mis-selling incidents including enhanced new product approval processes.
internet crime and fraud: the threat of external fraud, especially in retail and commercial The incidence of regulatory proceedings and banking, may increase during adverse economic other adversarial proceedings against financial conditions.
We have increased our defences service firms is increasing.
Proposed changes through enhanced monitoring and have relating to capital and liquidity requirements, implemented additional controls, such as tworemuneration and or taxes could increase our cost of factor authentication, to mitigate the possibility doing business, reducing future profitability.
Various of losses from fraud risks.
We continually assess regulators and competition authorities around the these threats as they evolve and adapt our world are also investigating and reviewing certain controls to mitigate these risks: past submissions made by panel banks and the process for making submissions in connection with level of change creating operational complexity: the setting of Libor, Euribor and other benchmark the Risk function is engaged with business interest and foreign exchange rates.
In response, we management in business transformation have undertaken a number of initiatives which seek initiatives to ensure robust internal controls are to address the issues identified, including creating a maintained, including through participation in new global management structure, enhancing our all relevant management committees.
For governance and oversight, increasing our compliance example, we undertake rigorous testing and function resource, emphasising HSBC Values and review of all planned updates to our systems designing and implementing new global standards as environment.
All changes are risk assessed and 228 appropriate mitigating controls are required for Other operational risks are also monitored and any planned high risk changes: managed through the use of the ORMF, including investments made to further improve the resilience information security: the security of our of our payments infrastructure.
information and technology infrastructure is crucial for maintaining our banking applications Further information on the nature of these and processes while protecting our customers risks is provided in Top and emerging risks on and the HSBC brand.
In common with other page 130. banks and multinational organisations, we face a growing threat of cyber attacks.
A failure of our Frequency and amount of operational risk defences against such attacks could result in losses financial loss, loss of customer data and other The profile of operational risk incidents and sensitive information which could undermine associated losses is summarised below, showing the both our reputation and our ability to retain distribution of operational risk incidents in terms of the trust of our customers.
We experienced a their frequency of occurrence and total loss amount number of cyber attacks in 2012, none of which in US dollars.
resulted in financial loss or the loss of customer data.
Significant investment has already been The operational risk incident profile in 2012 made in enhancing controls, including increased comprised both high frequency, low impact events training to raise staff awareness of the and high impact events that occurred much less requirements, improved controls around frequently.
For example, losses due to external fraud data access and heightened monitoring of incidents such a credit card fraud occurred more information flows.
The threat from cyber attacks often than other types of event, but the amounts is a concern for our organisation and failure to involved were often small in value.
Fraud incidents protect our operations from internet crime or continued to account for over 50% of the total cyber attacks may result in financial loss, loss number of incidents but only 4% of operational of customer data or other sensitive information risk losses.
which could undermine our reputation and our By contrast, operational risk incidents in the ability to attract and keep customers.
This area compliance category remained relatively low will continue to be a focus of ongoing initiatives frequency events, but the total cost was significant.
to strengthen the control environment: Compliance-related losses increased in 2012 to 79% vendor risk management: this continues to of total operational risk losses due to significant historical events including the possible mis-selling evolve, with a project underway to accelerate the review of existing contracts, including those of PPI and interest rate protection products in the that support key economic functions, and a UK and the incidence of regulatory matters global project to manage the performance of described in Note 43 on the Financial Statements.
critical outsourced vendors: and Frequency of operational risk incidents by compliance with regulatory agreements and risk category orders: in relation to the Deferred Prosecution Agreements DPAs, the Group has committed 4% Compliance 5% to take or continue to adhere to a number of remedial measures.
Breach of the DPAs at any 54% Fraud 55% time during its term may allow the DoJ or the New York County District Attorneys Office to 8% Legal 8% prosecute HSBC in relation to the matters which are the subject of the DPAs.
For further detail Operations 28% and Systems 25% please see Top and emerging risks.
3% People 6% 2011 2012 3% Other 1% 229 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Operational risk Compliance risk Fiduciary risk Distribution of operational risk losses in US dollars With a new senior leadership team and strategy by risk category in place since 2011, we have already taken steps to address these issues including making significant 61% Compliance changes to strengthen compliance, risk management 79% and culture.
These steps, which will also enhance our 10% Fraud compliance risk management capabilities, including 4% the following: 13% Legal 5% the creation of a new global structure, which Operations will make HSBC easier to manage and control: 12% 9% and Systems simplifying our business through the ongoing 1% People implementation of our organisational 0% 2011 effectiveness programme and our five 2012 3% Other economic filters strategy: 3% introducing a sixth global risk filter which will standardise the way we do business in high risk Compliance risk Unaudited countries: Compliance risk is the risk that we fail to substantially increasing resources, doubling observe the letter and spirit of all relevant global expenditure and significantly laws, codes, rules, regulations and standards strengthening Compliance as a control rather of good market practice, and incur fines and than as an advisory function: penalties and suffer damage to our business continuing to roll out an HSBC Values as a consequence.
programme that defines the way everyone All Group companies are required to observe the in the Group should act: and letter and spirit of all relevant laws, codes, rules, adopting and enforcing the most effective regulations and standards of good market practice.
standards globally, including a globally In 2012, we experienced increasing levels of consistent approach to knowing and retaining compliance risk as regulators and other agencies our customers.
pursued investigations into historical activities and as we continued to work with them in relation to Additionally, we have substantially revised already identified issues.
These included: our governance framework in this area, appointing a new Chief Legal Officer with particular expertise an appearance before the US Senate Permanent and experience in US law and regulation, and Subcommittee on Investigations and the DPAs creating and appointing experienced individuals to reached with US authorities in relation to the new roles of Head of Group Financial Crime investigations regarding inadequate compliance Compliance and Global Head of Regulatory with anti-money laundering, the US Bank Compliance.
Secrecy Act and sanctions laws, plus a related undertaking with the FSA: It is clear from both our own and wider industry experience that there is a significantly increased investigations into the possible mis-selling of level of activity from regulators and law interest rate derivative products to SMEs in the enforcement agencies in pursuing investigations in UK: and relation to possible breaches of regulation and that investigations and reviews related to certain past the direct and indirect costs of such breaches can submissions made by panel banks and the be significant.
Coupled with a substantial increase process for making submissions in connection in the volume of new regulation, much of which with the setting of Libor, Euribor and other has some level of extra-territorial effect, and the benchmark interest and foreign exchange rates.
geographical spread of our businesses, we believe As some HSBC entities are members of such that the level of inherent compliance risk that we panels, HSBC Holdings and certain of its face will continue to remain high for the foreseeable subsidiaries have been the subject of regulatory future.
230 Fiduciary risk We may be held liable for damages or other Unaudited penalties caused by failure to act in accordance with those duties.
Fiduciary duties may also arise in other Fiduciary risk is the risk to the Group of circumstances, such as when we act as an agent for a breaching our fiduciary duties when we principal, unless the fiduciary duties are specifically act in a fiduciary capacity as trustee or excluded e. g. under the agency appointment investment manager or as mandated by contract.
During 2012, our principal fiduciary businesses A fiduciary duty is one where HSBC holds, the designated businesses developed fiduciary manages, oversees or has responsibility for assets for risk appetite statements for their various fiduciary a third party that involves a legal and or regulatory roles and a joint review was commissioned by duty to act with the highest standard of care and with Global Operational Risk and RBWM to identify utmost good faith.
A fiduciary must make decisions businesses other than designated businesses and act in the best interests of the third party and conducting fiduciary activities to ensure that they must place the wants and needs of the client first, were subject to adequate review and oversight.
above the needs of the Group.
232 The majority of the risk in our Insurance We distribute insurance products in all of our business derives from manufacturing geographical regions.
We have core life insurance activities and can be categorised as manufacturing entities, the majority of which are insurance risk and financial risk.
Insurance direct subsidiaries of legal banking entities, in seven risk is the risk, other than financial risk, countries Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, France, UK, of loss transferred from the holder of the Hong Kong and Singapore.
Our life insurance insurance contract to the issuer HSBC.
manufacturing entities in the US are held-for-sale Financial risks include market risk, credit at 31 December 2012. risk and liquidity risk.
Risk management of insurance operations in There were no material changes to our policies and 2012 practices for the management of risks arising in the This section provides disclosures on the risks arising insurance operations, including the risks relating to from insurance manufacturing operations, including different life and non-life products, during 2012. insurance risk and financial risks such as market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
A summary of our policies and practices regarding the risk management of insurance Risks in these operations are managed within operations, and the main contracts we the insurance entities using methodologies and manufacture, are provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 270. processes appropriate to the insurance activities, but remain subject to oversight at Group level.
HSBCs bancassurance model The consolidated Group liquidity and market We operate an integrated bancassurance model risk management disclosures exclude insurance which provides wealth and protection insurance operations.
The assets of the insurance products principally for customers with whom we manufacturing subsidiaries are included within have a banking relationship.
Insurance products are the consolidated Group credit risk disclosures.
sold through all global businesses, predominantly by Operational and sustainability risks are covered RBWM and CMB, through our branches and direct by the Groups overall respective risk management channels worldwide.
processes and are not included in this section.
The insurance contracts we sell largely relate to the underlying needs of our banking customers, Insurance risk which we can identify from our point-of-sale Insurance risk is principally measured in two ways: contacts and customer knowledge.
The majority of sales are of savings and investment products and liabilities to policyholders on life insurance term and credit life contracts.
By focusing largely contracts: and on personal and SME lines of business we are able to net written insurance premiums for non-life optimise volumes and diversify individual insurance contracts.
The insurance risk profile of our life insurance Where we have operational scale and risk manufacturing businesses did not change materially appetite, mostly in life insurance, these insurance during 2012 despite the increase in liabilities to products are manufactured by HSBC subsidiaries.
policyholders on these contracts to US$68bn Manufacturing insurance allows us to retain the risks 2011: US$60bn.
This growth in liabilities largely and rewards associated with writing insurance resulted from market value gains on underlying contracts as part of the underwriting profit, financial assets in addition to new business investment income and distribution commission generated during 2012. are kept within the Group.
The insurance risk profile of our non-life Where we do not have the risk appetite or insurance manufacturing businesses changed during operational scale to be an effective insurance the year as net written insurance premiums declined manufacturer, we engage through a handful of to US$656m 2011: US$993m.
This was in line leading external insurance companies in order to with our strategy to focus on the manufacturing of provide insurance products to our customers through life insurance products, with non-life manufacturing our banking network and direct channels.
These entities or portfolios in Argentina, Hong Kong, arrangements are generally structured with our Ireland and Singapore sold during 2012. exclusive strategic partners and earn the Group a A principal risk we continue to face is that, over combination of commissions, fees and profit-share.
time, the cost of acquiring and administering 233 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Risk management of insurance operations In 2012 Balance sheet of manufacturing subsidiaries a contract, claims and benefits may exceed the exposed to falls in market interest rates and equity aggregate amount of premiums received and prices to the extent that the market exposure investment income.
The cost of claims and benefits cannot be managed by utilising any discretionary can be influenced by many factors, including participation or bonus features DPF within mortality and morbidity experience, lapse and the policy contracts they issue.
surrender rates and, if the policy has a savings The following tables analyse our insurance risk element, the performance of the assets held to exposures by geographical region and by type of support the liabilities.
The insurance risk profile and related In respect of financial risks, subsidiaries exposures remained largely consistent with those manufacturing products with guarantees are usually observed at 31 December 2011.
Our most significant life insurance products are Hong Kong and the UK.
The decline in life investment contracts with DPF issued in France, insurance liabilities in North America reflects the insurance contracts with DPF issued in Hong Kong classification of this business as held for sale at and unit-linked contracts issued in Latin America, 31 December 2012.
Our motor business was written predominantly In many markets in which we operate it is neither in Argentina: this business was sold in May 2012. possible nor appropriate to follow a perfect asset and liability matching strategy.
For long-dated Our accident and health and fire and other non-linked contracts in particular, this results in a damage to property contracts was written in all duration mismatch between assets and liabilities.
regions but mainly in Hong Kong: this business was We therefore structure portfolios to support sold in November 2012. projected liabilities from non-linked contracts.
Credit non-life insurance, which was historically In the absence of insurable events occurring, originated in conjunction with the provision of loans unit-linked contracts match assets more directly with but now in run-off, was concentrated in the US.
This results in the policyholder bearing the majority of the financial risk exposure.
Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries The tables below show the composition of assets Audited and liabilities by contract and by geographical region and demonstrate that there were sufficient assets to A principal tool used to manage exposures to both cover the liabilities to policyholders in each case at financial and insurance risk, in particular for life the end of 2012. insurance contracts, is asset and liability matching.
235 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Risk management of insurance operations Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries by type of contract Audited Insurance contracts Investment contracts Term With UnitAnnuassurWith UnitOther 61 59 62 DPF linked ities ance Non-life DPF linked Other assets Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2012 Financial assets.................. 24,288 12,619 1,785 4,350 356 23,620 8,780 4,315 4,692 84,805 trading assets................ 4 4 financial assets designated at fair value.
237 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Risk management of insurance operations Financial risks Financial risks as there are insufficient assets that can be Audited realised as cash.
Financial risk exposures can be categorised into: Further details on the nature of these financial risks and how they are managed are provided in the Market risk risks arising from changes in the Appendix to Risk on page 252. fair values of financial assets or their future cash flows from fluctuations in variables such as The following table analyses the assets held in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries at prices: 31 December 2012 by type of contract, and provides a view of the exposure to financial risk.
For linked Credit risk the risk of financial loss following contracts, which pay benefits to policyholders which the default of third parties to meet their are determined by reference to the value of the obligations: and investments supporting the policies, we typically Liquidity risk the risk of not being able to designate assets at fair value: for non-linked make payments to policyholders as they fall due contracts, the classification of the assets is driven by the nature of the underlying contract.
238 Approximately 65.6% of financial assets were Long-term insurance or investment products invested in debt securities at 31 December 2012 may incorporate benefits that are guaranteed.
Where 2011: 65.2% with 24.5% 2011: 22.9% invested mismatches exist as a result of current yields falling in equity securities.
below guaranteed levels for a prolonged period, the risk that shareholder capital is required to meet In life linked insurance, premium income less liabilities to policyholders increases.
The table below charges levied is invested in a portfolio of assets.
We shows, in respect of each category of guarantee, the manage the financial risks of this product on behalf total liabilities to policyholders established for of the policyholders by holding appropriate assets in guaranteed products manufactured by our insurance segregated funds or portfolios to which the liabilities subsidiaries.
The table also shows the range of are linked.
These assets represented 25.2% 2011: investment returns on the assets supporting these 23.2% of the total financial assets of our insurance products and the implied investment returns that manufacturing subsidiaries at the end of 2012. would enable the business to meet the guarantees.
The remaining financial risks are managed Immediate annuities, where current investment either solely on behalf of the shareholder, or jointly returns are below guarantees, relate to a closed on behalf of the shareholder and policyholders where portfolio in the US which is held for sale at DPF exist.
Annual return guarantees between 4.5-6%, where current investment returns Market risk are below guarantees, is a closed portfolio in Hong Audited Kong.
The only other portfolio of contracts Market risk arises when mismatches occur between identified where current investment returns are product liabilities and the investment assets which below guarantees relate to a closed portfolio in back them.
For example, mismatches between asset France.
This portfolio has reserves of US$495m for and liability yields and maturities give rise to interest which current portfolio yields are 3.25% but rate risk.
investment returns implied by the guarantees are 4.5%.
The following table illustrates the effects of equity and the risk factors is non-linear and, selected interest rate, equity price, foreign exchange therefore, the results disclosed should not be rate and credit spread scenarios on our profit for the extrapolated to measure sensitivities to different year and total equity of our insurance manufacturing levels of stress.
The sensitivities are stated before subsidiaries.
allowance for management actions which may mitigate the effect of changes in market rates, and Where appropriate, we include the impact of the for any factors such as policyholder behaviour that stress on the PVIF in the results of the sensitivity may change in response to changes in market risk.
The relationship between the profit and total 239 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Risk management of insurance operations Financial risks Sensitivity of HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries to market risk factors Audited 2012 2011 Effect on Effect on Effect on Effect on profit for total profit for total the year equity the year equity US$m US$m US$m US$m 100 basis points parallel shift in yield curves 125 263 108 178 100 basis points parallel shift in yield curves 208 205 115 191 10% increase in equity prices. 91 91 106 106 10% decrease in equity prices 92 92 164 164 10% increase in US dollar exchange rate compared to all currencies. 40 40 31 31 10% decrease in US dollar exchange rate compared to all currencies. 40 40 31 31 Sensitivity to credit spread increases................ 18 50 30 75 Credit risk based on a one-day movement in credit spreads over Audited a two-year period.
A confidence level of 99%, consistent with our Group VAR, is applied.
Credit risk can give rise to losses through default and can lead to volatility in our income statement Credit quality and balance sheet figures through movements in Audited credit spreads, principally on the US$48bn 2011: US$44bn non-linked bond portfolio.
The following table presents an analysis of treasury bills, other eligible bills and debt securities within As tabulated above, the sensitivity of the net our Insurance business by measures of credit quality.
profit after tax of our insurance subsidiaries to the The five credit quality classifications are defined in effects of increases in credit spreads has decreased the Appendix to Risk on page 253.
Only assets since 2011 due to narrowing of credit spreads supporting liabilities under non-linked insurance experienced in 2012.
The balance and related and investment contracts and shareholders funds movement are small because about 90% of the debt are included in the table as financial risk on assets securities held by our insurance subsidiaries are supporting linked liabilities is predominantly borne classified as either held to maturity or available for by the policyholder.
83.5% 2011: 86.6% of the sale, and consequently any changes in the fair value assets included in the table are invested in of these financial investments, absent impairment, investments rated as strong.
would have no effect on the profit after tax.
Our exposure to third parties under the risk is ceded to reinsurers.
The split of liabilities reinsurance agreements described in the Appendix to ceded to reinsurers and outstanding reinsurance Risk on page 274 is included in this table.
recoveries, analysed by credit quality, is shown 241 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Risk management of insurance operations Financial risks PVIF Reinsurers share of liabilities under insurance contracts Audited Neither past due nor impaired Past due Subbut not Strong Good Satisfactory standard impaired Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2012 Linked insurance contracts 55 400 455 Non-linked insurance contracts 936 4 6 6 952 64 Total...... 991 404 6 6 1,407 Reinsurance debtors........... 19 133 8 160 At 31 December 2011 Linked insurance contracts 45 858 903 Non-linked insurance contracts 782 10 104 3 899 64 Total...... 827 868 104 3 1,802 Reinsurance debtors........... 18 2 9 1 12 42 For footnote, see page 249.
Liquidity risk period of risk.
There is a greater spread of expected Audited maturities for the life business where, in a large proportion of cases, the liquidity risk is borne in The following tables show the expected conjunction with policyholders wholly borne by the undiscounted cash flows for insurance contract policyholder in the case of unit-linked business.
liabilities and the remaining contractual maturity of investment contract liabilities at 31 December 2012.
The PVIF operating assumptions : asset at 31 December 2012 was US$4.8bn 2011: impacts arising from changes in projected future US$4.1bn, representing the present value of the cash flows associated with operating assumption shareholders interest in the profits expected to experience variances compared to those emerge from the book of in-force policies at that assumed at the start of the period Experience date.
variances : The PVIF calculation projects expected cash changes related to future investment returns flows, adjusted for a variety of assumptions made Changes in investment assumptions : and by each insurance operation to reflect local market conditions and managements judgement of future the impact of actual investment experience on trends.
The main assumptions relate to economic future cash flows compared to those assumed at and non-economic assumptions and policyholder the start of the period Investment return behaviour.
Assumptions are subject to uncertainty variances.
and can contribute to volatility in the results of the The valuation of the PVIF asset includes explicit Insurance business.
risk margins for non-economic risks in the projection The key drivers of the movement in the value assumptions and explicit allowances for financial of the PVIF asset are the expected cash flows from: options and guarantees using stochastic methods.
Risk discount rates are set on an active basis with new business adjusted for anticipated maturities reference to market risk free yields.
and assumptions relating to policyholder behaviour Value of new business written The following table shows the movements during the year : recorded during the year in respect of total equity and PVIF of insurance operations.
Other adjustments for 2012 included a one-off adjustments related to the US$243m gain recognised gain of US$119m for a PVIF asset recognised on upon refinement of the PVIF calculation.
linked insurance business in Brazil.
For 2011, other Key assumptions used in the computation of PVIF for main life insurance operations Audited 2012 2011 France UK Hong Kong France UK Hong Kong % % % % % % Risk free rate 1.53 0.60 2.12 2.24 1.47 2.77 Risk discount rate 2.03 7.46 4.05 2.74 8.00 5.95 Expense inflation. 2.84 3.00 2.00 3.45 3.00 2.00 Economic assumptions Sensitivity of PVIF to changes in economic Audited assumptions Audited The following table shows the effect on the PVIF of PVIF at 31 December reasonably possible changes in the main economic 2012 2011 assumption, risk-free rates, across all insurance US$m US$m manufacturing subsidiaries.
100 basis point shift in risk-free rate................ 137 128 Due to certain characteristics of the contracts, 100 basis point shift in the relationships are non-linear and the results of risk-free rate................ 191 91 the sensitivity testing should not be extrapolated to higher levels of stress.
The sensitivities shown are before actions that could be taken by management to mitigate effects and before resultant changes in policyholder behaviour.
244 Non-economic assumptions Mortality and morbidity risk is typically Audited associated with life insurance contracts.
The effect on profit of an increase in mortality or morbidity We determine the policyholder liabilities for non-life depends on the type of business being written.
Our manufacturers by reference to non-economic largest exposures to mortality and morbidity risk assumptions including claims costs and expense exist in Brazil, France, Hong Kong and the US.
Sensitivity to lapse rates depends on the type Policyholder liabilities and PVIF for life of contracts being written.
For insurance contracts, manufacturers are determined by reference to nonclaims are funded by premiums received and income economic assumptions including mortality and or earned on the investment portfolio supporting the morbidity, lapse rates and expense rates.
For a portfolio of term assurance, an below shows the sensitivity of profit for 2012 and increase in lapse rates typically has a negative effect total equity at 31 December 2012 to reasonably on profit due to the loss of future premium income possible changes in these non-economic assumptions on the lapsed policies.
However, some contract at that date across all our insurance manufacturing lapses have a positive effect on profit due to the subsidiaries, with comparatives for 2011. existence of policy surrender charges.
Brazil, France, Hong Kong and the UK are where we are most The cost of claims is a risk associated with nonsensitive to a change in lapse rates.
An increase in claims costs would have a negative effect on profit.
Sensitivities Expense rate risk is the exposure to a change in have significantly decreased since 2011 due to the expense rates.
To the extent that increased expenses disposal of the non-life entities or portfolios in cannot be passed on to policyholders, an increase in Argentina, Hong Kong, Ireland and Singapore expense rates will have a negative impact on our during 2012. profits.
Reputational risk Pension risk Unaudited Audited The safeguarding of our reputation is We operate a number of pension plans paramount.
It is the responsibility of all throughout the world.
Some are defined members of staff, supported by a global risk benefit plans, of which the largest is the management structure underpinned by HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme the relevant policies and practices, readily principal plan.
available guidance, and regular training.
There were no material changes to our policies and We have acknowledged, in the context of last procedures for the management of pension risk in years US Senate Permanent Subcommittee on 2012.
Investigations, the Deferred Prosecution Agreements During 2012, the Groups defined benefit with US authorities and the undertakings with the pension plans reduced from a net liability of UK FSA, that it was not enough to fix the US$0.2bn to a net asset of US$0.03bn.
This was specific issues that they focused on.
Additionally, mainly due to growth in the value of the principal therefore, we have outlined our implementation of plans assets outstripping the comparable growth in a global strategy to tackle the root causes of these liabilities.
With a new senior leadership team and a new The principal plan Audited strategy in place since 2011, HSBC has already taken steps to augment the framework to address In 2006 the principal plan assets consisted of a these issues including making significant changes strategic portfolio.
At the time, HSBC and the trustee to strengthen compliance, risk management and of the principal plan agreed to change the investment culture.
These steps, which should also serve, over strategy in order to reduce the investment risk.
The time, to enhance our reputational risk management, target asset allocations for this strategy at that time, are discussed further on page 278. as revised in 2011 and at this year end are shown below, demonstrating the ongoing evolution of the Success in detecting and preventing illicit strategy.
The strategy is to hold the majority of actors access to the global financial system calls for assets in bonds, with the remainder in a more diverse constant vigilance and HSBC will continue to work range of investments, and includes a commitment in close cooperation with all governments to achieve to undertake a programme of swap arrangements this.
This is integral to the execution of HSBCs see Note 44 on the Financial Statements by which strategy, to our core values and to preserving and the principal plan makes Libor-related interest enhancing our reputation.
payments in exchange for the receipt of cash flows which are based on projected future benefit payments to be made from the principal plan.
246 The principal plan target asset allocation the mortality assumptions were set, based on the SAPS S1 series of tables adjusted to reflect the 2012 2011 2006 pensioner experience.
Allowance was made for % % % future improvements to mortality rates in line Equities 15.5 15.5 15.0 with the Continuous Mortality Investigation core Bonds... 60.5 60.5 50.0 75 projections with a long run improvement rate set at Alternative assets......... 9.5 9.5 10.0 Property 9.0 9.0 10.0 2% for males and 1.5% for females.
The benefits Cash 5.5 5.5 15.0 payable from the defined benefit plan from 2013 are expected to be as shown in the chart below.
Benefit payments US$m 2,000 As a result of a special contribution to the 1,750 principal plan in June 2010 of 1,760m 1,500 US$2,638m, a cash generating portfolio was 1,250 established.
The portfolio comprised supra-national, 1,000 agency and  securities, 750 ABSs, corporate subordinated debt and auction 500 rate securities.
A further special contribution in 250 December 2011 of 184m US$286m added to this 0 portfolio.
The contribution was used to purchase ABSs from HSBC at an arms length value determined by the Schemes independent third-party As part of the 31 December 2011 valuation, advisers.
However, these assets may be calculations were also carried out as to the amount supplemented with other assets from time to time.
of assets that might be needed to meet the liabilities The latest actuarial valuation of the principal if the Scheme was discontinued and the members plan was made as at 31 December 2011 by benefits bought out with an insurance company C G Singer, Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, of although in practice this may not be possible for Towers Watson Limited.
At that date, the market a plan of this size or the Trustee continued to run value of the HSBC Bank UK Pension Schemes the plan without the support of HSBC.
The amount assets was 18.3bn US$28.3bn including assets required under this approach was estimated to be relating to the defined benefit plan, the defined 26.2bn US$40.6bn as at 31 December 2011. contribution plan and additional voluntary In arriving at this estimation, a more prudent contributions.
The market value of the plan assets assumption about future mortality was made than represented 100% of the amount expected to be for the assessment of the ongoing position and it was required, on the basis of the assumptions adopted, assumed that the Trustee would alter the investment to provide the benefits accrued to members after strategy to be an appropriately matched portfolio of allowing for expected future increases in earnings.
An explicit allowance for There was therefore no resulting surplus deficit.
The method adopted for this valuation was the Based on the latest valuation as at 31 December projected unit method.
2011 and there being no deficit, no Technical The expected cash flows from the principal plan Provisions Recovery Plan is required and the were projected by reference to the Retail Price Index schedule of future funding payments agreed after RPI swap break-even curve at 31 December the 2008 actuarial valuation was dissolved.
Salary increases were assumed to be 0.5% HSBC and the Trustee have developed a general per annum above RPI and inflationary pension framework, which, over time, will see the Schemes increases, subject to a minimum of 0% and a asset strategy evolve to be less risky and further maximum of 5% maximum of 3% per annum in aligned to future cash-flows, referred to as the Target respect of service accrued since 1 July 2009, were Matching Portfolio TMP.
Evolution to the TMP assumed to be in line with RPI.
The projected cash can be achieved by asset returns in excess of that flows were discounted at the Libor swap curve at assumed and or additional funding.
In February 31 December 2011 plus a margin for the expected 2013, HSBC agreed to make three general return on the investment strategy of 160bps per framework contributions of 64m US$103m in annum.
The mortality experience of the principal each of the calendar years 2013, 2014 and 2015. plans pensioners over the six-year period 2006- 2011 was analysed and, on the basis of this analysis, 247 2013 2019 2025 2031 2037 2043 2049 2055 2061 2067 2073 2079 2085 2091 2097 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Other material risks Pension risk Sustainability risk Footnotes After the 2008 valuation, HSBC considered that the underlying inflation assumption for indexation the agreed recovery plan payments, together with from RPI, for active members, to CPI, for deferred investment returns at an expected level of 240 basis members, by a further US$0.5bn.
The proposed points above the Libor swap curve, would be cessation of the Scheme to provide ill-health benefits sufficient to meet the deficit as at 31 December 2008 to members, to be covered by insurance policies over the agreed period.
HSBC also agreed with the provided by HSBC under these proposals, is Trustee, that at each subsequent actuarial valuation estimated to reduce the defined benefit obligation by any shortfall in investment returns relative to this approximately US$0.5bn.
expected level, subject to a maximum of 50 basis The consultation period for these proposals will end, points per annum, would be eliminated by payment and a final decision is expected to be made, in the of equal cash instalments over the remaining years to second quarter of 2013 at which time a past service the end of the recovery plan period.
credit will be recognised in the income statement.
Although the 2011 triennial valuation disclosed The future effect of these proposed changes on the no deficit and therefore no technical provisions income statement is dependent primarily on the level recovery plan is required, HSBC and the Trustee of pension contributions made by HSBC and have agreed to maintain this investment performance employees to the Defined Contribution Section, the underwriting agreement.
The investment final outcome of which remains uncertain.
In all performance will be assessed every three years, reasonably likely scenarios, the net effect on with an end date of 31 December 2017.
Any earnings over time is not expected to be material.
payments due would only be payable if a Technical Provisions deficit is present at the reference date.
The HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff HSBC Bank is also making ongoing Retirement Benefit Scheme Audited contributions to the principal plan in respect of the accrual of benefits of defined benefit section The scheme mainly invests in bonds with a smaller members.
Since April 2010, after completion of the portion in equities and each investment manager 2008 valuation, HSBC has paid contributions at the has been assigned an investment mandate with the rate of 34% of pensionable salaries less member targeted asset allocation.
The ranges of target asset contributions.
allocations for the portfolio are as follows: Bonds and cash 55-100%, Equity 0-25% and Alternative Following completion of the 2011 triennial Investments 0-20%.
Alternative Investments refer to valuation, HSBC will pay contributions at the rate high-return and high-risk alternatives, including but of 43% of pensionable salaries less member not limited to private equity funds, hedge funds, contributions from 1 April 2013.
An additional energy, gold, agriculture, commodities and employer contribution will be paid on or before distressed assets.
30 April 2013 equal to 9% of pensionable salaries, in respect of the period 1 January 2012 to 31 March The latest actuarial valuation of the defined 2013. benefit scheme was made at 31 December 2010 by Wing Lui, Fellow of the Society of Actuaries, of Future developments Towers Watson Hong Kong Limited.
At that Unaudited valuation date, the market value of the defined In January 2013, as part of a wider review of benefit schemes assets was US$1,109m.
On an ongoing basis, the defined benefit scheme's assets employee benefits, HSBC announced proposals to represented 104% of the actuarial present value of cease future accrual of service for active members of the benefits accrued to members, after allowing for the Defined Benefit Section with effect from 30 June expected future increases in salaries, and the 2014.
Under the proposals, all active members of the resulting surplus amounted to US$41m.
On a windDefined Benefit Section will become deferred up basis, the schemes assets represented 110% of members from 30 June 2014 and will become the members vested benefits, based on current members of the Defined Contribution Section from salaries, and the resulting surplus amounted to 1 July 2014.
The attained age method has been The valuation of the Schemes defined benefit adopted for the valuation and the major assumptions obligation is sensitive to changes in actuarial used in this valuation were a discount rate of 6% per assumptions.
The proposed removal of future salary annum and long-term salary increases of 5% per escalation from the pay assumptions is estimated to annum.
The recommended employer contribution reduce the defined benefit obligation by rate as a percentage of scheme salaries is 14.3% over approximately US$0.3bn and the proposed change in 248 the period 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2013.
The assets represented 118% additional special contributions have been agreed.
of the benefits accrued to members as valued under the provisions of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 The HSBC North America US Retirement that was effective for the plan year beginning 1 Income Plan January 2008.
The resulting surplus amounted to Audited US$479m.
The method employed for this valuation was the traditional unit credit method and the In 2010, the Investment Committee the Committee discount rate was determined using a segment rate unanimously agreed to transition the Plans target method as selected by HSBC under the relevant asset allocation mix to 40% equity securities, regulations, which resulted in an effective interest 59% fixed income securities and 1% cash over a rate of 7.13% per annum.
In 2011, the Committee decided to accelerate this shift to the 2011 year-end and the Sustainability risk target asset allocation mix was maintained during Unaudited 2012.
Should interest rates rise faster than currently projected by the Committee, a further shift to a Assessing the environmental and social higher percentage of fixed income securities may impacts of providing finance to our be made.
customers is integral to our overall risk management processes.
In the third quarter of 2012, it was agreed to cease all future contributions under the cash balance In 2012, we implemented several changes to our policies and procedures to streamline our formula and freeze the plan with effect from management of sustainability risks.
While participants with existing from producing guidelines on how we extend the balances continue to receive interest credits until the Equator Principles beyond project finance into account is distributed, they no longer accrue benefits corporate loans, to technical fixes in our systems beginning in 2013. to improve the accuracy of our management The most recent actuarial valuation of the plan information.
to determine compliance with US statutory funding requirements was made at 1 January 2012 by A summary of our current policies and Jennifer Jakubowski, Fellow of the Society of practices regarding reputational risk, pension risk and sustainability risk is provided in the Actuaries, Enrolled Actuary, member of the Appendix to Risk on page 278.
American Academy of Actuaries, formerly of Mercer.
At that date, the market value of the plans Footnotes to Risk Credit risk 1 Other personal loans and advances include second lien mortgages and other property-related lending.
2 Financial includes loans and advances to banks.
3 The amount of the loan commitments reflects, where relevant, the expected level of take-up of pre-approved loan offers made by mailshots to personal customers.
In addition to those amounts, there is a further maximum possible exposure to credit risk of US$28bn 2011: US$171bn, reflecting the full take-up of such irrevocable loan commitments.
The take-up of such offers is generally at modest levels.
4 Includes residential mortgages of HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Finance.
5 Comprising Rest of Asia-Pacific, Middle East and North Africa, and Latin America.
6 HSBC Finance lending is shown on a management basis and includes loans transferred to HSBC USA Inc. which are managed by HSBC Finance.
7 Property acquired through foreclosure is initially recognised at the lower of the carrying amount of the loan or its fair value less estimated costs to sell Initial Foreclosed Property Carrying Amount.
The average loss on sale of foreclosed properties is calculated as cash proceeds less the Initial Foreclosed Properties Carrying Amount divided by the unpaid loan principal balance prior to writedown excluding any accrued finance income plus certain other ancillary disbursements that, by law, are reimbursable from the cash proceeds e. g. real estate tax advances and were incurred prior to our taking title to the property.
This ratio represents the portion of our total loss on foreclosed properties that occurred after we took title to the property.
8 The average total loss on foreclosed properties includes both the loss on sale of the foreclosed property as discussed in footnote 7 and the cumulative write-downs recognised on the loans up to the time we took title to the property.
9 Other commercial loans and advances include advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy and utilities.
10 Impairment allowances are not reported for financial instruments whereby the carrying amount is reduced directly for impairment and not through the use of an allowance account.
11 Impairment is not measured for assets held in trading portfolios or designated at fair value as assets in such portfolios are managed according to movements in fair value, and the fair value movement is taken directly to the income statement.
Consequently, we report all such balances under Neither past due nor impaired.
12 Loans and advances to customers includes asset-backed securities that have been externally rated as strong 2012: US$2.3bn: 2011: US$3.5bn, good 2012: US$457m: 2011: US$476m, satisfactory 2012: US$390m: 2011: US$428m, sub-standard 2012: US$422m: 2011: US$556m and impaired 2012: US$259m: 2011: US$229m.
249 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Footnotes 13 Included in this category are loans of US$2.3bn 2011: US$2.9bn that have been re-aged once and were less than 60 days past due at the point of re-age.
These loans are not classified as impaired following re-age due to the overall expectation that these customers will perform on the original contractual terms of their borrowing in the future.
14 Impaired loans and advances are those classified as CRR 9, CRR 10, EL 9 or EL 10, retail loans 90 days or more past due, unless individually they have been assessed as not impaired see page 156, Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments and renegotiated loans and advances meeting the criteria to be disclosed as impaired see page 162.
15 Collectively assessed loans and advances comprise homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant, and loans subject to individual assessment where no impairment has been identified on an individual basis, but on which a collective impairment allowance has been calculated to reflect losses which have been incurred but not yet identified.
16 Collectively assessed loans and advances not impaired are those classified as CRR1 to CRR8 and EL1 to EL8 but excluding retail loans 90 days past due and renegotiated loans and advances meeting the criteria to be disclosed as impaired.
17 Collectively assessed impairment allowances are allocated to geographical segments based on the location of the office booking the allowances or provisions.
Consequently, the collectively assessed impairment allowances booked in Hong Kong may cover assets booked in branches located outside Hong Kong, principally in Rest of Asia-Pacific, as well as those booked in Hong Kong.
18 Included within Exchange and other movements is US$0.8bn of impairment allowances reclassified to held for sale 2011: US$1.6bn.
19 Net of repo transactions, settlement accounts and stock borrowings.
20 As a percentage of loans and advances to banks and loans and advances to customers, as applicable.
21 Currency translation is the effect of translating the results of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year at the average rates of exchange applicable in the current year.
22 Negative numbers are favourable: positive numbers are unfavourable.
24 First lien residential mortgages include Hong Kong Government Home Ownership Scheme loans of US$3.2bn at 31 December 2012 2011: US$3.3bn.
Where disclosed, earlier comparatives were 2010: US$3.5bn: 2009: US$3.5bn: 2008: US$3.9bn.
25 The impairment allowances on loans and advances to banks in 2012 relate to the geographical regions, Europe, North America, and Middle East and North Africa.
26 Carrying amount of the net principal exposure.
27 Total includes holdings of ABSs issued by The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Freddie Mac and The Federal National Mortgage Association Fannie Mae.
28 Directly held includes assets held by Solitaire where we provide first loss protection and assets held directly by the Group.
29 Effect of impairments represents the reduction or increase in the reserve on initial impairment and subsequent reversal of impairment of the assets.
30 The gross principal is the redemption amount on maturity or, in the case of an amortising instrument, the sum of the future redemption amounts through the residual life of the security.
31 Credit default swap CDS gross protection is the gross principal of the underlying instrument that is protected by CDSs.
32 Net principal exposure is the gross principal amount of assets that are not protected by CDSs.
It includes assets that benefit from monoline protection, except where this protection is purchased with a CDS.
33 Net exposure after legal netting and any other relevant credit mitigation prior to deduction of the credit valuation adjustment.
34 Cumulative fair value adjustment recorded against exposures to OTC derivative counterparties to reflect their creditworthiness.
35 Funded exposures represent the loan amount advanced to the customer, less any fair value write-downs, net of fees held on deposit.
36 Unfunded exposures represent the contractually committed loan facility amount not yet drawn down by the customer, less any fair value write-downs, net of fees held on deposit.
Eurozone exposures 37 Our available-for-sale holdings in sovereign and agency debt of Italy and Spain include debt held to support insurance contracts which provide discretionary profit participation to policyholders.
For such contracts, unrealised movements in liabilities are recognised in other comprehensive income, following the treatment of the unrealised movements on related available-for-sale assets.
To the extent that the movements are matched, no movement in the available-for-sale reserve is recognised.
For those available-for-sale debt instruments described above that are not held to support insurance contracts which provide discretionary profit participation to policyholders, the available-for-sale reserves at 31 December 2012 were insignificant.
38 In-country liabilities in Italy include liabilities issued under local law but booked outside the country.
Liquidity and funding 39 The most favourable metrics are a smaller advances to core funding and larger stressed one-month and three-month coverage ratios.
40 The HSBC UK entity shown comprises three legal entities: HSBC Bank plc including SPEs consolidated by HSBC Bank plc for Financial Statement purposes, HFC Bank Ltd, and all overseas branches, Marks and Spencer Financial Services Limited and HSBC Trust Company UK Limited, managed as a single operating entity, in line with the application of UK liquidity regulation as agreed with the UK FSA.
41 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation represents the bank in Hong Kong including all overseas branches.
Each branch is monitored and controlled for liquidity and funding risk purposes as a stand-alone operating entity.
42 The HSBC USA principal entity shown represents the HSBC USA Inc consolidated group: predominantly HSBC USA Inc and HSBC Bank USA, NA.
The HSBC USA Inc consolidated group is managed as a single operating entity.
43 The total shown for other principal HSBC operating entities represents the combined position of all the other operating entities overseen directly by the Risk Management Meeting of the GMB.
44 Estimated liquidity value represents the expected realisable value of assets prior to management assumed haircuts.
45 The undrawn balance for the five largest committed liquidity facilities provided to customers other than facilities to conduits.
46 The undrawn balance for the total of all committed liquidity facilities provided to the largest market sector, other than facilities to conduits.
47 As a result of the significant level of disposal groups held for sale at 31 December 2012, the financial liabilities of the disposal groups held for sale has been separately shown in the table.
For further details of the disposal groups held for sale, refer to Note 30 on the Financial Statements.
250 Market risk 48 The standard deviation measures the variation of daily revenues about the mean value of those revenues.
49 Revenues within the daily distribution graph include all revenues booked in Global Markets gross of brokerage fees.
The effect of any month-end adjustments, not attributable to a specific daily market move, is spread evenly over the days in the month in question.
The 2012 daily distribution of trading revenues excludes the effect of the one-off credit valuation adjustment on derivative assets of US$903m.
50 Trading intent portfolios include positions arising from market-making and position taking.
51 Portfolio diversification is the market risk dispersion effect of holding a portfolio containing different risk types.
It represents the reduction in unsystematic market risk that occurs when combining a number of different risk types, for example, interest rate, equity and foreign exchange, together in one portfolio.
It is measured as the difference between the sum of the VAR by individual risk type and the combined total VAR.
A negative number represents the benefit of portfolio diversification.
As the maximum and minimum occur on different days for different risk types, it is not meaningful to calculate a portfolio diversification benefit for these measures.
52 The total VAR is non-additive across risk types due to diversification effects.
53 Investments in private equity are primarily made through managed funds that are subject to limits on the amount of investment.
Potential new commitments are subject to risk appraisal to ensure that industry and geographical concentrations remain within acceptable levels for the portfolio as a whole.
Regular reviews are performed to substantiate the valuation of the investments within the portfolio.
54 Investments held to facilitate ongoing business include holdings in government-sponsored enterprises and local stock exchanges.
55 Instead of assuming that all interest rates move together, we group our interest rate exposures into currency blocs whose rates are considered likely to move together.
See Cautionary Statement regarding Forward-Looking Statements on page 525.
Risk management of insurance operations 56 HSBC has no insurance manufacturing subsidiaries in the Middle East and North Africa.
57 The decline in life insurance liabilities in North America reflects the classification of the majority of this business as held for sale at 31 December 2012.
At 31 December 2012, the held-for-sale North American life insurance liabilities by contract type comprised credit life contracts US$15m, annuities US$723m and term assurance and other long-term contracts US$205m.
58 Insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participation features DPF can give policyholders the contractual right to receive, as a supplement to their guaranteed benefits, additional benefits that may be a significant portion of the total contractual benefits, but whose amount and timing are determined by HSBC.
These additional benefits are contractually based on the performance of a specified pool of contracts or assets, or the profit of the company issuing the contracts.
59 Although investment contracts with DPF are financial investments, HSBC continues to account for them as insurance contracts as permitted by IFRS 4.
60 Net written insurance premiums represent gross written premiums less gross written premiums ceded to reinsurers.
61 Term assurance includes credit life insurance.
62 The Other assets column shows shareholder assets as well as assets and liabilities classified as held for sale.
The majority of the assets for insurance businesses classified as held for sale are reported as Other assets and investment properties and totalled US$2.0bn at 31 December 2012 2011: US$0.1bn.
Assets classified as held for sale consist primarily of debt securities, the majority of which have a strong credit rating at 31 December 2012.
All liabilities for insurance businesses classified as held for sale are reported in Other liabilities and totalled US$1.2bn at 31 December 2012 2011: US$0.1bn.
The majority of these liabilities were life and non-life policyholder liabilities expected to mature after 5 years.
63 Present value of in-force long-term insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF.
64 Does not include associated insurance companies, SABB Takaful Company and Bao Viet Holdings, or joint venture insurance companies, Hana Life and Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited.
65 Comprise life linked insurance contracts and linked long-term investment contracts.
66 Comprise life non-linked insurance contracts and non-linked long-term investment contracts.
68 Comprise mainly loans and advances to banks, cash and intercompany balances with other non-insurance legal entities.
69 The table excludes contracts where the risk is 100% reinsured.
70 The majority of reserves for immediate annuities with guarantees are within insurance businesses that are held for sale at 31 December 2012.
71 Shareholders funds comprise solvency and unencumbered assets.
72 In most cases, policyholders have the option to terminate their contracts at any time and receive the surrender values of their policies.
These may be significantly lower than the amounts shown.
73 Value of net new business during the year is the present value of the projected stream of profits from the business.
74 Experience variances include the effect of the difference between demographic, expense and persistency assumptions used in the previous PVIF calculation and actual experience observed during the year to the extent this impacts profits on future business.
Pension risk 75 In 2011 and 2012, alternative assets included ABSs, MBSs and infrastructure assets.
In 2006, alternative assets included loans and infrastructure assets.
251 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Risk governance Credit risk Appendix to Risk Risk policies and practices This appendix describes the significant policies and practices employed by HSBC in managing our credit risk, liquidity and funding, market risk, operational risk including compliance risk, legal risk and fiduciary risk, insurance risk, reputational risk, pension risk and sustainability risk.
Risk governance Unaudited Our strong risk governance reflects the importance placed by the Board on shaping the Groups risk strategy and managing risks effectively.
It is supported by a clear policy framework of risk ownership, by the cascading from the Group Management Board GMB of performance scorecards that align business and risk objectives, and by the accountability of all staff for identifying, assessing and managing risks within the scope of their assigned responsibilities.
This personal accountability, reinforced by the governance structure, experience and mandatory learning, helps to foster a disciplined and constructive culture of risk management and control throughout HSBC.
Credit risk Credit risk management Audited The role of an independent credit control unit is fulfilled by the Global Risk function.
Credit approval authorities are delegated by the Board to certain executive officers of HSBC Holdings plc.
Similar credit approval authorities are delegated by the boards of subsidiary companies to executive officers of the relevant subsidiaries.
In each major subsidiary, a Chief Risk Officer reports to the local Chief Executive Officer on credit-related issues, while maintaining a direct functional reporting line to the Group Chief Risk Officer in Global Risk.
Details of the roles and responsibilities of the credit risk management function and the policies and procedures for managing credit risk are set out below.
Apart from the creation of a new Group Models Oversight Committee and supportive framework there were no significant changes in 2012.
The high-level oversight and management of credit risk provided globally by the Credit Risk function in Global Risk to formulate Group credit policy.
Compliance, subject to approved dispensations, is mandatory for all operating companies which must develop local credit policies consistent with Group policies: to guide operating companies on our appetite for credit risk exposure to specified market sectors, activities and banking products and controlling exposures to certain higher-risk sectors: to undertake an independent review and objective assessment of risk.
Global Risk assesses all commercial non-bank credit facilities and exposures over designated limits, prior to the facilities being committed to customers or transactions being undertaken: to monitor the performance and management of portfolios across the Group: to control exposure to sovereign entities, banks and other financial institutions, as well as debt securities which are not held solely for the purpose of trading: to set Group policy on large credit exposures, ensuring that concentrations of exposure by counterparty, sector or geography do not become excessive in relation to our capital base, and remain within internal and regulatory limits: to control our cross-border exposures see page 259 : to maintain and develop our risk rating framework and systems, the governance of which is under the general oversight of the Group Model Oversight Committee MOC.
The Group MOC meets bi-monthly and reports to the Risk Management Meeting.
It is chaired by the risk function and its membership is drawn from Global Risk and global businesses: to report to the Risk Management Meeting, the Group Risk Committee and the Board on high risk portfolios, risk concentrations, country limits and cross-border exposures, large impaired accounts, impairment allowances, stress testing results and recommendations and retail portfolio performance: and to act on behalf of HSBC Holdings as the primary interface, for credit-related issues, with the Bank of England, the FSA, local regulators, rating agencies, analysts and counterparts in major banks and non-bank financial institutions.
252 Principal objectives of our credit risk management to maintain across HSBC a strong culture of responsible lending and a robust risk policy and control framework: to both partner and challenge our businesses in defining, implementing and continually re-evaluating our risk appetite under actual and scenario conditions: and to ensure there is independent, expert scrutiny of credit risks, their costs and their mitigation.
Credit quality of financial instruments Audited Our credit risk rating systems and processes differentiate exposures in order to highlight those with greater risk factors and higher potential severity of loss.
In the case of individually significant accounts that are predominantly within our wholesale businesses, risk ratings are reviewed regularly and any amendments are implemented promptly.
Within our retail businesses, risk is assessed and managed using a wide range of risk and pricing models to generate portfolio data.
Our risk rating system facilitates the internal ratings-based IRB approach under Basel II adopted by the Group to support calculation of our minimum credit regulatory capital requirement.
For further details see definitions of our credit quality classifications below.
Special attention is paid to problem exposures in order to accelerate remedial action.
When appropriate, our operating companies use specialist units to provide customers with support to help them avoid default wherever possible.
Group and regional Credit Review and Risk Identification teams regularly review exposures and processes in order to provide an independent, rigorous assessment of credit risk across the Group, reinforce secondary risk management controls and share best practice.
Internal audit, as a tertiary control function, focuses on risks with a global perspective and on the design and effectiveness of primary and secondary controls, carrying out oversight audits via the sampling of global regional control frameworks, themed audits of key or emerging risks and project audits to assess major change initiatives.
The five credit quality classifications defined below each encompass a range of more granular, internal credit rating grades assigned to wholesale and retail lending businesses, as well as the external ratings attributed by external agencies to debt securities.
There is no direct correlation between the internal and external ratings at granular level, except to the extent each falls within a single quality classification.
Credit quality classification Unaudited Debt securities Wholesale lending and other bills and derivatives Retail lending 12 month External Internal probability of Internal Expected 1 credit rating credit rating default % credit rating loss % Quality classification Strong A and above CRR1 to CRR2 0 0.169 EL1 to EL2 0 0.999 Good. BBB to BBB CRR3 0.170 0.740 EL3 1.000 4.999 Satisfactory.................. BB to B and unrated CRR4 to CRR5 0.741 4.914 EL4 to EL5 5.000 19.999 Sub-standard................ B to C CRR6 to CRR8 4.915 99.999 EL6 to EL8 20.000 99.999 2 Impaired
Default CRR9 to CRR10 100 EL9 to EL10 100 or defaulted 1 We observe the disclosure convention that, in addition to those classified as EL9 to EL10, retail accounts classified EL1 to EL8 that are delinquent by 90 days or more are considered impaired, unless individually they have been assessed as not impaired see page 156, Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments.
2 The EL percentage is derived through a combination of PD and LGD, and may exceed 100% in circumstances where the LGD is above 100% reflecting the cost of recoveries.
253 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Credit risk Quality classification definitions Strong exposures demonstrate a strong capacity to meet financial commitments, with negligible or low probability of default and or low levels of expected loss.
Retail accounts operate within product parameters and only exceptionally show any period of delinquency.
Good exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate a good capacity to meet financial commitments, with low default risk.
Retail accounts typically show only short periods of delinquency, with any losses expected to be minimal following the adoption of recovery processes.
Satisfactory exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate an average to fair capacity to meet financial commitments, with moderate default risk.
Retail accounts typically show only short periods of delinquency, with any losses expected to be minor following the adoption of recovery processes.
Sub-standard exposures require varying degrees of special attention and default risk is of greater concern.
Retail portfolio segments show longer delinquency periods of generally up to 90 days past due and or expected losses are higher due to a reduced ability to mitigate these through security realisation or other recovery processes.
Impaired exposures have been assessed as impaired.
Wholesale exposures where the bank considers that either the customer is unlikely to pay its credit obligations in full, without recourse by the bank to the actions such as realising security if held, or the customer is past due more than 90 days on any material credit obligation.
Retail loans and advances greater than 90 days past due unless individually they have been assessed as not impaired.
Renegotiated loans that have met the requirements to be disclosed as impaired and have not yet met the criteria to be returned to the unimpaired portfolio see page 255.
The customer risk rating CRR 10-grade scale summarises a more granular underlying 23-grade scale of obligor probability of default PD.
All HSBC customers are rated using the 10 or 23-grade scale, depending on the degree of sophistication of the Basel II approach adopted for the exposure.
The expected loss EL 10-grade scale for retail business summarises a more granular underlying EL scale for these customer segments: this combines obligor and facility product risk factors in a composite measure.
For debt securities and certain other financial instruments, external ratings have been aligned to the five quality classifications.
The ratings of Standard and Poors are cited, with those of other agencies being treated equivalently.
Debt securities with short-term issue ratings are reported against the long-term rating of the issuer of those securities.
If major rating agencies have different ratings for the same debt securities, a prudent rating selection is made in line with regulatory requirements.
Renegotiated loans and forbearance Audited A range of forbearance strategies is employed in order to improve the management of customer relationships, maximise collection opportunities and, if possible, avoid default, foreclosure or repossession.
They include extended payment terms, a reduction in interest or principal repayments, approved external debt management plans, debt consolidations, the deferral of foreclosures, and other forms of loan modifications and re-ageing.
Our policies and practices are based on criteria which enable local management to judge whether repayment is likely to continue.
These typically provide a customer with terms and conditions that are more favourable than those provided initially.
Loan forbearance is only granted in situations where the customer has showed a willingness to repay the borrowing and is expected to be able to meet the revised obligations.
For retail lending our credit risk management policy sets out restrictions on the number and frequency of renegotiations, the minimum period an account must have been opened before any renegotiation can be considered and the number of qualifying payments that must be received.
The application of this policy varies according to the nature of the market, the product and the management of customer relationships through the occurrence of exceptional events.
Identifying renegotiated loans The contractual terms of a loan may be modified for a number of reasons including changing market conditions, customer retention and other factors not related to the current or potential credit deterioration of a customer.
When the contractual payment terms of a loan have been modified because we have significant concerns about the borrowers ability to meet contractual payments when due, these loans are classified as renegotiated loans.
For the purposes of this disclosure the term forbearance is synonymous with the renegotiation of loans.
For retail lending, when considering whether there is significant concern regarding a customers ability to meet contractual loan repayments when due, we assess the customers delinquency status, account behaviour, repayment history, current financial situation and continued ability to repay.
Where the customer is not meeting contractual repayments or it is evident that they will be unable to do so without the renegotiation, there will be a significant 254 concern regarding their ability to meet contractual payments, and the loan will be disclosed as impaired, unless the concession granted is insignificant as discussed below.
For loan restructurings in wholesale lending, indicators of significant concerns regarding a borrowers ability to pay include: the debtor is currently in default on any of its debt: the debtor has declared or is in the process of declaring bankruptcy or entering into a similar process: there is significant doubt as to whether the debtor will continue to be a going concern: currently, the debtor has securities that have been delisted, are in the process of being delisted, or are under threat of being delisted from an exchange as a result of trading or financial difficulties: based on estimates and projections that only encompass the current business capabilities, the bank forecasts that the debtors entity-specific cash flows will be insufficient to service the debt both interest and principal in accordance with the contractual terms of the existing agreement through maturity.
Thus actual payment default may not yet have occurred: and absent the modification, the debtor cannot obtain funds from sources other than the existing creditors at an effective interest rate equal to the current market interest rate for similar debt for a non-distressed debtor.
Where the modification of contractual payment terms of a loan represents a concession for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrowers financial difficulty, and is a concession that we would not otherwise consider, then the renegotiated loan is disclosed as impaired in accordance with our impaired loan disclosure convention described in more detail on page 162, unless the concession is insignificant and there are no other indicators of impairment.
Insignificant concessions are primarily restricted to our CML portfolio in HSBC Finance, where loans which are in the early stages of delinquency less than 60 days delinquent, and typically have the equivalent of two payments deferred for the first time, are excluded from our impaired loan classification as the contractual payment deferrals are deemed to be insignificant compared with payments due on the loan as a whole.
For details of HSBC Finances loan renegotiated programmes and portfolios, see pages 158 to 162. Credit quality classification of renegotiated loans Audited Under IFRSs, an entity is required to assess whether there is objective evidence that financial assets are impaired at the end of each reporting period.
A loan is impaired, and an impairment allowance is recognised, when there is objective evidence of a loss event that has an effect on the cash flows of the loan which can be reliably estimated.
When we grant a concession to a customer that we would not otherwise consider, as a result of their financial difficulty, this is objective evidence of impairment and impairment losses are measured accordingly.
A renegotiated loan is presented as impaired when: there has been a change in contractual cash flows as a result of a concession which the lender would otherwise not consider, and it is probable that without the concession, the borrower would be unable to meet contractual payment obligations in full.
This presentation applies unless the concession is insignificant and there are no other indicators of impairment.
The renegotiated loan will continue to be disclosed as impaired until there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate a significant reduction in the risk of non-payment of future cash flows, and there are no other indicators of impairment.
For loans that are assessed for impairment on a collective basis, the evidence typically comprises a history of payment performance against the original or revised terms, as appropriate to the circumstances.
For loans that are assessed for impairment on an individual basis, all available evidence is assessed on a case by case basis.
For retail lending the minimum period of payment performance required depends on the nature of loans in the portfolio, but is typically not less than six months.
Where portfolios have more significant levels of forbearance activity, such as that undertaken by HSBC Finance, the minimum repayment performance period required may be substantially more for further details on HSBC Finance see page 150.
Payment performance periods are monitored to ensure they remain appropriate to the levels of recidivism observed within the portfolio.
These performance periods are in addition to the receipt of a minimum of two payments within a 60 day period which must be received for the customer to initially qualify for the renegotiation in the case of HSBC Finance, in certain circumstances, for example where debt has been restructured in bankruptcy proceedings, fewer or no qualifying payments may be required.
The qualifying payments are required in order to demonstrate that the renegotiated terms are sustainable 255 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Credit risk for the borrower.
For corporate and commercial loans, which are individually assessed for impairment and where non-monthly payments are more commonly agreed, the history of payment performance will depend on the underlying structure of payments agreed as part of the restructure.
Renegotiated loans are classified as unimpaired where the renegotiation has resulted from significant concern about a borrowers ability to meet their contractual payment terms but the renegotiated terms are based on current market rates and contractual cash flows are expected to be collected in full following the renegotiation.
Unimpaired renegotiated loans also include previously impaired renegotiated loans that have demonstrated satisfactory performance over a period of time or have been assessed based on all available evidence as having no remaining indicators of impairment.
Loans that have been identified as renegotiated retain this designation until maturity or derecognition.
When a loan is restructured as part of a forbearance strategy and the restructuring results in derecognition of the existing loan, such as in some debt consolidations, the new loan is disclosed as renegotiated.
When determining whether a loan that is restructured should be derecognised and a new loan recognised, we consider the extent to which the changes to the original contractual terms result in the renegotiated loan, considered as a whole, being a substantially different financial instrument.
The following are examples of circumstances that are likely to result in this test being met and derecognition accounting being applied: an uncollateralised loan becomes fully collateralised: the addition or removal of cross collateralisation provisions: multiple facilities are consolidated into a single new facility: removal or addition of conversion features attached to the loan agreement: a change in the currency in which the principal or interest is denominated: a change in the liquidation preference or ranking of the instrument: or the contract is altered in any other manner so that the terms under the new or modified contract are substantially different from those under the original contract.
The following are examples of factors that we consider may indicate that the revised loan is a substantially different financial instrument, but are unlikely to be conclusive in themselves: change in guarantees or loan covenants provided: less significant changes to collateral arrangements: or the addition of repayment provisions or prepayment premium clauses.
Renegotiated loans and recognition of impairment allowances Audited For retail lending, renegotiated loans are segregated from other parts of the loan portfolio for collective impairment assessment to reflect the higher rates of losses often encountered in these segments.
When empirical evidence indicates an increased propensity to default and higher losses on such accounts, such as for re-aged loans in the US, the use of roll-rate methodology ensures these factors are taken into account when calculating impairment allowances by applying roll rates specifically calculated on the pool of loans subject to forbearance.
When the portfolio size is small or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll-rate methodology, a basic formulaic approach based on historical loss rate experience is used.
As a result of our roll-rate methodology, we recognise collective impairment allowances on homogeneous groups of loans, including renegotiated loans, where there is historical evidence that there is a likelihood that loans in these groups will progress through the various stages of delinquency, and ultimately prove irrecoverable as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet date.
This treatment applies irrespective of whether or not those loans are presented as impaired in accordance with our impaired loans disclosure convention.
When we consider that there are additional risk factors inherent in the portfolios that may not be fully reflected in the statistical roll rates or historical experience, these risk factors are taken into account by adjusting the impairment allowances derived solely from statistical or historical experience.
For further details of the risk factor adjustments see Critical accounting policies on page 54.
In the corporate and commercial sectors, renegotiated loans are typically assessed individually.
Credit risk ratings are intrinsic to the impairment assessment.
A distressed restructuring is classified as an impaired loan.
The individual impairment assessment takes into account the higher risk of the non-payment of future cash flows inherent in renegotiated loans.
256 Corporate and commercial forbearance Unaudited In the corporate and commercial sectors, forbearance activity is undertaken selectively where it has been identified that repayment difficulties against the original terms already have, or are very likely to, materialise.
These cases are treated as impaired loans where: the customer is experiencing, or is very likely to experience, difficulty in meeting a payment obligation to the bank i. e. due to current credit distress : and the bank is offering to the customer revised payment arrangements which constitute a concession i. e. it is offering terms it would not normally be prepared to offer.
These cases are described as distressed restructurings.
The agreement of a restructuring which meets the criteria above requires all loans, advances and counterparty exposures to the customer to be treated as impaired.
Against the background of this requirement, as a customer approaches the point that it becomes clear that there is an increasing risk that a restructuring of this kind might be necessary, the exposures will typically be regarded as sub-standard to reflect the deteriorating credit risk profile, and will be graded as impaired when the restructure is proposed for approval, or sooner if there is sufficient concern regarding the customers likeliness to pay.
For the purposes of determining whether changes to a customers agreement should be treated as a distressed restructuring the following types of modification are regarded as concessionary: transfers from the customer of receivables from third parties, real estate, or other assets to satisfy fully or partially a debt: issuance or other granting of an equity interest to satisfy fully or partially a debt unless the equity interest is granted pursuant to existing terms for converting the debt into an equity interest: and modification of the terms of a debt, such as one or more of the following: reduction absolute or contingent of the stated interest rate for the remaining original life of the debt: extension of the maturity date or dates at a stated interest rate lower than the current market rate for new debt with similar risk: reduction absolute or contingent of the face amount or maturity amount of the debt: and reduction absolute or contingent of accrued interest.
Modifications that are unrelated to payment arrangements, such as the restructuring of collateral or security arrangements or the waiver of rights under covenants within documentation, are not regarded by themselves to be evidence of credit distress affecting payment capacity.
Typically, covenants are in place to give the bank rights of repricing or acceleration, but they are frequently set at levels where payment capacity has yet to be affected.
They provide rights of action at earlier stages of credit deterioration.
However, when these modifications are made in conjunction with modifications affecting payment arrangements as a result of significant concerns regarding the payment of contractual cash flows, they are treated as a distressed restructuring.
In assessing whether payment-related forbearance is a satisfactory and sustainable strategy, the customers entire exposure and facilities will be reviewed and the customers ability to meet the terms of both the revised obligation and other credit facilities not amended in the renegotiation is assessed.
Should this assessment identify that a renegotiation will not deal with a customers payment capacity issues satisfactorily, other special management options may be applied.
This process may identify the need to provide assistance to a customer specifically to restructure their business operations and activities so as to restore satisfactory payment capacity.
Modifications may be made on a temporary basis when time is needed for the customer to make arrangements for payment, when deterioration in payment capacity is expected to be acute but short lived, or when more time is needed to accommodate discussions regarding a more permanent accommodation with other bankers, for example in syndicated facilities where multilateral negotiation commonly features.
If a restructuring proceeds and the customer demonstrates satisfactory performance over a period of time, the case may be returned to a non-impaired grade CRR1-8 provided no other indicators of impairment remain.
Such a case cannot be returned to a non-impaired grade when a specific impairment reserve remains against any of the customers credit facilities.
The period of performance will vary depending on the frequency of payments to be made by the customer under the amended agreement and the extent to which the customers financial position is considered to have improved.
257 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Credit risk Impairment assessment Audited It is our policy that each operating company in HSBC creates impairment allowances for impaired loans promptly and appropriately.
For details of our impairment policies on loans and advances and financial investments, see Notes 2g and 2j on the Financial Statements.
Impairment and credit risk mitigation The existence of collateral has an impact when calculating impairment on individually assessed impaired loans.
When we no longer expect to recover the principal and interest due on a loan in full or in accordance with the original terms and conditions, it is assessed for impairment.
If exposures are secured, the current net realisable value of the collateral will be taken into account when assessing the need for an impairment allowance.
No impairment allowance is recognised in cases where all amounts due are expected to be settled in full on realisation of the security.
Personal lending portfolios are generally assessed for impairment on a collective basis as the portfolios typically consist of large groups of homogeneous loans.
Two methods are used to calculate allowances on a collective basis: a roll rate methodology or a more basic formulaic approach based on historical losses.
The historical loss methodology is typically used to calculate collective impairment allowances for secured, or low default portfolios such as mortgages, until the point at which they are individually identified and assessed as impaired.
For loans which are collectively assessed using historical loss methodology, the historical loss rate is derived from the average contractual write-off net of recoveries over a defined period.
The net contractual write-off rate is the actual amount of loss experienced after the realisation of collateral and receipt of recoveries.
A roll rate methodology is more commonly adopted for unsecured portfolios when there are sufficient volumes of empirical data to develop robust statistical models.
In certain circumstances mortgage portfolios have a statistically significant number of defaults and losses available, enabling reliable roll rates to be generated.
In these cases a roll rate methodology is applied until the point at which the loans are individually identified and assessed as impaired, and the average loss rate for each delinquency bucket is adjusted to reflect the average loss expected following realisation of security and receipt of recoveries.
The average loss expected is derived from average historical collateral realisation values.
The nature of the collective allowance assessment prevents individual collateral values or loan-to-value LTV ratios from being included within the calculation.
However, the loss rates used in the collective assessment are adjusted for the collateral realisation experiences which will vary depending on the LTV composition of the portfolio.
For example mortgage portfolios under a historical loss rate methodology with lower LTV ratios will typically experience lower loss history and consequently a lower net contractual write-off rate.
For wholesale collectively assessed loans historical loss methodologies are applied to measure loss event impairments which have been incurred but not reported.
Loss rates are derived from the observed contractual writeoff net of recoveries over a defined period, typically 60 months.
The net contractual write-off rate is the actual amount of loss experienced after realisation of collateral and receipt of recoveries.
These historical loss rates are adjusted by an economic factor which adjusts the historical averages to better represent current economic conditions affecting the portfolio.
In order to reflect the likelihood of a loss event not being identified and assessed an emergence period assumption is applied.
This reflects the period between a loss occurring and its identification.
The emergence period is estimated by local management for each identified portfolio.
The factors that may influence this estimation include economic and market conditions, customer behaviour, portfolio management information, credit management techniques and collection and recovery experiences in the market.
A fixed range for the period between a loss occurring and its identification is not defined across the Group and as it is assessed empirically on a periodic basis, it may vary over time as these factors change.
Given that credit management policies require all customers to be reviewed at least annually, we expect this estimated period would be at most 12 months.
258 Write-off of loans and advances For details of our policy on the write-off of loans and advances, see Note 2g on the Financial Statements.
In HSBC Finance, the carrying amounts of residential mortgage and second lien loans in excess of net realisable value are written off at or before the time foreclosure is completed or settlement is reached with the borrower.
If there is no reasonable expectation of recovery, and foreclosure is pursued, the loan is normally written off no later than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days contractually past due.
Unsecured personal facilities, including credit cards, are generally written off at between 150 and 210 days past due, the standard period being the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days contractually delinquent.
Write-off periods may be extended, generally to no more than 360 days past due but, in very exceptional circumstances, exceeding that figure in a few countries where local regulation or legislation constrain earlier write-off, or where the realisation of collateral for secured real estate lending extends to this time.
In the event of bankruptcy or analogous proceedings, write-off may occur earlier than at the periods stated above.
Collections procedures may continue after write-off.
Concentration of exposure Audited Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of counterparties or exposures have comparable economic characteristics, or such counterparties are engaged in similar activities or operate in the same geographical areas or industry sectors, so that their collective ability to meet contractual obligations is uniformly affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions.
We use a number of controls and measures to minimise undue concentration of exposure in our portfolios across industry, country and global businesses.
These include portfolio and counterparty limits, approval and review controls, and stress testing.
Wrong-way risk is an aggravated form of concentration risk and arises when there is a strong correlation between the counterpartys probability of default and the mark-to-market value of the underlying transaction.
We use a range of procedures to monitor and control wrong-way risk, including requiring entities to obtain prior approval before undertaking wrong-way risk transactions outside pre-agreed guidelines.
Cross-border exposures We assess the vulnerability of countries to foreign currency payment restrictions, including economic and political factors, when considering impairment allowances on cross-border exposures.
Impairment allowances are assessed in respect of all qualifying exposures within vulnerable countries unless these exposures and the inherent risks are: performing, trade-related and of less than one years maturity: mitigated by acceptable security cover which is, other than in exceptional cases, held outside the country concerned: in the form of securities held for trading purposes for which a liquid and active market exists, and which are measured at fair value daily: and performing facilities with a principal excluding security of US$1m or below and or with maturity dates shorter than three months.
Nature of HSBCs securitisation and other structured exposures Audited Mortgage-backed securities MBSs are securities that represent interests in groups of mortgages and provide investors with the right to receive cash from future mortgage payments interest and or principal.
An MBS which references mortgages with different risk profiles is classified according to the highest risk class.
Collateralised debt obligations CDOs are securities backed by a pool of bonds, loans or other assets such as assetbacked securities ABSs.
CDOs may include exposure to sub-prime or Alt-A mortgage assets where these are part of the underlying assets or reference assets.
As there is often uncertainty surrounding the precise nature of the underlying collateral supporting CDOs, all CDOs supported by residential mortgage-related assets are classified as sub-prime.
Our holdings of ABSs and CDOs and direct lending positions, and the categories of mortgage collateral and lending activity, are described overleaf.
259 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Credit risk Liquidity and funding Our exposure to non-residential mortgage-related ABSs and direct lending includes securities with collateral relating to: commercial property mortgages: leveraged finance loans: student loans: and other assets, such as securities with other receivable-related collateral.
Categories of ABSs and CDOs Definition Classification Sub-prime Loans to customers who have limited credit histories, For US mortgages, a FICO score of 620 or less has modest incomes or high debt-to-income ratios or have primarily been used to determine whether a loan is subexperienced credit problems caused by occasional prime.
For non-US mortgages, management judgement delinquencies, prior charge-offs, bankruptcy or other is used.
US Home Equity Lines A form of revolving credit facility provided to Holdings of HELoCs are classified as sub-prime.
of Credit HELoCs customers, which is supported in the majority of circumstances by a second lien or lower ranking charge over residential property.
US Alt-A Lower risk loans than sub-prime, but they share higher US credit scores and the completeness of risk characteristics than lending under fully conforming documentation held such as proof of income, are standard criteria.
considered when determining whether an Alt-A classification is appropriate.
Non sub-prime mortgages in the US are classified as Alt-A if they are not eligible for sale to the major US Government mortgage agencies or sponsored entities.
US Government agency Securities that are guaranteed by US Government Holdings of US Government agency and US and sponsored agencies such as the Government National Mortgage Government sponsored enterprises mortgage-related enterprises mortgageAssociation Ginnie Mae, or by US Government assets are classified as prime exposures.
related assets sponsored entities including the Federal National Mortgage Association Fannie Mae and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Freddie Mac.
UK non-conforming UK mortgages that do not meet normal lending criteria.
UK non-conforming mortgages are treated as submortgages Examples include mortgages where the expected level prime exposures.
of documentation is not provided such as income with self-certification, or where poor credit history increases risk and results in pricing at a higher than normal lending rate.
Other mortgages Residential mortgages, including prime mortgages, that Prime residential mortgage-related assets are included do not meet any of the classifications described above.
Impairment methodologies Audited To identify objective evidence of impairment for available-for-sale ABSs, an industry standard valuation model is normally applied which uses data with reference to the underlying asset pools and models their projected future cash flows.
The estimated future cash flows of the securities are assessed at the specific financial asset level to determine whether any of them are unlikely to be recovered as a result of loss events occurring on or before the reporting date.
The principal assumptions and inputs to the models are typically the delinquency status of the underlying loans, the probability of delinquent loans progressing to default, the prepayment profiles of the underlying assets and the loss severity in the event of default.
However, the models utilise other variables relevant to specific classes of collateral to forecast future defaults and recovery rates.
Management uses externally available data and applies judgement when determining the appropriate assumptions in respect of these factors.
We use a modelling approach which incorporates historically observed progression rates to default to determine if the decline in aggregate projected cash flows from the underlying collateral will lead to a shortfall in contractual cash flows.
In such cases, the security is considered to be impaired.
In respect of CDOs, expected future cash flows for the underlying collateral are assessed to determine whether there is likely to be a shortfall in the contractual cash flows of the CDO.
260 When a security benefits from a contract provided by a monoline insurer that insures payments of principal and interest, the expected recovery on the contract is assessed in determining the total expected credit support available to the ABS.
Liquidity and funding Audited The management of liquidity and funding is primarily undertaken locally by country in our operating entities in compliance with the Groups liquidity and funding risk management framework the LFRF, and with practices and limits set by the GMB through the Risk Management Meeting and approved by the Board.
These limits vary according to the depth and the liquidity of the markets in which the entities operate.
Our general policy is that each defined operating entity should be self-sufficient in funding its own activities.
Where transactions exist between operating entities, they are reflected symmetrically in both entities.
As part of our Asset, Liability and Capital Management ALCM structure, we have established ALCOs at Group level, in the regions and in operating entities.
The terms of reference of all ALCOs include the monitoring and control of liquidity and funding.
The primary responsibility for managing liquidity and funding within the Groups framework and risk appetite resides with the local operating entity ALCO.
Our most significant operating entities are overseen by regional ALCOs, Group ALCO and the Risk Management Meeting.
The remaining smaller operating entities are overseen by regional ALCOs, with appropriate escalation of significant issues to Group ALCO and the Risk Management Meeting.
Operating entities are predominately defined on a country basis to reflect our local management of liquidity and funding.
Typically, an operating entity will be defined as a single legal entity.
However, to take account of the situation where operations in a country are booked across multiple subsidiaries or branches: an operating entity may be defined as a wider sub-consolidated group of legal entities if they are incorporated in the same country, liquidity and funding are freely fungible between the entities and permitted by local regulation, and the definition reflects how liquidity and funding are managed locally: or an operating entity may be defined more narrowly as a principal office branch of a wider legal entity operating in multiple countries, reflecting the local country management of liquidity and funding.
The list of entities it directly oversees and the composition of these entities is reviewed and agreed annually by the Risk Management Meeting.
Primary sources of funding Audited Customer deposits in the form of current accounts and savings deposits payable on demand or at short notice form a significant part of our funding, and we place considerable importance on maintaining their stability.
For deposits, stability depends upon maintaining depositor confidence in our capital strength and liquidity, and on competitive and transparent pricing.
We also access wholesale funding markets by issuing senior secured and unsecured debt securities publically and privately and borrowing from the secured repo markets against high quality collateral, in order to obtain funding for non-banking subsidiaries that do not accept deposits, to align asset and liability maturities and currencies and to maintain a presence in local wholesale markets.
The management of funding and liquidity risk Inherent liquidity risk categorisation We place our operating entities into one of three categories low, medium and high to reflect our assessment of their inherent liquidity risk, considering political, economic and regulatory factors within the host country and factors specific to the operating entities themselves, such as the local market, market share and balance sheet strength.
The categorisation involves management judgement and is based on the perceived liquidity risk of an operating entity relative to other entities in the Group.
The categorisation is intended to reflect the possible impact of a liquidity event, not the probability of an event.
The categorisation is part of our risk appetite and is used to determine the prescribed stress scenario that we require our operating entities to be able to withstand, and to manage to.
261 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Credit risk Liquidity and funding Core deposits A key assumption of our internal framework is the categorisation of customer deposits into core and non-core based on our expectation of the behaviour of these deposits during liquidity stress.
This characterisation takes into account the inherent liquidity risk categorisation of the operating entity originating the deposit, the nature of the customer and the size and pricing of the deposit.
No deposit is considered to be core in its entirety unless it is contractually collateralising a loan.
The core deposit base in each operating entity is considered to be a long-term source of funding and therefore is assumed not to be withdrawn in the liquidity stress scenario that we use to calculate our principal liquidity risk metrics.
The three filters considered in assessing whether a deposit in any operating entity is core are: price: any deposit priced significantly above market or benchmark rates is generally treated as entirely non-core: size: depositors with total funds above certain monetary thresholds are excluded.
Thresholds are established by considering the business line and inherent liquidity risk categorisation: and line of business: the element of any deposit remaining after the application of the price and size filters is assessed on the basis of the line of business to which the deposit is associated.
The proportion of any customer deposit that can be considered core under this filter is between 35% and 90%.
Repo transactions and bank deposits cannot be categorised as core deposits.
Advances to core funding ratio Core customer deposits are an important source of funding to finance lending to customers, and mitigate against reliance on short-term wholesale funding.
Limits are placed on operating entities to restrict their ability to increase loans and advances to customers without corresponding growth in core customer deposits or long-term debt funding with a residual maturity beyond one year: this measure is referred to as the advances to core funding ratio.
Advances to core funding ratio limits are set by the Risk Management Meeting for the most significant operating entities, and by regional ALCOs for smaller operating entities, and are monitored by ALCM teams.
The ratio describes current loans and advances to customers as a percentage of the total of core customer deposits and term funding with a remaining term to maturity in excess of one year.
In general, customer loans are assumed to be renewed and are included in the numerator of the advances to core funding ratio, irrespective of the contractual maturity date.
Reverse repo arrangements are excluded from the advances to core funding ratio.
Stressed coverage ratios Stressed coverage ratios are derived from stressed cash flow scenario analyses and express the stressed cash inflows as a percentage of stressed cash outflows over one-month and three-month time horizons.
The stressed cash inflows include: inflows net of assumed haircuts expected to be generated from the realisation of liquid assets: and contractual cash inflows from maturing assets that are not already reflected as a utilisation of liquid assets.
In line with the approach adopted for the advances to core funding ratio, customer loans are, in general, assumed not to generate any cash inflows under stress scenarios and are therefore excluded from the numerator of the stressed coverage ratios, irrespective of the contractual maturity date.
A stressed coverage ratio of 100% or higher reflects a positive cumulative cash flow under the stress scenario being monitored.
Group operating entities are required to maintain a ratio of 100% or greater out to three months under the combined market-wide and HSBC-specific stress scenario defined by the inherent liquidity risk categorisation of the operating entity concerned.
Compliance with operating entity limits is monitored by ALCM teams and reported monthly to the Risk Management Meeting for the main operating entities and to regional ALCOs for the smaller operating entities.
Stressed scenario analysis We use a number of standard Group stress scenarios designed to model: combined market-wide and HSBC-specific liquidity crisis scenarios: and market-wide liquidity crisis scenarios.
262 These scenarios are modelled by all operating entities.
The appropriateness of the assumptions for each scenario is reviewed by ALCM regularly and formally approved by the Risk Management Meeting and the Board annually as part of the liquidity and funding risk appetite approval process.
Stressed cash outflows are determined by applying a standard set of prescribed stress assumptions to the Groups cash flow model.
Our framework prescribes the use of two market-wide scenarios and three further combined market-wide and HSBC-specific stress scenarios of increasing severity.
In addition to our standard stress scenarios, individual operating entities are required to design their own scenarios to reflect specific local market conditions, products and funding bases.
The three combined market-wide and HSBC-specific scenarios model a more severe scenario than the two marketwide scenarios.
The relevant combined market-wide and HSBC-specific stress scenario that an operating entity manages to is based upon its inherent liquidity risk categorisation.
The key assumptions factored into the three combined market-wide and HSBC-specific stress scenarios are summarised as follows: all non-core deposits are deemed to be withdrawn within three months 80% within one month, with the level of non-core deposits dependent on the operating entitys inherent liquidity risk categorisation: the ability to access interbank funding and unsecured term debt markets ceases for the duration of the scenario: the ability to generate funds from illiquid asset portfolios securitisation and secured borrowing is restricted to 25-75% of the lower of issues in the last six months or the expected issues in the next six months.
The restriction is based on current market conditions and is dependent on the operating entitys inherent liquidity risk categorisation: the ability to access repo funding ceases for any asset not classified as liquid under our liquid asset policy for the duration of the scenario: drawdowns on committed lending facilities must be consistent with the severity of the market stress being modelled and dependent on the inherent liquidity risk categorisation of the operating entity: outflows are triggered by a defined downgrade in long-term ratings.
We maintain an on-going assessment of the appropriate number of notches to reflect: customer loans are assumed to be renewed at contractual maturity: interbank loans and reverse repos are assumed to run off contractually: and assets defined as liquid assets are assumed to be realised in cash ahead of their contractual maturity, after applying a defined stressed haircut of up to 20%.
Liquid assets of HSBCs principal operating entities Stressed scenario analysis and the numerator of the coverage ratio include the assumed cash inflows that would be generated from the realisation of liquid assets, after applying the appropriate stressed haircut.
These assumptions are made based on managements expectation of when an asset is deemed to be realisable.
Liquid assets are unencumbered assets that meet the Groups definition of liquid assets and are either held outright or as a consequence of a reverse repo transaction with a residual contractual maturity beyond the time horizon of the stressed coverage ratio being monitored.
Any unencumbered asset held as a result of reverse repo transactions with a contractual maturity within the time horizon of the stressed coverage ratio being monitored is excluded from the stock of liquid assets and instead reflected as a contractual cash inflow.
Our framework defines the asset classes that can be assessed locally as high quality and realisable within one month and between one month and three months.
Each local ALCO has to be satisfied that any asset which may be treated as liquid in accordance with the Groups liquid asset policy will remain liquid under the stress scenario being managed to.
Inflows from the utilisation of liquid assets within one month can generally only be based on confirmed withdrawable central bank deposits, gold or the sale or repo of government and quasi-government exposures generally restricted to those denominated in the sovereigns domestic currency.
High quality ABSs predominantly US MBSs and covered bonds are also included but inflows assumed for these assets are capped.
Inflows after one month are also reflected for high quality non-financial and non-structured corporate bonds and equities within the most liquid indices.
263 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Liquidity and funding Market risk Internal categorisation Cash inflow recognised Asset classes Level 1 Within one month Central government Central bank including confirmed withdrawable reserves Supranationals Multilateral development banks Level 2 Within one month but capped Local and regional government Public sector entities Secured covered bonds and pass-through ABSs Gold Level 3 From one to three months Unsecured non-financial entity securities Equities listed on recognised exchanges and within liquid indices Any entity owned and controlled by central or local regional government but not explicitly guaranteed is treated as a public sector entity.
Any exposure explicitly guaranteed is reflected as an exposure to the ultimate guarantor.
In terms of the criteria used to ensure liquid assets are of a high quality, the Groups liquid asset policy sets out the following additional criteria: 1.
Central bank and central government exposures denominated in the domestic currency of the related sovereign and held onshore in the domestic banking system qualify as level 1 liquid assets.
Central bank and central government exposures denominated in the domestic currency of the related sovereign and held offshore must be risk weighted 20% or lower under the Basel standardised risk weighting methodology, to qualify as level 1 liquid assets.
Central bank and central government exposures denominated in a currency other than the currency of the related sovereign i. e. foreign currency must be risk weighted 20% or lower under the Basel standardised risk weighting methodology and issued in a limited number of major currencies, to qualify as level 1 liquid assets.
The treatment of eurozone countries using the euro as their domestic currency depends on whether the exposures are held onshore in the domestic banking system or offshore.
Central bank and central government exposures held onshore in the domestic banking system qualify as level 1 liquid assets under criteria 1, but central bank and central government exposures held offshore are considered to be denominated in a foreign currency and considered under criteria 3.
Local regional government exposures held onshore and considered by the local regulator to be the same risk as central government exposures can be considered central government exposures.
Supranationals and multilateral development banks must be 0% risk weighted under the Basel standardised risk weighting methodology, to qualify as level 1 liquid assets.
To qualify as a level 2 liquid asset the exposure must be risk weighted 20% or lower under the Basel standardised risk weighting methodology.
To qualify as a level 3 liquid asset an unsecured non-financial corporate debt exposure must satisfy a minimum internal rating requirement.
Wholesale debt monitoring Where wholesale debt term markets are accessed to raise funding, ALCO is required to establish cumulative rolling three-month and 12-month debt maturity limits to ensure no concentration of maturities within these timeframes.
Liquidity behaviouralisation Liquidity behaviouralisation is applied to reflect our assessment of the expected period for which we are confident that we will have access to our liabilities, even under a severe liquidity stress scenario, and the expected period for which we must assume that we will need to fund our assets.
Behaviouralisation is applied when the contractual terms do not reflect the expected behaviour.
Liquidity behaviouralisation is reviewed and approved by local ALCO in compliance with policies set by the Risk Management Meeting.
Our approach to liquidity risk management will often 264 mean a different approach is applied to assets and liabilities.
For example, management may assume a shorter life for liabilities and a longer-term funding requirement for assets.
Contingent liquidity risk Operating entities provide customers with committed facilities and committed backstop lines to the conduit vehicles we sponsor.
These facilities increase our funding requirements when customers draw down.
The liquidity risk associated with the potential drawdown on non-cancellable committed facilities is factored into our stressed scenarios and limits are set for these facilities.
Management of cross-currency liquidity and funding risk Our liquidity and funding risk framework also considers the ability of each entity to continue to access foreign exchange markets under stress when a surplus in one currency is used to meet a deficit in another currency, for example, by the use of the foreign currency swap markets.
Where appropriate, operating entities are required to monitor stressed coverage ratios and advances to core funding ratios for non-local currencies.
HSBC Holdings Audited HSBC Holdings primary sources of cash are dividends received from subsidiaries, interest on and repayment of intra-group loans and interest earned on its own liquid funds.
HSBC Holdings also raises ancillary funds in the debt capital markets through subordinated and senior debt issuance.
Cash is primarily used for the provision of capital to subsidiaries, interest payments to debt holders and dividend payments to shareholders.
HSBC Holdings is also subject to contingent liquidity risk by virtue of loan and other credit-related commitments and guarantees and similar contracts issued.
Such commitments and guarantees are only issued after due consideration of HSBC Holdings ability to finance the commitments and guarantees and the likelihood of the need arising.
HSBC Holdings actively manages the cash flows from its subsidiaries to optimise the amount of cash held at the holding company level.
The ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings depends on, among other things, their respective regulatory capital requirements, statutory reserves, and financial and operating performance.
The wide range of our activities means that HSBC Holdings is not dependent on a single source of profits to fund its dividend payments to shareholders.
Market risk Overview of market risk in global businesses The diagram below illustrates the main business areas where trading and non-trading market risks reside.
Trading risk Non-trading risk Interest rates Interest rates Risk Foreign exchange and commodities Credit spreads types Credit spreads Foreign exchange structural Equities GB&M GB&M GPB CMB RBWM including Global including Balance Sheet Management BSM BSM businesses Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures Audited We employ a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk exposures.
These include sensitivity analysis, value at risk VAR, stressed VAR and stress testing.
While VAR provides the GMB with a measure of the market risk in the Group, sensitivity analysis and VAR are more commonly utilised for the management of the business units.
Stress testing and stressed VAR complement these measures with potential losses arising from market turmoil.
265 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Market risk Market risk is managed and controlled through limits approved by the GMB for HSBC Holdings and our various global businesses.
These limits are allocated across business lines and to the Groups legal entities.
The management of market risk is principally undertaken in Global Markets, where 85% of the total value at risk of HSBC Holdings excluding Insurance and almost all trading VAR resides, using risk limits approved by the GMB.
Limits are set for portfolios, products and risk types, with market liquidity being a primary factor in determining the level of limits set.
Group Risk, an independent unit within Group Head Office, is responsible for our market risk management policies and measurement techniques.
Each major operating entity has an independent market risk management and control function which is responsible for measuring market risk exposures in accordance with the policies defined by Group Risk, and monitoring and reporting these exposures against the prescribed limits on a daily basis.
The risk appetite is governed according to the framework illustrated below.
Each operating entity is required to assess the market HSBC Holdings Board risks arising on each product in its business and to transfer them to either its local Global Markets unit for management, or to separate books managed under the supervision of the local ALCO.
Our aim is to Chairman CEO ensure that all market risks are consolidated within operations that have the necessary skills, tools, management and governance to manage them Group Management Board professionally.
In certain cases where the market risks cannot be fully transferred, we identify the impact of varying scenarios on valuations or on net interest Risk Management Meeting income resulting from any residual risk positions.
Further details on the control and management process for residual risks are provided on pages 268 to 269.
Group Traded Risk Sensitivity analysis Unaudited Entity Risk Management Committee We use sensitivity measures to monitor the market risk positions within each risk type, for example, the present value of a basis point movement in interest Principal Office Manager rates for interest rate risk.
Sensitivity limits are set for portfolios, products and risk types, with the depth of the market being one of the principal factors in determining the level of limits set.
Business Desk Trader Value at risk and stressed value at risk Audited VAR is a technique that estimates the potential losses on risk positions as a result of movements in market rates and prices over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence.
Stressed VAR is primarily used for Regulatory Capital purposes but is integrated into the risk management process to facilitate efficient capital management and to highlight possible high-risk positions based on previous market volatility.
Both the VAR and Stressed VAR models we use are based predominantly on historical simulation.
These models derive plausible future scenarios from past series of recorded market rates and prices, taking into account interrelationships between different markets and rates such as interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
The models also incorporate the effect of option features on the underlying exposures.
The historical simulation models used incorporate the following features: historical market rates and prices are calculated with reference to foreign exchange rates and commodity prices, interest rates, equity prices and the associated volatilities: potential market movements utilised for VAR are calculated with reference to data from the past two years, unaudited potential market movements employed for stressed VAR calculations are based on a continuous oneyear period of stress for the trading portfolio: the choice of period March 2008 to February 2009 is based on the assessment at the Group level of the most volatile period in recent history: and 266 General measures Specific measures VAR measures are calculated to a 99% confidence level and use a one-day holding period scaled to 10 days, whereas stressed VAR uses a 10-day holding period.
The nature of the VAR models means that an increase in observed market volatility will lead to an increase in VAR without any changes in the underlying positions.
We routinely validate the accuracy of our VAR models by back-testing the actual daily profit and loss results, adjusted to remove non-modelled items such as fees and commissions, against the corresponding VAR numbers.
We expect on average to see losses in excess of VAR 1% of the time over a one-year period.
Although a valuable guide to risk, VAR should always be viewed in the context of its limitations.
For example: the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events may not encompass all potential events, particularly those which are extreme in nature: the use of a one-day holding period assumes that all positions can be liquidated or the risks offset in one day.
This may not fully reflect the market risk arising at times of severe illiquidity, when a one-day holding period may be insufficient to liquidate or hedge all positions fully: the use of a 99% confidence level does not take into account losses that might occur beyond this level of confidence: VAR is calculated on the basis of exposures outstanding at the close of business and therefore does not necessarily reflect intra-day exposures: and VAR is unlikely to reflect loss potential on exposures that only arise under significant market moves.
Our VAR model is designed to capture significant basis risks such as CDS vs bond, asset swap spreads and crosscurrency basis.
Other basis risks which are not completely covered in VAR, such as the Libor tenor basis, are complemented by our risk-not-in-VAR calculations and are integrated into our capital framework.
Stress testing is also used as one of the market risk tools for managing basis risks.
Stress testing Audited In recognition of the limitations of VAR, we augment it with stress testing to evaluate the potential impact on portfolio values of more extreme, although plausible, events or movements in a set of financial variables.
Stress testing is implemented at the legal entity, regional and the overall Group levels.
A standard set of scenarios is utilised consistently across all regions within the Group.
Scenarios are tailored in order to capture the relevant events or market movements at each level.
The risk appetite around potential stress losses for the Group is set and monitored against referral limits.
The process is governed by the Stress Testing Review Group forum which, in conjunction with regional risk management, determines the scenarios to be applied at portfolio and consolidated levels, as follows: single risk factor stress scenarios that are unlikely to be captured within the VAR models, such as the break of a currency peg: technical scenarios consider the largest move in each risk factor without consideration of any underlying market correlation: hypothetical scenarios consider potential macroeconomic events, for example, the slowdown in mainland China and the potential effects of a sovereign debt default, including its wider contagion effects.
: and historical scenarios incorporate historical observations of market movements during previous periods of stress which would not be captured within VAR.
Stress testing results are submitted to the GMB and Risk Management Committee RMC meetings in order to provide senior management with an assessment of the financial effect such events would have.
In addition, the reverse stress test is based upon the premise that there is a fixed loss.
The stress test process identifies which scenarios lead to this loss.
The rationale behind the reverse stress test is to understand scenarios which are beyond normal business settings that could have contagion and systemic implications.
Stressed VAR and stress testing, together with reverse stress testing and the management of gap risk see page 268, provide management with insights regarding the tail risk beyond VAR.
HSBC appetite for tail risk is limited.
267 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Market risk Trading portfolios Audited Our control of market risk in the trading portfolios is based on a policy of restricting individual operations to trading within a list of permissible instruments authorised for each site by Group Risk, of enforcing new product approval procedures, and of restricting trading in the more complex derivative products only to offices with appropriate levels of product expertise and robust control systems.
Gap risk Certain transactions are structured to render the risk to HSBC negligible under a wide range of market conditions or events, however, there exists a remote possibility that a gap event could lead to loss.
A gap event could arise from a significant change in market price with no accompanying trading opportunity, with the result that the threshold is breached beyond which the risk profile changes from no risk to full exposure to the underlying structure.
Such movements may occur, for example, when, in reaction to an adverse event or unexpected news announcement, the market for a specific investment becomes illiquid, making hedging impossible.
Given their characteristics, these transactions make little or no contribution to VAR or to traditional market risk sensitivity measures.
We capture their risks within our stress testing scenarios and monitor gap risk on an ongoing basis.
We regularly consider the probability of gap loss, and fair value adjustments are booked against this risk where significant.
Gap risk derived from certain transactions in legacy portfolios continued to be managed down during 2012.
The residual exposure is immaterial.
We did not incur any material gap loss in 2012.
ABS MBS exposures The ABS MBS exposures within the trading portfolios are managed within sensitivity and VAR limits as described on page 220, and are included within the stress testing scenarios described above.
Non-trading portfolios Audited The principal objective of market risk management of non-trading portfolios is to optimise net interest income.
Interest rate risk in non-trading portfolios arises principally from mismatches between the future yield on assets and their funding cost, as a result of interest rate changes.
Analysis of this risk is complicated by having to make assumptions on embedded optionality within certain product areas such as the incidence of mortgage prepayments, and from behavioural assumptions regarding the economic duration of liabilities which are contractually repayable on demand such as current accounts.
Our control of market risk in the non-trading portfolios is based on transferring the risks to the books managed by Global Markets or the local ALCO.
The net exposure is typically managed through the use of interest rate swaps within agreed limits.
The VAR for these portfolios is included within the Group VAR.
Credit spread risk for available-for-sale debt instruments The risk associated with movements in credit spreads is primarily managed through sensitivity limits, stress testing and VAR.
The VAR shows the effect on income from a one-day movement in credit spreads over a two-year period, calculated to a 99% confidence interval.
Available for sale equity securities Potential new commitments are subject to risk appraisal to ensure that industry and geographical concentrations remain within acceptable levels for the portfolio.
Regular reviews are performed to substantiate the valuation of the investments within the portfolio and investments held to facilitate ongoing business, such as holdings in governmentsponsored enterprises and local stock exchanges.
Structural foreign exchange exposures Unaudited Structural foreign exchange exposures represent net investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates, the 268 functional currencies of which are currencies other than the US dollar.
An entitys functional currency is that of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
Exchange differences on structural exposures are recognised in other comprehensive income.
We use the US dollar as our presentation currency in our consolidated financial statements because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency bloc in which we transact and fund our business.
Our consolidated balance sheet is, therefore, affected by exchange differences between the US dollar and all the non-US dollar functional currencies of underlying subsidiaries.
We hedge structural foreign exchange exposures only in limited circumstances.
Our structural foreign exchange exposures are managed with the primary objective of ensuring, where practical, that our consolidated capital ratios and the capital ratios of individual banking subsidiaries are largely protected from the effect of changes in exchange rates.
This is usually achieved by ensuring that, for each subsidiary bank, the ratio of structural exposures in a given currency to risk-weighted assets denominated in that currency is broadly equal to the capital ratio of the subsidiary in question.
We may also transact hedges where a currency in which we have structural exposures is considered likely to revalue adversely, and it is possible in practice to transact a hedge.
Any hedging is undertaken using forward foreign exchange contracts which are accounted for under IFRSs as hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, or by financing with borrowings in the same currencies as the functional currencies involved.
Sensitivity of net interest income Unaudited A principal part of our management of market risk in non-trading portfolios is to monitor the sensitivity of projected net interest income under varying interest rate scenarios simulation modelling.
We aim, through our management of market risk in non-trading portfolios, to mitigate the effect of prospective interest rate movements which could reduce future net interest income, while balancing the cost of such hedging activities on the current net revenue stream.
Entities apply a combination of scenarios and assumptions relevant to their local businesses, and standard scenarios which are required throughout HSBC.
The latter are consolidated to illustrate the combined pro forma effect on our consolidated net interest income.
Projected net interest income sensitivity figures represent the effect of the pro forma movements in net interest income based on the projected yield curve scenarios and the Groups current interest rate risk profile.
This effect, however, does not incorporate actions which would probably be taken by Balance Sheet Management or in the business units to mitigate the effect of interest rate risk.
In reality, Balance Sheet Management seeks proactively to change the interest rate risk profile to minimise losses and optimise net revenues.
The net interest income sensitivity calculations assume that interest rates of all maturities move by the same amount in the up shock scenario.
Rates are not assumed to become negative in the down shock scenario which may, in certain currencies, effectively result in non-parallel shock.
In addition, the net interest income sensitivity calculations take account of the effect on net interest income of anticipated differences in changes between interbank interest rates and interest rates over which the entity has discretion in terms of the timing and extent of rate changes.
Defined benefit pension schemes Audited Market risk arises within our defined benefit pension schemes to the extent that the obligations of the schemes are not fully matched by assets with determinable cash flows.
Pension scheme obligations fluctuate with changes in long-term interest rates, inflation, salary levels and the longevity of scheme members.
Pension scheme assets include equities and debt securities, the cash flows of which change as equity prices and interest rates and credit risk vary.
There is a risk that market movements in equity prices and interest rates could result in asset values which, taken together with regular ongoing contributions, are insufficient over time to cover the level of projected obligations and these, in turn, could increase with a rise in inflation and members living longer.
Management, together with the trustees who act on behalf of the pension scheme beneficiaries, assess these risks using reports prepared by independent external actuaries, take action and, where appropriate, adjust investment strategies and contribution levels accordingly.
269 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Market risk Operational risk HSBC Holdings Audited As a financial services holding company, HSBC Holdings has limited market risk activity.
Its activities predominantly involve maintaining sufficient capital resources to support the Groups diverse activities: allocating these capital resources across our businesses: earning dividend and interest income on its investments in our businesses: providing dividend payments to HSBC Holdings equity shareholders and interest payments to providers of debt capital: and maintaining a supply of short-term cash resources.
It does not take proprietary trading positions.
The main market risks to which HSBC Holdings is exposed are interest rate risk and foreign currency risk.
Exposure to these risks arises from short-term cash balances, funding positions held, loans to subsidiaries, investments in longterm financial assets and financial liabilities including debt capital issued.
The objective of HSBC Holdings market risk management strategy is to reduce exposure to these risks and minimise volatility in economic income, cash flows and distributable reserves.
Market risk for HSBC Holdings is monitored by HSBC Holdings ALCO, which reviews foreign exchange VAR, repricing gap and net interest income and EVE sensitivities on a monthly basis.
HSBC Holdings has entered into a number of cross-currency swaps to manage the market risk arising on certain long-term debt capital issues for which hedge accounting has not been applied.
Changes in the market values of these swaps are recognised directly in the income statement.
HSBC Holdings expects that these swaps will be held to final maturity with the accumulated changes in market value consequently trending to zero.
Certain loans to subsidiaries of a capital nature that are not denominated in the functional currency of either the provider or the recipient are accounted for as financial assets.
Changes in the carrying amount of these assets due to exchange differences are taken directly to the income statement.
These loans, and the associated foreign exchange exposures, are eliminated on a Group consolidated basis.
Operational risk Unaudited The objective of our operational risk management is to manage and control operational risk in a cost effective manner within targeted levels of operational risk consistent with our risk appetite, as defined by the GMB.
Operational risk is organised as a specific risk discipline within Group Risk, and a formal governance structure provides oversight over its management.
The Group Operational Risk function reports to the Group Chief Risk Officer and supports the Global Operational Risk and Control Committee.
It is responsible for establishing and maintaining the operational risk management framework ORMF, monitoring the level of operational losses and the effectiveness of the control environment.
It is also responsible for operational risk reporting at Group level, including the preparation of reports for consideration by the Risk Management Meeting and Group Risk Committee.
The Global Operational Risk and Control Committee meets at least quarterly to discuss key risk issues and review the effective implementation of the ORMF.
The ORMF defines minimum standards and processes and the governance structure for the management of operational risk and internal control in our geographical regions, global businesses and global functions.
The ORMF has been codified in a high level standards manual supplemented with detailed policies, which describe our approach to identifying, assessing, monitoring and controlling operational risk and give guidance on mitigating action to be taken when weaknesses are identified.
Business managers throughout the Group are responsible for maintaining an acceptable level of internal control, commensurate with the scale and nature of operations, and for identifying and assessing risks, designing controls and monitoring the effectiveness of these controls.
The ORMF helps managers to fulfil these responsibilities by defining a standard risk assessment methodology and providing a tool for the systematic reporting of operational loss data.
A centralised database is used to record the results of the operational risk management process.
Operational risk and control self-assessments are input and maintained by business units.
Business and functional management and Business Risk and Control Managers monitor the progress of documented action plans to address shortcomings.
To ensure that operational risk losses are consistently reported and monitored at Group level, all Group companies are required to report individual losses when the net loss is expected to exceed US$10,000, and to aggregate all other operational risk losses under US$10,000.
Losses are entered into the operational risk system and are reported to the Group Operational Risk function quarterly.
For further details, see the Pillar 3 Disclosures report as at 31 December 2012, page 61.
270 Compliance risk Unaudited Compliance risk falls within the definition of operational risk.
All Group companies are required to observe the letter and spirit of all relevant laws, codes, rules, regulations and standards of good market practice.
These rules, regulations, other standards and Group policies include those relating to anti-money laundering, anti-bribery and corruption, conduct of business, counter-terrorist financing and sanctions compliance.
The Global Compliance Function is a control function, working as part of our Global Risk Function.
It is responsible for resourcing decisions, performance reviews, objectives, strategy, budget and accountability within the Compliance Function and is empowered to set standards and has the authority to ensure those standards are met.
The Groups Compliance Function is currently being reorganised under a Head of Group Financial Crime Compliance and a Global Head of Regulatory Compliance, each of whom reports to the Group Chief Risk Officer.
There are compliance teams in all of the countries where we operate and in all global businesses lines.
These compliance teams are principally overseen by Regional Compliance Officers located in Europe, the US, Canada, Latin America, the Middle East and North Africa and Asia-Pacific and each business line is supported by a Global Business Compliance Officer.
There is an Assurance team within Compliance that reviews the effectiveness of the Regional and Global Business Compliance Officers.
Global Compliance policies and procedures require the prompt identification and escalation to Group Compliance of all actual or suspected breaches of any law, rule, regulation, policy or other relevant requirement.
These escalation procedures are supplemented by a requirement for the submission of compliance certificates at the half-year and year-end by all Group companies detailing any known breaches as above.
The contents of these escalation and certification processes are used for reporting to the Risk Management Meeting, the Group Risk Committee and the Board and disclosure in the Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Report, if appropriate.
Legal risk Unaudited Each operating company is required to have processes and procedures in place to manage legal risk that conform to Group standards.
Legal risk falls within the definition of operational risk and includes: contractual risk, which is the risk that the rights and or obligations of an HSBC company within a contractual relationship are defective: dispute risk, which is made up of the risks that an HSBC company is subject to when it is involved in or managing a potential or actual dispute: legislative risk, which is the risk that an HSBC company fails to adhere to the laws of the jurisdictions in which it operates: and non-contractual rights risk, which is the risk that an HSBC companys assets are not properly owned or are infringed by others, or an HSBC company infringes another partys rights.
We have a global legal function to assist management in controlling legal risk.
There are legal departments in 58 of the countries in which we operate.
There are also regional legal functions in each of Europe, North America, Latin America, the Middle East and North Africa and Asia-Pacific headed by Regional General Counsels as well as General Counsel responsible for each of the global businesses.
Global security and fraud risk Unaudited Security and fraud risk issues are managed at Group level by Global Security and Fraud Risk.
This unit, which has responsibility for physical risk, fraud, information and contingency risk, and geopolitical risk and business intelligence is fully integrated within the central Group Risk function.
This enables management to identify and mitigate the permutations of these and other non-financial risks to its business lines across the jurisdictions in which we operate.
The Fraud Risk function is responsible for ensuring that effective protection measures are in place against all forms of fraudulent activity, whether initiated internally or externally, and is available to support any part of the business.
To achieve that and to attain the level of integration needed to face the threat, the management of all types 271 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Operational risk Risk management of insurance operations of fraud e. g. card fraud, non-card fraud and internal fraud, including investigations, is established within one management structure and is part of the Global Risk function.
We use technology extensively to prevent and detect fraud.
For example, customers credit and debit card spending is monitored continuously and suspicious transactions are highlighted for verification, internet banking sessions are reviewed and transactions monitored in a similar way and all new account applications are screened for fraud.
We have a fraud systems strategy which is designed to provide minimum standards and allow easier sharing of best practices to detect fraud and minimise false alerts.
We have developed a holistic and effective anti-fraud strategy comprising fraud prevention policies and practices, the implementation of strong internal controls, an investigations response team and liaison with law enforcement where appropriate.
The Contingency Risk function is responsible for ensuring that in any circumstances where our employees, customers or buildings are exposed to a disaster or other catastrophic event, normal business operations can be restored promptly.
Within this wider risk, Business Continuity Management covers the pre-planning for the recovery, seeking to minimise the adverse effects of major business disruption, either globally, regionally or within country, against a range of actual or emerging risks.
The pre-planning concentrates on the protection of customer services, our staff, revenue generation and the integrity of data and documents.
Each business has its own recovery plan, which is developed following the completion of a Business Impact Analysis.
This determines how much time the business could sustain an outage before the level of losses becomes unacceptable, i. e. its criticality.
These plans are reviewed and tested every year.
The planning is undertaken against Group policy and standards and each business confirms in an annual compliance certificate that all have been met.
Should there be exceptions, these are raised and their short-term resolution is overseen by Group and regional business continuity teams.
It is important that plans are dynamic and meet all risks, particularly those of an emerging nature such as possible pandemics and the eurozone crisis.
The operational risk framework is used to measure our resilience to these risks, and is confirmed to Group and regional risk committees.
Resilience is managed through various risk mitigation measures.
These include agreeing with IT acceptable recovery times of systems, ensuring our critical buildings have the correct infrastructure to enable ongoing operations, requiring critical vendors to have their own recovery plans and arranging with Group insurance appropriate cover for business interruption costs.
Systems risk Unaudited Systems risk is the risk of failure or other deficiency in the automated platforms that support the Groups daily execution application systems and the systems infrastructure on which they reside data centres, networks and distributed computers.
The management of systems risk is overseen globally by the HSBC Technology and Services HTS organisation.
Oversight is provided through monthly risk management committee meetings that provide a comprehensive overview of existing and emerging top risks.
HTS line management manages the control environment over systems risks using Risk and Control Assessments and Top Risk Analysis.
Key risk indicators are used to assure a consistent basis of risk evaluation across geographic and line of business boundaries.
Business critical services have been identified through a central, global oversight body.
Quantitative scorecards, called Risk Appetite Statements, have been established for each of these services.
Vendor risk management Unaudited Our vendor risk management VRM is a global framework for managing risk with third party vendors, especially where we are reliant on outsourced agreements to provide critical services to our customers.
VRM contains a rigorous process to identify material contracts and their key risks and ensure controls are in place to manage and mitigate these risks.
272 Fiduciary risk Unaudited Business activities in which fiduciary risk is inherent should only be undertaken within designated lines of business.
Fiduciary risk is managed within the designated businesses via a comprehensive policy framework and monitoring of key indicators.
The Groups principal fiduciary businesses designated businesses are: HSBC Securities Services, where it is exposed to fiduciary risk via its Securities Services and Corporate Trust activities: HSBC Asset Management, which is exposed to fiduciary risks via its investment activities on behalf of clients: HSBC Private Banking, which is exposed to fiduciary risks via its Private Wealth Services division and discretionary investment management: and HSBC Insurance, which is exposed to fiduciary risks via the investment management activities it undertakes when providing insurance products and services.
The Groups requirements for the management of fiduciary risk are laid down in the Fiduciary Functional Instruction Manual Fiduciary FIM, which is owned by Group Operational Risk.
No business other than the designated businesses may undertake fiduciary activities without notifying Global Operational Risk and receiving specific dispensations from the relevant Fiduciary FIM requirements.
Other policies around the provision of advice, including investment advice and corporate advisory, and the management of potential conflicts of interest, also mitigate our fiduciary risks.
Risk management of insurance operations Overview of insurance products Audited The main contracts we manufacture are listed below: Life insurance business life insurance contracts with discretionary participation features DPF : credit life insurance business: annuities: term assurance and critical illness policies: linked life insurance: investment contracts with DPF: unit-linked investment contracts: and other investment contracts including pension contracts written in Hong Kong.
Non-life insurance business Non-life insurance contracts include motor, fire and other damage to property, accident and health, repayment protection and commercial insurance.
Nature and extent of risks Audited The majority of the risks in our Insurance business derive from manufacturing activities and can be categorised between insurance risk and financial risks: financial risks include market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Operational and sustainability risks are also present and are covered by the Groups overall respective risk management processes.
The following sections describe how insurance risk and financial risks are managed.
The assets of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are included within the consolidated risk disclosures on pages 123 to 251, although separate disclosures in respect of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are provided in the Risk management of insurance operations section.
The consolidated liquidity risk and market risk disclosures focus on banking entities and exclude insurance operations.
Disclosures specific to the insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are provided in the Risk management of insurance operations section on pages 232 to 245.
273 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Risk management of insurance operations Insurance manufacturers set their own control procedures in addition to complying with guidelines issued by the Group Insurance Head Office.
The control framework for monitoring risk includes the Group Insurance Risk Management Committee, which oversees the status of the significant risk categories in the insurance operations.
Five sub-committees of this Committee focus on products and pricing, market and liquidity risk, credit risk, operational risk and insurance risk, respectively.
The Group Insurance Risk Management Committee monitors the risk profile of the insurance operations against a risk appetite for insurance business agreed by the GMB.
Any issues requiring escalation from the Group Insurance Risk Management Committee would be reported to the RBWM Risk Management Committee.
In addition, local ALCOs and Risk Management Committees monitor certain risk exposures, mainly for life business where the duration and cash flow matching of insurance assets and liabilities are reviewed.
All insurance products, whether manufactured internally or by a third party, are subjected to a product approval process prior to introduction.
Approval by Group Insurance Head Office may be required depending on the type of product and its risk profile.
The approval process is formalised through the Product and Pricing Committee, which comprises the heads of the relevant risk functions within insurance.
Insurance risk Audited Insurance risk is the risk, other than financial risk, of loss transferred from the holder of the insurance contract to the issuer HSBC.
The principal risk we face in manufacturing insurance contracts is that, over time, the cost of acquiring and administering a contract, claims and benefits may exceed the aggregate amount of premiums received and investment income.
The cost of claims and benefits can be influenced by many factors, including mortality and morbidity experience, lapse and surrender rates and, if the policy has a savings element, the performance of the assets held to support the liabilities.
Life and non-life business insurance risks are controlled by high-level policies and procedures set both centrally and locally, taking into account where appropriate local market conditions and regulatory requirements.
Formal underwriting, reinsurance and claims-handling procedures designed to ensure compliance with regulations are applied, supplemented with stress testing.
As well as exercising underwriting controls, we use reinsurance as a means of mitigating exposure to insurance risk.
Where we manage our exposure to insurance risk through the use of third-party reinsurers, the associated revenue and manufacturing profit is ceded to the reinsurers.
Although reinsurance provides a means of managing insurance risk, such contracts expose us to credit risk, the risk of default by the reinsurer.
The principal drivers of our insurance risk are described below.
The liabilities for long-term contracts are set by reference to a range of assumptions around these drivers.
These typically reflect the issuers own experiences.
The type and quantum of insurance risk arising from life insurance depends on the type of business, and varies considerably.
mortality and morbidity: the main contracts which generate exposure to these risks are term assurance, whole life products, critical illness and income protection contracts and annuities.
The risks are monitored on a regular basis, and are primarily mitigated by underwriting controls and reinsurance and by retaining the ability in certain cases to amend premiums in the light of experience: lapses and surrenders: the risks associated with this are generally mitigated by product design, the application of surrender charges and management actions, for example, managing the level of bonus payments to policyholders.
A detailed persistency analysis at a product level is carried out at least on an annual basis: and expense risk is mitigated by pricing, for example, retaining the ability in certain cases to amend premiums and or policyholder charges based on experience, and cost management discipline.
Liabilities are affected by changes in assumptions see Sensitivity analysis on page 245.
The main risks associated with non-life business are: underwriting: the risk that premiums are not appropriate for the cover provided: and claims experience: the risk that claims exceed expectations.
274 We manage these risks through pricing for example, imposing restrictions and deductibles in the policy terms and conditions, product design, risk selection, claims handling and reinsurance policy.
The majority of our non-life insurance contracts are renewable annually, providing added flexibility to the underwriting terms and conditions.
Financial risks Audited Our Insurance businesses are exposed to a range of financial risks, including market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Market risk includes interest rate, equity and foreign exchange risks.
The nature and management of these risks is described below.
Manufacturing subsidiaries are exposed to financial risks when, for example, the proceeds from financial assets are not sufficient to fund the obligations arising from insurance and investment contracts.
In many jurisdictions, local regulatory requirements prescribe the type, quality and concentration of assets that these subsidiaries must maintain to meet insurance liabilities.
These requirements complement Group-wide policies.
Market risk Audited Description of market risk The main features of products manufactured by our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries which generate market risk, and the market risk to which these features expose the subsidiaries, are discussed below.
Interest rate risk arises to the extent that yields on the assets are lower than the investment returns implied by the guarantees payable to policyholders by insurance manufacturing subsidiaries.
When the asset yields are below guaranteed yields, products may be discontinued, repriced or restructured.
A list of the different types of guarantees within our insurance contracts is outlined below.
Categories of guaranteed benefits annuities in payment: deferred immediate annuities: these consist of two phases the savings and investing phase and the retirement income phase: annual return: the annual return is guaranteed to be no lower than a specified rate.
This may be the return credited to the policyholder every year, or the average annual return credited to the policyholder over the life of the policy, which may occur on the maturity date or the surrender date of the contract: and capital: policyholders are guaranteed to receive no less than the premiums paid plus declared bonuses less expenses.
The proceeds from insurance and investment products with DPF are primarily invested in bonds with a proportion allocated to other asset classes in order to provide customers with the potential for enhanced returns.
Subsidiaries with portfolios of such products are exposed to the risk of falls in market prices which cannot be fully reflected in the discretionary bonuses.
An increase in market volatility could also result in an increase in the value of the guarantee to the policyholder.
Long-term insurance and investment products typically permit the policyholder to surrender the policy or let it lapse at any time.
When the surrender value is not linked to the value realised from the sale of the associated supporting assets, the subsidiary is exposed to market risk.
In particular, when customers seek to surrender their policies when asset values are falling, assets may have to be sold at a loss to fund redemptions.
A subsidiary holding a portfolio of long-term insurance and investment products, especially with DPF, may attempt to reduce exposure to its local market by investing in assets in countries other than that in which it is based.
These assets may be denominated in currencies other than the subsidiarys local currency.
Where the foreign exchange exposure associated with these assets is not hedged, for example because it is not cost effective to do so, this exposes the subsidiary to the risk of its local currency strengthening against the currency of the related assets.
For unit-linked contracts, market risk is substantially borne by the policyholder, but market risk exposure typically remains as fees earned for management are related to the market value of the linked assets.
Asset and liability matching It is not always possible to match asset and liability durations, partly because there is uncertainty over policyholder behaviour, which introduces uncertainty over the receipt of all future premiums and the timing of claims, and partly 275 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Risk management of insurance operations because the forecast payment dates of liabilities may exceed the duration of the longest dated investments available.
We use models to assess the effect of a range of future scenarios on the values of financial assets and associated liabilities, and ALCOs employ the outcomes in determining how to best structure asset holdings to support liabilities.
The scenarios include stresses applied to factors which affect insurance risk such as mortality and lapse rates.
Of particular importance is assessing the expected pattern of cash inflows against the benefits payable on the underlying contracts, which can extend for many years.
Our current portfolio of assets includes debt securities issued at a time when yields were higher than those observed in the current market.
As a result, yields on extant holdings of debt securities exceed those available on current issues.
We reduced short-term bonus rates paid to policyholders on certain participating contracts to manage the immediate strain on the business.
Should interest rates and yield curves remain low further reductions may be necessary.
How market risk is managed All our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries have market risk mandates which specify the investment instruments in which they are permitted to invest and the maximum quantum of market risk which they may retain.
They manage market risk by using some or all of the techniques listed below, depending on the nature of the contracts they write.
Techniques for managing market risk for products with DPF, adjusting bonus rates to manage the liabilities to policyholders.
The effect is that a significant portion of the market risk is borne by the policyholder: structuring asset portfolios to support projected liability cash flows: using derivatives, to a limited extent, to protect against adverse market movements or better match liability cash flows: for new products with investment guarantees, considering the cost when determining the level of premiums or the price structure: periodically reviewing products identified as higher risk, which contain investment guarantees and embedded optionality features linked to savings and investment products: including features designed to mitigate market risk in new products, such as charging surrender penalties to recoup losses incurred when policyholders surrender their policies: exiting, to the extent possible, investment portfolios whose risk is considered unacceptable: and repricing of premiums charged to policyholders.
In the product approval process, the risks embedded in new products are identified and assessed.
When, for example, options and guarantees are embedded in new products, the due diligence process ensures that complete and appropriate risk management procedures are in place.
For all but the simplest of guaranteed benefits the assessment is undertaken by Group Insurance Head Office.
Management reviews certain exposures more frequently when markets are more volatile to ensure that any matters arising are dealt with in a timely fashion.
How the exposure to market risk is measured Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries monitor exposures against mandated limits regularly and report them to Group Insurance Head Office.
Exposures are aggregated and reported on a quarterly basis to senior risk management forums in the Group, including the Group Insurance Market and Liquidity Risk Committee, Group Insurance Risk Management Committee and the Group Stress Test Review Group.
In addition, large insurance manufacturing subsidiaries perform a high-level monthly assessment of market risk exposure against risk appetite.
This is submitted to Group Insurance Head Office and a global assessment presented to the RBWM RMC.
Standard measures for quantifying market risks for interest rate risk, the sensitivities of the net present values of asset and expected liability cash flows, in total and by currency, to a one basis point parallel shift in the discount curves used to calculate the net present values: for equity price risk, the total market value of equity holdings and the market value of equity holdings by region and country: and for foreign exchange risk, the total net short foreign exchange position and the net foreign exchange positions by currency.
The standard measures are relatively straightforward to calculate and aggregate, but they have limitations.
The most significant one is that a parallel shift in yield curves of one basis point does not capture the non-linear relationships between the values of certain assets and liabilities and interest rates.
Non-linearity arises, for example, from 276 investment guarantees and product features which enable policyholders to surrender their policies.
We bear the shortfall if the yields on investments held to support contracts with guaranteed benefits are less than the investment returns implied by the guaranteed benefits.
We recognise these limitations and augment our standard measures with stress tests which examine the effect of a range of market rate scenarios on the aggregate annual profits and total equity of our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries, after taking into consideration tax and accounting treatments where material and relevant.
The results of these tests are reported to Group Insurance Head Office and risk committees every quarter.
See also Sensitivity of HSBCs insurance subsidiaries to risk factors on page 240 which indicates the sensitivity of insurance manufacturers profit and total equity to market risk factors.
Credit risk Audited Description of credit risk Credit risk arises in two main areas for our insurance manufacturers: i risk of default by debt security counterparties after investing premiums to generate a return for policyholders and shareholders: and ii risk of default by reinsurance counterparties and non-reimbursement for claims made after ceding insurance risk.
How credit risk is managed Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are responsible for the credit risk, quality and performance of their investment portfolios.
Our assessment of the creditworthiness of issuers and counterparties is based primarily upon internationally recognised credit ratings and other publicly available information.
Investment credit exposures are monitored against limits by our local insurance manufacturing subsidiaries, and are aggregated and reported to Group Credit Risk, the Group Insurance Credit Risk Committee and the Group Insurance Risk Management Committee.
Stress testing is performed by Group Insurance Head Office on the investment credit exposures using credit spread sensitivities and default probabilities.
The stresses are reported to the Group Insurance Credit Risk Meeting.
We use a number of tools to manage and monitor credit risk.
These include a Credit Watch Report which contains a watch-list of investments with current credit concerns and is circulated fortnightly to senior management in Group Insurance Head Office and the individual Country Chief Risk Officers to identify investments which may be at risk of future impairment.
Liquidity risk Audited Description of liquidity risk It is an inherent characteristic of almost all insurance contracts that there is uncertainty over the amount of claims liabilities that may arise and the timing of their settlement, and this creates liquidity risk.
There are three aspects to liquidity risk.
The first arises in normal market conditions and is referred to as funding liquidity risk: specifically, the capacity to raise sufficient cash when needed to meet payment obligations.
Secondly, market liquidity risk arises when the size of a particular holding may be so large that a sale cannot be completed around the market price.
Finally, standby liquidity risk refers to the capacity to meet payment terms in abnormal conditions.
How liquidity risk is managed Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries primarily fund cash outflows arising from claim liabilities from the following sources of cash inflows: premiums from new business, policy renewals and recurring premium products: interest and dividends on investments and principal repayments of maturing debt investments: cash resources: and 277 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Reputational risk Pension risk the sale of investments.
They manage liquidity risk by utilising some or all of the following techniques: matching cash inflows with expected cash outflows using specific cash flow projections or more general asset and liability matching techniques such as duration matching: maintaining sufficient cash resources: investing in good credit-quality investments with deep and liquid markets to the degree to which they exist: monitoring investment concentrations and restricting them where appropriate, for example, by debt issues or issuers: and establishing committed contingency borrowing facilities.
Each of these techniques contributes to mitigating the three types of liquidity risk described above.
Every quarter, our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are required to complete and submit liquidity risk reports to Group Insurance Head Office for collation and review by the Group Insurance Market and Liquidity Risk Committee.
Liquidity risk is assessed in these reports by measuring changes in expected cumulative net cash flows under a series of stress scenarios designed to determine the effect of reducing expected available liquidity and accelerating cash outflows.
This is achieved, for example, by assuming new business or renewals are lower, and surrenders or lapses are greater, than expected.
Reputational risk Unaudited We regularly review our policies and procedures for safeguarding against reputational risk.
This is an evolutionary process which takes account of relevant developments, industry guidance, best practice and societal expectations.
We have always aspired to the highest standards of conduct and, as a matter of routine, take account of reputational risks to our business.
Reputational risks can arise from a wide variety of causes.
As a banking group, our good reputation depends not only upon the way in which we conduct our business, but also by the way in which clients, to whom we provide financial services, conduct themselves.
Group functions with responsibility for activities that attract reputational risk are represented at the Group Reputational Risk Policy Committee GRRPC, which is chaired by the Group Chairman.
The primary role of the GRRPC is to consider areas and activities presenting significant reputational risk and, where appropriate, to make recommendations to the Global Standards Steering Committee for policy or procedural changes to mitigate such risk.
Reputational Risk Policy Committees, which have been established in each of the Groups geographical regions, are required to ensure that reputational risks are also considered at a regional level.
Minutes from the regional committees are tabled at GRRPC.
Standards on all major aspects of business are set for HSBC and for individual subsidiaries, businesses and functions.
Reputational risks, including environmental, social and governance matters, are considered and assessed by the Board, the GMB, the Risk Management Meeting, the Global Standards Steering Committee, subsidiary company boards, Board committees and senior management during the formulation of policy and the establishment of our standards.
These policies, which form an integral part of the internal control system see page 332, are communicated through manuals and statements of policy and are promulgated through internal communications and training.
The policies set out our risk appetite and operational procedures in all areas of reputational risk, including money laundering deterrence, counter-terrorist financing, environmental impact, anti-bribery and corruption measures and employee relations.
The policy manuals address risk issues in detail and co-operation between Group departments and businesses is required to ensure a strong adherence to our risk management system and our sustainability practices.
Pension risk Audited We operate a number of pension plans throughout the world, as described in Note 7 on the Financial Statements, the Pension risk section on page 224 and below.
Some of them are defined benefit plans, of which the largest is the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme the principal plan.
In order to fund the benefits associated with these plans, sponsoring Group companies and, in some instances, employees make regular contributions in accordance with advice from actuaries and in consultation with the 278 schemes trustees where relevant.
The defined benefit plans invest these contributions in a range of investments designed to meet their long-term liabilities.
The level of these contributions has a direct impact on HSBCs cash flow and would normally be set to ensure that there are sufficient funds to meet the cost of the accruing benefits for the future service of active members.
However, higher contributions will be required when plan assets are considered insufficient to cover the existing pension liabilities.
Contribution rates are typically revised annually or triennially, depending on the plan.
The agreed contributions to the principal plan are revised triennially.
A deficit in a defined benefit plan may arise from a number of factors, including investments delivering a return below that required to provide the projected plan benefits.
This could arise, for example, when there is a fall in the market value of equities, or when increases in long-term interest rates cause a fall in the value of fixed income securities held: the prevailing economic environment leading to corporate failures, thus triggering write-downs in asset values both equity and debt : a change in either interest rates or inflation which causes an increase in the value of the scheme liabilities: and scheme members living longer than expected known as longevity risk.
A plans investment strategy is determined after taking into consideration the market risk inherent in the investments and its consequential impact on potential future contributions.
The long-term investment objectives of both HSBC and, where relevant and appropriate, the trustees are: to limit the risk of the assets failing to meet the liabilities of the plans over the long-term: and to maximise returns consistent with an acceptable level of risk so as to control the long-term costs of the defined benefit plans.
In pursuit of these long-term objectives, a benchmark is established for the allocation of the defined benefit plan assets between asset classes.
In addition, each permitted asset class has its own benchmarks, such as stock market or property valuation indices and, where relevant, desired levels of out-performance.
The benchmarks are reviewed at least triennially within 18 months of the date at which an actuarial valuation is made, or more frequently if required by local legislation or circumstances.
The process generally involves an extensive asset and liability review.
Ultimate responsibility for investment strategy rests with either the trustees or, in certain circumstances, a Management Committee.
The degree of independence of the trustees from HSBC varies in different jurisdictions.
Pension plans in the UK The largest plan globally exists in the UK, where the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme the Scheme covers employees of HSBC Bank plc and certain other employees of HSBC.
This comprises a funded final salary defined benefit plan the principal plan, which is closed to new entrants, and a defined contribution plan which was established in July 1996 for new employees.
The principal plan, which accounts for approximately 70% of the obligations of our defined benefit pension plans, is overseen by a corporate trustee who has a fiduciary responsibility for the operation of the pension scheme.
The Trustee is responsible for monitoring and managing the investment strategy and administration of scheme benefits.
The principal plan holds a diversified portfolio of investments to meet future cash flow liabilities arising from accrued benefits as they fall due to be paid.
The trustee of the principal plan is required to produce a written Statement of Investment Principles which governs decision-making about how investments are made and the need for adequate diversification is taken into account in the choice of asset allocation and manager structure in the Defined Benefit Section.
Longevity risk in the principal plan is assessed as part of the measurement of the pension liability and managed through the funding process of the scheme.
Pension plans in Hong Kong In Hong Kong, the HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme covers employees of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation and certain other employees of HSBC.
The scheme comprises a funded defined benefit scheme and a defined contribution scheme.
The defined benefit section of the scheme is a final salary lump sum scheme and therefore its exposure to longevity risk is limited: it was closed to new members from 1999.
279 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Risk Appendix Risk policies and practices Pension risk Sustainability risk Capital risk The trustee assumes the overall responsibility for the scheme but a management committee and a number of subcommittees have also been established.
These committees have been established to broaden the governance and manage the concomitant issues.
The finance and investment sub-committee manages the various issues in relation to both assets and liabilities of the scheme.
Pension plans in North America The HSBC North America US Retirement Income Plan covers all employees of HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance and other HSBC entities in the US who have reached the age of 21 and met the one year of service participation requirement.
The Retirement Income Plan is a funded defined benefit plan which provides final average pay benefits to legacy participants and cash balance benefits to all other participants.
Prior to 1 January 2013 all new employees participate in the cash balance section of the plan.
In November 2009, the Board of Directors of HSBC North America Holdings, Inc. HNAH approved actions to cease all future benefit accruals for legacy participants under the final average pay formula components of the HSBC North America Retirement Income Plan with effect from 1 January 2011.
The Plan is governed by the Employee Retirement Security Act of 1974 ERISA, ERISA regulations serve as guidance for the management of plan assets.
In this regard, an Investment Committee the Committee for the Plan has been established and its members have been appointed by the Chief Executive Officer as authorized by the Board of Directors of HSBC North America.
The Committee is responsible for establishing the funding policy and investment objectives supporting the Plan including allocating the assets of the Plan, monitoring the diversification of the Plans investments and investment performance, assuring the Plan does not violate any provisions of ERISA and the appointment, removal and monitoring of investment advisers and the trustee.
A key factor shaping the Committees attitude towards risk is the generally long-term nature of the underlying benefit obligations.
The asset allocation decision reflects this long-term horizon as well as the ability and willingness to accept some short-term variability in the performance of the portfolio in exchange for the expectation of competitive long-term investment results for its participants.
Sustainability risk Unaudited Sustainability risks arise from the provision of financial services to companies or projects which run counter to the needs of sustainable development: in effect this risk arises when the environmental and social effects outweigh economic benefits.
Within Group Head Office, a separate function, Group Corporate Sustainability, is mandated to manage these risks globally working through local offices as appropriate.
Sustainability Risk Managers have regional or national responsibilities for advising on and managing environmental and social risks.
Group Corporate Sustainabilitys risk management responsibilities include: formulating sustainability risk policies.
This includes oversight of our sustainability risk standards, management of the Equator Principles for project finance lending, and sector-based sustainability policies covering those sectors with high environmental or social impacts forestry, freshwater infrastructure, chemicals, energy, mining and metals, and defence-related lending : undertaking an independent review of transactions where sustainability risks are assessed to be high, and supporting our operating companies to assess similar risks of a lower magnitude: building and implementing systems-based processes to ensure consistent application of policies, reduce the costs of sustainability risk reviews and capture management information to measure and report on the effect of our lending and investment activities on sustainable development: and providing training and capacity building within our operating companies to ensure sustainability risks are identified and mitigated consistently to either our own standards, international standards or local regulations, whichever is higher.
IRB advanced approach............ 513,682 577,601 Counterparty credit risk............ 48,319 53,792 CRD IV, which implements Basel III in 1 Standardised approach............. 2,645 3,163 Europe, remains unfinalised and the IRB approach 45,674 50,629 timetable for implementation is uncertain.
Core tier 1 ratio 12.3 10.1 Tier 1 ratio....... 13.4 11.5 Total capital ratio 16.1 14.1 Market risk RWAs Unaudited At 31 December Our approach to managing Group capital has been to 2012 2011 ensure that we exceed current, and are well placed to US$m US$m meet expected future, regulatory requirements.
This is expressed as a minimum Comprehensive risk measure.... 3,387 6,013 target CETI ratio calculated on a Basel III end point Other VAR and stressed VAR.... 11,355 12,957 basis, to be achieved by December 2013.
In effect Internal model based.................... 44,468 54,681 this accelerates our full implementation date for FSA standard rules.................... 10,476 18,496 Basel III even though there remains uncertainty around the precise requirements in Europe.
54,944 73,177 We currently manage our capital position to RWAs by global businesses meet an internal target CET1 ratio in the range Unaudited 9.5%-10.5% for 31 December 2013 and will review At 31 December this on an ongoing basis.
2012 2011 US$bn US$bn The eligibility requirements in the UK for Retail Banking and Wealth non-equity capital securities, under Basel III rules, Management 276.6 351.2 Commercial Banking................ 397.0 382.9 remained under review so we did not issue any Global Banking and Markets.... 403.1 423.0 such capital securities during 2012.
282 3 RWAs by geographical regions primarily due to the increase of US$30bn in Unaudited our associates in mainland China, mainly from loan At 31 December growth in BoCom and Industrial Bank.
This was 2012 2011 partially offset by the first tranche sale of Ping An, US$bn US$bn which resulted in its banking subsidiary no longer Total 1,123.9 1,209.5 being included in the regulatory consolidation for Europe 314.7 340.2 RWAs.
The remaining holding, at year end, was Hong Kong 111.9 105.7 treated as a deduction from capital, giving a year-onRest of Asia-Pacific................... 302.2 279.3 year reduction in RWAs of US$21bn.
North America 253.0 337.3 Latin America. 97.9 102.3 In Europe, a reduction in standardised RWAs for CMB and GB&M of US$6.5bn reflected reduced For footnote, see page 292. corporate lending in selected eurozone countries and RWAs reduced by US$86bn to US$1,124bn in a movement to the IRB supervisory slotting 2012, due to a combination of management actions approach for the shipping portfolio in Greece.
Latin America, corporate lending growth in the region was more than offset by the reduction in Credit risk RWAs corporate exposure from the sale of operations in Unaudited Costa Rica, El Salvador and Honduras, and the managing down of vehicle finance and payroll loan Credit risk RWAs are calculated using three portfolios in Brazil.
approaches as permitted by the UK regulator.
For consolidated Group reporting we have adopted the Credit risk RWA movements by key driver advanced IRB approach for the majority of our for portfolios treated under the IRB approach are set business, with a small proportion on the foundation out in the table below.
For the basis of preparation, IRB approach and the remaining portfolios being on see the Appendix to Capital on page 298.
exchange movements had an impact of US$6.2bn: the discussion of the remaining drivers excludes the For portfolios treated under the standardised effect of foreign exchange.
These strategic branches in upstate New York, reduced retail reductions were mainly due to a refinement in RWAs by US$40bn.
risk metrics for mortgage exposures with a US$6.1bn RWA impact attained through 283 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Capital RWAs Movement in total regulatory capital in 2012 recalibration with more recent data observations.
UAE and disposals in Costa Rica, Honduras and El Further reductions of US$7.4bn were due to positive Salvador.
credit quality migration and the progression of assets into default as a result of the challenging conditions Counterparty credit risk and market risk in the US mortgage market.
As assets approach and RWAs Unaudited go into default, capital requirements are increasingly reflected in an expected loss deduction from capital, Trading portfolio movements for the modelled rather than having a direct effect on RWAs see approaches to market risk and counterparty credit Deductions within Composition of regulatory risk CCR RWAs are outlined in the tables below.
Additionally, RBWM For the basis of preparation, see the Appendix to continued to manage down the residual balances in Capital on page 298. our North America retail portfolios through a combination of run-off and write-off which resulted RWA movement by key driver counterparty credit in a reduction in RWAs of US$12bn.
In our North risk IRB only America wholesale portfolios, there was an increase Unaudited in book size with RWA growth of US$4.9bn, mainly US$bn in our CMB and GB&M businesses.
Data enhancements in Rest of AsiaPacific and Hong Kong allowed us to improve the CCR RWAs decreased by US$4.9bn during quantification of exposure and risk metrics, and are the year, primarily due to methodology and policy reflected in internal methodology and policy changes in GB&M.
The main drivers of the change updates.
arose through the increased application of counterparty netting within the calculation and from In Europe, rating agency actions on ABSs held counterparty data refinement which allowed us to in GB&M business were one of the main drivers for apply lower potential future exposure add-on factors.
the movement in book quality of a reduction of There were reductions in book size in North US$6.6bn in RWAs.
Lower grade investments are America, due to a decrease in the GB&M legacy deducted from capital rather than risk-weighted, credit portfolio and from maturing trades, and in such that the effect is reflected in reduced RWAs Latin America due to reduced repo activity with and increased capital deductions see Deductions central banks and lower exposure in respect of within Composition of regulatory capital on derivative transactions.
Other drivers of the movement in book quality included an improvement in the credit quality RWA movement by key driver market risk of the corporate portfolio in CMB and retail internal model based portfolios in RBWM.
Reductions in the Europe IRB Unaudited book size were from lower corporate and US$bn institutional exposures in GB&M, partly offset by corporate exposure growth in the top CMB markets.
In the Middle East and Latin America, book size Total RWA movement 10.2 and book quality levels were stable, with the main credit risk RWA movements reflecting mergers and RWAs at 31 December 2012 44.5 acquisitions, including purchases in Oman and the 284 Market risk RWAs decreased by US$10bn Market risk RWA movements for portfolios in 2012 with the main driver being a reduction in not within scope of modelled approaches showed a risk levels of US$11bn in GB&M, primarily as reduction of US$8.0bn.
This was mainly driven by a result of decreasing VAR due to reductions in management actions by GB&M to reduce legacy exposure and improvements in market conditions.
The factors affecting the reductions in VAR also drove the reductions in the levels of stressed VAR.
Operational risk RWAs Unaudited The effect was partly offset by a US$4.0bn risk level increase in the incremental risk charge as a result of Operational risk RWAs remained stable in 2012, a recalibration of the sovereign correlation matrix.
being calculated on a three-year average of revenues.
RWA changes due to methodology and policy of US$2.4bn were due to a reduction in the VAR multiplier in France.
Internal adjustment for own credit spread and net of capital generation contributed US$12bn to core tier 1 dividends.
The table below sets out the composition capital, being profits attributable to of our capital under the current regulatory requirements.
The references a m identify balance sheet components on page 287 which are used in the calculation of regulatory capital.
The references a m identify balance sheet components which are used in the calculation of regulatory capital on page 286.
Regulatory and accounting consolidations non-financial activities are excluded from the Unaudited regulatory consolidation and are deducted from regulatory capital.
The regulatory consolidation does The basis of consolidation for financial accounting not include SPEs where significant risk has been purposes is described in Note 1 on the Financial transferred to third parties.
Exposures to these Statements and differs from that used for regulatory SPEs are risk-weighted as securitisation positions purposes.
The table above provides a reconciliation for regulatory purposes.
Entities in respect of which of the financial accounting balance sheet to the the basis of consolidation for financial accounting regulatory balance sheet.
Not all items are purposes differs from that used for regulatory reconcilable, due to regulatory adjustments that are purposes can be found in the Pillar 3 Disclosures applied, for example to non-core capital instruments 2012 report.
before they can be included in the Groups regulatory capital base.
It is the regulatory balances, Basel III and its implementation in Europe and not the financial accounting balance sheet, Unaudited which form the basis for the regulatory capital calculations.
Investments in banking associates In July 2011, the European Commission published are equity accounted in the financial accounting proposals for a new Regulation and Directive, consolidation, whereas their assets and liabilities are known collectively as CRD IV, to give effect to the proportionally consolidated for regulatory purposes.
Basel III framework in the EU.
The majority of the Subsidiaries and associates engaged in insurance and Basel III proposals are in the Regulation, removing 288 national discretion.
However, capital buffers such our interpretation of the CRD IV draft July 2011 as those for countercyclical and capital conservation text post the transition period end point CRD IV are in the Directive and are subject to transposition to our balance sheet position at 31 December 2012. into national law by member states.
CRD IV In managing our capital position to meet our implementation has been delayed and the timetable internal CET1 target, we consider management for finalisation is uncertain.
actions resulting from our six filters strategy that In October 2012, the FSA wrote to large firms we either have already taken or would take, if the to set out the disclosures they are required to make CRD IV rules were to be finalised in the July 2011 of capital resources on a first year transitional basis form.
These are reflected in the table below under under CRD IV.
We have made these disclosures in Estimated regulatory impact of management appendix III of the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012 report.
Other management actions could be taken depending upon the finalised rules and timing of Following the FSAs setting of a Capital implementation but, as such, have not been included.
Resources Floor, and in order to manage our transition to Basel III under CRD IV, we provide The application of the CRD IV rules on this below some insight for investors of the possible basis would translate into an estimated CET1 ratio effects of these rules on our capital position.
We have of 9.0% before management actions and 10.3% after estimated our pro-forma CET1 ratio by applying such actions, as detailed in the table below.
This results in an estimated deduction page 298 of the Appendix to Capital.
The effect on capital is exacerbated by its impact on the threshold for other deductions.
The table above presents a reconciliation of our reported core tier 1 capital and RWAs position at The rules are currently in draft and subject to 31 December 2012 to the pro-forma estimated ongoing negotiation.
If they were to be finalised in CET1 end point capital and estimated RWAs based their current form, the holdings of such positions on our interpretation of the July 2011 draft CRD IV would generate a disproportionate capital cost and regulation, supplemented by FSA guidance and, in potentially the relevant business could be curtailed, lieu of guidance, our expectation of how these draft closed or our hedging would be adjusted to negate rules will be updated following EU negotiations.
CRD IV is not yet in law and its provisions are Capital management initiatives and management subject to ongoing negotiation and amendment.
As actions already adopted by the Group, in accordance such, the finalised rules could have a materially with our six filters strategic framework, have different effect on CET1 and RWAs.
contributed to mitigating the effect of the future rules.
In 2012, this included the continuing run-off The CRD IV rule changes introduce a revised of capital intensive portfolios including the US definition of regulatory capital, primarily focused CML and the GB&M legacy credit portfolios and on CET1 capital as the predominant form of going the sale of the Card and Retail Services business.
concern capital, with a greater quantum to be held Post year-end, we sold our remaining investment by banks.
There are increased capital deductions and in Ping An and reduced our percentage holding new regulatory adjustments affecting this higher tier in Industrial Bank following a private placement of capital.
The new rules also introduce increased by the company.
RWA requirements, mainly for CCR.
Although the effect of the future CRD IV rules The largest impact on our CET1 capital is the is shown above on an end point basis, the rules allow deduction of unconsolidated significant investments for a transition period of six years to phase in the in banks, financial institutions and insurance entities new deductions and regulatory adjustments.
On a of US$9.0bn shown as US$6.7bn and US$2.3bn in CRD IV first year transitional basis our CET1 ratio, the table above.
This results from a reallocation of if applied to our year end 2012 position, would be current deductions to this higher tier of capital and 11.5% before management actions.
new rules for calculating the amounts to be deducted.
As a result of the capital resources floor, we currently manage our capital position to meet an Adding to the above, the regulatory treatment internal target CET1 ratio on an end point basis for applied to immaterial unconsolidated investments in year end 2013.
We will continue to manage our banks, financial institutions and insurance entities, capital position to ensure that it exceeds current whereby a maturity restriction does not recognise the regulatory requirements and is well placed to meet netting of long and short positions when the short expected future regulatory requirements.
We will position is less than one year residual maturity, review our capital target ratios on an ongoing basis, even though they are hedged from a market risk reflecting any changes in the regulatory environment as they develop.
290 Future developments it will have two main powers: the first is to make recommendations, and the second is a power to direct Systemically important banks the FCA and the PRA to adjust specific macroUnaudited prudential tools, namely the countercyclical capital In parallel with the Basel III proposals, the Basel buffer CCB and sectoral capital requirements Committee issued a consultative document in July SCRs.
The UK Government is proposing to make 2011, Global systemically important banks: the FPC responsible for setting the CCB, a Basel III assessment methodology and the additional loss global requirement applied to certain financial absorbency requirement.
In November 2011, it institutions in the UK.
The CCB is a macropublished its rules and the Financial Stability Board prudential tool at the disposal of national authorities FSB issued the initial list of global systemically that can be deployed to protect the banking sector important banks G-SIBs.
This list, which from future potential losses when the FPC judges included HSBC and 28 other major banks from that threats to financial stability have arisen in the around the world, will be re-assessed periodically UK which increase system-wide risk.
Should a CCB through annual re-scoring of the individual banks be required, it is expected to be set in the range of and a triennial review of the methodology.
The requirements, initially for those banks It is also planned under the new legislation to identified in November 2014 as G-SIBs, will be give the FPC direction power, over SCRs.
The phased in from 1 January 2016, becoming fully SCR tool is more targeted and would allow the FPC effective on 1 January 2019.
National regulators to change capital requirements above minimum have discretion to introduce higher thresholds than regulatory standards for exposures to three broad the minima.
In November 2012, the FSB published a sectors judged to pose a risk to the system as a whole revised list of G-SIBs and their current assessment of residential property, including mortgages: the appropriate capital charge.
HSBC was assigned commercial property: and other parts of the financial an add-on of 2.5%.
However, on occasion this may be applied to more granular sub-sectors for example, to UK regulatory reform mortgages with high loan to value or loan to income Unaudited ratios at origination.
This will include both banking The FSA supervises HSBC on a consolidated basis.
book and trading book exposures and be irrespective However, the UK financial services regulatory of the domicile of the ultimate borrower.
structure is currently in the process of substantial The CCB and SCR tools are described as broad reform.
Legislation has been passed to abolish the tools designed to reduce the likelihood and severity FSA and establish three new regulatory bodies from of financial crises, their primary purpose being to 1 April 2013. tackle cyclical risks.
They provide the FPC with the means to increase the amount of capital that banks The three new bodies will comprise the must hold when threats to financial stability are Financial Policy Committee FPC of the Bank judged to be emerging.
However, the scale of capital of England, the Prudential Regulation Authority add-ons in respect of SCR has not been quantified.
PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
The FPC will not directly supervise firms, There is also a proposal for a systemic risk being responsible for macro-prudential regulation buffer for the banking system as a whole or a subset and considering systemic risk affecting economic thereof to mitigate structural macro-prudential risk.
The PRA and the FCA will inherit the majority of the FSAs existing functions Potential effect of regulatory proposals on as the micro-prudential supervisors.
Some HSBCs capital requirements subsidiaries such as HSBC Bank will be dualGiven the above it is uncertain what HSBCs final regulated firms, subject to prudential regulation capital requirement will be.
However, quantified by the PRA and to conduct regulation by the FCA.
Pillar 1 capital requirements are as follows: These reforms will endow the new regulatory bodies with additional powers.
For example, under certain circumstances the PRA and FCA will be able to CET1 requirements from 1 January 2019 issue directions to unregulated qualifying parent Minimum CET1 4.5% Capital conservation buffer 2.5% undertakings such as HSBC Holdings.
G-SIB buffer 2.5% In the case of the FPC, its January 2013 Draft Policy Statement, The Financial Policy Committees Against the backdrop of eurozone instability, power to supplement capital requirements, states that on a temporary basis, the EBA recommended that 291 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Capital Future developments Appendix to Capital Capital management banks aim to reach a 9% EBA defined core tier 1 framework which will be used when assessing ratio by the end of June 2012.
In October 2012 the wholesale portfolios with a low number of defaults.
EBA announced that they would no longer monitor This framework will impose LGD and exposure at the core tier 1 ratio but instead expect banks to hold default EAD floors based on the foundation an equivalent nominal amount of capital.
This new approach for portfolios with less than 20 events of EBA recommendation on capital conservation will default per country.
require banks to maintain a nominal amount of core tier 1 capital corresponding to the level of Structural banking reform Unaudited 9% of RWAs at the end of June 2012.
This equates to US$104bn for HSBC.
We will continue to review In September 2011, the Independent Commission on our internal target CETI ratio of 9.5% to 10.5% as Banking ICB recommended heightened capital the applicable regulatory capital requirements evolve requirements for UK banking groups.
In June 2012, during the period until 1 January 2019. the UK Government published its consultation, Banking reform: delivering stability and supporting We also hold additional capital in respect of a sustainable economy, which set out its detailed Pillar 2, the process of internal capital adequacy proposals for implementing the ICBs assessment and supervisory review which leads to a recommendations, such as ring-fencing and bail-in final determination by the FSA of individual capital debt.
In October 2012, the UK Government guidance and any capital planning buffer that may published draft primary legislation.
was presented for pre-legislative scrutiny to the Complementing the above, and also within the UKs Parliamentary Commission on Banking Pillar 2 process, the FSA first advised the Group in Standards who presented their initial findings in 2012 of a capital resources floor.
In February 2013, the UK as a minimum target CET1 ratio calculated on a Government responded to these findings and issued Basel III end point basis, to be achieved by a revised Bill.
The Government intends to enact the December 2013. legislation by the end of this parliament in 2015 and to have reforms in place by 2019.
In 2013 the FSA will introduce new industrywide capital measures.
They will floor all sovereign In October 2012, the Liikanen Report delivered loss given defaults LGDs at 45% and we estimate its recommendations to the EC to reform the the effect of this to be an increase of US$19bn structure of the European banking sector.
Additionally, a stringent supervisory recommends ring-fencing, focused on isolating slotting approach for our UK commercial real estate trading activities rather than deposits as in the ICB portfolio will be introduced.
For HSBC, this will roll recommendations and, in principle, additional bailout across the relevant business during 2013. in debt.
We continue to monitor these developments.
Furthermore, the FSA have informed HSBC of a Footnotes to Capital 1 The value represents marked-to-market method only.
2 Operational risk RWAs, under the standardised approach, are calculated using an average of the last three years revenues.
For business disposals, the operational risk RWAs are not released immediately on disposal, but diminish over a period of time.
The RWAs for the Card and Retail Services business at 31 December 2012 represent the remaining operational risk RWAs for the business.
3 RWAs are non-additive across geographical regions due to market risk diversification effects within the Group.
4 Includes externally verified profits for the year ended 31 December 2012.
5 Mainly comprises unrealised gains losses on available-for-sale debt securities related to SPEs.
6 Under FSA rules, unrealised gains losses on debt securities net of tax must be excluded from capital resources.
7 Under FSA rules, any defined benefit asset is derecognised and a defined benefit liability may be substituted with the additional funding that will be paid into the relevant schemes over the following five-year period.
8 Mainly comprise investments in insurance entities and the AFS investment in Ping An.
Due to the expiry of the transitional provision, with effect from 1 January 2013, material insurance holding companies acquired prior to 20 July 2006, will be deducted 50% from tier 1 and 50% from total capital.
9 This management action potentially arises only under rules on a CRD IV basis and has therefore not been included in the composition of regulatory capital table, which is drawn up on the basis of the current rules.
292 Appendix to Capital Capital management, capital measurement and RWA movement Capital management Audited Approach and policy Our approach to capital management is driven by our strategic and organisational requirements, taking into account the regulatory, economic and commercial environment in which we operate.
Pre-tax return on risk-weighted assets RoRWA is an operational metric by which the global businesses are managed on a day-to-day basis.
The metric combines return on equity and regulatory capital efficiency objectives.
It is our objective to maintain a strong capital base to support the risks inherent in our business and invest in accordance with our six filters framework, exceeding both consolidated and local regulatory capital requirements at all times.
Our policy on capital management is underpinned by a capital management framework which enables us to manage our capital in a consistent manner.
The framework, which is approved by the GMB annually, incorporates a number of different capital measures including market capitalisation, invested capital, economic capital and regulatory capital.
Following the FSA setting of a capital resources floor as a Basel III ratio, whilst also monitoring capital at a Group level on a Basel II basis, we set our internal target on an end point Basel III CET1 basis.
Capital measures market capitalisation is the stock market value of HSBC: invested capital is the equity capital invested in HSBC by our shareholders, adjusted for certain reserves and goodwill previously amortised or written off: economic capital is the internally calculated capital requirement which we deem necessary to support the risks to which we are exposed: and regulatory capital is the capital which we are required to hold in accordance with the rules established by the FSA for the consolidated Group and by our local regulators for individual Group companies.
Our assessment of capital adequacy is aligned to our assessment of risks, including: credit, market, operational, interest rate risk in the banking book, pension fund, insurance, structural foreign exchange risk and residual risks.
Stress testing We incorporate stress testing in capital plans because it helps us to understand how sensitive the core assumptions in our capital plans are to the adverse effect of extreme but plausible events.
Stress testing allows us to formulate our response and mitigate risk in advance of conditions exhibiting the identified stress scenarios.
The actual market stresses which occurred throughout the financial system in recent years have been used to inform our capital planning process and enhance the stress scenarios we employ.
In addition to our internal stress tests, others are undertaken, both at the request of regulators and by the regulators themselves using their prescribed assumptions.
We take into account the results of all such regulatory stress testing when assessing our internal capital requirements.
Risks to capital Outside the stress-testing framework, a list of top and emerging risks is regularly evaluated for their effect on the core tier 1 capital ratio.
In addition, there are risks identified that are technically not within the scope of this list, but which still have the potential to affect our RWAs and or capital position.
These risks are also included in the evaluation of risks to capital.
The downside or upside scenarios are assessed against our capital management objectives and mitigating actions are assigned as necessary.
The responsibility for global capital allocation principles and decisions rests with the GMB.
Through our internal governance processes, we seek to maintain discipline over our investment and capital allocation decisions and seek to ensure that returns on investment are adequate after taking into account capital costs.
Our strategy is to allocate capital to businesses and entities on the basis of their ability to achieve established RoRWA objectives and their regulatory and economic capital requirements.
293 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Capital Appendix to Capital Capital measurement and allocation Risk-weighted asset targets Top-down RWA targets are established for the global business lines, in accordance with the Groups strategic direction and risk appetite.
As these targets are deployed to lower levels of management, action plans for implementation are developed.
These may include growth strategies: active portfolio management: restructuring: business and or customer-level reviews: RWA efficiency and optimisation initiatives and risk-mitigation.
Our capital management process is articulated in the annual Group capital plan which is approved by the Board.
RWA targets are approved by the GMB on an annual basis and business performance against them is monitored through regular reporting to the Group ALCO.
The management of capital deductions is also addressed in the RWA monitoring framework through additional notional charges for these items.
A range of analysis is employed in the RWA monitoring framework to identify the key drivers of movements in the position, such as book size and book quality.
Particular attention is paid to identifying and segmenting items within the day-to-day control of the business and those items that are driven by changes in risk models or regulatory methodology.
Capital generation HSBC Holdings is the primary provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries and also provides them with non-equity capital where necessary.
These investments are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings own capital issuance and profit retention.
As part of its capital management process, HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a prudent balance between the composition of its capital and its investment in subsidiaries.
Capital measurement and allocation Unaudited The FSA supervises HSBC on a consolidated basis and therefore receives information on the capital adequacy of, and sets capital requirements for, the Group as a whole.
Individual banking subsidiaries are directly regulated by their local banking supervisors, who set and monitor their capital adequacy requirements.
In 2012, we calculated capital at a Group level using the Basel II framework as amended for CRD III, commonly known as Basel 2.5.
Our policy and practice in capital measurement and allocation at Group level is underpinned by the Basel II rules and Basel III proposals.
However, local regulators are at different stages of implementation and some local reporting, notably in the US, is still on a Basel I basis.
In most jurisdictions, non-banking financial subsidiaries are also subject to the supervision and capital requirements of local regulatory authorities.
Basel II is structured around three pillars: minimum capital requirements, supervisory review process and market discipline.
The CRD implemented Basel II in the EU and the FSA then gave effect to the CRD by including the latters requirements in its own rulebooks.
Regulatory capital For regulatory purposes, our capital base is divided into three main categories, namely core tier 1, other tier 1 and tier 2, depending on the degree of permanency and loss absorbency exhibited.
core tier 1 capital comprises shareholders equity and related non-controlling interests.
The book values of goodwill and intangible assets are deducted from core tier 1 capital and other regulatory adjustments are made for items reflected in shareholders equity which are treated differently for the purposes of capital adequacy: qualifying capital instruments such as non-cumulative perpetual preference shares and hybrid capital securities are included in other tier 1 capital: and tier 2 capital comprises qualifying subordinated loan capital, related non-controlling interests, allowable collective impairment allowances and unrealised gains arising on the fair valuation of equity instruments held as available for sale.
Tier 2 capital also includes reserves arising from the revaluation of properties.
To ensure the overall quality of the capital base, the FSAs rules set restrictions on the amount of hybrid capital instruments that can be included in tier 1 capital relative to core tier 1 capital, and limits overall tier 2 capital to no more than tier 1 capital.
294 Pillar 1 capital requirements Pillar 1 covers the capital resources requirements for credit risk, market risk and operational risk.
Credit risk includes counterparty credit risk and securitisation requirements.
These requirements are expressed in terms of RWAs.
Credit risk capital requirements Basel II applies three approaches of increasing sophistication to the calculation of Pillar 1 credit risk capital requirements.
The most basic, the standardised approach, requires banks to use external credit ratings to determine the risk weightings applied to rated counterparties.
Other counterparties are grouped into broad categories and standardised risk weightings are applied to these categories.
The next level, the internal ratings-based IRB foundation approach, allows banks to calculate their credit risk capital requirements on the basis of their internal assessment of a counterpartys probability of default PD, but their estimates of exposure at default EAD and loss given default LGD are subject to standard supervisory parameters.
Finally, the IRB advanced approach allows banks to use their own internal assessment in both determining PD and quantifying EAD and LGD.
The capital resources requirement, which is intended to cover unexpected losses, is derived from a formula specified in the regulatory rules which incorporates PD, LGD, EAD and other variables such as maturity and correlation.
Expected losses under the IRB approaches are calculated by multiplying PD by EAD and LGD.
Expected losses are deducted from capital to the extent that they exceed total accounting impairment allowances.
For credit risk we have adopted the IRB advanced approach for the majority of our portfolios, with the remainder on either IRB foundation or standardised approaches.
Under our Basel II rollout plans, a number of our Group companies and portfolios are in transition to advanced IRB approaches.
At the end of 2012, portfolios in most of Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and North America were on advanced IRB approaches.
Others remain on the standardised or foundation approaches under Basel II, pending definition of local regulations or model approval, or under exemptions from IRB treatment.
Counterparty credit risk CCR arises for OTC derivatives and securities financing transactions.
It is calculated in both the trading and nontrading books and is the risk that the counterparty to a transaction may default before completing the satisfactory settlement of the transaction.
Three approaches to calculating CCR and determining exposure values are defined by Basel II: standardised, mark-to-market and internal model method.
These exposure values are used to determine capital requirements under one of the credit risk approaches: standardised, IRB foundation and IRB advanced.
We use the mark-to-market and internal model method approaches for CCR.
Our longer-term aim is to migrate more positions from the mark-to-market to the internal model method approach.
Securitisation Securitisation positions are held in both the trading and non-trading books.
For non-trading book securitisation positions, Basel II specifies two methods for calculating credit risk requirements, the standardised and the IRB approaches.
Both rely on the mapping of rating agency credit ratings to risk weights, which range from 7% to 1,250%.
Positions that would otherwise be weighted at 1,250% are deducted from capital.
Within the IRB approach, we use the ratings-based method for the majority of our non-trading book securitisation positions, and the internal assessment approach for unrated liquidity facilities and programme-wide enhancements for asset-backed securitisations.
The majority of securitisation positions in the trading book are treated for capital purposes as if they are held in the non-trading book under the standardised or IRB approaches.
Other traded securitisation positions, known as correlation trading, are treated under an internal model approach approved by the FSA.
Market risk capital requirement The market risk capital requirement is measured using internal market risk models where approved by the FSA, or the FSAs standard rules.
Our internal market risk models comprise VAR, stressed VAR, incremental risk charge and correlation trading under the comprehensive risk measure.
295 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Capital Appendix to Capital RWA movement Operational risk capital requirement Basel II includes a capital requirement for operational risk, again utilising three levels of sophistication.
The capital required under the basic indicator approach is a simple percentage of gross revenues, whereas under the standardised approach it is one of three different percentages of total operating income less insurance premiums allocated to each of eight defined business lines.
Both these approaches use an average of the last three financial years revenues.
Finally, the advanced measurement approach uses banks own statistical analysis and modelling of operational risk data to determine capital requirements.
We have adopted the standardised approach in determining our operational risk capital requirements.
Pillar 2 capital requirements We conduct an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP to determine a forward looking assessment of our capital requirements given our business strategy, risk profile, risk appetite and capital plan.
This process incorporates the Groups risk management processes and governance framework.
A range of stress tests are applied to our base capital plan.
These, coupled with our economic capital framework and other risk management practices, are used to assess our internal capital adequacy requirements.
The ICAAP is examined by the FSA as part of its Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process, which occurs periodically to enable the regulator to define the individual capital guidance or minimum capital requirements for HSBC and capital planning buffer where required.
Pillar 3 disclosure requirements Pillar 3 of Basel II is related to market discipline and aims to make firms more transparent by requiring them to publish specific, prescribed details of their risks, capital and risk management under the Basel II framework at least annually.
Our Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012 report is published on the HSBC website, www.
RWA movement by key driver - basis of preparation and supporting notes Unaudited Credit risk and counterparty credit risk drivers definitions and quantification The causal analysis of RWA movements splits the total movement in IRB RWAs into six drivers, described below.
The first four relate to specific, identifiable and measurable changes.
The remaining two, book size and book quality, are derived after accounting for movements in the first four specific drivers.
Foreign exchange movements This is the movement in RWAs as a result of changes in the exchange rate between the functional currency of the HSBC company owning each portfolio and US dollars, being our presentation currency for consolidated reporting.
Acquisitions and disposals This is the movement in RWAs as a result of the disposal or acquisition of business operations.
This can be whole businesses or parts of a business.
The movement in RWAs is quantified based on the credit risk exposures as at the end of the month preceding a disposal or following an acquisition.
Model updates New updated models RWA movements arising from the implementation of new models and from changes to existing parameter models are allocated to this driver.
This figure will also include changes which arise following review of modelling assumptions.
Where a model recalibration reflects an update to more recent performance data, the resulting RWA changes are not assigned here, but instead reported under book quality.
RWA changes are estimated based on the impact assessments made in the testing phase prior to implementation.
These values are used to simulate the impact of new or updated models on the portfolio at the point of 296 implementation, assuming there were no major changes in the portfolio from the testing phase to implementation phase.
Portfolios moving onto IRB approach Where a portfolio moves from the standardised approach to the IRB approach, the RWA movement by key driver statement shows the increase in IRB RWAs, but does not show the corresponding reduction in standardised approach RWAs as its scope is limited to IRB only.
The movement in RWAs is quantified at the date at which the IRB approach is applied, and not during the testing phase as with a new updated model.
Methodology and policy Internal updates This captures the RWA impact resulting from changing the internal treatment of exposures.
This may include, but is not limited to, identification of netting and credit risk mitigation.
External updates This specifies the impact resulting from additional or changing regulatory requirements.
This includes, but is not limited to,  changes to the RWA calculation.
The movement in RWAs is quantified by comparing the RWAs calculated for that portfolio under the old and the new requirements.
Book size RWA movements attributed to this driver are those we would expect to experience for the given movement in exposure, as measured by EAD, assuming a stable risk profile.
These RWA movements arise in the normal course of business, such as growth in credit exposures or reduction in book size from run-offs and write-offs.
The RWA movement is quantified as follows: RWA and EAD changes captured in the four drivers above are excluded from the total movements to create an adjusted movement in EAD and RWA for the period.
The average RWA to EAD percentage is calculated for the opening position and is applied to the adjusted movement in EAD.
This results in an estimated book size RWA movement based on the assumption that the EAD to RWA percentage is constant throughout the period.
As the calculation relies on averaging, the output is dependent upon the degree of portfolio aggregation and the number of discrete time periods for which the calculation is undertaken.
For each quarter of 2012 this calculation was performed for each HSBC company with an IRB portfolio, split by the main Basel categories of credit exposures, as described in the table below: Basel categories of IRB credit exposures within HSBC Central governments and central banks Corporate foundation IRB Qualifying revolving retail exposures Institutions Other advanced IRB Retail SME Corporate advanced IRB Retail mortgages Other retail The total of the results is shown in book size within the RWA movement by key driver table.
Book quality This represents RWA movements resulting from changes in the underlying credit quality of customers.
These are caused by changes to IRB risk parameters which arise from actions such as, but not limited to, model recalibration, change in counterparty external rating, or the influence of new lending on the average quality of the book.
The change in RWAs attributable to book quality is calculated as the balance of RWA movements after taking account of all drivers described above.
The RWA movement by key driver statement includes only movements which are calculated under the IRB approach.
Certain classes of credit risk exposure are treated as capital deductions and therefore reductions are not shown in this statement.
If the treatment of a credit risk exposure changes from RWA to capital deduction in the period, then only the reduction in RWAs would appear in the RWA movement by key driver tables.
In this instance, a reduction in RWAs does not necessarily indicate an improvement in the capital position.
297 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Capital Appendix to Capital CRD IV end point Market risk drivers definitions and quantification The RWA movement by key driver for market risk combines the credit risk drivers 5 and 6 into a single driver called Movements in risk levels.
The market risk RWA driver called Foreign exchange movements and other includes foreign exchange movements and additional items which can not be reasonably assigned to any of the other drivers.
Basis of preparation of the estimated effect of the CRD IV end point applied to the 31 December 2012 position.
Unaudited The table on page 289 presents a reconciliation of our reported core tier 1 and RWA position at 31 December 2012 to the pro-forma estimated CET1 and estimated RWAs based on the Groups interpretation of the draft July 2011 CRD IV legislation and or guidance provided by the FSA and, in lieu of guidance, our current expectation of how these draft 2011 rules will be updated by subsequent EU deliberations.
CRD IV has not yet become law and its provisions are subject to on-going negotiation and amendment.
In addition, formal Implementing Technical Standards ITS due for issue by the EBA are still to be drafted and finalised, leaving the CRD IV rules subject to significant interpretation.
Despite the uncertainty around a number of areas in the rules, our disclosures are based on the draft July 2011 CRD IV text.
Pending finalisation of CRD IV, we have not definitively upgraded the models and systems used to calculate capital numbers in a CRD IV environment which, as a consequence, are subject to change.
Consequently, the final CRD IV impact on the Groups CET1 and RWAs may be different from our current estimates.
The detailed basis of preparation is described below for items that are different from our current treatment under Basel II.
For individual immaterial holdings in banks, financial institutions and insurance that are, in aggregate, above 10% of the Groups CET1 capital, we have included specific short term management actions that could be taken to negate the capital deduction.
For other CRD IV proposals, additional management actions could also be taken dependent upon the finalised rules and timing of implementation but, as such, have not been included.
Regulatory adjustments applied to core tier 1 in respect of amounts subject to CRD IV treatment Investments in own shares through the holding of composite products of which HSBC is a component exchange traded funds, derivatives, and index stock : the value of our holdings of own CET1 instruments, where it is not already deducted under IFRSs, is deducted from CET1.
Under CRD IV, deduction comprises not only direct but also indirect, actual and contingent, banking and trading book gross long positions.
Trading book positions are calculated net of short positions only where there is no counterparty credit risk on these short positions this restriction does not apply to index positions.
We have not recognised the benefit of non-index short positions, even where they are executed with central counterparties or are fully collateralised.
Under current rules, there is no regulatory adjustment made on the amounts already deducted under IFRS rules.
Surplus non-controlling interest disallowed in CET1: non-controlling interests arising from the issue of common shares by our banking subsidiaries receive limited recognition.
The excess over a minimum of 7% of the CET1 of the relevant subsidiary is not allowable in the Groups CET1 to the extent it is attributable to minority shareholders.
Under current rules, there is no regulatory restriction applied to these items.
Unrealised gains losses on available-for-sale debt securities: under CRD IV, there is no adjustment to remove from CET1 capital unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale debt securities.
Under current FSA rules, these are removed from capital net of tax.
Unrealised gains on available-for-sale equities and reserves arising from revaluation of property: there is no adjustment for unrealised gains and losses on reserves arising from the revaluation of property and on available-forsale equities.
Under current FSA rules, unrealised net gains on these items are included in tier 2 capital net of deferred tax and net losses are deducted from tier 1 capital.
Defined benefit pension fund liabilities: the amount of retirement benefit liabilities as reported on the balance sheet is fully recognised in CET1 rather than being replaced by any committed funding plans as current FSA rules permit.
Excess of expected losses over impairment allowances deducted 100% from CET1: the amount of excess expected loss over impairment allowance is deducted 100% from CET1.
Under current FSA rules, this amount is deducted 50% from CT1 and 50% from total capital.
298 Removal of 50% of tax credit adjustment for expected losses: the amount of expected losses in excess of impairment allowances that is deducted from CET1 capital is not reduced for any related tax effects.
Under current FSA rules, any related tax credit offset is recognised 50% in CT1 and 50% in tier 1 capital.
Securitisation positions risk-weighted under CRD IV: securitisation positions that were deducted from core tier 1 under current rules have been included in RWAs at 1,250%.
Deferred tax liabilities on intangibles: the amount of intangible assets deducted from CET1 has been reduced by the related deferred tax liability.
Under current rules, the goodwill and intangibles are deducted at their accounting value.
Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability excluding those arising from temporary differences : the deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability and do not arise from temporary differences are deducted 100% from CET1.
The deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability and arise from temporary differences are subject to the separate threshold deduction approach detailed separately.
Under current rules, these items receive a risk weighting of 100%.
Additional valuation adjustment referred to as prudent valuation adjustment or PVA : under current FSA rules, banks are required to comply with requirements for prudent and reliable valuation of any balance sheet position measured at market or fair value.
Under CRD IV, all assets and derivatives measured at fair value are subject to specified standards for prudent valuation, covering uncertainty around the input factors into the fair value valuation models namely, uncertainty around the mark to market of positions, model risk, valuation of less liquid positions and credit valuation adjustments CVA.
Where the accounting fair value calculated under IFRS is higher than the valuation amount resulting from the application of the prudential adjustments, this would result in an additional valuation adjustment or PVA deduction from common equity tier 1 capital.
Following FSA direction, we have included an estimate of the impact of PVA, although there is guidance outstanding following a recent consultation on a related EBA draft regulatory technical standard issued on 13 November 2012.
Further clarity on the requirements following finalisation of the EBA process and discussions with our regulator could potentially change this figure.
Debit valuation adjustment DVA : the amount of gains and losses on OTC derivative liabilities that results from changes to our own credit spread are derecognised from CET1.
Individually immaterial holdings in CET1 capital of banks, financial institutions and insurance in aggregate above 10% of HSBC CET1: under CRD IV, the investments in CET1 instruments of banks, financial institutions and insurance entities, where we have a holding of not more than 10% of the CET1 instruments issued by those entities, are deducted from CET1, to the extent the aggregate amount of such holdings exceeds 10% of our CET1 calculated before any threshold deductions.
The estimated deduction follows the draft July 2011 CRD IV rules and guidance provided by the FSA, which impose a restriction on the netting of long and short positions held in the trading book, whereby the maturity of the short positions has to match the maturity of the long position, or have a residual maturity of no less than a year.
While rules are in draft and this aspect is still being debated, we have disclosed the impact of the rules as written.
However, a range of management actions from adjustment to the hedging strategy, curtailment or closure of the business could be applied to mitigate the capital deduction.
Deductions under threshold approach: under CRD IV, where we have a holding of more than 10% of the CET1 instruments issued by banks, financial institutions and insurance entities which is not part of our regulatory consolidation, that holding is subject to a threshold deduction approach.
Under current rules, these exposures are deducted 50% from tier 1 capital and 50% from total capital, except for certain insurance holdings that met the requirements under the transitional provision of the current rules and until 31 December 2012 were allowed to be deducted 100% from total capital.
Deferred tax assets that rely on the future profitability of the bank to be realised and which arise from temporary differences are also subject to this threshold deduction approach.
Under current rules, these assets would be subject to 100% risk weighting.
299 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Capital Appendix to Capital CRD IV end point Corporate Governance Report Letter from Group Chairman Under CRD IV, the amount of such deferred tax assets and significant investments which individually and in aggregate exceed 10% and 15%, respectively, of our CET1 are fully deducted from CET1 capital.
Amounts falling below the 10% and 15% thresholds are risk weighted at 250%.
Changes to capital requirements introduced by CRD IV Credit valuation adjustment: introduced as a new requirement under CRD IV rules, this is a capital charge to cover the risk of mark-to-market losses on expected counterparty risk and referred to as a regulatory CVA risk capital charge.
We have estimated our regulatory CVA risk capital charge based on the draft July 2011 CRD IV text, calculated on a full range of OTC derivative counterparties without exemptions that may be available under the final CRD IV text.
Where we have both specific risk VAR approval and internal model method approval for a product, the CVA VAR approach has been used to calculate the CVA capital charge.
Where we do not hold both approvals, the standardised approach has been applied.
Counterparty credit risk other than credit valuation adjustment : the additional requirements introduced by CRD IV and included in the CCR charge include: the increase in the asset value correlation multiplier for financial counterparties, additional requirements for collateralised counterparties, margin period of risk and new requirements for exposures to central clearing counterparties CCPs.
In estimating the amount included for CCPs, we have assumed that all our CCPs are qualifying under the requirements of CRD IV, although this will ultimately depend on confirmation from the competent regulatory authority of the CCP in question that the CCP complies with all the recommendations for CCPs published by the Committee on payment and settlement systems and by the technical committee of the International Organisation of Securities Commissions.
Where we do not have full data disclosed for a given CCP, we have assumed full deduction of default fund exposures.
Amounts in aggregate below 15% threshold and therefore subject to 250% risk weight: as explained above, items that fall under the threshold approach treatment under CRD IV, and which are below the 10% and 15% thresholds, are risk-weighted at 250%.
Securitisation positions and free deliveries risk-weighted under CRD IV: securitisation positions which were deducted 50% from core tier 1 and 50% from total capital, and free deliveries that were deducted from total capital under current rules, are now included in RWAs at 1,250%.
Investment in commercial entities now risk-weighted: under CRDIV investments in commercial entities that are not qualifying holdings are risk weighted.
These were deducted under the current rules.
Deferred tax assets moved to threshold approach or deduction under CRD IV: deferred tax assets, which were risk-weighted at 100% under the standardised approach under current rules, are treated as a capital deduction from CET1 to the extent they rely on the future profitability of the bank to be realised.
Those that do not rely on future profitability shall continue to be risk weighted.
