HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Internal control Going concern basis Employees monitored by the Operational Risk and Internal Chief Risk Officer and the Head of Global Internal Control ORIC teams for the relevant Audit: reports on the annual reviews of the internal regions global businesses and reports on control framework of HSBC Holdings which progress are presented to their ORIC cover all internal controls, both financial and committees and quarterly to Global Operational non-financial: annual confirmations from chief Risk.
An annual report and updates on identified executives of principal subsidiary companies as issues and remediation plans are presented to the to whether there have been any material losses, GRC and the GAC.
contingencies or uncertainties caused by weaknesses in internal controls: internal audit reports: external Internal Audit.
The establishment and audit reports: prudential reviews: and regulatory maintenance of appropriate systems of internal reports.
The GRC monitors the status of top and control is primarily the responsibility of emerging risks which impact or may impact the business management.
The Global Internal Group and considers whether the mitigating actions Audit function, which is centrally controlled, put in place are appropriate.
In addition, when provides independent assurance in respect of the unexpected losses have arisen or when incidents design and operating effectiveness of the risk have occurred which indicate gaps in the control management and control frameworks across the framework or in adherence to Group policies, the Group, focusing on the areas of greatest risk to GRC and the GAC review special reports, prepared HSBC using a risk-based approach.
The head of at the instigation of management, which analyse the this function reports to the Group Chairman, the cause of the issue, the lessons learned and the actions Group Chief Executive Officer, the GAC and proposed by management to address the issue.
the GRC on risk-related matters.
The Directors, through the GRC and the GAC, Internal Audit recommendations.
Executive have conducted an annual review of the effectiveness management is responsible for ensuring that of our system of internal control covering all recommendations made by the Internal Audit material controls, including financial, operational function are implemented within an appropriate and compliance controls, risk management systems, and agreed timetable.
Confirmation to this effect the adequacy of resources, qualifications and must be provided to Internal Audit.
experience of staff of the accounting and financial Reputational risk.
Policies to guide subsidiary reporting function and the risk function, and their companies and management at all levels in the training programmes and budget.
The review does conduct of business to safeguard the Groups not extend to joint ventures or associates.
The reputation are established by the Board and its GRC and the GAC have received confirmation that executive management has taken or is taking the committees, subsidiary company boards and their committees and senior management.
necessary actions to remedy any failings or Reputational risks can arise from a variety of weaknesses identified through the operation of causes including environmental, social and our framework of controls.
governance issues, as a consequence of operational risk events and as a result of Going concern basis employees acting in a manner inconsistent with The financial statements are prepared on a going HSBCs Values.
As a banking group, HSBCs concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the good reputation depends upon the way in Group and parent company have the resources to which it conducts its business but it can also be continue in business for the foreseeable future.
affected by the way in which clients, to which In making this assessment, the Directors have it provides financial services, conduct their considered a wide range of information relating business or use financial products and services.
to present and future conditions, including future The GAC has non-executive responsibility for projections of profitability, cash flows and capital oversight of internal controls over financial reporting resources.
Further information relevant to the and the GRC has non-executive responsibility for assessment is provided elsewhere in this report.
internal controls other than over financial reporting.
In particular, HSBCs principal activities, business and operating models, strategic direction and top The GRC and the GAC have kept under review and emerging risks are described in the Overview the effectiveness of this system of internal control section: a financial summary, including a review of and have reported regularly to the Board of the consolidated income statement and consolidated Directors.
In carrying out their reviews the GRC and balance sheet, is provided in the Operating and the GAC receive regular business and operational Financial Review section: HSBCs objectives, risk assessments: regular reports from the Group 334
