HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Group Management Board Group Audit Committee Board committees Board Financial Group Corporate Group Group Audit Group Risk System Nomination Remuneration Sustainability Management Committee Committee Vulnerabilities Committee Committee Committee Board Committee Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Executive responsibility responsibility responsibility responsibility responsibility responsibility management for oversight for oversight for oversight of for setting the for leading for advising committee of, and advice of, and advice i controls and overarching the process the Board, which is to the to the Board procedures to principles, for Board committees responsible for Board on, on, high level identify areas parameters appointments of the Board management matters risk-related where HSBC and goverand for and executive and day-to-day relating to matters and the finance frameidentifying and management running of financial and risk financial work of the nominating, on corporate HSBC under reporting.
system may Groups for approval sustainability the direct become remuneration by the Board, policies, authority of exposed to policy and the candidates including the Board.
financial crime remuneration for appointenvironmental, or system of senior ment to social and abuse, and ii executives.
HSBC policies and procedures sufficient to ensure the continuing obligations to regulatory and law enforcement agencies are met.
The Board has established a number of committees Group Management Board consisting of Directors, Group Managing Directors 1,2 Members S T Gulliver Chairman and I J Mackay, and, in the case of the Financial System who are executive Directors, and A Almeida, Vulnerabilities Committee and Corporate S Assaf, I M Dorner, J M Flint, A M Keir, S A Levey, A M Losada, M M Moses, Sustainability Committee, co-opted non-director S P OSullivan, B Robertson and P T S Wong, members.
The key roles of the principal committees all of whom are Group Managing Directors.
The Chairman of each nonexecutive Board committee reports to each meeting 1 As at 4 March 2013.
2 M P Kaur has been appointed a member with effect from 1 of the Board on the activities of the committee since April 2013. the previous Board meeting.
The terms of reference of the non-executive The head of each global business and global function Board committees are available at and the chief executive of each region attend GMB www.
Each nonmeetings, either as members or by invitation.
executive Board committee reviews its terms of The GMB meets frequently and exercises the reference annually.
powers, authorities and discretions of the Board in so Appointments of Directors to each nonfar as they concern the management and day-to-day executive Board committee are made for periods running of HSBC Holdings.
Matters reserved for of up to three years, extendable by no more than approval by the Board are described on page 310. two additional three-year periods.
318 KEY ROLE The GMB is a key element of our management reporting and for non-executive oversight of internal reporting and control structure such that all of our controls over financial reporting.
line operations are accountable either to a member of Meetings the GMB or directly to the Group Chief Executive, Meetings eligible who in turn reports to the Group Chairman.
The attended to attend Board has set objectives and measures for the GMB.
1 Members These align senior executives objectives and J D Coombe Chairman......... 5 5 M K T Cheung 5 5 measures with the strategy and operating plans R A Fairhead... 5 5 throughout HSBC.
J R Lomax 5 5 The Group Chief Executive who is Chairman Meetings held in 2012........... 5 of the GMB reports to each meeting of the Board 1 All members are independent non-executive Directors.
on the activities of the GMB.
Regular Risk Management Meetings of GMB, R Fassbind was appointed a member of the chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer, are held GAC on 1 March 2013. to establish, maintain and periodically review the The Board has determined that M K T Cheung, policy and guidelines for the management of risk J D Coombe, R A Fairhead, R Fassbind and within the Group.
J R Lomax are independent according to SEC Regular Global Standards Steering Meetings of criteria and may be regarded as audit committee the GMB, co-chaired by the Group Chief Risk financial experts for the purposes of section 407 of Officer and Group Chief Legal Officer, are held to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and have recent and relevant develop and implement global standards reflecting financial experience for the purposes of the UK best practices which must be adopted and adhered to Corporate Governance Code.
The governance structure for the oversight of financial reporting is set out below.
Each major Group Audit Committee operating subsidiary has established a board The Group Audit Committee GAC has noncommittee with non-executive responsibility for executive responsibility for oversight of, and advice oversight of matters relating to financial reporting.
to, the Board on matters relating to financial Governance Authority Membership Responsibilities include: Board Executive and nonFinancial reporting executive Directors Appoints senior financial officers Delegates authorities in relation to financial matters GAC Independent non-executive Monitors the integrity of financial statements Directors Oversees the internal control systems over financial reporting, including reviewing their effectiveness Monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function Reviews the Companys financial and accounting policies and practices Advises the Board on appointment of the external auditor and is responsible for oversight and remuneration of the external auditor Disclosure Representatives from Reviews the Groups material communications with investors Committee global businesses, Assists the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director to discharge their functions and certain obligations relating to financial reporting under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Group companies Monitors and reviews the effectiveness of controls and procedures established to ensure that information is disclosed appropriately and on a timely basis Reports findings and makes recommendations to the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the GAC Subsidiary board Independent non-executive Provide certification to the GAC or intermediate audit committee on financial statements and committees directors and or internal controls over financial reporting of relevant subsidiaries or businesses, as appropriate responsible for independent members, as oversight of appropriate financial reporting and global business audit committees 319 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Group Audit Committee Committee activities estimates with the external auditor.
The Committee considered: The GAC undertook the following activities in the discharge of its responsibilities: the circumstances leading to the recognition of a provision at 30 June 2012 relating to Financial reporting.
The Committee advised US regulatory and law enforcement the Board on meeting its external financial investigations into inadequate compliance reporting obligations through its reviews of with anti-money laundering, US Bank financial statements, interim reports and interim Secrecy and sanctions laws.
The Committee management statements prior to approval by the noted that management had considered the Board.
The Committee also undertook the available information, recent developments, following: the opinions of external legal counsel and endorsed the going concern statement and the outcome of past cases on similar the statement of compliance with the UK matters.
The Committee discussed the Corporate Governance Code and Hong judgements exercised by management in Kong Corporate Governance Code forming a best estimate of the amount that formerly the Code on Corporate might have been required to settle the Governance Practices in Appendix 14 to the matter, and agreed that a provision of Rules Governing the Listing of Securities US$700m should be made, while noting on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong that this estimate was highly uncertain, and Limited for inclusion in the financial that the amount, when determined, could be statements: higher, possibly significantly so.
In the third quarter, the Committee considered the latest advised the Board that the annual report and developments in this matter and discussed accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced the possibility of a criminal prosecution and understandable: being brought against one or more Group received reports on proposed changes to the companies and the possible implications.
Groups disclosures in the financial The Committee agreed with managements statements and the adequacy of procedures judgement that the provision should be to identify transactions and matters increased to US$1.5bn, while continuing to requiring disclosure under certain note that the final amount could be accounting standards: significantly higher.
Subsequently, the Committee noted the payments made in reviewed accounting policies and practices, December 2012 under the agreements to including approval of the critical accounting achieve resolution with US and UK policies: government agencies, and the terms of the considered provisioning for, and disclosure Deferred Prosecution Agreement: of, certain litigation and regulatory matters the developments in the industry with external legal counsel providing a investigations and reviews into the setting status update on these matters: of Libor, Euribor and other benchmark received a presentation from the Global interest and foreign exchange rates by Head of Tax on current tax issues: various regulators and competition and enforcement authorities around the world.
received a report on the European Banking The Committee discussed the high degree Authority Capital Exercise 2012 to monitor of uncertainty as to the resolution of these adherence to recommended core tier 1 regulatory investigations and reviews, ratios: and including the timing and potential impact: reviewed the procedures for the submission HSBCs exposure to the payment of redress by employees of concerns regarding in respect of the possible mis-selling of accounting and or auditing matters.
payment protection insurance policies in the During 2012, the GAC considered the UK and the related provisions.
The significant accounting issues described below.
Committee considered the key assumptions In addressing these issues the Committee which determine the provisions and the considered the appropriateness of managements factors driving the increase during the year.
judgements and estimates and, where Managements assessment was that the appropriate, discussed these judgements and amount of provision at 31 December 2012 320 of US$1.3bn is based on appropriate investment was below the carrying amount assumptions about future expected redress for a period of approximately ten months, payments, while noting the sensitivity of the which gave rise to an indicator of provision to different outcomes from those impairment.
The impairment test identified assumed: that, based on an assessment of the value in use of the investment, the investment is not HSBCs involvement in the sale of interest impaired: and rate swaps to small and medium sized businesses in the UK and the potential costs managements conclusion that goodwill of remediation.
The Committee noted that relating to GB&M Europe is not impaired the provision of US$598m at 31 December following reduced profitability in the 2012 reflected the outcome of the FSAs second half of 2012 which triggered the refindings from the pilot reviews completed testing of the related goodwill as at by banks on the selling of these products to 31 December 2012.
The Committee noted customers: that disclosure has been made with regards to the extent to which a change in key the level of loan impairment allowances and assumptions would result in the recoverable charges throughout the year, discussing amount to be equal to its carrying amount with management the reasons for significant see note 23 on the financial statements.
increases, notably in Brazil as a result of economic conditions and strong growth in Internal controls over financial reporting.
The Committee The Committee undertook an annual review of considered the judgements and estimates HSBCs systems of internal controls over involved in applying roll rate financial reporting.
During 2012, the Committee methodologies and noted the recognition of monitored the effectiveness of such internal an additional impairment allowance of controls and reported regularly to the Board as US$225m in respect of the US mortgage described on page 334.
The Committee received lending portfolios to reflect a longer regular reports from the Group Finance estimated average period of time from Director, the Group Chief Accounting Officer, current status to write-off.
In response to an and the Group Head of Internal Audit.
Minutes industry letter from the FSA concerning the of the Group Risk Committee GRC and application of loan impairment executive committee meetings including methodologies to loan portfolios vulnerable the GMB and Risk Management Meetings were to credit stresses, the Committee considered provided to the Committee members.
The reports on the application of HSBCs Committee also reviewed the adequacy of accounting policies and loan impairment resources, qualifications and experience of staff methodologies.
The Committee also in the Finance function.
Reports were submitted considered a report on credit exposures and to the Committee on internal control matters in the extent of refinancing risk in HSBCs relation to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Group UK corporate real estate lending portfolio, Finance Director, the Group Chief Risk Officer, and how this is reflected in loan impairment the Group Head of Internal Audit, the Group allowances: Chief Accounting Officer, Group Company Secretary, external auditor and other senior the recoverability of major deferred tax executives attended Committee meetings.
The assets balances recognised, including the Committee had regular discussions with the deferred tax asset balances recognised in external auditor and the Group Head of Internal the US, Mexico and Brazil: Audit, with an opportunity at each meeting for managements judgements involved in the discussions to take place without management change in estimation methodology for credit present.
valuation adjustments and debit valuation Effectiveness of the internal audit function.
adjustments on derivative financial The Committee satisfied itself that the internal instruments as at 31 December 2012 as a audit function was effective and adequately result of changing market practices: resourced through regular meetings held with, the impairment test performed on HSBCs and reports provided by, the Group Head of investment in Bank of Communications Internal Audit on internal audit issues, including Co. Limited as at 31 December 2012. the effectiveness and adequacy of resources.
During the year, the market value of the KPMG undertook a quality assurance review of 321 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Group Audit Committee Group Risk Committee the internal audit function and concluded that 2012 and the Hong Kong Corporate Governance overall, the internal audit function generally Code.
conformed to the Institute of Internal Auditors In addition to the scheduled Committee International Standards and Code of Ethics for meetings, the Chairman met regularly with the the Professional Practice on Internal Auditing.
Group Finance Director, the Group Chief The Committee received reports over the course Accounting Officer, the Group Chief Risk Officer, of 2012 on the activities of the internal audit the Group Head of Internal Audit, other senior function and reviewed its planned activities for executives and the external auditor.
The Terms of reference and subsidiary company Committee received regular reports on litigation audit oversight and on the application of changes in law, The GAC is responsible for non-executive oversight regulation, accounting policies and practices of internal controls over financial reporting.
and regulatory developments, including reports on developments in the programme to change To ensure consistency of scope and approach International Financial Reporting Standards, by subsidiary company audit committees, the Basel III, the recommendations of the GAC has established core terms of reference to Independent Commission on Banking, Doddguide subsidiary companies when adopting terms Frank Act and changes in the UK Corporate of reference for their audit committees.
The Governance Code and Guidance on Audit Committees endorsement is required for any Committees.
proposed material changes to subsidiary audit committee terms of reference and for appointments External auditor.
The Committee provided to such committees.
oversight of the external auditor through regular meetings with the external auditor, including A forum for the chairmen of our principal meetings without management present, and subsidiary company committees with responsibility receiving reports on the external auditors for non-executive oversight of financial reporting strategy in relation to the audit of financial and risk-related matters was held in June 2012 to statements and the progress of the audit.
The share understanding and to facilitate a consistent Committee monitored the effectiveness of the approach to the way in which these subsidiary audit process through a review of the public company committees operate.
The next forum will report published by the Financial Reporting be held in June 2013.
Councils Audit Inspection Unit on the inspection of the external auditor, an assessment Arrangements relating to the external against a best practice checklist for evaluating auditor external auditors, an external audit assessment The Committee has recommended to the Board that questionnaire completed by the chief financial KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed as auditor at the officers of the Groups major geographical forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
regions, a review of the relationship between the Group and the external auditor at a senior level KPMG has been the Groups auditor since 1991, and considered the results of feedback provided when HSBC Holdings became the ultimate holding to the external auditor by members of the company of the Group, without a tender process for finance function throughout the Group.
The the external audit contract having taken place.
It is Committee approved the remuneration and our intention that a tender process for the external terms of engagement and recommended to the audit contract will be undertaken, with the successful Board the re-appointment of the external audit firm being appointed by 2015. auditor.
The Board has approved, on the Terms of reference and effectiveness of the recommendation of the Committee, a policy for Committee.
The Committee undertook an the employment by HSBC of former employees annual review of its terms of reference and of of KPMG.
The Committee receives an annual report its own effectiveness.
Changes were made to on such former employees who are employed and the Committees terms of reference to reflect the number in senior positions.
This report enables changes to the requirements of the UK the Committee to consider whether there has been Corporate Governance Code applicable to any impairment, or appearance of impairment, of the financial years beginning on or after 1 October external auditors judgement, objectivity or independence in respect of the audit.
The external 322 Meetings auditor provided written confirmation of its Meetings eligible independence under industry standards.
attended to attend 1 Members The policies for the pre-approval of specific 2 R A Fairhead Chairman...... 6 7 services that may be provided by the principal J D Coombe 7 7 auditor are kept under review by the Committee and 3 J Faber........ 5 5 4 amended as necessary to meet the dual objectives of J W J Hughes-Hallett............. 4 5 3 ensuring that we benefit in a cost effective manner J P Lipsky.. 5 5 J R Lomax... 7 7 from the cumulative knowledge and experience of our auditor, while also ensuring that our external Meetings held in 2012........... 7 auditor maintains the necessary degree of 1 All members are independent non-executive Directors.
These pre-approval 2 Took a temporary leave of absence due to illness.
policies apply to all services where any HSBC 3 Appointed a member of the Committee on 1 March 2012.
4 Retired as a member of the Committee on 31 July 2012. company pays for the service, or is a beneficiary or addressee of the service, and has selected or John Trueman, a non-executive director of influenced the choice of KPMG.
All services HSBC Bank plc and Chairman of its risk and audit provided by KPMG during 2012 were pre-approved committees has continued to attend meetings of by the Committee or were entered into under prethe GRC by invitation during 2012.
Robert approval policies established by the Committee.
Herdman, a non-executive director of HSBC North The pre-approved services relate to regulatory America Holdings Inc. and HSBC Bank USA, has reviews, agreed-upon procedures reports, other types been invited by the GRC to attend its meetings from of attestation reports, the provision of advice and the beginning of 2013.
Their experience of riskother non-audit services allowed under SEC related matters in the financial services industry independence rules.
The services fall into the is valued by the Committee.
categories of audit services, audit-related services, tax services and other services.
Governance An analysis of the remuneration paid in respect All of HSBCs activities involve, to varying degrees, of audit and non-audit services provided by KPMG the measurement, evaluation, acceptance and for each of the past three years is disclosed in Note 8 management of risk or combinations of risks.
The on the Financial Statements.
Board, advised by the Committee, requires and encourages a strong risk governance culture which Group Risk Committee shapes the Groups attitude to risk.
The Board and the Committee oversee the maintenance The GRC is responsible for advising the Board on and development of a strong risk management high-level risk-related matters and risk governance framework by continually monitoring the risk and for non-executive oversight of risk management environment, top and emerging risks facing the and internal controls other than over financial Group and mitigating actions planned and taken.
The Committee monitors the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal controls systems other than over financial reporting, which are monitored by the GAC.
The governance structure for the management of risk is set out in the following table.
Each major operating subsidiary has established a board committee with non-executive responsibility for oversight of risk-related matters and an executive committee with responsibility for risk-related matters.
323 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Group Risk Committee Governance structure for the management of risk Authority Membership Responsibilities include: Board Executive and non-executive Approves risk appetite, strategy and performance targets Directors for the Group Approves appointment of senior risk officers Delegates authority for risk management Encourages a strong risk governance culture which shapes the Groups attitude to risk GRC Independent non-executive Directors Advises the Board on: risk appetite and alignment with strategy alignment of remuneration with risk appetite through advice to the Group Remuneration Committee risks associated with proposed strategic acquisitions and disposals Reviews the effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk management and internal controls other than over financial reporting Oversees the maintenance and development of a supportive culture in relation to the management of risk Financial System Vulnerabilities Executive Directors and co-opted Oversees controls and procedures designed to identify Committee non-director members areas of exposure to financial crime or system abuse Oversees matters relating to anti-money laundering, sanctions, terrorist financing and proliferation financing Reviews policies and procedures to ensure continuing obligations to regulatory and law enforcement agencies are met Risk Management Meeting of the Group Chief Risk Officer Formulates high-level global risk policy GMB Group Chief Legal Officer Exercises delegated risk management authority Group Chief Executive Oversees implementation of risk appetite and controls Group Finance Director Monitors all categories of risk and determines appropriate All other Group Managing Directors mitigating action Promotes a supportive Group culture in relation to risk management Develops and implements global standards reflecting best Global Standards Steering Meeting Group Chief Risk Officer practices which must be adopted and adhered to of the GMB Group Chief Legal Officer throughout the Group Group Chief Executive Oversees initiatives to ensure our conduct matches our Group Finance Director All other Group Managing Directors values Global Risk Management Board Group Chief Risk Officer Supports the Risk Management Meeting and the Group Chief Risk Officers of HSBCs global Chief Risk Officer in providing strategic direction for the businesses and regions Global Risk function, sets priorities and oversees their Heads of risk areas within the Global execution Risk Function Oversees consistent approach to accountability for, and mitigation of, risk across the Global Risk function Subsidiary board committees Independent non-executive directors Provides certification to the GRC or intermediate risk responsible for risk-related matters and or other independent members, as committee on risk-related matters and internal controls and global business risk appropriate other than over financial reporting of relevant committees subsidiaries or businesses, as appropriate Risk reporting and monitoring Groups Risk Appetite Statement, on a Groupwide, global business and regional basis: The GRC regularly monitors: and reviews the mitigating actions proposed by the Groups risk appetite and risk profile against management.
key performance risk indicators, as set out in the Groups Risk Appetite Statement, on a GroupReports on these items are presented at each wide, global business and regional basis: meeting of the Committee.
Regular reports from the Risk Management Meeting, which is the executive the top and emerging risks facing the Group: body responsible for overseeing risk, are also and presented.
the risk profiles for separate categories of risk In carrying out its responsibilities the within the Groups business identified in the Committee is closely supported by the Group Chief Risk Officer.
The Committee also receives regular 324 presentations from the Group Head of Compliance, continue to embed and develop risk appetite Group Head of Internal Audit, the Chief Legal statements throughout the global businesses and Officer and other business, function and risk heads.
Our risk appetite framework is underpinned by Risk appetite the following core characteristics: Risk appetite is a key component of our management of risk.
The Board, advised by the GRC, approves Risk appetite: core characteristics the Groups risk appetite, which describes the types Risk must be commensurate with sustainable returns Strong balance sheet and levels of risk that the Group is prepared to Healthy capital position accept in executing our strategy and which is set out Conservative liquidity management in the Groups Risk Appetite Statement.
Embedding Strong brand risk appetite statements and the related monitoring Robust Group structure of separate legal entities and reporting framework across the Group has The global businesses should produce sustainable long-term earnings growth continued to be an area of significant focus in 2012 Risk diversification with initiatives undertaken to: further integrate consideration of risk appetite These core characteristics are applied to define into the process for developing the Annual the risk appetite statements on a Group-wide, global Operating Plan and to enhance alignment business and regional level.
The relevant strategic between Group strategy and risk appetite: and and operational objectives, within which we expect businesses and regions to operate, are expressed quantitatively across the following dimensions: Strategic and operational objectives Earnings 1.
Generate sustainable economic profit commensurate with the risks taken Capital and liquidity 2.
Maintain capital in excess of regulatory and internal economic capital requirements 3.
Maintain a strong tier 1 ratio comprising a high proportion of core tier 1 4.
Maintain a well diversified funding structure with a particular focus on advances to core funding ratios 5.
Off-balance sheet vehicles should not be material in size relative to the total balance sheet Impairments and 6.
Manage impairments and expected losses within the Groups tolerance expected losses Risk category and 7.
Manage all risk categories within the risk appetite diversification 8.
Harness benefits from business diversification to generate non-volatile and sustainable earnings 9.
Compete for business with international customers where market connectivity is critical, businesses with local customers where we have local scale and products where global scale is critical to effectiveness Scenario and 10.
Use robust and appropriate scenario stress testing to assess the potential impact on the Groups capital stress testing adequacy and strategic plans Top and emerging risks The GRC discusses top and emerging risks with management at each of its meetings.
Current top and Identifying and monitoring top and emerging risks emerging risks, which are summarised below, are is integral to our approach to risk management.
We viewed as falling into three broad categories: define a top risk as being a current, emerged risk macroeconomic and geopolitical: macro-prudential, which has arisen across any of our risk categories, regulatory and legal risks to our business model: and regions or global businesses and has the potential to risks related to our business operations, governance have a material impact on our financial results or and internal control systems.
our reputation and the sustainability of our long-term business model, and which may form and crystallise The following table shows the current top and within a one year horizon.
We consider an emerging emerging risks identified through our risk risk to be one which has large uncertain outcomes management processes: which may form and crystallise beyond a one-year horizon and, if it were to crystallise, could have a material effect on our long-term strategy.
325 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Group Risk Committee Current top and emerging risks Top and emerging risks Categories Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk Emerging market slow down Macroeconomic risks within developed economies Increased geopolitical risk in certain regions Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to our Regulatory developments affecting our business model and Group business model profitability Regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions and requirements relating to conduct of business and financial crime negatively affecting our results and brand Dispute risk Risks related to our business operations, governance Regulatory commitments and consent orders including under the Deferred and internal control systems Prosecution Agreement Challenges to achieving our strategy in a downturn Internet crime and fraud Level of change creating operational complexity and heightened operational risk Information security risk Model risk Stress testing enterprise-wide stress testing.
The development of HSBCs stress testing and scenario testing analysis Our stress testing and scenario analysis programme programme will continue to be an area of focus for is central to the monitoring of top and emerging the Committee.
It highlights the vulnerabilities of our business and capital plans to the adverse effects of extreme Committee activities but plausible events.
The GRC undertook the following key activities in The outcome of the testing and analysis is also the discharge of its responsibilities: used to assess the potential impact of the relevant scenarios on the demand for regulatory capital Oversight of executive risk management.
Regular reports and presentations were received from the Group Chief Risk Officer including at Management develops action plans to mitigate each meeting a presentation of a risk map, risks identified.
The extent to which those action which provided analysis, on a Group-wide, plans are implemented depends on managements global business and regional basis, of risk evaluation of the risks and their potential profiles for categories of risk identified in the consequences, taking into account HSBCs risk Group Risk Appetite Statement, and a top appetite.
and emerging risks report which summarised Further information on scenario stress testing is proposed mitigating actions for identified risks.
Reports Stress tests and scenario tests fall into three were received from the Chief Legal Officer on main classifications: regulatory scenarios: Groupforward-looking legal risks, the Group Head of wide business scenarios: and specific business or Compliance on forward-looking compliance exposure scenarios.
risks and the Head of Group Performance and Reward.
Regular updates were received on the During the year, the GRC reviewed the outcome investigations by US regulatory and law of a number of stress tests undertaken by the Group enforcement authorities and US dispute risk and and the implementation of action plans to mitigate compliance matters in the US and the steps risks where appropriate: including stress tests on the taken to remediate these compliance issues.
The Annual Operating Plan under mild and severe Group Finance Director, Group Chief Risk macroeconomic scenarios, a Group reverse liquidity Officer, Group Chief Accounting Officer, Group stress test, a Group reverse solvency stress test and a Company Secretary and the external auditor and eurozone break-up stress test.
other senior executives attended Committee Internal Audit has conducted a review of meetings.
stress testing within the Group including model Stress testing.
The Committee reviewed the development, validation and use, and the outcome of certain stress tests referred to in the methodology, governance and management of 326 section headed Stress Testing on pages 127 taken into account in performance assessment and 128. and determination of variable pay was also reported to the Committee.
The Committee Review of effectiveness of internal controls.
provided advice and feedback on risk-related The Committee undertook an annual review of matters to the Group Remuneration Committee HSBCs systems of internal controls, other than where appropriate.
During 2012, the Committee monitored the effectiveness of such Top and emerging risks.
In monitoring top and internal controls and reported regularly to the emerging risks the Committee received reports Board as described on page 334.
A series of from the Group Chief Risk Officer and the presentations were made, and reports submitted, Group Head of Compliance as well as other by the Group Chief Risk Officer and other members of senior management on risks business and function heads to the Committee identified and developments in the Groups on the risk control framework in their respective business, including the changing regulatory business or function.
Reports from the Group environment: the implications of regulatory Head of Internal Audit on the internal audit investigations and global market risk such as the process and weaknesses identified in internal implications of an emerging market slowdown controls other than over financial reporting and the impact on trade and capital flows.
were presented to the Committee, as well as Acquisitions and disposals.
The Committee reports from regulators relating to the internal received reports and presentations on risk issues control systems.
relating to proposed strategic acquisitions and Risk appetite.
The Committee reviewed the the risk management of disposals and advised alignment of risk appetite and Group strategy.
The Group Head of Regular reviews were undertaken of the Groups Mergers and Acquisitions and other members risk profile against the key performance of senior management involved in proposed indicators set out in the risk appetite statement acquisitions and disposals attended meetings which considered the need for any adjustment to of the Committee as appropriate.
Refinements to the 2012 Risk Oversight of risk governance framework.
Appetite Statement were approved with the Minutes of the GAC, Group Remuneration refined 2012 Risk Appetite Statement being Committee and executive committee meetings used in the preparation of the Annual Operating including the GMB, the Risk Management Plan for 2013.
Reports and presentations were Meeting and the Group Reputational Risk received from the Group Chief Risk Officer, Policy Committee were provided to Committee including on the results of HSBCs stress testing members.
From January 2013 the minutes of the and scenario analysis programme.
Global Standards Steering Meeting and from Alignment of remuneration with risk February 2013 the minutes of the Financial appetite.
Presentations and reports were System Vulnerabilities Committee will be made received on remuneration-related proposals to available to the Committee.
assist the Committee in giving advice to the Terms of reference and Committee Group Remuneration Committee on the effectiveness.
The Committee undertook a alignment of remuneration with risk appetite.
review of its terms of reference and of its own The GRC considered risk-related issues to have effectiveness.
The Committee recommended to been appropriately taken into account by the the Board a change to its terms of reference to Group Remuneration Committee, including maintain consistency with the terms of reference when determining the total variable pay funding of the GAC which were amended to comply pool for the 2012 performance year and the with changes to the requirements of the Hong proposed design of the performance scorecard Kong Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee received presentations on the procedure for In addition to the scheduled Committee determining individual variable pay awards, meetings, the Chairman met regularly with the including the risk assessment process for Group Chief Risk Officer, the Group Head of identifying matters for which risk-related Internal Audit, the Group Finance Director, the adjustments may be made to individual and Chief Legal Officer and other senior executives team awards.
The process by which an as required.
individuals adherence to HSBC Values and the Groups risk-related policies and procedures is 327 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee Group Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Professional external advice on US compliance matters relating to anti-money laundering, sanctions, matters has been provided by Promontory Financial terrorist financing and proliferation financing, Group, US financial consultants.
including the establishment, implementation, maintenance and review of adequate policies and Terms of reference and subsidiary company procedures sufficient to ensure the continuing risk oversight obligations to regulatory and law enforcement agencies are met.
The GRC is responsible for non-executive oversight of risk management and internal controls, other than The Committee will oversee and report to the internal controls over financial reporting which is Board on implementation of the actions necessary the responsibility of the GAC.
to build assurance in these areas and will seek to provide the Board with a forward-looking To ensure consistency of scope and approach perspective on financial crime risk.
by subsidiary company committees, the GRC has established core terms of reference to guide The Committee will meet at least four times subsidiary companies when adopting terms of each year.
reference for their non-executive risk committees or audit committees if those committees are also Co-opted non-director members responsible for the oversight of risk related matters.
Five co-opted non-director members have been The Committees endorsement is required for appointed advisers to the Committee to support its any proposed material changes to subsidiary work.
Brief biographical particulars are set out company risk committee terms of reference and below: for appointments to such committees.
N Fishwick, CMG: former senior official in the A forum for the chairmen of HSBCs principal Foreign and Commonwealth Office FCO, subsidiary company committees with responsibility specialising in security and counter-terrorism: for non-executive oversight of financial reporting seconded from 2001 to 2004 to HM Customs and and risk-related matters was held in June 2012 to Excise as Head of Intelligence Law Enforcement, share understanding and to facilitate a consistent focusing on international counter-narcotics, tax and approach to the way in which these subsidiary excise fraud: awarded the CMG in 2009. committees operate.
The next forum will be held in June 2013.
D Hartnett, CB: former Permanent Secretary for Tax at HM Revenue and Customs: focused on tax Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee policy development, compliance and enforcement 1 Members R A Fairhead Chairman and international tax issues during his 36-year career 2 J B Comey 3 in tax administration: former deputy chairman of the N Fishwick 3, 4 D Hartnett Organisation for Economic Co-operation and 3 W Hughes Development's Forum on Tax Administration.
Sir Simon Robertson 3 L H Schrank 3, 5 J C Zarate W Hughes, CBE QPM: former head of the UKs Serious Organised Crime Agency: international 1 All members appointed on 18 January 2013, unless experience in the disruption, dismantling and otherwise indicated.
criminal investigation of organised crime.
2 Appointed on 4 March 2013, being the date he became a Director.
3 Co-opted non-director member of the Committee.
L H Schrank: former chief executive officer of 4 Appointed on 1 February 2013.
SWIFT, the global financial messaging system 5 Also provides advisory services to the board of HSBC North which supplies secure standardised financial America Holdings Inc. messaging services and interface software to financial institutions: oversaw SWIFTs relationship The Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, with the US Treasury Department and other established by resolution of the Board in January countries on counter-terrorism issues.
2013, has non-executive responsibility for governance, oversight and policy guidance over the The Honourable J C Zarate: Senior Adviser at the framework of controls and procedures designed to Center for Strategic and International Studies: the identify areas where HSBC may become exposed Senior National Security Analyst for CBS News: a and through that exposure, expose the financial Visiting Lecturer of Law at the Harvard Law School: system more broadly to financial crime or system national security consultant: former Deputy Assistant abuse.
The Committee will also have oversight of 328 to the President and Deputy National Security Committee activities Advisor for Combating Terrorism responsible The Committee undertook the following key for developing and implementing the US activities in the discharge of its responsibilities: Governments counter-terrorism strategy and policies related to transnational security threats: Appointments of new Directors.
The former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Committee oversaw the process for the Terrorist Financing and Financial Crime: and former appointments of J Faber, R Fassbind and federal prosecutor who served on terrorism J P Lipsky as Directors.
An external search prosecution teams.
consultancy, MWM Consulting, was used in relation to these appointments.
MWM Group Remuneration Committee Consulting has no other connection with HSBC.
The Committee also oversaw the process for the Meetings Meetings eligible appointment of J B Comey, who was introduced attended to attend to us by a member of senior management.
1 Members Having regard to his public and private sector J L Thornton Chairman........ 7 8 roles neither external consultants nor advertising J D Coombe 8 8 W S H Laidlaw 8 8 were considered necessary in relation to this 2 G Morgan.. 5 5 appointment.
Meetings held in 2012........... 8 Board appointment process.
The Committee 1 All members are independent non-executive Directors.
leads the process for Board appointments, 2 Retired as a Director on 25 May 2012. with the support of external consultants as appropriate.
The Board has satisfied itself that R Fassbind has been appointed a member of the the Committee has appropriate plans in place Committee since March 2013. for orderly succession to the Board reflecting an appropriate balance of skills and experience The Group Remuneration Committee is on the Board.
responsible for approving remuneration policy.
As part of its role, it considers the terms of annual Forward planning.
The Committee adopts incentive plans, share plans, other long-term a forward-looking approach to potential incentive plans and the individual remuneration candidates for appointment to the Board that packages of executive Directors and other senior takes into account the needs and development Group employees, including all in positions of of the Groups businesses and the expected significant influence and those having an impact on retirement dates of current Directors.
our risk profile and in doing so takes into account the Size, structure and composition.
The pay and conditions across the Group.
No Directors Committee monitored the size, structure and are involved in deciding their own remuneration.
composition of the Board through consideration The Directors Remuneration Report is set out of the skills, knowledge and experience required on pages 347 to 367. of the Board and the skills, knowledge and experience of the current Directors.
The Nomination Committee Committee considered the re-election of Meetings Directors at the Annual General Meeting and Meetings eligible has recommended to the Board that all Directors attended to attend should stand for re-election.
1 Members Sir Simon Robertson Diversity.
During the year, the Board adopted Chairman 4 4 2 a policy on Board diversity which is consistent R A Fairhead 3 4 with the Groups strategic focus on ethnicity, J W J Hughes-Hallett.............. 4 4 3 J P Lipsky.... 2 2 age and gender diversity for the employee base.
4 Sir Brian Williamson............. 1 2 Board appointments will continue to be made Meetings held in 2012........... based on merit and candidates will be 4 considered against objective criteria, having 1 All members are independent non-executive Directors.
due regard for the benefits of diversity on 2 Took a temporary leave of absence due to illness.
The Committee 3 Appointed a member of the Committee on 24 May 2012.
4 Retired as a Director on 25 May 2012. developed measurable objectives to implement this policy and monitored progress towards achieving these objectives.
The Board diversity 329 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board Committees Corporate Sustainability Committee policy is available at www.
com  governance relations governance  Corporate Sustainability Committee is codes.
The benefits of diversity continue to responsible for advising the Board, committees of influence succession planning and are key the Board and executive management on corporate criteria in the instructions to external search sustainability policies across the Group including consultants.
environmental, social and ethical issues.
The Corporate Sustainability exists as a global Committee reviewed and monitored the training function.
Senior executives are charged with and continuous professional development of implementing sustainable business practice in all Directors and senior management.
major regions through inclusion in the HSBC Global Time commitment and independence of nonStandards Manuals: and, through induction and executive Directors.
The Committee made developmental training.
Local teams are in charge recommendations to the Board, having assessed of embedding corporate sustainability strategies the independence of, and time required from, the within banking activities.
HSBC reports on its progress in developing Terms of reference and Committee and implementing its sustainability strategy effectiveness.
The Committee undertook a annually in the HSBC Sustainability Report, which review of its terms of reference and its own is independently verified and prepared using the effectiveness including the Committees role in Global Reporting Initiative framework.
The HSBC assessing the independence of the non-executive Sustainability Report 2012 will be issued on 24 May Directors as required following changes made to 2013 and will be available at www.
com The Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code.
Before recommending an appointment to the Corporate sustainability Board, the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and, in light At HSBC, we understand that the success of our of this, and taking into account the needs of the business is closely connected to the environmental, Groups businesses, identifies the role and social and economic landscape.
For us, corporate capabilities required for a particular appointment.
sustainability means achieving sustainable profit Candidates are considered on merit against these growth so that we can continue to reward criteria.
Care is taken to ensure that appointees shareholders and employees, build long-lasting have enough time to devote to us.
Prospective relationships with customers and suppliers, pay taxes Directors are asked to identify any significant other and duties in those countries where we operate, and commitments and confirm they have sufficient time invest in communities for future growth.
The way to discharge what is expected of them.
we do business is as important as what we do: our responsibilities to our customers, employees and Corporate Sustainability Committee shareholders as well as to the countries and communities in which we operate go far wider Meetings than simply being profitable.
Meetings eligible attended to attend Our continuing financial success depends, Members 1 in part, on our ability to identify and address L M L Cha Chairman.......... 3 4 2 N R N Murthy 4 4 environmental, social and ethical factors which 3 G V I Davis.... 3 4 present risks or opportunities for the business.
4 Lord May 4 4 These can affect our reputation, drive employee 4 Dame Mary Marsh................. 4 4 engagement, help manage the risks of lending, Meetings held in 2012........... 4 leverage savings through eco-efficiency and secure new revenue streams.
They generally fall into one 1 Appointed Chairman on 1 January 2013.
2 Retired as a Director and Chairman of the Committee on or more of the four broad areas discussed below.
3 Retired as a co-opted non-director member of the Business finance Committee on 29 November 2012.
4 Co-opted non-director member of the Committee.
We aim to build long-term customer relationships around the world through the provision of a J W J Hughes-Hallett has been a member of the consistent and high-quality service and customer Committee since 1 January 2013. experience.
We use the benefits of our scale, 330 financial strength, geographical reach and strong goals of our operational sustainability strategy, brand value to achieve this.
which we announced at the end of 2011.
Between 2012 and 2020 we aim to reduce our annual We aim to take advantage of the opportunities employee carbon emissions by one tonne, from and manage the risks presented by emerging global 3.5 to 2.5 tonnes.
trends by developing sustainable business models to address them.
We understand that the world is HSBCs carbon dioxide emissions changing and the threats of climate change and its impact on availability of natural resources are For the period 1 October 2011 to 30 September 2012, becoming ever more real.
Increasing urbanisation, carbon dioxide emissions from HSBCs global a growing population and rising commodity prices operations were 963,000 tonnes.
This was 3% less all raise concerns over potential resource constraints.
than the 991,000 tonnes emitted in 2011.
This figure For example, as recent HSBC research shows, is subject to independent verification.
Further climate change means that past hydrological trends information on the Groups carbon dioxide emissions are no longer indicative of future availability of will be given in the HSBC Sustainability Report 2012. freshwater: we face local water supply shortages as global demand increases.
Community investment HSBC continues to play a leading role in We have a long-standing commitment to the shaping the market response to these challenges, communities in which we operate.
Many of our key identifying how business can adapt in ways that markets are emerging economies.
Our operations bring both social and environmental benefits, while bring benefits to our host countries through tax providing viable economic returns.
Throughout contributions, and to local people and businesses 2012, our Climate Change Centre of Excellence has through employment, training, purchasing and continued to research the likely effects that climate investment.
Beyond our core business, we aim to change, and the responses to it, will have on our encourage social and economic opportunity through business and those of our customers.
In the past year, community investment activities.
Our focus is on HSBC Global Research has published reports on education and the environment because we believe Water Stress Analysing the global challenges and they are essential building blocks for the Less Bread for your Dough The impact of rising development of communities and are prerequisites food prices on the global economy.
These philanthropic programmes aim to involve employees in the work HSBCs Climate Business Council continues of local non-government organisations NGOs and to support Global Businesses to identify customer charities.
Our global education programmes focus on opportunities arising from the shift to a low carbon helping disadvantaged children, promoting financial economy.
HSBCs Global Banking and Markets literacy and international and cultural understanding.
teams played a leading role in some of the largest renewable energy projects announced in 2012.
In 2012, we launched our new flagship HSBC provided a range of financial services to the environmental programme, the HSBC Water largest offshore wind project in Europe and the most Programme.
This is a five-year, US$100m powerful wind farm in Latin America.
The two programme in partnership with three NGOs projects combined will provide over 666 megawatts which rank amongst the worlds most respected of clean energy equivalent of enough electricity environmental and development organisations.
to power over half a million homes.
These deals Together with Earthwatch, WaterAid and WWF, the highlight HSBCs credentials in providing asset Programme will deliver the powerful combination finance within the low carbon energy market and the of water provision, protection, information and strength of commercial teams working across several education: resulting in the most ground-breaking markets.
water programme committed to by a financial organisation.
The Programme will benefit Operational environmental efficiency communities in need and enable economies to prosper, driving development and social-economic We focus our environmental initiatives primarily on growth.
Following the success of our previous addressing and responding to issues associated with HSBC Climate Partnership, this programme will climate change, including energy use, water and create a community of employees and opportunities waste management.
This issue has the potential to for employee involvement and volunteering.
affect materially our customers and, by extension, our long-term success, introducing new risks to In 2012, we donated a total of US$120m to business activity.
We continue to focus on the ten community investment projects 2011: US$96m.
331 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
