HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Overview continued Risk KPIs Top and emerging risks A detailed account of these risks is provided on page 131.
All of them are regarded as top risks.
We classify certain risks as top or emerging.
We Further comments on expected risks and define a top risk as being a current, emerged risk uncertainties are made throughout the Annual Report which has arisen across any of our risk categories, and Accounts 2012, particularly in the section on regions or global businesses and has the potential to Risk, pages 123 to 249. have a material impact on our financial results or our reputation and the sustainability of our long-term Risk appetite business model, and which may form and crystallise within a one-year horizon.
We consider an emerging Risk appetite is a key component of our management risk to be one which has large uncertain outcomes of risk and describes the types and level of risk we which may form and crystallise beyond a one-year are prepared to accept in delivering our strategy.
Our horizon and, if it were to crystallise, could have a risk appetite is set out in the Groups Risk Appetite material effect on our long-term strategy.
Statement and is central to the annual planning process.
Global businesses, geographical regions and Our approach to identifying and monitoring top global functions are required to articulate their risk and emerging risks is informed by the risk factors.
They are discussed further on All of our activities involve, to varying degrees, page 126. the measurement, evaluation, acceptance and Our risk appetite may be revised in response to management of risk or combinations of risks which the top and emerging risks we have identified.
we assess on a Group-wide basis.
Top and emerging risks fall under the following three broad categories: Key performance indicators macroeconomic and geopolitical risk: The Board of Directors and the GMB monitor macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to HSBCs progress against its strategic our business model: and objectives.
Progress is assessed by risks related to our business operations, comparison with our strategy, our operating governance and internal control systems.
plan and our historical performance using During 2012, our senior management paid both financial and non-financial measures.
particular attention to a number of top and emerging From time to time the Group reviews its key risks.
The current list is summarised below: performance indicators KPIs in light of its strategic objectives and may in the future adopt new Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk or refined measures, or modify or adjust existing Emerging markets slow down.
targets, to better align the KPIs to our strategic Macroeconomic risks within developed economies.
Increased geopolitical risk in certain regions.
The GMB remains focused on improving our Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to our business model capital deployment to support the achievement of Regulatory developments affecting our business model and our medium-term target for return on equity of Group profitability.
between 12% and 15%, utilising the six filter Regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions and requirements analysis across our portfolio of businesses.
We will relating to conduct of business and financial crime continue to evaluate our businesses in 2013 using negatively affecting our results and brand.
Employee engagement has been monitored Risks related to our business operations, governance and internal control systems through annual Global People Surveys.
In 2012, Regulatory commitments and consent orders including quarterly Pulse Surveys were introduced, and the under the Deferred Prosecution Agreements.
Global People Surveys scheduled biennially.
The Challenges to achieving our strategy in a downturn.
next Global People Survey will be in 2013.
As the Internet crime and fraud.
Pulse Surveys were not designed to report employee Level of change creating operational complexity and engagement information comparable with that heightened operational risk.
derived from the Global People Surveys, we have Information security risk.
not disclosed this KPI in 2012.
22 Strategy Restructuring HSBC improving the way we deploy capital Return on average ordinary Advances to core funding 10 Core tier 1 capital ratio 2 23 shareholders equity ratio 12.3 10.5 2010 2011 2012 10.1 10.9 9.4 9.5 8.4 7.0 5.1 4.7 HSBC HBAP HSBC Other HSBC UK HBAP HBUS Other '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 UK US entities entities Measure: percentage profit attributable Measure: percentage ratio of core tier 1 Measure: loans and advances to customers to ordinary shareholders divided by capital comprising shareholders equity as a percentage of the total of core average ordinary shareholders equity.
and related non-controlling interests less customer deposits and term funding with regulatory deductions and adjustments to a remaining term to maturity in excess of total risk-weighted assets.
Target: to maintain a return in the medium Target: to maintain a strong capital base Target: to maintain an advances to core term of between 12% and 15%.
to support the development of the business funding ratio below limits set for each and meet regulatory capital requirements at entity.
Outcome: return on average ordinary Outcome: the increase in core tier 1 Outcome: The operating entities reported shareholders equity remained outside capital ratio to 12.3% was driven by capital remained inside their advances to core our target range and was 2.5 percentage generation and a reduction in RWAs funding limits of between 70% and 115% points below 2011.
The latter primarily following business disposals, notably the during 2012, except for one operating reflected adverse fair value movements on disposal of the US Card and Retail entity reported within the total of HSBCs own debt attributable to credit spreads, Services business and derecognition of other principal entities which operated with compared with favourable movements in Ping An as an associate.
a limit of 125% during the year.
This limit 2011, a higher tax charge and higher has been reduced to 115% for 2013. average shareholders equity.
Strategy Simplifying HSBC a lean and values-driven organisation Basic earnings Cost efficiency per ordinary share 2012: underlying cost efficiency 66.0% 62.8 60.1 0.92 57.5 0.74 0.73 55.2 52.0 0.41 0.34 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 Measure: percentage total operating expenses divided by net Measure: US$ level of basic earnings generated per ordinary operating income before loan impairment and other credit risk share.
Target: to be between 48% and 52%, a range within which Target: to deliver consistent growth in basic earnings per share.
business is expected to remain to accommodate both returns to shareholders and the need for continued investment in support of future business growth.
Outcome: the ratio remained outside the target range.
On a Outcome: Earnings per share decreased in 2012 reflecting adverse reported basis, revenues decreased primarily due to adverse fair fair value movements on own debt attributable to credit spreads, value movements on own debt attributable to credit spreads, compared with favourable movements in 2011, and a higher tax coupled with higher costs in part reflecting a charge in respect of charge which resulted in a decrease in reported profits.
fines and penalties as part of the settlement of investigations into HSBCs past inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering and sanctions laws as well as an increase in provisions relating to UK customer redress programmes.
On an underlying basis, revenue growth was more than offset by the increase in costs.
23 Key Performance Indicators Key Performance Indicators 103 100 106 70 75 73 98 86 78 89 86 91 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview Key Performance Indicators Key Performance Indicators HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Overview continued KPIs Financial summary Use of non-GAAP financial measures Growing HSBC continuing to position ourselves for growth Strategy Risk-adjusted revenue growth Dividends per ordinary share growth 2012: underlying growth 13% 37 14.0 10.0 6.0 11 0.2 8 29.0 30 47.0 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 '08'09 '10'11 '12 Measure: percentage increase in reported net operating income Measure: percentage increase in dividends per share since last after loan impairment and other credit risk charges since last year.
year, based on dividends paid in respect of the year to which the dividend relates.
Target: to deliver consistent growth in risk adjusted revenues.
Target: to deliver sustained dividend per share growth.
Outcome: reported risk-adjusted revenue was broadly in line with Outcome: dividends per share increased by 10%.
On an underlying basis, there was an increase due to revenue growth, notably in GB&M and CMB, and lower loan impairment charges, notably in North America.
Customer recommendation Brand value Measure: we measure our customer satisfaction through an 1st p 1st plla ac ce e 1s 1st p t pllac ace e independent market research survey of retail banking customers U US S$ $2 27 7.. 6 6b bn n U US S$ $2 28 8.. 5 5b bn n in selected countries, using a specific customer recommendation 3r 3rd p d pllace ace index CRI to score performance.
We benchmark our U US S$ $2 27 7.. 4 4b bn n performance against key competitors in each market and set targets relative to our peer group of banks.
Target: the Group target is for 75% of all the markets based on their weighted revenue to meet their CRI targets.
3r 3rd p d pllace ace U US S$ $2 22 2.. 9 9b bn n Outcome: RBWM failed to make its target of 75% as a consequence of reputational issues in certain of our major developed markets that adversely affected customers perception 2010 2010 20 2011 11 2012 2012 20 2013 13 of the bank in the third quarter of 2012.
We saw a good recovery in the fourth quarter but, taking the overall averaged annual Measure: in 2011, we moved our brand measure to the Brand position into account, we only met our target in 38% of our Finance valuation method as reported in The Banker Magazine.
55% of the weighted revenue target was This is our second year of using this benchmark.
The Brand within two points from a 100-point scale.
Finance methodology gives us a more complete measure of the For CMB, we changed our measures in 2012 for customer strength of the brand and its impact across all business lines and satisfaction to reflect the strategic focus of the business.
It is a wholly independent measure and is Previously, we only surveyed small business customers in a publicly reported.
limited number of markets and measured customer Target: a top three position in the banking peer group.
For 2012, we introduced a new measure of our performance through a client engagement survey conducted for Outcome: The HSBC brand moved from first to third in the us by a third party.
This provides a more complete perspective Brand Finance ranking and suffered a substantial reduction in for our performance across all our CMB segments and will give value.
We achieved our target of a top three position but, in us a competitive benchmark in 13 of our top markets.
In 2012, consultation with the Brand Finance organisation, we have therefore, we set benchmarks but not targets.
We will set targets seen reputational issues cited as a major factor in our reduced for 2013 and report results in the future.
24 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review Financial summary Consolidated income statement Financial summary Use of non-GAAP financial measures Use of non-GAAP financial measures 25 Our reported results are prepared in accordance Constant currency............. 25 with IFRSs as detailed in the Financial Statements Underlying performance... 26 starting on page 372.
There are times when we measure our performance internally, using financial Consolidated income statement 29 measures which have been derived from our reported results, in order to eliminate factors which distort Group performance by income and expense item... 33 year-on-year comparisons so we can view our results Net interest income...................... 33 on a more like-for-like basis: these are considered Net fee income............................. 35 non-GAAP measures.
Constant currency and Net trading income 36 underlying performance are non-GAAP measures Net income expense from financial instruments that we use throughout our Operating and Financial designated at fair value 37 Review and are described below.
Other non-GAAP Gains less losses from financial investments............... 38 financial measures are described and reconciled to Net earned insurance premiums 38 the closest reported financial measure when used.
Gains on disposal of US branch network, US cards business and Ping An 39 Constant currency Other operating income.......... 39 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in The constant currency measure adjusts for the year- 40 liabilities to policyholders.. on-year effects of foreign currency translation Loan impairment charges and other credit risk differences by comparing reported results for 2012 provisions........................... 41 with reported results for 2011 retranslated at 2012 Operating expenses................. 42 exchange rates.
Except where stated otherwise, Share of profit in associates and joint ventures............ 43 commentaries are on a constant currency basis, as Tax expense 44 reconciled in the table overleaf.
Consolidated balance sheet 45 The foreign currency translation differences Movement in 2012................ 46 reflect the movements of the US dollar against most major currencies during 2012.
Economic loss 51 We exclude the translation differences when Reconciliation of RoRWA measures 52 monitoring progress against operating plans and past Disposals, held for sale and run-off portfolios......... 52 results because management believes the like-forCritical accounting policies............... 54 like basis of constant currency financial measures more appropriately reflects changes due to operating The management commentary included in the Report of the performance.
Directors: Overview and Operating and Financial Review, together with the Employees and Corporate sustainability sections of Corporate Governance and the Directors Constant currency Remuneration Report is presented in compliance with the Constant currency comparatives for 2011 referred to in the IFRS Practice Statement Management Commentary issued commentaries are computed by retranslating into US dollars by the IASB.
for non-US dollar branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates: the income statements for 2011 at the average rates of exchange for 2012: and the balance sheet at 31 December 2011 at the prevailing rates of exchange on 31 December 2012.
No adjustment has been made to the exchange rates used to translate foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities into the functional currencies of any HSBC branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates.
When reference is made to constant currency in tables or commentaries, comparative data reported in the functional currencies of HSBCs operations have been translated at the appropriate exchange rates applied in the current period on the basis described above.
Underlying performance For disposals, acquisitions and changes of ownership levels of subsidiaries, associates and Underlying performance: businesses, we eliminate the gain or loss on disposal adjusts for the year-on-year effects of foreign in the period incurred and remove the operating currency translation: profit or loss of the acquired and disposed of businesses from all periods presented.
Previously, eliminates the fair value movements on our longthis adjustment for the results of operations was term debt attributable to credit spread own effected by removing the time-equivalent component credit spread where the net result of such of operating profit or loss from the comparative movements will be zero upon maturity of the period.
During 2012 we changed this adjustment to debt see footnote 26 on page 120 : and better reflect the results of the ongoing business.
Had adjusts for acquisitions, disposals and changes of we maintained our previous approach, underlying ownership levels of subsidiaries, associates and profit before tax would have been US$1.7bn higher businesses see footnote 29 on page 120. in 2012.
This was mainly due to the elimination of the US Card and Retail Services business.
26 We use underlying performance when value movements on own debt, acquisitions, monitoring progress against operating plans and disposals or dilution is significant.
past results because we believe that this basis more The following acquisitions, disposals and appropriately reflects operating performance.
Acquisition gains losses affecting the underlying performance Fair value gain Date on acquisition US$m Our share of the loss recorded by Ping An on re-measurement of its previously held equity interest in Ping An bank formerly known as Shenzhen Development Bank when Ping An took control and fully consolidated Ping An Bank Jul 2011 48 Gain on the merger of Oman International Bank S. A. O. G. and the Omani operations of HSBC Bank Middle East Limited Jun 2012 3 Gain on the acquisition of the onshore retail and commercial banking business of Lloyds Banking Group in the UAE by HSBC Bank Middle East Limited Oct 2012 18 27 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Use of non-GAAP financial measures Consolidated income statement The following table reconciles our reported a more useful discussion of operating performance.
revenue, loan impairment charges, operating Equivalent tables are provided for each of our global expenses and profit before tax for 2012 and 2011 businesses and geographical segments in the to an underlying basis.
Throughout this Annual Form 20-F filed with the Securities and Exchange Report and Accounts, we reconcile other reported Commission SEC, which is available on results to underlying results when doing so results in www.
29 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Consolidated income statement Reported profit before tax of US$20.6bn in 2012 grew in all regions, with over half this growth was US$1.2bn, or 6%, lower than in 2011.
This was coming from our faster-growing regions of Hong primarily due to adverse fair value movements on Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and Latin America, own debt attributable to credit spreads of US$5.2bn, driven by trade-related lending.
In Europe, lending compared with favourable movements of US$3.9bn balances increased, notably in the UK, despite muted in 2011.
The variance was partially offset by demand for credit.
Customer deposits also rose as we US$7.5bn of gains net of losses on disposals, continued to attract deposits through our Payments in particular in respect of the US Card and Retail and Cash Management products.
Services business and our associate, Ping An.
Our Revenue growth in RBWM reflected increased remaining shareholding in Ping An has been insurance income, mainly in Hong Kong and Latin reclassified as a financial investment see Note 26 on America, which benefited from higher investment the Financial Statements, the sale of which was returns and increased sales of life insurance products.
In addition, net interest income grew, mainly in We expect disposal of the Card and Retail Hong Kong and Latin America, reflecting higher Services business in North America and of our average lending and deposit balances.
These factors associate shares in Ping An in Rest of Asia-Pacific to were partially offset by the continued run-off of our have a significant impact on our profits in each of Consumer and Mortgage Lending CML portfolio these regions for the foreseeable future.
future profits in Rest of Asia-Pacific are expected to Loan impairment charges and other credit risk be affected by the dilution of our shareholding in provisions were US$2.3bn lower than in 2011.
Industrial Bank Co. Limited Industrial Bank, This primarily reflected a decrease in North America, following its issue of additional share capital to third mainly due to the continued decline in lending parties on 7 January 2013.
Our shareholding in balances and lower delinquency rates in the CML Industrial Bank has now been classified as a financial portfolio.
In addition, in Europe there were lower investment.
credit risk provisions on available-for-sale assetOn an underlying basis, profit before tax rose by backed securities ABSs driven by an 18%, primarily due to higher net operating income improvement in underlying asset prices, and lower before loan impairment charges and other credit risk loan impairment charges in RBWM, most notably in provisions revenue and lower loan impairment the UK, as delinquency rates improved across both charges and other credit risk provisions, which were unsecured and secured lending portfolios.
These partially offset by an increase in operating expenses.
factors were partially offset by increased loan The latter was primarily driven by fines and penalties impairment charges and other credit risk provisions paid as part of the settlement of investigations into in Latin America, particularly in Brazil, which were past inadequate compliance with anti-money primarily due to higher delinquency rates in RBWM laundering and sanctions laws of US$1.9bn, and a and in Business Banking in CMB.
In Rest of Asiahigher provision for UK customer redress Pacific, there were also higher individually assessed programmes of US$1.4bn.
loan impairments on a small number of customers in CMB.
The following commentary is on an underlying basis, except where otherwise stated.
The difference Operating expenses were higher than in 2011, between reported and underlying results is explained primarily from fines and penalties paid as part of and reconciled on page 26. the settlement of investigations into past inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering and Revenue of US$63.5bn was US$4.2bn, or 7%, sanctions laws of US$1.9bn, as well as an increase higher than in 2011, primarily due to lower adverse in provisions relating to UK customer redress movements on non-qualifying hedges which programmes of US$1.4bn.
In addition, in 2011 accounted for US$1.1bn of the increase, and operating expenses included a credit of US$570m revenue growth in GB&M and CMB.
relating to defined benefit pension obligations in the Revenue growth in GB&M mainly reflected UK, which did not recur.
higher Rates and Credit income, notably in Europe, The charges for UK customer redress as spreads tightened and investor sentiment improved programmes include estimates in respect of possible following stimuli by central banks globally.
mis-selling in previous years of payment protection In CMB, revenue growth primarily reflected insurance PPI policies of US$1.7bn and interest increased net interest income as a result of average rate protection products of US$598m.
The additional balance sheet growth.
Customer loans and advances provision relating to PPI reflects our recent claims 30 experience.
The provision in relation to interest rate On a constant currency basis, income from protection products reflects an estimate of possible associates increased, mainly driven by strong results in customer redress requirements following an our mainland China associates.
The contribution from independent review carried out at the request of the Bank of Communications Co. Limited BoCom and Financial Services Authority FSA.
There are many Industrial Bank rose due to loan growth and higher fee factors which affect these estimated liabilities and there income.
These factors were partially offset by a decline remains a high degree of uncertainty as to the eventual in income from Ping An due to market valuation losses cost of redress for these matters.
on equity securities held by their insurance business, reflecting volatile domestic equity markets.
Operating expenses also increased due to inflationary pressures, for example, on wages and The reported profit after tax was US$2.6bn or 15% salaries, in certain of our Latin American and Asian lower than in 2011, reflecting a decrease in taxable markets.
Other increases arose from investment in profits, and a higher tax charge in 2012.
The increased strategic initiatives including certain business expansion tax charge included the effect of the non-tax deductible projects, enhanced processes and technology charge for fines and penalties paid as part of the capabilities, and increased investment in regulatory and settlement of investigations into past inadequate compliance infrastructure, primarily in the US.
These compliance with anti-money laundering and sanctions factors were partly offset by US$2.0bn of sustainable laws, together with the non-recognition of the tax cost savings achieved across all regions, as we benefit in respect of the accounting charge associated continued with our organisational effectiveness with negative fair value movements on own debt.
The number of full time lower tax charge in 2011 included the benefit of US equivalent staff numbers FTEs fell by more than foreign tax credits.
The effective tax rate in 2012 27,700, reflecting the planned net reduction of staff was 26% compared with 18% in 2011. numbers across the Group from organisational effectiveness initiatives and business disposals.
Notable revenue items by geographical region Rest of Hong AsiaNorth Latin Europe Kong Pacific MENA America America Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2012 Non-qualifying hedges 51 31 20 194 296 37 Ping An contingent forward sale contract... 553 553 Gain on sale of non-core investments in India 314 314 Loss recognised following the classification of businesses to held for sale 96 96 2011 Non-qualifying hedges 291 14 20 1,067 1,392 Refinement of PVIF calculation 95 135 11 2 243 2010 Non-qualifying hedges 691 17 4 353 1,057 Notable revenue items by global business Retail Global Banking Banking Global and Wealth Commercial and Private Management Banking Markets Banking Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2012 Non-qualifying hedges.... 193 42 4 65 296 37 Ping An contingent forward sale contract....... 553 553 Gain on sale of non-core investments in India... 314 314 Loss recognised following the classification of businesses to held for sale 26 35 27 8 96 2011 Non-qualifying hedges.... 1,038 90 5 439 1,392 Refinement of PVIF calculation.... 181 62 243 2010 Non-qualifying hedges.... 310 309 1 439 1,057 For footnote, see page 120.
31 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Consolidated income statement Group performance by income and expense item 38 Notable cost items by geographical region Rest of Hong AsiaNorth Latin Europe Kong Pacific MENA America America Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2012 Restructuring and other related costs............. 299 31 131 27 221 167 876 UK customer redress programmes................. 2,338 2,338 UK bank levy 472 472 Fines and penalties for inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering and sanction laws........... 375 1,546 1,921 US mortgage foreclosure and servicing costs.
33 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Group performance by income and expense item The commentary in the following sections is on a The decline in interest income was partly offset constant currency basis unless otherwise stated.
by lower interest expense, notably on customer accounts.
This was driven by a reduction in the cost Reported net interest income decreased by 7%.
of funds on customer accounts in Latin America, On a constant currency basis, it declined by 5%.
notably in Brazil, and in Europe due to the downward On an underlying basis, excluding net interest movement in interest rates during the year, together income earned by the businesses sold during 2012 with deposit repricing initiatives in the US and see page 29 from all periods presented 2012: Europe.
The reduction in average customer account US$1.6bn: 2011: US$4.8bn and currency translation balances due to the disposal of non-strategic branches movements of US$1.2bn, net interest income rose by in the US was largely offset by significant volume 4%.
This reflected strong balance sheet growth in growth in other parts of the business, notably in Hong Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, together with a Kong, reflecting more conservative customer lower cost of funds in Latin America driven by a behaviour during the year in RBWM, and in Rest of decline in interest rates in Brazil.
Asia-Pacific, as a result of new mandates and deposit acquisition in Payments and Cash Management in The decrease in both net interest spread and net CMB and GB&M.
interest margin compared with 2011 was attributable to significantly lower yields on customer lending and Interest expense on deposits by banks decreased, on our surplus liquidity, partly offset by a reduction mainly in Europe.
This was due to lower placements in our cost of funds, notably on customer accounts.
by other financial institutions with HSBC, in part due to lower interest rates offered, together with a Interest income was lower than in 2011.
This reduction in the cost of sale and repurchase repo was driven by lower interest income on customer funding as market rates fell.
Lower average balances lending, including loans classified within Assets and interest rates in Brazil also contributed to the held for sale, due in part to the loss of interest decline.
income from disposals during 2012, principally in the US.
These disposals also led to a change in the There was also a decrease in interest expense on composition of our lending book as the decline in debt securities issued by the Group, driven by a net higher yielding card balances was replaced by reduction in average balances outstanding, mainly in volume growth in relatively lower yielding products, North America and, to a lesser extent, in Europe.
mainly residential mortgages and term lending, in Funding requirements in the US fell as a result of the Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and Europe.
business disposals and continued reduction of the Growth in average residential mortgage balances CML portfolio in run-off and, as a consequence, maturing debt was not replaced and some of the reflected the success of marketing campaigns and competitive pricing in the UK, the continued strength outstanding debt was repaid with the proceeds from in the property market in Hong Kong and the the sales.
In addition, maturing debt was not replaced expansion of our distribution network in Rest of in Europe.
These decreases were partly offset by Asia-Pacific.
Average term lending balances higher interest expense in Latin America, as a result increased in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific as of new debt issued, principally in 2011.
The Groups we capitalised on trade and capital flows, while the cost of funds on debt securities rose as the new rise in Europe was in spite of muted demand for issuances in Latin America were at a higher effective credit.
As a result of the change in composition of the interest rate than that paid in other parts of the lending book, the gross yield on customer lending Group.
The replacement of short-term debt by the fell.
issuance of medium-term notes in Europe also contributed to the rise in the cost of funds of debt Revenue in Balance Sheet Management also securities in issue.
decreased, principally in Europe as yield curves continued to flatten and liquidity arising from Net interest income includes the expense maturities and sales of available-for-sale debt of internally funding trading assets, while related securities was re-invested at lower prevailing rates.
revenue is reported in Net trading income.
The In addition, we placed a greater portion of our internal cost of funding of these assets declined, liquidity with central banks.
This was partly offset by reflecting the reduction in average trading assets higher revenue in Rest of Asia-Pacific, notably during the year.
In reporting our global business mainland China, as strong customer deposit growth results, this cost is included within Net trading led to a rise in the size of the available-for-sale debt income.
yielding products reflecting their lower risk appetite.
Income from FuM was also lower in North America, On an underlying basis, which excludes the net due to the sale of the full service retail brokerage fee income relating to the business disposals listed on business in Canada.
In Europe, the decline was page 29 2012: US$401m and 2011:US$1.41bn and mainly due to challenging market conditions in the currency translation movements of US$436m, net fee latter half of 2011 which led to a fall in average income rose by US$726m, or 5%.
client assets in 2012 as well as net new money The reduction on a constant currency basis was outflows and a fall in client numbers within GPB.
primarily due to the sale of the Card and Retail Partly offsetting these reductions was growth in Services business, which led to a reduction in cards underwriting fees as we actively captured increased and insurance fee income and fee expenses.
As client demand for debt capital financing in North part of that transaction, we entered into a transition America, Hong Kong and Europe in 2012, in part, service agreement with the purchaser to support reflecting the enhanced collaboration between CMB certain account servicing operations until they are and GB&M.
Trade-related income also increased, integrated into the purchasers infrastructure.
We most notably in Europe and Hong Kong, reflecting receive fees for providing these services, which are increased transaction volumes as we capitalised on reported in Other fee income.
The associated costs our global network to capture cross-border trade are reported in Operating expenses.
Broking income fell, most notably in Hong Fees from unit trusts also rose in Hong Kong, Kong and Europe, due to reduced transaction reflecting higher sales volumes.
Reported net trading income of US$7.1bn was terminated in January 2013 to better align our hedges US$585m higher than in 2011.
On a constant with the overall interest rate position in HSBC currency basis, net trading income rose by Finance.
The losses on these economic hedges US$849m, driven by lower adverse fair value reported in previous years were therefore crystallised.
Net income Net income from trading activities increased from trading activities rose in GB&M, but this was compared with 2011, driven by a strong performance more than offset by lower net interest income on in GB&M.
This was after taking into account a net trading activities and adverse fair value movements charge of US$385m in the fourth quarter of 2012 as on the contingent forward sale contract relating to a result of a change in estimation methodology in Ping An.
respect of credit valuation adjustments on derivative There were lower adverse fair value assets and debit valuation adjustments on derivative movements on non-qualifying hedges.
These hedges liabilities to reflect evolving market practices see are derivatives entered into as part of a documented page 441. interest rate management strategy for which hedge Rates revenue was significantly higher, notably accounting was not, nor could be, applied.
They are in Europe, as spreads on government debt securities principally cross-currency and interest rate swaps tightened and investor sentiment improved following used to economically hedge fixed rate debt issued stimuli by central banks.
This was despite significant by HSBC Holdings and floating rate debt issued by adverse fair value movements due to own credit HSBC Finance Corporation HSBC Finance.
The spreads on structured liabilities as spreads tightened, size and direction of the changes in the fair value of compared with a gain reported in 2011, together with non-qualifying hedges that are recognised in the a credit valuation adjustment charge of US$837m.
income statement can be volatile from year-to-year, The improvement in market sentiment also led to but do not alter the cash flows expected as part of the tighter spreads on corporate debt securities, resulting documented interest rate management strategy for in strong growth in Credit revenue.
Foreign both the instruments and the underlying Exchange revenue was broadly in line with 2011, as economically hedged assets and liabilities if the higher income resulting from enhanced collaboration derivative is held to maturity.
In North America, between GB&M and CMB, and increased volumes there were lower adverse fair value movements on from improvements in our electronic pricing and non-qualifying hedges as US long-term interest rates distribution capabilities, offset the effect of less declined to a lesser extent than in 2011.
There were volatile markets in 2012.
These favourable also lower adverse fair value movements on nonmovements were partly offset by a reduction in qualifying hedges in Europe.
This was driven by Equities trading revenue, reflecting a decline in favourable fair value movements in HSBC Holdings, market volumes together with adverse fair value compared with adverse fair value movements in movements on structured liabilities as own credit 2011, reflecting the less pronounced decline in longspreads tightened in 2012, compared with favourable term US interest rates relative to sterling and euro movements in 2011. interest rates compared with 2011.
This was partly offset by adverse movements in European operating These factors were partly offset by entities as interest rates fell.
unfavourable fair value movements on assets held as economic hedges of foreign currency debt at fair During 2012, HSBC Finance terminated value compared with favourable movements in 2011, approximately US$3.0bn of non-qualifying hedges.
due to movements in the underlying currencies.
A further US$2.4bn of non-qualifying hedges were These offset favourable foreign exchange 36 movements on foreign currency debt which are interest rate environment and an increase in the reported in Net expense from financial instruments proportion of the portfolio invested in relatively designated at fair value.
lower-yielding treasury bills and government debt securities.
This was partly offset by a reduction in Net interest income on trading activities also funding costs, reflecting both the decline in the size declined.
This was driven by a significant reduction of the portfolio and the low rate environment.
in average trading assets, notably holdings of debt securities in Europe, in the latter part of 2011 and the There were also adverse fair value movements first quarter of 2012 as eurozone sovereign debt of US$553m on the contingent forward sale contract concerns dominated the market.
The accounting policies for the designation of year, but do not alter the cash flows expected as part financial instruments at fair value and the treatment of the documented interest rate management strategy.
of the associated income and expenses are described As a consequence, fair value movements arising in Notes 2i and 2b on the Financial Statements, from changes in our own credit spread on long-term respectively.
debt and other fair value movements on the debt and related derivatives are not regarded internally as The majority of the financial liabilities designated part of managed performance and are therefore not at fair value are fixed-rate long-term debt issues, the allocated to global businesses, but are reported in rate profile of which has been changed to floating Other.
Credit spread movements on own debt through interest rate swaps as part of a documented designated at fair value are excluded from underlying interest rate management strategy.
The movement results, and related fair value movements are not in fair value of these long-term debt issues and the included in the calculation of regulatory capital.
related hedges includes the effect of our credit spread changes and any ineffectiveness in the economic We reported net expense from financial relationship between the related swaps and own instruments designated at fair value of US$2.2bn debt.
As credit spreads widen or narrow, accounting in 2012 compared with net income of US$3.4bn profits or losses, respectively, are booked.
This included the credit spread-related and direction of the changes in the credit spread on movements in the fair value of our own long-term our debt and ineffectiveness, which are recognised debt, on which we reported adverse fair value in the income statement, can be volatile from year to movements of US$5.2bn in 2012 and favourable 37 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Group performance by income and expense item movements of US$3.9bn in 2011.
The adverse fair associated asset portfolio.
Where these relate to value movements arose in 2012 as credit spreads assets held to back investment contracts, the tightened in Europe and North America, having corresponding movement in liabilities to customers widened during 2011. is also recorded under Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value.
This Net income arising from financial assets held to is in contrast to gains or losses related to assets held meet liabilities under insurance and investment to back insurance contracts or investment contracts contracts reflected net investment gains in 2012 as with DPF, where the corresponding movement in global equity market conditions improved, compared liabilities to customers is recorded under Net with net investment losses in 2011.
This insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities predominantly affected the value of assets held to to policyholders.
support unit-linked contracts in the UK and Hong Kong, insurance contracts with discretionary Within net income from financial instruments participation features DPF in Hong Kong, designated at fair value were favourable foreign and investment contracts with DPF in France.
exchange movements in 2012, compared with adverse movements in 2011, on foreign currency The investment gains or losses arising from debt designated at fair value issued as part of our equity markets result in a corresponding movement overall funding strategy.
An offset from assets held in liabilities to customers, reflecting the extent to as economic hedges was reported in Net trading which unit-linked policyholders, in particular, income.
This was partly offset by and US$310m on a constant currency basis.
losses on the disposal of legacy assets in GB&M in the UK see page 18, together with the nonThe increase was driven by higher net gains recurrence of gains in 2011 on the disposal of from the disposal of available-for-sale equity available-for-sale debt securities in our Insurance securities, notably in Hong Kong as a result of the business in RBWM, also in Europe.
sale of our shares in four Indian banks.
In addition, we reported a rise in disposal gains in Principal There were higher impairments of  in GB&M.
sale equity securities due to significant write-downs in 2012 on three holdings, two of which were in our Higher gains were also reported on the disposal direct investment business, which is in run-off.
On a appetite for life insurance products.
It was partly constant currency basis net earned premiums offset by a decrease in net earned premiums increased by 6%.
following the sale of the general insurance business in Argentina in May 2012.
In Europe, net earned The rise in net earned premium income was premiums decreased, mainly on investment contracts driven by Hong Kong and Latin America.
In Hong with DPF in France, as a result of the uncertain Kong, sales of insurance contracts increased, in economic and political environment in the election particular deferred annuity products, as we widened year and increased product competition.
The nonour product offerings to fulfil customers long-term renewal and transfer to third parties of certain savings and retirement needs, supported by contracts in our Irish business during 2011 also successful marketing campaigns.
Renewal premiums contributed to the decline.
This was partly offset by a from both unit-linked and insurance contracts with rise in net earned premiums in the UK due, in part, to DPF also increased reflecting strong sales in previous the sale of a unit-linked insurance product through years.
The increase in net earned premiums in Latin two new third party platforms.
These included three major disposals: wholly-owned subsidiaries of Charoen Pokphand Group Company Limited their entire In May 2012, HSBC USA Inc. HSBC Finance shareholdings in Ping An, representing 15.57% and HSBC Technology and Services USA Inc. of the issued share capital of Ping An, in two sold their US Card and Retail Services business tranches.
The first tranche was completed to Capital One Financial Corporation, realising a on 7 December 2012.
The completion of the gain on sale of US$3.1bn.
second tranche took place on 6 February 2013.
In May 2012, HSBC Bank USA, N. A. HSBC The disposal of this associate resulted in a gain Bank USA sold 138 out of 195 branches of US$3.0bn in 2012 see page 472.
Our primarily in upstate New York to First Niagara remaining shareholding has been classified as a Bank, realising a gain of US$661m.
2012, it sold the remaining 57 branches to the same purchaser, realising a gain of US$203m.
On a constant currency due to the reduction in foreclosure activity in the US, basis, it rose by 25% as a result of business disposals less deterioration in housing prices during 2012 and, during the year.
in some markets, improvements in pricing compared with 2011 in the US.
We continued to rationalise our portfolio in nonThe present value of in-force PVIF long-term strategic markets, resulting in a number of gains and losses on disposal which are excluded from our insurance business asset was broadly in line with underlying results see page 28.
The value of new business from the sale of life gains of US$108m on the sale of our RBWM insurance products, favourable investment returns, operations in Thailand, US$130m on the sale of together with the recognition of a PVIF asset relating our shareholding in a property company in the to the unit-linked pension products in Brazil Philippines, US$163m on the sales of the HSBC and contributed to a rise.
In addition, there were lower Hang Seng general insurance businesses in Hong adverse changes to non-economic assumptions, Kong, US$102m following the completion of the including mortality and lapse rates in Hong Kong sale of our general insurance manufacturing business and North America in 2012.
These factors were in Argentina, and US$212m following the sale of our substantially offset by adverse assumption changes in shares in Global Payments Asia-Pacific Ltd.
The 2012, principally relating to the valuation of gains on disposal were partly offset by an investment policyholder options and guarantees in Hong Kong, loss on a subsidiary of US$85m in the Middle East along with the non-recurrence of a gain of US$237m and North Africa and a loss of US$62m on the US$243m as reported recognised upon refinement sale of our operations in Costa Rica, Honduras and of the PVIF asset in 2011.
The increase in other operating income was Reported other operating income in 2011 partly offset by losses recognised on the sale of included a gain of US$181m arising from a dilution syndicated loans in Europe and on the of our holding in Ping An following its issue of share reclassification of certain businesses to held-for-sale capital to a third party and a gain of US$83m from in South America.
In addition, a gain on sale and the sale of HSBC Afore S. A. fide C. V. HSBC leaseback of branches in Mexico recognised in 2011 Afore, our Mexican pension business.
On an underlying basis, excluding the gains and losses on disposal totalling US$747m in 2012 and US$354m in 2011, other operating income rose.
Net insurance claims incurred and movement in The increase in liabilities to policyholders largely liabilities to policyholders increased by 27% on a resulted from gains in the fair value of the assets reported basis, and by 33% on a constant currency where the policyholders bear the investment risk, basis.
particularly in relation to unit-linked insurance 40 contracts and investment and insurance contracts The increase in liabilities to policyholders also with DPF.
reflected the increase in new business written, notably in Hong Kong and Brazil as explained under The higher investment returns were largely the Net earned insurance premiums.
This was partly result of positive equity market movements in 2012 offset by a lower increase in reserves in France compared with losses experienced during 2011 attributable to the decline in net earned premiums, notably in Hong Kong, France and the UK.
The gains and a decrease in Argentina due to the sale of the or losses on the financial assets designated at fair general insurance business in May 2012. value held to support these insurance and investment contract liabilities are reported in Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value.
On an underlying basis they reduced from debt, partly offset by an increase in Rest of AsiaUS$10bn to US$8.0bn.
Pacific due to a charge on an available-for-sale debt security in GB&M.
On a constant currency basis, they declined by US$3.5bn or 30% compared with 2011.
Collectively Individually assessed impairment allowances assessed allowances were down by US$3.3bn and increased by 14%, primarily in Europe in CMB, credit risk provisions fell by US$456m, partly offset reflecting challenging economic conditions in the by higher individually assessed impairment charges UK, Greece, Spain and Turkey.
In addition, higher of US$258m.
individually assessed impairments in Latin America mainly related to a single exposure in Brazil.
At 31 December 2012, the aggregate balance of customer loan impairment allowances was LICs declined in North America, primarily in US$16bn.
This represented 2% of gross loans the CML portfolio, as well as in Europe, Hong Kong and advances to customers net of reverse repos and and the Middle East and North Africa.
The decrease settlement accounts in line with 31 December 2011. was partly offset by an increase in Latin America and Rest of Asia-Pacific.
The fall in collectively assessed impairment allowances was most significant in RBWM in North In North America, LICs fell by 51% to America due to the continued reduction in the CML US$3.5bn.
Within this, loan impairment charges portfolios in run-off, and the sale of the Card and fell by US$1.3bn following the sale of the Card Retail Services business.
In addition, lower loan and Retail Services business.
Loan impairment impairment charges in Europe in RBWM were due charges in our CML business in the US fell by 48% to improved credit quality as we continued to proto US$2.6bn, driven by lower lending balances, as actively identify and monitor customers facing we continued to run off the portfolio, and lower financial hardship and focused our lending growth delinquency levels.
Loan impairment charges on higher quality assets, notably in the UK.
These continued to be adversely affected by delays in factors were partly offset by higher loan impairment expected cash flows from mortgage loans due, in charges and other credit risk provisions in Latin part, to delays in foreclosure processing, although America which were driven by increased delinquency the effects were less pronounced than in 2011.
These rates in RBWM and CMB, mainly in Brazil.
decreases were partly offset by an adjustment made 41 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Group performance by income and expense item following a review completed in the fourth quarter of largely due to lower specific impairment charges in 2012 which concluded that the estimated average CMB and the non-recurrence of charges relating to period of time from current status to write-off was available-for-sale Greek sovereign debt securities.
ten months for real estate loans.
In CMB and In the Middle East and North Africa, LICs GB&M, loan impairment charges increased, mainly decreased by US$6m to US$286m.
Lower loan in Bermuda, due to individually assessed impairment charges in RBWM reflected impairments on a small number of exposures.
repositioning of the book towards higher quality In Europe, LICs decreased by 22% to secured lending in previous years.
This was mainly in GB&M due to lower offset by higher LICs recorded for a small number of credit risk provisions on available-for-sale ABSs as a large exposures in GB&M.
result of an improvement in underlying asset prices, LICs in Latin America and Rest of Asia-Pacific as well as lower charges on Greek sovereign debt.
In Latin America, Further information on our exposures to countries in they increased by 29% to US$2.1bn.
This was the eurozone is provided on page 192.
This was mainly in Brazil, driven by increased delinquency partly offset by increased impairment charges on the rates in RBWM and CMB, particularly in the legacy credit loans and receivables portfolio.
In Business Banking portfolio reflecting lower RBWM, loan impairment charges continued to economic growth in 2012.
We took a number of decline, primarily in the UK, as we focused our steps to reposition the portfolios in RBWM and lending growth on higher quality assets and CMB including improving our collections continued to pro-actively identify and monitor capabilities, reducing third-party originations and customers facing financial hardship.
As a result, lowering credit limits where appropriate.
Loan delinquency rates improved across both the secured impairment charges fell in Brazil during the second and unsecured lending portfolios.
This was partly half of 2012, mainly due to lower collective portfolio offset by an increase in impairments in Turkey due provisions.
to strong growth in previous years in our RBWM customer loans and advances.
In addition, there were In Rest of Asia-Pacific, LICs increased by 64% higher individually assessed provisions in CMB to US$436m, notably in CMB as a result of the across a range of sectors, reflecting increased stress impairment of a corporate exposure in Australia and on the financial status of certain customers in the a small number of corporate exposures in India, as challenging economic conditions in certain eurozone well as a credit risk provision on an .
sale debt security in GB&M.
On an certain of our Latin American and Asian markets and underlying basis, costs increased by 11%.
increased investment costs in strategic initiatives, including certain business expansion projects, and in On a constant currency basis, operating enhanced processes and technology capabilities.
We expenses in 2012 were US$2.7bn or 7% higher than also increased investment in our regulatory and in 2011, primarily driven by fines and penalties paid compliance infrastructure primarily in the US.
as part of the settlement of investigations into past inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering The above increases in costs were mitigated by and sanction laws of US$1.9bn, of which US$1.5bn strict cost control and the continued delivery of our was attributed to, and paid by, HSBC North America organisational effectiveness programmes, which Holdings Inc. HNAH and its subsidiaries and resulted in sustainable cost savings of US$2.0bn.
US$375m was paid by HSBC Holdings.
Further The number of employees expressed in FTEs at the provisions for the UK customer redress programmes end of the 2012 was 10% lower than at the end of of US$2.3bn were raised during 2012 compared 2011.
This reflected the planned net reduction of with a charge of US$890m in 2011 US$898m as staff numbers across the Group from organisational reported.
This included a charge for additional effectiveness initiatives and business disposals.
In estimated redress for possible mis-selling in previous 2012, average FTEs fell by 7%.
years of PPI policies US$1.7bn 2011: US$713m Business disposals in 2011 and 2012 resulted in and interest rate protection products US$598m, a lower cost base, most significantly from the sale of which took the balance sheet provision for the UK the Card and Retail Services business and the 195 customer redress programmes at 31 December 2012 branches in the US.
Restructuring and other related costs were In 2011 we recorded a credit of US$570m US$876m in 2012 compared with US$1.1bn in 2011 US$587m as reported following a change in the US$1.1bn as reported.
inflation measure used to calculate the defined benefit obligation in the UK for deferred pensions which did not recur in 2012.
On a constant currency basis, it increased Profits from The Saudi British Bank rose, driven by 7%, driven by higher contributions from our by higher revenues reflecting strong balance sheet associates in mainland China.
growth and lower costs resulting from effective Our share of profits from BoCom rose, as a control and monitoring.
result of loan growth and higher fee income from Profits from Ping An were lower due to market cards, management service and guarantees and valuation losses on equity securities held by their commitments.
This was partly offset by increased insurance business, reflecting volatile domestic operating expenses reflecting investment in staff equity markets, partly offset by increased income and technology, and higher loan impairment charges.
from the banking business reflecting the contribution Profits from Industrial Bank also increased, of Ping An Bank formerly Shenzhen Development reflecting continued growth in lending balances Bank.
On 5 December 2012, we agreed to sell our and a rise in associated fee income, partly offset entire shareholding in Ping An and recognised a gain by higher operating expenses in line with business on the disposal of the associate.
Our remaining expansion, as well as increased loan impairment shareholding has been classified as a financial charges.
On 7 January 2013, our holding in investment.
See page 40 for details of this Industrial Bank was diluted following its issue of transaction.
additional share capital to third parties.
The higher tax charge in 2012 reflected the nontax deductible effect of fines and penalties paid as In 2012, the tax paid by the Group was part of the settlement of investigations into past US$9.3bn 2011: US$8.0bn.
The amount differs inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering from the tax charge reported in the income statement and sanctions laws, together with the non-recognition due to indirect taxes such as VAT and the bank levy of the tax benefit in respect of the accounting charge included in the pre-tax profit and the timing of associated with negative fair value movements on payments.
The lower tax charge in 2011 included the The Group also plays a major role as tax benefit of US deferred tax recognised in 2011 in collector for governments in the jurisdictions in respect of foreign tax credits.
A more detailed consolidated balance sheet is contained in the Financial Statements on page 374.
45 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Consolidated balance sheet Movement in 2012 yield curves in major currencies led to a rise in the fair value of interest rate contracts, largely in Europe Total reported assets were US$2.7 trillion, 5% and, to a lesser extent, the US.
This was partly offset higher than at 31 December 2011.
Excluding the by a decline in the fair value of credit derivative effect of currency movements, total assets increased contracts in Europe and the US, as spreads tightened, by 4%, as shown on page 48. and foreign exchange contracts in Europe reflecting Our business model see page 14 and our lower volumes of open trades.
In addition, netting approach to managing the Group balance sheet increased from an increase in trading through contributed to our strong liquidity position.
clearing houses and a rise in the fair value of interest Customer deposits increased by over US$65bn in rate contracts.
2012, which enabled us to continue to support our Loans and advances to banks declined by 16%, customers borrowing requirements.
Loans and driven by a reduction in reverse repo balances in advances to customers grew by more than US$39bn Europe, in part reflecting the redeployment of during the year, notably in residential mortgages and liquidity to central banks, together with maturities term and trade-related lending to corporate and and repayments in Hong Kong and Rest of Asiacommercial customers.
also led to a rise in trading assets.
Loans and advances to customers increased by We have made significant progress in 4%.
Residential mortgage balances continued to simplifying and re-shaping our balance sheet to grow strongly, following the success of marketing improve our capital deployment.
We completed a campaigns and competitive pricing in the UK, the significant number of business disposals during the continued strength in the property market in Hong year, most notably the Card and Retail Services Kong and expansion of the distribution network business and non-strategic branches in the US.
This in Rest of Asia-Pacific.
Our focus on corporate and led to a significant reduction in Assets held for sale commercial customers that trade internationally led with further transactions due to complete in 2013. to a rise in term and trade-related lending in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific.
Lending to CMB Assets customers also increased in Europe, notably in the Cash and balances at central banks rose by 7% as UK despite muted demand for credit, and in North we placed a greater portion of our surplus liquidity America, reflecting our focus on target segments in in Hong Kong, Europe and Rest of Asia-Pacific with the US.
In the Middle East and North Africa, the rise central banks, reflecting both our risk profile and in term lending balances followed the completion of the merger of our operations in Oman with OIB and growth in customer deposits.
This was partly offset by a reduction in North America as liquidity was the acquisition of the onshore retail and commercial redeployed into highly-rated financial investments.
banking business of Lloyds Banking Group in the UAE.
Corporate overdraft balances which did not Trading assets increased by 21%.
At the end of meet netting criteria also increased in the UK, with a 2011, client activity fell as eurozone debt concerns corresponding rise in related customer accounts.
The dominated the global economy and, as a result, we above movements were partly offset by a reduction reduced our holdings of debt and equity securities in residential mortgage balances in North America as and did not replace maturities in our reverse repo a result of repayments and write-offs on the run-off book.
In 2012, client activity increased from these portfolio.
Lending to GB&M customers in Europe subdued levels which resulted in a rise in reverse also declined as we reduced our exposure to certain repo and securities borrowing balances, together sectors and disposed of selected positions, and with higher holdings of equity securities.
clients chose to re-finance through the capital Notwithstanding the rise in year-end balances, we markets.
Reverse repo balances also declined, actively managed the trading inventory in GB&M mainly in Europe.
and the average balance for the year declined by 9%.
During 2012 we reclassified to Assets held for Financial assets designated at fair value rose by sale loans and advances to customers relating to the 8%.
Holdings of equity securities in our insurance planned disposals of non-strategic RBWM banking businesses in Hong Kong and Europe increased, operations in Rest of Asia-Pacific and businesses in reflecting favourable market movements.
Portfolio Latin America and Middle East and North Africa.
In growth was also partly attributable to net premiums addition, loans and advances to customers, net of received in the year.
customer allowances, relating to the planned Derivative assets remained broadly in line with disposal of non-real estate personal loan balances December 2011 levels.
Downward movements in 46 in the CML run-off portfolio in North America were Financial liabilities designated at fair value reclassified as Assets held for sale.
remained broadly in line with December 2011 levels.
A net increase in Europe due to new issuances was Financial investments rose by 4% as excess largely offset by a net reduction in North America as liquidity was deployed into available-for-sale maturities were not replaced, reflecting the decrease investments, notably treasury bills in Hong Kong in funding requirements in the US.
and highly rated debt securities in North America.
The increase in the value of derivative liabilities Assets held for sale declined by 51% following was in line with that of Derivative assets as the the completion of the US disposals.
This was partly underlying risk is broadly matched.
offset by the reclassification to Assets held for sale during the year of the non-real estate personal loan Debt securities in issue declined by 10% as balances in North America, our shareholdings in maturing debt was not replaced in North America Ping An and Bao Viet Holdings and other nondue to the decline in funding requirements there.
Liabilities under insurance contracts rose by 11%, largely due to higher investment returns which Liabilities resulted in a rise in the fair value of assets held to Deposits by banks declined by 6% due to lower support unit-linked insurance contracts and placements by, and repo activity with, other financial investment and insurance contracts with DPF, institutions in Europe.
This was partly offset by together with the related liabilities to policyholders.
higher short-term placements in North America In addition, liabilities to policyholders were and Hong Kong.
established for new business written in Hong Kong, Europe and Latin America.
This was offset in part by Customer accounts rose by 5%.
This was driven a reduction in liabilities under insurance contracts in part by a significant rise in Hong Kong, where reflecting disposals of general insurance businesses RBWM customers adopted a more conservative in Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, Latin America approach to managing their assets.
CMB benefited and Europe, together with the reclassification to from increased liquidity in the market, higher Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale of Payments and Cash Management balances and a rise general insurance liabilities in North America and in deposits from Business Banking customers.
There life insurance liabilities in Rest of Asia-Pacific.
was also strong deposit growth in CMB and GB&M in Europe, which benefited from higher balances in Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale Payments and Cash Management, while growth in declined by 77% following the completion of the US disposals.
This was partly offset by the transfer to RBWM in Europe reflected the success of deposit gathering campaigns.
The increase in current this classification of other non-strategic businesses.
accounts in GB&M in the UK was also related to the Other liabilities rose by 5%, reflecting higher rise in overdrafts which did not meet netting criteria.
provisions for customer redress programmes in the These movements were partly offset by a decrease UK together with a rise in amounts owed to clearing in Brazil due to both a managed reduction in houses as trading activity conducted through them term deposits and the continued transformation of increased.
our funding base, substituting wholesale customer deposits for medium-term notes.
Customer account Equity balances in North America also fell as short-term deposits in the US placed at the end of 2011 were Total shareholders equity rose by 9%, driven in part withdrawn.
In addition, we reduced rates offered to by profits generated in the year.
In addition, there customers as our funding requirements diminished was a favourable movement on the available-for-sale following the business disposals and the continued reserve from a negative balance of US$3.3bn at decline of the consumer finance portfolios in run-off.
31 December 2011 to a positive balance of US$1.6bn at 31 December 2012, reflecting an Trading liabilities increased by 12%, due to improvement in the fair value of these assets.
higher repo activity, notably in the US and in Europe, which we used to fund the rise in trading assets resulting from higher client activity.
48 In implementing our strategy, we have agreed account balances reported as held for sale in our to sell a number of businesses across the Group.
combined view of customer lending and customer Assets and liabilities of businesses which, it is highly accounts.
We consider the combined view more probable, will be sold are reported as held for sale on accurately reflects the size of our lending and deposit the balance sheet until the sale is closed.
We include books and growth thereof.
Further information about the nature of securities information can be found in the following sections: investment conduits in which the above financial investments are held.
Balance Sheet Management page 223 for a description of the activities and an analysis of Equity securities classified as available for third party assets in balance sheet management.
sale page 222 includes private equity holdings and other strategic investments.
Risk management of insurance operations page 232 includes a discussion and further Other represents financial investments held in analysis of the use of financial investments certain locally managed treasury portfolios and within our insurance operations.
other GB&M portfolios held for specific business activities.
50 Economic loss quality, and greater banking sector stability through higher levels of capital and liquidity.
Our internal performance measures include The following commentary is on a reported economic profit loss, a calculation which compares basis.
the return on financial capital invested in HSBC by our shareholders with the cost of that capital.
We The return on invested capital fell by price our cost of capital internally and the difference 2.2 percentage points to 8.0%, which was between that cost and the post-tax profit attributable 3.0 percentage points lower than our benchmark cost to ordinary shareholders represents the amount of of capital.
Our economic loss was US$5.1bn, economic profit loss generated.
a deterioration of US$3.7bn compared with the loss in 2011.
This reflected higher average invested Our long-term cost of capital is reviewed capital and a decrease in profits attributable to annually and is 11% for 2012: this remains ordinary shareholders, primarily due to adverse fair unchanged from 2011.
However, it has been revised value movements on own debt attributable to credit to 10% for 2013, primarily due to a reduction in the spreads of US$5.2bn, compared with favourable risk-free rate, reflecting the continued intervention of movements of US$3.9bn in 2011, an increase in central banks, quantitative easing and the flight to notable cost items and a higher tax charge in 2012.
51 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Reconciliation of RoRWA measures Disposals, held for sale and run-off portfolios Reconciliation of RoRWA measures We also present the non-GAAP measure of underlying RoRWA adjusted for the effect of Performance Management operations which are not regarded as contributing to We target a return on average ordinary shareholders equity of the longer-term performance of the Group.
For internal management purposes we monitor include the run-off portfolios and the Card and Retail global businesses and geographical regions by pre-tax return on RWAs, a metric which combines return on equity and Services business which was sold in 2012. regulatory capital efficiency objectives.
The Card and Retail Services average RWAs in In addition to measuring return on average riskthe table below represent the average of the weighted assets RoRWA we measure our associated operational risk RWAs that were not performance internally using the non-GAAP immediately released on disposal and have not measure of underlying RoRWA, which is underlying already been adjusted as part of the underlying profit before tax as a percentage of average riskRoRWA calculation.
The pre-tax loss for Card and weighted assets adjusted for the effects of foreign Retail Services in the table below primarily relates to currency translation differences and business litigation expenses incurred after the sale of the disposals.
Underlying RoRWA adjusts performance business that have not been adjusted as part of the for certain items which distort year-on-year underlying RoRWA calculation.
performance as explained on page 26.
We do not expect the historical In implementing our strategy, we have sold or results to be indicative of future results because of agreed to sell a number of businesses and disposals or run-offs.
Fixed allocated costs, included investments across the Group.
The sale of these in total operating costs, will not necessarily be businesses and investments will have a significant removed upon disposal and have been separately effect on both our revenue and profitability in the identified.
In addition, we have substantial portfolios which are being run down.
We expect the losses on these portfolios to continue to affect the Group in the future.
53 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Critical accounting policies Critical accounting policies changes in economic, regulatory or behavioural Audited conditions result in the most recent trends in portfolio risk factors being not fully reflected in the Introduction statistical models, risk factors are taken into account The results of HSBC are sensitive to the accounting by adjusting the impairment allowances derived policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the solely from historical loss experience.
preparation of our consolidated financial statements.
Risk factors include loan portfolio growth, The significant accounting policies are described in product mix, unemployment rates, bankruptcy trends, Note 2 on the Financial Statements.
geographical concentrations, loan product features, The accounting policies that are deemed critical economic conditions such as national and local to our results and financial position, in terms of the trends in housing markets, the level of interest rates, materiality of the items to which the policies are portfolio seasoning, account management policies applied and the high degree of judgement involved, and practices, changes in laws and regulations, and including the use of assumptions and estimation, are other influences on customer payment patterns.
Different factors are applied in different regions and countries to reflect local economic conditions, Impairment of loans and advances laws and regulations.
The methodology and the assumptions used in calculating impairment losses Our accounting policy for losses arising from the are reviewed regularly in the light of differences impairment of customer loans and advances is between loss estimates and actual loss experience.
described in Note 2g on the Financial Statements.
For example, roll rates, loss rates and the expected Loan impairment allowances represent timing of future recoveries are regularly managements best estimate of losses incurred benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure in the loan portfolios at the balance sheet date.
Management is required to exercise judgement In 2012, a portfolio risk factor adjustment of in making assumptions and estimates when US$225m was made to increase the collective calculating loan impairment allowances on both loan impairment allowances for our US mortgage individually and collectively assessed loans and lending portfolios.
The adjustment was made advances.
following a review completed in the fourth quarter of The majority of the collectively assessed loan 2012 which concluded that the estimated average impairment allowances are in North America, where period of time from current status to write-off was they were US$5.2bn, representing 54% 2011: ten months for real estate loans previously a period US$6.8bn: 62% of the Groups total collectively of seven months was used.
During 2013, this assessed loan impairment allowances and 32% of the revised estimate will be incorporated into the Groups total impairment allowances.
Of the North statistical impairment allowance models.
American collective impairment allowances Where loans are individually assessed for approximately 86% 2011: 75% related to the impairment, management judgement is required in US CML portfolio.
determining whether there is objective evidence that The methods used to calculate collective a loss event has occurred, and if so, the measurement impairment allowances on homogeneous groups of the impairment allowance.
In determining of loans and advances that are not considered whether there is objective evidence that a loss event individually significant are disclosed in Note 2g has occurred, judgement is exercised in evaluating on the Financial Statements.
They are subject to all relevant information on indicators of impairment, estimation uncertainty, in part because it is not which is not restricted to the consideration of practicable to identify losses on an individual loan whether payments are contractually past-due but basis because of the large number of individually includes broader consideration of factors indicating insignificant loans in the portfolio.
deterioration in the financial condition and outlook of borrowers affecting their ability to pay.
A higher The estimation methods include the use of level of judgement is required for loans to borrowers statistical analyses of historical information, showing signs of financial difficulty in market supplemented with significant management sectors experiencing economic stress, particularly judgement, to assess whether current economic and where the likelihood of repayment is affected by the credit conditions are such that the actual level of prospects for refinancing or the sale of a specified inherent losses is likely to be greater or less than asset.
For those loans where objective evidence of that suggested by historical experience.
Where impairment exists, management determine the size 54 of the allowance required based on a range of factors the future cash flows of the CGUs are sensitive such as the realisable value of security, the likely to the cash flows projected for the periods for dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy, the which detailed forecasts are available and to viability of the customers business model and the assumptions regarding the long-term pattern capacity to trade successfully out of financial of sustainable cash flows thereafter.
Forecasts difficulties and generate sufficient cash flow to are compared with actual performance and service debt obligations.
verifiable economic data, but they necessarily reflect managements view of future business Under certain specified conditions, we provide prospects at the time of the assessment: and loan forbearance to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties by agreeing to modify the contractual the rates used to discount future expected cash payment terms of loans in order to improve the flows are based on the costs of capital assigned management of customer relationships, maximise to individual CGUs and the rates can have a collection opportunities and, if possible, avoid significant effect on their valuation.
The cost default or repossession.
Where forbearance activities of capital percentage is generally derived from a are significant, higher levels of judgement and Capital Asset Pricing Model, which incorporates estimation uncertainty are involved in determining inputs reflecting a number of financial and their effects on loan impairment allowances.
economic variables, including the risk-free Forbearance activities take place in both retail interest rate in the country concerned and a and wholesale loan portfolios, but our largest premium for the risk of the business being concentration is in the US, in HSBC Finances evaluated.
These variables are subject to CML portfolio.
fluctuations in external market rates and economic conditions beyond our control and The exercise of judgement requires the use of are consequently subject to uncertainty and assumptions which are highly subjective and very require the exercise of significant judgement.
sensitive to the risk factors, in particular to changes in economic and credit conditions across a large A decline in a CGUs expected cash flows number of geographical areas.
Many of the factors and or an increase in its cost of capital reduces the have a high degree of interdependency and there CGUs estimated recoverable amount.
If this is is no single factor to which our loan impairment lower than the carrying value of the CGU, a charge allowances as a whole are sensitive, though they are for impairment of goodwill is recognised in our particularly sensitive to general economic and credit income statement for the year.
For example, a 10% The accuracy of forecast cash flows is subject increase in impairment allowances on collectively to a high degree of uncertainty in volatile market assessed loans and advances in North America conditions.
In such market conditions, management would have increased loan impairment allowances retests goodwill for impairment more frequently than by US$0.5bn at 31 December 2012 2011: US$0.7bn.
annually to ensure that the assumptions on which the It is possible that the outcomes within the next cash flow forecasts are based continue to reflect financial year could differ from the assumptions current market conditions and managements best used, and this could result in a material adjustment estimate of future business prospects.
to the carrying amount of loans and advances.
During 2012, no impairment of goodwill was identified 2011: nil.
In addition to the annual Goodwill impairment impairment test which was performed as at 1 July Our accounting policy for goodwill is described in 2012, management reviewed the current and expected Note 2p on the Financial Statements.
Note 23 on the performance of the CGUs as at 31 December 2012 Financial Statements lists our cash generating units and determined that there was no indication of CGUs by geographical region and global potential impairment of the goodwill allocated to business.
HSBCs total goodwill amounted to them, except for the GB&M Europe CGU, which US$21bn at 31 December 2012 2011: US$21bn.
experienced significantly reduced profitability in the second half of 2012 compared with the first half The review of goodwill for impairment reflects of 2012.
The reduced forecast profitability resulted managements best estimate of the future cash flows in a reduction in the recoverable amount of the CGU of the CGUs and the rates used to discount these over its carrying amount headroom.
cash flows, both of which are subject to uncertain Consequently, the results of the goodwill impairment factors as follows: testing for this CGU are more sensitive to key assumptions used.
Management retested the goodwill 55 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Critical accounting policies for this CGU and concluded that there was no When applying a model with unobservable impairment.
inputs, estimates are made to reflect uncertainties in fair values resulting from a lack of market data Note 23 on the Financial Statements includes inputs, for example, as a result of illiquidity in details of the CGUs with significant balances of the market.
For these instruments, the fair value goodwill, states the key assumptions used to assess measurement is less reliable.
Inputs into valuations the goodwill in each of those CGUs for impairment based on unobservable data are inherently uncertain and provides a discussion of the sensitivity of the because there is little or no current market data carrying value of goodwill to changes in key available from which to determine the level at assumptions.
which an arms length transaction would occur under normal business conditions.
However, in most cases Valuation of financial instruments there is some market data available on which to base Our accounting policy for determining the fair value a determination of fair value, for example historical of financial instruments is described in Note 2d on data, and the fair values of most financial the Financial Statements.
The best evidence of fair instruments are based on some market observable value is a quoted price for the instrument being inputs even when unobservable inputs are measured in an actively traded market.
that the market for a financial instrument is not The fair values of financial assets and liabilities active, a valuation technique is used.
The majority of US$718bn 2011: US$665bn and US$622bn of valuation techniques employ only observable 2011: US$569bn, respectively, were determined market data and so the reliability of the fair value using valuation techniques which represented 60% measurement is high.
However, certain financial 2011: 61% and 83% 2011: 82%, respectively, of instruments are valued on the basis of valuation financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value.
techniques that include one or more significant market inputs that are unobservable.
Valuation The methodology for estimating credit techniques that rely to a greater extent on valuation adjustments CVA and debit valuation unobservable inputs require a higher level of adjustments DVA has been revised as at management judgement to calculate a fair value 31 December 2012 as a result of changing market than those based wholly on observable inputs.
practices in response to regulatory and accounting changes, as well as general market developments.
Valuation techniques used to calculate fair values are discussed in Note 15 on the Financial A key input into the calculation of CVA is the Statements.
The main assumptions and estimates probability of default PD.
Prior to the revision of the methodology, the PD was based on HSBCs which management consider when applying a model with valuation techniques are: internal credit rating for the counterparty.
The revised methodology maximises the use of PD based the likelihood and expected timing of future cash on market-observable data, such as credit default flows on the instrument.
These cash flows are swap CDS spreads.
Where CDS spreads are not estimated based on the terms of the instrument, available, PDs are estimated having regard to market and judgement may be required when the ability practice, considering relevant data including CDS of the counterparty to service the instrument in indices and historical rating transition matrices.
accordance with the contractual terms is in In addition, HSBC aligned its methodology for doubt.
Future cash flows may be sensitive to determining DVA to be consistent with that applied changes in market rates: for CVA as at 31 December 2012.
Historically, selecting an appropriate discount rate for HSBC considered that a zero spread was appropriate the instrument.
The determination of this rate in respect of own credit risk and consequently did is based on an assessment of what a market not adjust derivative liabilities for its own credit risk.
participant would regard as the appropriate The types and amounts of adjustments made in spread of the rate for the instrument over the determining the fair value of financial instruments appropriate risk-free rate: and measured at fair value using valuation techniques, judgement to determine what model to use to and a sensitivity analysis of fair values for financial calculate fair value in areas where the choice of instruments with significant unobservable inputs to valuation model is particularly subjective, for reasonably possible alternative assumptions, are example, when valuing complex derivative described in Note 15 on the Financial Statements.
Given the uncertainty and subjective nature of valuing financial instruments at fair value, it is 56 possible that the outcomes in the next financial year provisions, property provisions including onerous could differ from the assumptions used, and this contracts and similar liabilities.
could result in a material adjustment to the carrying Provisions for legal proceedings and regulatory amount of financial instruments measured at fair matters typically require a higher degree of value.
judgement than other types of provisions.
When cases are at an early stage, accounting judgements Deferred tax assets can be difficult because of the high degree of Our accounting policy for the recognition of deferred uncertainty associated with determining whether a tax assets is described in Note 2s on the Financial present obligation exists, and estimating the Statements.
The recognition of a deferred tax asset probability and amount of any outflows that may relies on an assessment of the probability and arise.
As matters progress through various stages sufficiency of future taxable profits, future reversals of development, management and legal advisers of existing taxable temporary differences and evaluate on an ongoing basis whether provisions ongoing tax planning strategies.
should be recognised and their estimated amounts, revising previous judgements and estimates as The most significant judgements concern the US appropriate.
At more advanced stages, it is typically deferred tax asset, given the recent history of losses possible to make judgements and estimates around in our US operations.
The net US deferred tax asset a better defined set of possible outcomes.
However, amounted to US$4.6bn or 61% 2011: US$5.2bn: such judgements can be very difficult and the 68% of deferred tax assets recognised on the amount of any provision can be very sensitive to Groups balance sheet.
These judgements take into the assumptions used.
There could be a wide range consideration the reliance placed on the use of tax of possible outcomes for any pending legal planning strategies.
As a result, The most significant tax planning strategy is the it is often not practicable to quantify a range of retention of capital in our US operations to ensure possible outcomes for individual matters.
It is also the realisation of the deferred tax assets.
The not practicable to meaningfully quantify ranges principal strategy involves generating future taxable of potential outcomes in aggregate for these types profits through the retention of capital in the US in of provisions because of the diverse nature and excess of normal regulatory requirements in order circumstances of such matters and the wide range of to reduce deductible funding expenses or otherwise uncertainties involved.
For a detailed description of deploy such capital or increase levels of taxable the nature of uncertainties and assumptions and the effect on the amount and timing of possible cash income.
Management expects that, with this strategy, outflows on material matters, see Note 43 on the the US operations will generate sufficient future profits to support the recognition of the deferred Financial Statements.
If HSBC Holdings were to decide not to Provisions for customer remediation also require provide this ongoing support, the full recovery of the significant levels of estimation and judgement.
The deferred tax asset may no longer be probable and amounts of provisions recognised depend on a could result in a significant reduction of the deferred number of different assumptions, for example, the tax asset which would be recognised as a charge in volume of inbound complaints, the projected period the income statement.
of inbound complaint volumes, the decay rate of complaint volumes, the population identified as Provisions systemically mis-sold and the number of policies per The accounting policy for provisions is described in customer complaint.
Note 2w on the Financial Statements.
Note 32 on the In view of the inherent uncertainties and the Financial Statements discloses the major categories high level of subjectivity involved in the recognition of provisions recognised.
The closing balance of and measurement of provisions, it is possible that the provisions amounted to US$5.3bn 2011: outcomes in the next financial year could differ from US$3.3bn, of which US$1.7bn 2011: US$1.5bn those on which managements estimates are based, relates to legal proceedings and regulatory matters resulting in materially different amounts of and US$2.4bn 2011: US$1.1bn relates to customer provisions recognised and outflows of economic remediation.
benefits from those estimated by management for Judgement is involved in determining whether the purposes of the 2012 Financial Statements.
a present obligation exists, and in estimating the probability, timing and amount of any outflows.
Professional expert advice is taken on litigation 57 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Global businesses Summary Global businesses Basis of preparation Summary 58 The results of global businesses are presented in accordance Products and services 60 with the accounting policies used in the preparation of HSBCs Retail Banking and Wealth Management 62 consolidated financial statements.
Our operations are closely Commercial Banking 65 integrated and, accordingly, the presentation of global business data includes internal allocations of certain items of income Global Banking and Markets 68 and expense.
These allocations include the costs of certain Global Private Banking 72 support services and global functions, to the extent that these Other............................. 74 can be meaningfully attributed to operational business lines.
While such allocations have been made on a systematic and Analysis by global business 76 consistent basis, they necessarily involve some subjectivity.
Disposals, held for sale and run-off portfolios................ 78 Where relevant, income and expense amounts presented include the results of inter-segment funding as well as intercompany and inter-business line transactions.
All such Summary transactions are undertaken on arms length terms.
The expense of the UK bank levy is included in the HSBC reviews operating activity on a number of Europe geographical region as HSBC regards the levy as a bases, including by geographical region and by cost of being headquartered in the UK.
For the purposes of the segmentation by global business, the cost of the levy is global business.
The commentaries below present global The fines and penalties paid as part of the settlement of investigations into past inadequate compliance with antibusinesses followed by geographical regions money laundering and sanctions laws of US$1.9bn are page 79.
Performance is discussed in this order included in the North America US$1.5bn and Europe because certain strategic themes, business initiatives US$0.4bn geographical regions, and in Other for the and trends affect more than one geographical region.
purposes of the segmentation by global business.
All commentaries are on a constant currency basis page 25 unless stated otherwise.
59 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
