HSBCs vision Reason We aim to be where the economic growth is, connecting customers to Purpose why we opportunities, enabling businesses to thrive and economies to prosper, and exist ultimately helping people to fulfil their hopes and realise their ambitions.
How we Act with courageous integrity by being: behave and dependable and doing the right thing: Values conduct open to different ideas and cultures: and business connected to customers, regulators and each other.
International network connecting faster-growing and developed markets Where and how we Strategy Develop Wealth Management services and invest in retail banking only in compete markets where we can achieve profitable scale 11 Our pro forma post-tax profit allocation in 2012 : Being the worlds leading 60% of earnings retained Outcome international 29% to shareholders as dividends bank 11% variable pay For footnote, see page 120. the upstate New York branches for a total gain of Principal activities US$4.0bn.
In December 2012, we announced an Our purpose is to enable businesses to agreement to sell our entire shareholding in Ping An thrive and economies to prosper, helping Insurance Group Company of China, Limited people fulfil their hopes and realise their Ping An, the sale of which was completed on ambitions.
6 February 2013, generating a gain of US$3.0bn.
For further information on all disposals, see page 27.
HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial services organisations in the world, with a market In 2012, we merged our operations in Oman capitalisation of US$194bn at 31 December 2012. with those of the Oman International Bank S. A. O. G. We are headquartered in London.
OIB and acquired the onshore retail and commercial banking businesses of Lloyds Banking Our products and services are delivered to Group in the United Arab Emirates see page 470. clients through four global businesses, Retail Banking and Wealth Management RBWM, Commercial HSBC Values Banking CMB, Global Banking and Markets GB&M and Global Private Banking GPB.
Embedding global standards across HSBC in We operate through long-established businesses a consistent manner is a top priority and will and have an international network of some 6,600 shape the way we do business.
offices in 81 countries and territories in six The role of HSBC Values in daily operating practice geographical regions: Europe, Hong Kong, Rest is fundamental to our culture in the context of the of Asia-Pacific, Middle East and North Africa financial services sector and the wider economy.
MENA, North America and Latin America.
This is particularly so in the light of Taken together, our five largest customers do developments and changes in regulatory policy, not account for more than 1% of our income.
We investor confidence and societys view of the role of have contractual and other arrangements with banks.
We expect our executives and employees to numerous third parties in support of our business act with courageous integrity in the execution of activities.
None of the arrangements is individually their duties by being: considered to be essential to the business of the Group.
dependable and doing the right thing: open to different ideas and cultures: and Continuing the Group-wide review of our connected with our customers, communities, businesses, 26 disposals or closures of non-strategic regulators and each other.
and non core investments were announced in 2012 and a further four in 2013, taking the total to 47 We continue to enhance our values-led culture since 2011.
The most significant of these by embedding HSBC Values into how we conduct transactions which were completed in 2012 were the our business and in the selection, assessment, sale of the US Card and Retail Services business and recognition and training provided to staff.
13 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
