HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Global businesses Products and services Products and services We deliver services through four principal channels: branches, Retail Banking and Wealth Management self-service terminals, telephone service centres and digital internet and mobile.
Customers can transact with the bank via RBWM serves over 54 million personal customers.
We a combination of these channels, through the following offerings: take deposits and provide transactional banking HSBC Premier: we provide preferential banking services and services to enable customers to manage their day-toglobal recognition to our mass affluent customers and their day finances and save for the future.
We selectively immediate families with a dedicated relationship manager, specialist wealth advice and tailored solutions.
Customers can offer credit facilities to assist customers in their short access emergency travel assistance, priority telephone banking or longer-term borrowing requirements: and we and an online global view of their Premier accounts around provide financial advisory, broking, insurance and the world.
investment services to help them to manage and protect HSBC Advance: we provide a range of preferential products their financial futures.
and services to simplify the banking needs of customers and to help them manage and plan their money to achieve their We develop products designed to meet the needs financial goals and ambitions.
of specific customer segments, which may include a Wealth Solutions & Financial Planning: a financial range of different services and delivery channels.
planning process designed around individual customer needs to help our clients to protect, grow and manage their wealth Typically, customer offerings include: through investment and wealth insurance products manufactured by Global Asset Management, Global Markets liability-driven services: deposits and account and HSBC Insurance and by selected third-party providers.
services: Basic Banking: we increasingly provide globally asset-driven services: credit and lending, both standardised but locally delivered, reliable, easy to understand, good-value banking products and services using global secured and unsecured: and product platforms and globally set service standards.
fee-driven and other services: financial advisory, broking, life insurance manufacturing and asset management.
Credit and Lending: we offer a broad range of domestic and Commercial Banking cross-border financing, including overdrafts, corporate cards, term loans and syndicated, leveraged, acquisition and project We segment our CMB business into Corporate, to finance.
Asset finance is also offered in selected countries.
serve both corporate and mid-market companies with International trade and receivables finance: we provide more sophisticated financial needs, and Business the services and finance our clients need throughout the trade Banking, to serve SMEs, enabling differentiated cycle including: letters of credit, collections, guarantees: coverage of our target customers.
This allows us to receivables finance: supply chain solutions: commodity and structured finance: and risk distribution.
HSBC is supporting provide continuous support to companies as they grow the development of renminbi as a trade currency, with both domestically and internationally, and ensures a renminbi capabilities in more than 50 markets.
clear focus on internationally aspirant customers.
Payments and Cash Management: we are a leading provider of domestic and cross-border payments, collections, We place particular emphasis on international liquidity management and account services offering local, connectivity to meet the needs of our business regional and global solutions delivered via e-enabled platforms customers.
We aim to be recognised as the leading designed to address the current and future needs of our clients.
international trade and business bank by focusing Insurance and Investments: we offer business and financial protection, trade insurance, employee benefits, on faster-growing markets, repositioning towards corporate wealth management and a variety of other international business and enhancing collaboration commercial risk insurance products in selected countries.
This will be underpinned by GB&M: our CMB franchise represents a key client base for reducing complexity and operational risk and driving GB&M products and services, including foreign exchange and efficiency gains through adopting a global operating interest rate products, together with capital raising on debt and equity markets and advisory services.
60 Global Markets operations consist of treasury and capital Global Banking and Markets markets services.
Products include foreign exchange: currency, interest rate, bond, credit, equity and other derivatives: GB&M provides tailored financial solutions to major government and non-government fixed income and money government, corporate and institutional clients and market instruments: precious metals and exchange-traded private investors worldwide.
Managed as a global futures: equity services: distribution of capital markets business, GB&M operates a long-term relationship instruments: and securities services, including custody and clearing services and funds administration to both domestic management approach to build a full understanding and cross-border investors.
Sector-focused Global Banking offers financing, advisory and transaction client service teams comprising relationship managers services.
Products include: and product specialists develop financial solutions capital raising, advisory services, bilateral and syndicated to meet individual client needs.
With a presence in lending, leveraged and acquisition finance, structured and project finance, lease finance and non-retail deposit taking: over 60 countries territories and access to HSBCs international, regional and domestic payments and cash worldwide presence and capabilities, this business management services: and trade services for large corporate serves subsidiaries and offices of our clients on a clients.
GB&M is managed as two principal business lines: Global Markets and Global Banking.
This structure allows us to focus on relationships and sectors that best fit the Groups geographic reach and facilitate seamless delivery of our products and services to clients.
In addition, Balance Sheet Management is responsible for the management of liquidity and funding.
It also manages structural interest rate positions within the Global Markets limit structure.
Private Banking services comprise multicurrency and Global Private Banking fiduciary deposits, account services, and credit and specialist lending.
GPB also accesses HSBCs universal banking GPB provides investment management and trustee capabilities to offer products and services such as credit cards, solutions to high net worth individuals and their internet banking, and corporate and investment banking families globally.
We aim to meet the needs of our solutions.
clients by providing excellent customer service, Investment Management comprises advisory and utilising our global reach and offering a comprehensive discretionary investment services, as well as brokerage across asset classes.
This includes a complete range of investment suite of solutions.
vehicles, portfolio management, security services and alternatives.
Drawing on the strength of the HSBC Group and Private Trust Solutions comprise trusts and estate planning, the most suitable products from the marketplace, we designed to protect wealth and preserve it for future work with our clients to provide solutions to grow, generations through structures tailored to meet the individual manage, and preserve wealth for today and for the needs of each client.
61 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Global businesses RBWM Retail Banking and Wealth Management Review of performance RBWM reported profit before tax of US$9.6bn RBWM provides banking and wealth compared with US$4.3bn in 2011 US$4.2bn on management services for our personal a constant currency basis.
This included net customers to help them to manage gains resulting from a number of strategic their finances and protect and build transactions, including US$3.7bn from the their financial futures.
disposals of the Card and Retail Services CRS business and non-strategic branches in the US.
2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m On an underlying basis, profit before tax Net interest income.......... 20,298 24,101 24,166 increased by US$3.1bn, largely driven by lower Net fee income................. 7,205 8,226 8,397 loan impairment charges in the US run-off Other income................... 6,358 1,206 1,048 portfolio and higher insurance profits in Hong 21 Net operating income.. 33,861 33,533 33,611 Kong and Brazil.
These were partly offset by 76 LICs 5,515 9,319 11,259 charges relating to the customer redress programmes in the UK of US$1.8bn, compared Net operating income.... 28,346 24,214 22,352 with US$868m in 2011 US$875m as reported.
Total operating expenses.. 19,769 21,202 19,539 Operating profit............. 8,577 3,012 2,813 RBWM profit loss before tax 77 Income from associates.
7,083 6,681 5,936 US CRS 3,766 2,061 1,979 US run-off portfolio........... 1,274 4,472 4,076 Underlying revenue growth in all faster-growing regions 9,575 4,270 3,839 Loss before tax in the US run-off portfolio Announced declined significantly, mainly due to lower 34 loan impairment charges reflecting the decline disposals or closures since in average lending balances.
In addition, the start of 2011 and completed revenue benefited from lower adverse 12 movements on the fair value of non-qualifying in 2012 hedges in HSBC Finance of US$227m, compared with US$1.2bn in 2011.
This was partly offset by a fall in net interest income Best in Wealth Management largely driven by the continued reduction in in Hong Kong lending balances.
The Asian Banker, March 2012 Profit before tax for RBWM excluding US CRS and the US run-off portfolio increased Strategic direction by US$472m, with revenue growth in Hong RBWM provides retail banking and wealth management services for personal customers in markets where we have, or can build, Kong, Latin America and Rest of Asia-Pacific the scale to do so cost effectively.
partly offset by a fall in profit in the UK due We focus on three strategic imperatives: to a US$883m increase in customer redress building a consistent, high standard, customer needs-driven provisions and the non-recurrence of a credit of wealth management service for retail customers drawing on US$256m US$264m as reported relating to our Insurance and Asset Management businesses: defined benefit pension obligations.
leveraging global expertise to improve customer service and productivity, to provide a high standard of banking solutions Revenue grew by 13% in Hong Kong reflecting and service to our customers efficiently: and wider deposit spreads, higher lending and simplifying and re-shaping the RBWM portfolio of businesses deposit balances and the gains on sale of globally, to focus our capital and resources on key markets.
the general insurance businesses and our shares in Global Payments Asia-Pacific Ltd. Insurance For footnotes, see page 120. income also increased due to higher investment The commentary is on a constant currency basis unless stated returns and strong sales and renewals of life otherwise.
This was partly offset by the 62 non-recurrence of the implementation benefit as part of our portfolio management activities, from refining the PVIF asset calculation in detailed below.
These led to a reduction of more 2011. than 13,500 FTEs, with all regions contributing to sustainable cost savings of more than Revenue in Rest of Asia-Pacific increased by US$350m.
3% due to the gain on sale of our operations in Thailand, partly offset by the loss of operating Share of profit from associates and joint revenues associated with this disposal and the ventures decreased by 22%, mainly from Ping discontinuation of our HSBC Premier Premier An due to market valuation losses on equity service in Japan.
Net interest income remained securities held by their insurance business, broadly in line with 2011.
Mortgage and deposit reflecting volatile domestic equity markets.
balances grew, primarily in Singapore, mainland Following the disposal of our associate, Ping China, Australia and Malaysia, although the An, our remaining shareholding has been effect was offset by narrower asset and deposit classified as a financial investment.
Strategic imperatives In Latin America, revenue grew by 6%, driven by higher insurance revenues from strong sales Developing a high standard of wealth of unit-linked pension and term life products management for retail customers and the favourable effect of the recognition of a In 2012, we accelerated the transformation of PVIF asset US$144m in Brazil.
In addition, the Wealth Management business in HSBC, we reported a gain on sale of the general investing significantly in infrastructure to insurance business in Argentina.
Net interest improve customer experience and revenue income increased due to growth in personal generation, although further progress is required loans and deposit balances.
Growth was partly to achieve our strategic goals.
offset by the loss on sale of certain businesses as well as the non-recurrence of gains on the sale Wealth Management revenues increased by over and leaseback of branches and the sale of HSBC US$550m in 2012 to US$6.4bn, primarily due Afore, both in Mexico during 2011. to growth from insurance, mutual funds and foreign exchange.
Wealth insurance revenues In Europe, revenue remained broadly in line improved, driven by higher investment returns, with 2011.
Revenue decreased in the UK, notably in Hong Kong and France and strong largely driven by deposit spread compression.
sales of life insurance products in Hong Kong This was partly offset by higher mortgage and Brazil.
Mutual funds sales grew, with spreads and average balances in the UK and revenues increasing by 17% to US$935m.
business expansion in Turkey, which led to Revenues from foreign exchange transactions higher net interest income following growth in benefited from infrastructure investments, personal lending and mortgage balances.
including the successful deployment of our webLoan impairment charges in RBWM excluding enabled foreign currency Get Rate system US CRS and the US run-off portfolio were across key markets in Europe and Asia towards broadly in line with 2011.
Reductions in Europe, the end of 2011. driven by lower delinquencies across both the Foreign exchange services are a core component secured and unsecured lending portfolios, of our wealth strategy, and we continue to invest particularly in the UK, were offset by higher in order to further enhance our customer impairments in Brazil, where delinquency rates offering.
By 31 December 2012, over 220,000 increased as economic growth slowed in 2012. of our customers were using our Global View Operating expenses in RBWM excluding US and Global Transfer products, making crossCRS and the US run-off portfolio increased border transfers amounting to more than only modestly, despite significantly higher US$13bn in the year.
We enhanced our customer redress provisions and the noninternational wire services by improving limits recurrence of a pension credit in the UK.
We also completed the online Excluding these items, expenses decreased launch of dual-currency deposits in Asian through both our organisational effectiveness markets, and improved market access for programmes and the transactions undertaken foreign exchange trading.
63 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Global businesses RBWM CMB Sales of our long-term fund products, including closures announced in 2012 and a further four in our managed solutions, continued to grow.
We 2013, following the 13 announced in 2011, and launched the HSBC Asia Focused Income Fund 12 transactions completed in 2012.
During in May which grew to US$1bn by the end of 2012, we completed the sale or closure of our 2012.
World Selection and Premier Investment retail businesses in Thailand, Honduras, El Management Services for retail customers Salvador and Costa Rica, disposed of the Card continued to grow, with total net sales and Retail Services business and upstate New amounting to US$2bn during the year, resulting York branches in the US and the full service in a 20% increase to US$19bn in FuM related to retail brokerage business in Canada and these portfolios.
recorded an investment loss on a subsidiary.
Additionally, we announced the sale of our retail HSBC Global Asset Managements investment banking operations in Colombia, Peru, Uruguay, performance was strong in 2012, with over 70% Paraguay and Pakistan and the closure of the of its Equity, Multi-Asset and Fixed Income consumer finance business in Canada.
In funds by value ranking above median.
As a December 2012 we disposed of our associate, result, 71% of eligible funds were in the top two Ping An, with our remaining shareholding quartiles over the three-year period to 31 classified as a financial investment, and also December 2012. completed the sale of our shares in Global We made significant investments to reinforce Payments Asia-Pacific Ltd.
Following the wealth risk management framework, completion of all the announced transactions we introducing enhanced risk profiling and strategic will have reduced our presence to 20 home and financial planning tools to enable more effective priority markets representing 98% of 2012 control of compliance and regulatory risks.
profit before tax and a limited number of network and small markets.
As part of the drive to enhance customer experience, we started the global roll-out of a We are exiting the general insurance new Wealth Dashboard, which allows customers manufacturing business and focusing on life easy access and analysis of personal holdings insurance manufacturing where we have scale.
and enables ongoing comparison with reference In 2012, we completed the sale of our general portfolios.
Additionally, in a number of markets insurance businesses in Hong Kong, Singapore, we introduced a global insurance point-of-sale Argentina and Ireland, announced the sale of system which offers customers a faster, more our insurance manufacturing businesses in the integrated service.
US and Taiwan and reached an agreement to sell a portfolio of general insurance assets and Leveraging global expertise in retail banking liabilities in Mexico.
We continued to enhance our digital banking In October 2012, we completed the acquisition capabilities with the launch of the first mobile of the onshore retail banking business of Lloyds payment solution in Hong Kong enabling Banking Group in the UAE, following the contactless credit card transactions through Visa merger in the second quarter of our Omani payWave terminals, the first deployment of a operations with OIB.
global application platform in the US, and the We remained focused on managing the run-off roll-out of mortgage digital sales tools in the of balances in our CML portfolio, with year-end UK, India, UAE and Malaysia.
lending balances, including loans held for sale, Our business re-engineering programme is declining by 14% from December 2011 to driving cost reduction and efficiency US$43bn.
In the third quarter of 2012, we improvements through standardisation.
We reclassified US$3.7bn of non-real estate used our global scale to improve cost controls personal loan balances, net of impairment and progressively standardised the design allowances, from our consumer finance of our Contact Centres.
In addition, we are portfolio to Assets held for sale as we actively successfully deploying enhanced analytical marketed the portfolio.
We also identified real capabilities to improve customer experience.
estate secured loan balances which we plan to actively market in multiple transactions over the Portfolio management to drive superior returns next two years.
Good progress was made in portfolio management activities with 17 disposals or 64 Commercial Banking Review of performance CMB reported a record profit before tax of CMB offers a full range of commercial US$8.5bn in 2012, 7% higher than in 2011.
On financial services and tailored solutions a constant currency basis, profit before tax to more than three million customers increased by 10%.
This included gains totalling ranging from small and medium-sized US$468m mainly from the sale of branches in enterprises to publicly quoted the US, the disposal of general insurance businesses in Argentina and Hong Kong and the companies in more than 60 countries.
sale of our shares in Global Payments Asia- 2012 2011 2010 Pacific Ltd in Hong Kong.
US$m US$m US$m On an underlying basis, profit before tax Net interest income.......... 10,361 9,931 8,487 increased by 3%.
This was driven by strong Net fee income................. 4,470 4,291 3,964 revenue growth and higher income from our Other income................... 1,720 1,389 1,383 associates, substantially offset by a rise in 21 Net operating income.. 16,551 15,611 13,834 operating expenses which reflected the effect of 76 LICs 2,099 1,738 1,805 notable cost items that included a customer Net operating income.... 14,452 13,873 12,029 redress provision of US$268m relating to interest rate protection products in the UK.
Loan Total operating expenses.. 7,598 7,221 6,831 impairment charges also rose, driven by higher Operating profit loss... 6,854 6,652 5,198 individually assessed provisions in Europe and 77 Income from associates.
1,681 1,295 892 Rest of Asia-Pacific, and a rise in collective Profit loss before tax... 8,535 7,947 6,090 charges in Latin America.
This reflected strong net Record reported profit before tax interest income growth, higher net fee income US$8.5bn and a rise in other income driven by the gains on disposals.
9% Net interest income increased by 8% as a result increase in customer deposits, driven by of average balance sheet growth.
Customer Payments and Cash Management loans and advances rose in all regions, with over half this growth coming from our faster growing regions of Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and Number one global trade finance Latin America, driven by higher trade-related bank in the world lending as demand for export finance increased.
Oliver Wyman Global Transaction Banking Survey 2012 In Europe, despite muted demand for credit, net interest income from lending activities also rose Strategic direction as a result of growth in average lending CMB aims to be the banking partner of choice for international businesses by building on our rich heritage, international balances, notably in the UK.
Net interest income capabilities and relationships to enable connectivity and support from customer accounts rose as we continued to trade and capital flows around the world, thereby strengthening attract deposits through our Payments and Cash our leading position in international business and trade.
Net interest income from We have four strategic imperatives: deposits also benefited from higher liability focus on faster-growing markets while connecting revenue and spreads in Hong Kong, reflecting an increase in investment flows with developed markets: short-term interest rates.
capture growth in international SMEs and corporate businesses: enhance collaboration across all global businesses to provide Net fee income benefited from higher transaction our customers with access to the full range of the Groups volumes of Payments and Cash Management services: and products, mainly in Europe, Latin America and simplify processes and enhance risk management controls by Hong Kong.
Net fee income from Global Trade adopting a global operating model.
and Receivables Finance products also rose in Hong Kong, due to continued demand for export For footnotes, see page 120. finance as we captured international trade and The commentary is on a constant currency basis unless stated capital flows, and in Europe as we continued otherwise.
to expand our Trade and Commodity and Structured Trade Finance offerings.
In addition, 65 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Global businesses CMB our collaboration with GB&M led to higher our customers as the renminbi is positioned as a revenues generated primarily from sales of major global trade and investment currency.
have expanded our global network of dedicated China desks to cover our top markets, Loan impairment charges and other credit risk representing about half of the worlds GDP.
provisions increased by US$442m, driven These are staffed by Mandarin-speaking experts by higher individually assessed loan who support mainland Chinese businesses to impairments in Europe, reflecting the identify new opportunities to expand overseas.
challenging economic conditions in the UK, Greece, Spain and Turkey, and in Rest of As reported in the Oliver Wyman Global Asia-Pacific in respect of a small number Transaction Banking Survey 2012, we of customers in our Corporate segment.
maintained our position as the worlds largest Collective impairment provisions also rose in global trade finance bank with a market share of Latin America, mainly in Brazil from increased global trade finance revenue that increased from delinquency in the Business Banking portfolio.
9% in 2011 to 10% in the first half of 2012, in spite of a slowdown in world trade growth.
Our Operating expenses increased by 10%, primarily Global Trade and Receivables Finance revenues due to a US$268m customer redress provision increased by 11% as our network provided relating to interest rate protection products in customers with access to over 75% of world the UK see page 32.
The rise in costs also trade flows.
In addition, we continued to expand reflected the non-recurrence of a credit in 2011 our Commodity and Structured Trade Finance of US$206m US$212m as reported, arising offering across CMB and GB&M, establishing from a change in the measurement of defined new teams in four countries, which brought the benefit pension obligations in the UK.
In total to seven by the end of 2012.
Our team of addition, we continued to invest in and product specialists more than doubled from 31 strengthen our Risk and Compliance function at the end of 2011 to 78 across Europe, Hong as part of our global operating model.
Operating Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, with plans for expenses also increased in our faster-growing further expansion in Latin America, Middle East regions of Latin America and Rest of Asiaand North Africa, North America and additional Pacific due to inflationary pressures and countries in Rest of Asia-Pacific by the end of continued investment in front line and support 2013. staff.
International payments volumes in Payments Income from associates grew by 28% as our and Cash Management have grown at twice the associates in mainland China benefited from a rate of the market globally since 2010 with yearrise in lending and associated fee income, on-year revenue increasing by 15% in 2012. reflecting continued economic growth.
This growth reflected new mandates and investments in new products such as HSBCnet Strategic imperatives mobile to improve our customers experience.
Focus on faster-growing markets while Double digit revenue growth was reported in the connecting with developed markets UK, Brazil and Hong Kong, all of which are top markets for CMB, reflecting the strength of the We continued to position the business for franchise in both developed and developing growth, maintaining our investment in our markets.
In 2012, HSBC was the first bank to be faster-growing regions, where revenues rose by named Best Cash Management Bank globally 12 percentage points from 2011 and represented for both Financial Institutions and Nonover 54% of our revenues.
Our top 20 markets Financial Institutions in the same year by contributed over 90% of our profit before tax in Euromoneys customer survey.
Also in this poll, 2012, with 14 of these countries located in the we were named Best Domestic Cash faster-growing regions.
Management Provider in over 20 countries.
Our strong network helps connect customers with both developed and developing markets as Capture growth in international businesses they expand internationally.
During 2012, we Our strong international network offers a were the first bank to settle cross-border distinctive presence in key markets with major renminbi trade across six continents with our trade flows, facilitating growth for international ability to provide related services in over 50 businesses.
Our international customer base countries offering a competitive advantage to generated around 40% of our revenues.
66 In Business Banking, we continued to attract alternative sources of finance, providing our and serve an increasing number of international customers with access to debt and equity capital SMEs and further differentiated our service markets and offering specialised financing, such offering to them by extending our global as Project and Export Finance, via GB&M.
network of specialist International Relationship Dedicated executives are now in place in both Managers IRMs who focus on high value CMB and GPB to promote cross-business international clients.
During 2012, we added referral activities and support the collaboration over 165 IRMs in France, Brazil and the UK between the businesses.
For example, the Global and plan to expand the model into other key Priority Clients initiative was launched in 2012 Business Banking markets in 2013. to service the Groups largest ultra-high net We continued to support SMEs through the worth clients corporate and personal needs economic recovery, with a particular focus jointly.
on those with international aspirations.
In the In 2012, we launched our trade credit insurance first half of 2012, we launched an international offering in Hong Kong, Brazil and the UK.
It SME fund in the UK to support UK businesses will be rolled out to further markets in the first that trade, or aspire to trade, internationally.
half of 2013, including Turkey, France, By the end of 2012, we had approved lending Singapore and Malaysia.
through the fund of 5.1bn US$8.2bn, exceeding our original target of 4.0bn Simplify processes and enhance risk management US$6.5bn, and provided 12bn US$20bn of controls by adopting a global operating model gross new lending to UK SMEs, including the renewal of overdraft and other lending facilities.
The successful adoption of a global model has Over 80% of small business lending enabled us to deliver a number of benefits, applications received during the year were notably simplified processes for our customers, approved.
Similarly, in the UAE, we launched enhanced governance and compliance oversight, our third SME fund of AED1bn US$272m and sustainable cost savings across the business.
targeted at international trade customers.
We have made significant progress in Our global expertise helped connect our simplifying and reducing the time to complete customers with new market opportunities.
We our credit renewal process, implementing held three Global Connections International improvements in 17 key markets with further Exchanges in Brazil, mainland China and countries in scope for the first quarter of 2013.
In addition, we have deployed a consistent Dubai in 2012, where we were joined by clients from all of our top 20 markets who were able to model for cross-border account opening to make contacts, share their specialist market facilitate the on-boarding of new international knowledge and identify new business customers.
The sustainable cost savings of over US$100m achieved through process re-engineering and Strong partnership with global businesses organisational effectiveness have been Our collaboration with GB&M has delivered reinvested in both front line staff and our Risk nearly US$0.7bn in incremental gross revenue and Compliance function.
Gross revenues from sales of enhanced consistent Know Your Customer GB&M products to CMB customers which are procedures, a global product governance board shared across the two global businesses grew and dedicated resources to improve governance by over US$0.1bn in 2012 or by 5%, mainly oversight.
This investment, combined with our driven by sales of foreign exchange products.
values-based approach to relationship management, is helping to foster a disciplined We continued to benefit from GB&Ms e-FX and constructive culture of risk management platform to deliver our standard foreign in CMB while encouraging balanced and exchange products to customers more sustainable growth.
We also addressed demand for 67 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Global businesses GB&M Global Banking and Markets Review of performance GB&M reported profit before tax of US$8.5bn, GB&M provides tailored financial 21% higher than in 2011.
On a constant solutions to major government, currency basis, profit before tax increased by corporate and institutional clients 24% despite a significant net charge relating worldwide.
to credit and debit derivative valuation adjustments.
The rise in profit before tax was driven by strong revenue growth, notably in 2012 2011 2010 Rates and Credit, together with significantly US$m US$m US$m lower credit risk provisions than in 2011, partly Net interest income.......... 6,960 7,263 7,343 offset by higher operating expenses.
GB&M is Net fee income................. 3,329 3,227 3,664 78 well positioned for growth in faster-growing Net trading income........ 5,690 5,204 5,830 Other income.................... 2,294 1,363 2,075 regions with record reported revenues in Hong 21 Kong US$2.8bn, Rest of Asia-Pacific Net operating income.. 18,273 17,057 18,912 76 US$4.0bn and Latin America US$1.8bn.
LICs 670 984 990 Net operating income.... 17,603 16,073 17,922 In the fourth quarter a net charge of US$385m was reported in net trading income as a result of Total operating expenses.. 9,907 9,722 9,228 a change in estimation methodology in respect Operating profit............. 7,696 6,351 8,694 of credit valuation adjustments on derivative 77 Income from associates... 824 698 521 assets of US$903m and debit valuation Profit before tax............. 8,520 7,049 9,215 adjustments on derivative liabilities of 66 RoRWA 2.1% 1.8% 2.5% US$518m to reflect evolving market practices see Note 15 on the Financial Statements.
Record reported revenues from Notwithstanding the charge noted above, corporate and institutional revenues rose by 10%, primarily due to debt issuance significantly higher trading revenues in Rates and Credit, notably in Europe, as spreads 77% tightened and investor sentiment improved of profit before tax following stimuli by central banks globally.
from faster-growing regions Balance Sheet Management reported higher gains on the disposal of available-for-sale debt Most Innovative securities, largely in the UK, while Payments Investment Bank of the Year and Cash Management benefited from growth in The Banker Investment Banking Awards 2012 average liability balances, increased transaction volumes and new mandates.
These increases Strategic direction were partly offset by a fall in revenues from our GB&M continues to pursue its well-established emerging Equities business due to lower client activity markets-led and financing-focused strategy, with the objective of as market volumes declined.
Revenues in 2012 being a leading international wholesale bank.
This strategy has also included adverse fair value movements evolved to include a greater emphasis on connectivity between the global businesses, across the regions and within GB&M, from own credit spreads on structured liabilities leveraging the Groups extensive distribution network.
of US$629m compared with a favourable fair We focus on four strategic imperatives: value movement of US$458m reported in 2011. reinforce client coverage and client-led solutions for major Loan impairment charges and other credit risk government, corporate and institutional clients: provisions decreased by US$300m compared continue to selectively invest in the business to support the delivery of an integrated suite of products and services: with 2011. Credit risk provisions declined enhance collaboration with other global businesses, particularly significantly, from US$515m in 2011 to CMB, to appropriately service the needs of our international US$117m in 2012, driven by lower impairment client base: and charges on Greek sovereign debt, and on focus on business re-engineering to optimise operational available-for-sale ABSs in our legacy portfolio efficiency and reduce costs.
reflecting an improvement in underlying asset prices.
This was partly offset by a US$97m For footnotes, see page 120. increase in loan impairment charges as a result The commentary is on a constant currency basis unless stated of a small number of specific impairments in otherwise.
68 Global Banking and on the legacy credit loans Global Markets delivered a strong performance and receivables portfolio.
in an uncertain financial and economic environment, in part due to a US$444m increase Operating expenses increased by US$393m to in Rates revenues.
This was despite significant US$9.9bn, predominantly due to a customer adverse fair value movements from own credit redress provision of US$331m relating to spreads on structured liabilities as spreads interest rate protection products in the UK see tightened, compared with favourable page 32.
Performance costs rose, albeit at a movements reported in 2011, together with a lower rate of growth than net operating income, credit valuation adjustment of US$837m in which resulted in a lower total compensation 2012.
Revenues in Credit increased by ratio than in 2011.
2011 also included a credit US$453m due to strong trading income, mainly of US$108m US$111m as reported relating to in Europe, as spreads tightened on corporate defined benefit pension obligations in the UK, debt securities.
Additionally, we achieved which did not recur.
record reported revenues from primary market issuance, mainly within Credit, with revenues Management view of total operating income in Europe, Hong Kong and North America 2012 2011 2010 increasing as we enhanced regional coverage US$m US$m US$m and actively captured growth in client demand 79 Global Markets........ 8,733 8,098 9,173 for debt capital financing.
1,663 1,673 1,511 increased volumes from the improvement in our Asset and Structured electronic pricing and distribution capabilities, Finance................ 626 516 454 offset the effect of less volatile markets in 2012.
Global Banking.......... 5,568 5,401 4,621 Notwithstanding the capture of higher market Financing and Equity share within a number of our target emerging Capital Markets.. 3,071 3,233 2,852 markets, Equities revenues decreased by 27%, Payments and Cash 80 Management..... 1,744 1,534 1,133 driven by lower client activity as market Other transaction volumes declined against the backdrop of 81 services............. 753 634 636 economic and fiscal uncertainty in Europe and Balance Sheet North America.
This was coupled with adverse 82 Management........ 3,738 3,488 4,102 fair value movements on structured liabilities Principal Investments 125 209 319 compared with favourable movements in 2011.
Debit valuation adjustment.............. 518 In Global Banking, Financing and Equity 83 Other 409 139 697 Capital Markets revenues were broadly Total operating unchanged compared with 2011 as lower income 18,273 17,057 18,912 advisory and underwriting fees, mainly in Europe, reflecting the challenging market Balance Sheet Management revenues included a notional tax environment, were partly offset by higher credit on income earned from tax-exempt investments of US$116m in 2012 2011: US$85m: 2010: US$50m, which is Project and Export Finance revenues, as deal offset above within Other.
volumes increased, and as we captured a higher market share of public and private sector For footnotes, see page 120. investment in infrastructure development in emerging markets.
Payments and Cash Included in the table above are the following Management revenues increased by 15% due to amounts in relation to the change in credit higher average liability balances and an increase valuation adjustment estimation methodology: in transaction volumes.
We increased our focus 2012 on cross-selling Payments and Cash US$m Management products to selected international customers and saw a rise in new mandates.
Credit 52 Rates. 837 In Other transaction services, revenues Foreign Exchange 7 increased by 24% as the Global Trade and Equities................ 7 Receivables Finance business benefited from Total.. 903 enhanced collaboration between Global Banking 69 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Global businesses GB&M relationship managers and specialist sales teams clients and develop our advisory business in and the expansion of the Commodity and Latin America.
Structured Trade Finance offering leading to We continued to develop our distinctive higher revenues in Europe and Rest of Asiageographical franchise to enhance client Pacific.
Revenues in Rest of Asia-Pacific also coverage, particularly within debt capital increased as a result of growth in export lending markets.
A number of successfully executed and improved spreads.
transactions, notably in emerging markets, Balance Sheet Management revenues rose by demonstrated the benefit of partnering between US$324m due to higher gains on the disposal regional and global product teams.
These of available-for-sale debt securities as part of partnerships facilitated the delivery of structural interest rate risk management of the innovative solutions and alternative funding balance sheet, notably in Europe.
Net interest opportunities for our clients.
As a result, HSBC income declined in Europe, however, as yield was awarded Best Global Emerging Market curves continued to flatten and liquidity from Debt House in the Euromoney Awards for maturities and sales of available-for-sale debt Excellence 2012.
Additionally, we increased our securities was re-invested at lower prevailing market share of, and maintained our leading rates.
In addition, we placed a greater portion position in, emerging markets debt issuance.
of our liquidity with central banks.
Higher net interest income was reported in Rest of AsiaEnhance core product strengths and selectively Pacific due to higher yields and portfolio growth develop new capabilities in mainland China, and in Latin America due to We continued to develop cross-product lower funding costs in Brazil as interest rates capabilities in the growing renminbi market.
Earlier in the year, we issued the first Principal Investments revenue declined by international renminbi bond outside Chinese US$76m compared with 2011 owing to higher sovereign territory.
Since then, a number of impairments, mainly on three available-for-sale significant transactions were supported by inequity securities, two of which were in our depth collaboration between regional teams, direct investment business in run-off.
This reinforcing HSBCs position as the leading was offset in part by higher realised gains on house for international renminbi issuance.
recognition of these achievements, HSBC was awarded RMB House of the Year in the 2012 Strategic imperatives Asia Risk Awards, along with Best for overall products services and Most likely RMB Reinforce client coverage and client-led solutions products services provider in the 2012 Our multinational coverage teams continued to Asiamoney Offshore RMB Services survey.
expand our offerings of cross-product solutions In Foreign Exchange, we remained focused on for our clients and delivered revenue growth, enhancing product offerings in our e-FX particularly in faster-growing regions as we platforms for a broader client base, particularly successfully executed a number of notable crossfor CMB and RBWM customers.
This included providing the launch of our Dynamic Currency financing and advisory services to clients through Conversion product within our transactional our Project and Export Financing business, which Foreign Exchange business in the UK in time resulted in HSBC being awarded Best Project for the Olympics, along with a real-time online Finance House in Asia, the Middle East and foreign currency margin trading product in Latin America in the Euromoney Awards for Hong Kong.
Our strength in foreign exchange Excellence 2012. capabilities, particularly in emerging markets, To further strengthen client coverage and product was recognised by several awards during the expertise, we invested in selective recruitment in year including Best Bank for Foreign key strategic markets.
In Rest of Asia-Pacific, we Exchange in Asia-Pacific and Best Bank for enhanced our advisory, debt capital markets and Emerging Asian currencies in the 2012 FX credit and lending businesses through a number Week Best Banks Awards.
Our innovation and of senior appointments in the Resources and achievements in the renminbi market Energy and the Financial Institutions groups.
contributed to HSBC also being awarded We also appointed a Co-Head of Global Banking Foreign Exchange House of the Year in the in Brazil to drive strategic dialogue with key 2012 Structured Products Asia Awards.
70 As a result of recent investment in our equity Collaborate with other global businesses to deliver execution platform and research capabilities in incremental revenues emerging markets, we progressed in repositioning We have worked closely with CMB to provide the business for future growth and enhanced our their clients with appropriate GB&M products ability to respond to client needs.
We are now and this has delivered nearly US$0.7bn in ranked in the top five of equities brokers in Hong incremental gross revenue since 2010.
Gross Kong, while our ranking in the Asiamoney 2012 revenues, which are shared across the two global Brokers Poll for Asian Equity Research and Sales businesses, grew by over US$0.1bn in 2012, or rose from fifth in 2011 to second in 2012. by 5%, mainly driven by sales of foreign In a challenging economic environment, our exchange products.
A number of appointments clients demand visibility and control of their during the year, including a new Head of intra-day cash positions.
To facilitate this, Commercial Banking Coverage for Asia-Pacific we expanded the Global Liquidity Solutions in Global Banking, further strengthened platform within Payments and Cash collaboration efforts and enhanced our ability Management, and it is now live in 27 countries.
to meet the financing needs of our clients.
We were also the first foreign bank to gain We continued to enhance collaboration across the approval to establish an automated, cross-border Group through the Institutional Private Clients pooling structure in mainland China.
The pilot IPC initiative with GPB and the Premier scheme, which aims to centralise foreign referrals initiative with RBWM, leading to higher currency management for multinational revenues and increased Premier account openings companies by connecting their onshore and respectively, compared with 2011.
We also offshore cash management structures, will appointed a Head of Coverage in Hong Kong to enable our clients to manage their cash positions strengthen our Global Banking franchise and more efficiently.
deliver on IPC initiatives in the region.
We are actively managing our legacy credit Strategic re-engineering to deliver sustainable exposures and exited from certain positions, cost savings including ABSs in the UK and certain structured credit positions and related hedges in the US The successful implementation of the during 2012.
We will look to reduce the size of organisational design we announced in 2011, this portfolio further as opportunities arise, and our continued resource optimisation through using the economic framework put in place in re-engineering, delivered over US$200m of 2011 see page 18. sustainable savings in 2012.
71 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Global businesses GPB Global Private Banking Review of performance Reported profit before tax of US$1.0bn was 7% GPB serves high net worth individuals higher than in 2011 on a reported basis and 8% and families with complex and higher on a constant currency basis.
On an underlying basis, which excludes the gain on the sale of our operations in Japan US$67m and associated operating results, profit before 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m tax was broadly unchanged as lower operating expenses and decreased loan impairment Net interest income.......... 1,294 1,439 1,345 Net fee income................. 1,232 1,382 1,299 charges and other credit risk provisions were Other income................... 646 471 449 largely offset by reduced revenues.
21 Net operating income.. 3,172 3,292 3,093 Revenue declined by 3%, primarily due to lower LIC charges fee income.
Brokerage fees fell, reflecting a 76 recoveries................... 27 86 12 reduction in client transaction volumes due, in Net operating income.... 3,145 3,206 3,105 part, to lower volatility.
Fees from assets under management and account service fees also Total operating expenses.. 2,143 2,266 2,035 declined as challenging market conditions in the Operating profit............. 1,002 940 1,070 latter half of 2011 led to a fall in average client Income expense from assets in 2012, coupled with a reduction in client 77 associates.................... 7 4 16 numbers as we repositioned our target client Profit before tax............. 1,009 944 1,054 base.
Net interest income was lower as higher 66 yielding positions matured, opportunities for RoRWA 4.6% 3.9% 4.1% reinvestment were limited by lower prevailing yields and we selectively managed our Significant progress towards rationalising exposures to eurozone sovereign debt.
Narrower and repositioning our business liability spreads and lower deposit balances in Switzerland and the sale of our operations in Japan also contributed to the fall in net interest income.
These factors were partly offset by Over US$70m gains on the sale of our operations in Japan and of sustainable cost savings our headquarters building in Switzerland of US$67m and US$53m, respectively.
Outstanding Private Bank Loan impairment charges and other credit risk in Asia-Pacific and in the Middle East provisions reduced by 68% as a result of the Private Banker International Awards, 2012 non-recurrence of charges relating to availablefor-sale Greek sovereign debt securities and lower individually assessed and collective Strategic direction impairments in the UK.
These factors were GPB works with high net worth clients to manage and preserve partly offset by lower recoveries in the US.
their wealth while connecting them to global opportunities.
We focus on three strategic imperatives: Operating expenses decreased by 4%, primarily implementing a new operating model to manage the business due to a managed reduction in average staff globally and better service client needs, with an enhanced systems platform and adherence to the highest risk and numbers and lower performance costs.
The compliance standards in the industry: decrease in staff costs was partly offset by intensifying collaboration within the Group, particularly with higher customer redress provisions, costs CMB, to access entrepreneur wealth creation: and relating to the merger of pension funds in capturing growth by focusing investment on the most attractive Switzerland, and increased restructuring and developed and faster-growing wealth markets, where GPB can other related costs.
access the Groups client franchise and its strong local and international product capabilities.
The commentary is on a constant currency basis unless stated otherwise.
72 84 Client assets Implementing a more focused business model that 2012 2011 better services client needs US$bn US$bn We implemented a new target operating model At 1 January 377 390 based on six global markets North Asia: Net new money 7 13 Value change.... 17 20 South East Asia: North America: Latin America: Exchange and other 11 6 Europe: and Middle East, North Africa and At 31 December...... 398 377 Turkey.
This enables us to operate as an integrated global business rather than a federation of private banks and to provide our Client assets, which include FuM and cash clients with globally consistent products and deposits, increased by US$21bn, driven by the services and improved co-ordination of inclusion of custody assets in client assets and marketing and servicing activity.
favourable market and foreign exchange movements, partly offset by negative net new We sold or closed a number of non-strategic, money and the disposal of our operations in underperforming businesses in order to Japan.
Negative net new money included a rationalise our business and focus on priority small number of large client withdrawals and markets.
Disposals included our operations in reflected lower inflows as we became more Japan, our UK property advisory business, a selective in establishing new client portfolio of non-strategic clients in Monaco, relationships, as well as the adoption of more our domestic trust business in Malaysia and a stringent compliance and tax transparency branch of our UK business in Ireland.
We also stopped marketing in certain non-strategic countries.
In addition, we Our compliance and risk framework was implemented a redefined segmentation model strengthened by the establishment of a GPB to reposition our client base towards higher net Global Standards Committee and a revised risk worth international and domestic relationships.
The implementation of This programme, along with a review of certain ongoing workstreams including tax transparency client relationships with a view to reducing and cross-border marketing will be accelerated control risk, resulted in a reduction of around in 2013.
We enhanced our global front office systems Total client assets, which also include some with the roll out of Global Vision in non-financial assets held in client trusts, Switzerland, Global Client Relationship Management in the US and Global Private increased from US$496bn at 31 December 2011 Wealth Solutions in the Channel Islands, which to US$517bn at 31 December 2012 largely due provide integrated databases to support effective to market movements partly offset by negative client management.
We will continue to roll net new money as noted above.
these systems out to other locations during Our return on assets, defined as the percentage 2013. of our revenues to our average client assets, was unchanged as the reduction in revenues Developing closer collaboration across the Group corresponded with the fall in average client We leveraged existing relationships across the assets.
Group in order to access wealth created by entrepreneurs who already bank with HSBC Strategic imperatives on the business side.
Referral flows from other 2012 was a year of transition for GPB as we global businesses generated net new money of repositioned our business model and target US$5.4bn.
To further support referrals with client base to focus investment in selected CMB, a collaboration framework was put in priority markets, enhance our compliance and place, dedicated executives appointed and risk frameworks and encourage better alignment referral targets agreed.
with the other global businesses.
We are We worked with RBWM to define and promote targeting higher net worth international and a Group-wide wealth offering.
GPB and RBWM domestic customers and have built on existing now operate a systematic process for the review product strengths and leveraged Group and referral of clients to ensure they receive the capabilities to meet their needs.
We expect service most appropriate to their needs.
this period of transition and implementation to continue throughout 2013.
73 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Global businesses GPB Other 73 The Global Priority Clients initiative was Other launched with GB&M and CMB to service Other contains the results of certain jointly the Groups largest ultra-high net worth property transactions, unallocated clients with corporate and personal needs through a dedicated single point of contact.
The investment activities, centrally held framework has been defined, clients identified investment companies, movements in for joint coverage and investment specialists fair value of own debt, central support assigned, and we have begun to roll out a new and functional costs with associated credit advisory model to fund credit recoveries, HSBCs holding company transactions.
Capturing growth in faster-growing and domestic markets We continued to focus on faster-growing 2012 2011 2010 markets, and attracted positive net new money US$m US$m US$m of US$1.9bn and US$0.5bn from clients in Asia Net interest expense........ 730 911 998 and the Middle East, respectively.
Net fee income................ 194 34 32 Net trading expense........ 537 355 311 Our product range was further developed Change in credit spread during 2012: in particular, we made progress in on long-term debt......... 4,327 4,161 258 strengthening our Alternatives platform, with Other changes in fair four new real estate club deals and two private value 1,136 78 42 Net income expense equity launches in the year raising more than from financial US$1.3bn.
74 Notes economically hedge fixed rate long-term debt, on which there were favourable movements of The reported loss before tax of US$7.0bn in US$122m in 2012 compared with adverse fair 2012 compared with reported profit before tax value movements of US$276m in 2011. of US$1.7bn in 2011.
On a constant currency basis, pre-tax loss increased by US$8.7bn.
Gains less losses from financial investments included gains of US$314m on the sale of our These results included adverse movements of non-strategic investments in four Indian banks.
US$5.2bn on the fair value of our own debt attributable to a tightening of our own credit Excluding the movements in the fair value of spreads in 2012, notably in Europe and North our own debt, Net expense from financial America, compared with favourable movements instruments designated at fair value of of US$3.9bn in 2011.
Reported results also US$248m compared with net income of included a number of gains and losses on US$293m in 2011.
This was due to adverse fair disposal see page 27.
These included a gain of value movements in 2012 from interest and US$3.0bn on the disposal of our associate, Ping exchange rate ineffectiveness in the hedging of An.
Our remaining shareholding has been long-term debt designated at fair value, issued classified as a financial investment see Note 26 principally by HSBC Holdings and its European on the Financial Statements.
In addition, we and North American subsidiaries, compared reported a gain on disposal of US$130m from with favourable fair value movements in 2011. the sale of our shareholding in a property We reported a gain of US$3.0bn on the disposal company in the Philippines.
Reported profits in of our associate, Ping An.
Our remaining 2011 included accounting gains of US$181m shareholding has been classified as a financial relating to the dilution of our shareholding in investment.
Ping An, partly offset by a remeasurement loss of US$48m relating to Ping Ans consolidation Other operating income decreased by 9%, due of Ping An Bank formerly known as Shenzhen to lower intra-group recharges from centralised Development Bank.
operational activities due to divestments and ongoing cost savings, notably in North America.
On an underlying basis, excluding the items This was partly offset by a gain of US$130m noted above, the pre-tax loss increased by from the sale of our shareholding in a property US$2.5bn, driven by higher operating expenses, company in the Philippines.
notably the charge of US$1.9bn relating to US fines and penalties paid as part of the settlement Operating expenses increased by 27% to of investigations into past inadequate US$9.4bn, primarily due to fines and penalties compliance with anti-money laundering and paid as part of the settlement of investigations sanctions laws.
In addition, revenues declined into past inadequate compliance with antidue to adverse fair value movements money laundering and sanctions laws of of US$553m on the contingent forward sale US$1.9bn, of which US$1.5bn was attributed contract relating to Ping An.
to and paid by HNAH and its subsidiaries and US$375m was paid by HSBC Holdings.
In Net fee income increased by US$166m, due addition, there were inflationary pressures in part to fees received under the transition in certain of our Latin American and Asian services agreement entered into following the markets.
However, the charge relating to the sale of the Card and Retail Services business UK bank levy declined as the current year in North America.
charge of US$571m was partly offset by an Net trading expense increased from US$353m adjustment of US$99m in the 2011 bank levy to US$537m, driven by adverse fair value charge of US$570m as the basis of calculation movements on the contingent forward sale was clarified.
Costs related to operational contract relating to Ping An.
This was partly activities also fell due to divestments and onoffset by lower adverse fair value movements on going cost savings, notably in North America.
This was driven These costs are recorded in Other and charged by non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings, to global businesses through a recharge mainly related to cross-currency swaps used to mechanism, with income reported in Other operating income.
75 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Global businesses Analysis Analysis by global business HSBC profit loss before tax and balance sheet data 2012 Retail Global Banking Banking Global Inter and Wealth Commercial and Private segment 73 85 Management Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Profit before tax Net interest income expense.... 20,298 10,361 6,960 1,294 730 511 37,672 Net fee income 7,205 4,470 3,329 1,232 194 16,430 Trading income expense excluding net interest income........ 276 617 3,588 476 549 4,408 Net interest income on trading activities 28 16 2,102 14 12 511 2,683 78 Net trading income expense.. 304 633 5,690 490 537 511 7,091 Changes in fair value of longterm debt issued and related derivatives.. 4,327 4,327 Net income expense from other financial instruments designated at fair value........... 1,893 250 1,094 1,136 2,101 Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value........... 1,893 250 1,094 5,463 2,226 Gains less losses from financial investments.............. 96 22 730 3 344 1,189 Dividend income.... 24 18 148 6 25 221 Net earned insurance premiums.
77 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Global businesses Disposals, held for sale and run-off portfolios Geographical regions Summary Disposals, held for sale and run-off portfolios to continue to affect the global businesses portfolios in the future.
The table below presents the contribution of In implementing our strategy, we have sold or these businesses and investments to the historical agreed to sell a number of businesses and results of global businesses.
We do not expect the investments across the Group.
We expect these historical results to be indicative of future results disposals to have a significant effect on both the because of disposal or run-off.
Fixed allocated costs, revenue and the profitability of the global businesses included in total operating costs, will not necessarily in the future.
In addition, significant portfolios are be removed upon disposal and have been separately being run down.
We expect the losses on these identified on page 120.
80 Economic background Europe The UK economy remained weak in 2012, with little Our principal banking operations in Europe are growth in underlying activity.
Preliminary data HSBC Bank plc in the UK, HSBC France, HSBC showed that the level of real Gross Domestic Product Bank A. S. in Turkey, HSBC Bank Malta p. l. c. GDP contracted by 0.3% in the fourth quarter, as HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA and HSBC economic activity fell back after a boost related to Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG.
Through these the Olympic Games.
Despite the lacklustre economy, subsidiaries we provide a wide range of banking, treasury and financial services to the labour market remained fairly resilient, with the personal, commercial and corporate customers unemployment rate in the three months to December across Europe.
down to 7.8% from 8.4% in the same period in 2011.
In response to the stagnating economy, the Bank of England BoE increased the size of its Asset Purchase Facility to 375bn US$606bn and 2012 2011 2010 launched a new scheme, Funding for Lending, aimed US$m US$m US$m at increasing the supply of credit.
Consumer Prices Net interest income.......... 10,394 11,001 11,250 Index CPI inflation fell during the first half of the Net fee income................. 6,169 6,236 6,371 Net trading income.......... 2,707 2,161 2,863 year but remained above the BoEs 2% target.
In the Other income expense... 1,662 4,848 2,266 fourth quarter, it rose back to 2.7%, partly due to 21 increases in tuition fees and energy prices.
Net operating income.. 17,608 24,246 22,750 76 LICs 1,921 2,512 3,020 The eurozone returned to recession in 2012 as the initial resilience in France and Germany was Net operating income.... 15,687 21,734 19,730 more than offset by deepening contractions in the Total operating expenses.
19,095 17,069 15,445 periphery, where domestic demand was dragged Operating profit loss... 3,408 4,665 4,285 down by austerity and private sector deleveraging.
Income expense from Inflation slowed from 2.7% at the end of 2011 to 77 associates.................... 6 6 17 2.2% in 2012 and the European Central Bank Profit loss before tax... 3,414 4,671 4,302 ECB cut the refinance refi rate by 0.25% to 0.75% in July.
The sovereign crisis worsened again Cost efficiency ratio........ 108.4 % 70.4% 67.9% 66 RoRWA 1.0% 1.5% 1.3% in the first half of 2012 but early signs of a roadmap for future integration of the economic and monetary Year-end staff numbers... 70,061 74,892 75,698 union, additional support for Greece and, most importantly, the ECBs commitment to supporting the euro through its Outright Monetary Transactions Strong Rates and Credit performance bond-buying programme succeeded in lowering as investor sentiment improved peripheral government bond spreads to their lowest level since March 2012. Review of performance 40% Our operations in Europe reported a pre-tax loss of reduction in RBWM US$3.4bn, compared with a profit of US$4.7bn in loan impairment charges 2011.
On a constant currency basis, pre-tax profits declined by US$8.0bn.
In 2012, there were adverse movements of US$4.1bn on our own debt designated at fair value, US$2.3bn resulting from changes in credit spreads, compared of customer redress with favourable movements of US$2.9bn in 2011. provisions in the UK On an underlying basis, pre-tax profits decreased by US$930m due to higher operating expenses reflecting a US$1.4bn increase in the provision for customer redress programmes in the UK, in particular relating to the possible mis-selling of PPI For footnotes, see page 120. and interest rate protection products.
In addition, of US$299m were incurred across Europe as a impairment charges fell due to lower credit risk result of organisational effectiveness and other provisions in GB&M, notably in the legacy credit initiatives, which delivered sustainable cost savings portfolio, and improved delinquency rates in RBWM of approximately US$770m.
in the UK as we continued to improve the quality of In RBWM, we continued to drive strong growth these portfolios with a higher proportion of secured in mortgage lending in the UK through the success lending.
of our competitive offerings and marketing We made significant progress in reshaping campaigns.
Our share of new UK mortgage lending our business in Europe.
The disposal of non-core in 2012 was 12%, up from the 10% share of new businesses simplified our European portfolio, lending in 2011, while maintaining a loan-to-value allowing us to concentrate resources on businesses ratio of 58%.
We have approved new mortgage where we can deliver sustainable profits and growth lending of 19bn US$32bn during 2012, compared while managing risks effectively.
We exited from with our original lending commitment of 15bn Hungary, Georgia, Slovakia, and RBWM in Russia US$24bn, with 5bn US$8bn approved for first and Poland, and sold Property Vision in the UK, our time buyers.
Wealth Management revenue was insurance and reinsurance businesses in Ireland and marginally lower during the year reflecting the the retail equities brokerage in Greece.
Our Wealth Management products and services were redesigned During 2012, we made progress with our in accordance with the FSAs Retail Distribution restructuring programme to align our businesses Review, which was introduced on 1 January 2013, in each country to their respective global business and we continue to offer a competitive fee-based operating models in order to reduce complexity financial advice service to Premier customers.
The and lower our costs in a sustainable way.
Total 82 expansion of the RBWM business continued in In GPB, we revised our medium-term strategic Turkey, where we are targeting mass affluent plan to focus the business on investing in priority customers.
markets with a redefined client offering that builds on product strengths and leverages Group In CMB, we continued to invest in the UK, and capabilities.
We concentrated on higher net worth have increased the number of International international and domestic customers, enhancing our Relationship Managers to over 200 during the year.
compliance and risk framework and improving In the first half of 2012, we launched an alignment with the other global businesses.
International SME fund in the UK to support UK businesses that trade, or aspire to trade, Our activities are likely to be affected by internationally.
By the end of 2012, we had approved proposed legislation in the UK arising from the lending through the fund of 5.1bn US$8.2bn, recommendations of the UK Independent exceeding the original target of 4.0bn US$6.5bn, Commission on Banking ICB to ring-fence the and provided 12bn US$20bn of gross new lending retail bank from wholesale operations and to require to UK SMEs, including the renewal of overdraft and the retail bank to have a greater primary loss other lending facilities.
Over 80% of small business absorbing capacity.
Proposed changes in regulations lending applications received during the year were are likely to affect how we conduct activities, with approved.
Revenue from international customers the potential to curtail the types of business we carry increased and our focus on this client base, together out and increase the costs of doing business.
The with targeted growth initiatives such as deposit implementation of any proposed changes will take a acquisition and regional pricing strategies, led to considerable amount of time and involve significant a rise in Payments and Cash Management and cost see page 132.
Global Trade and Receivable Finance income.
The following commentary is on a constant Revenues from CMBs collaboration with currency basis.
GB&M increased primarily from sales of foreign Net interest income decreased by 3%.
During the year, we made a Sheet Management revenues declined, principally in provision for the possible mis-selling of interest rate the UK, as yield curves continued to flatten and protection products and the sale of these products to liquidity arising from maturities and sales of customers in our Business Banking segment, which available-for-sale debt securities was re-invested at serves SMEs, was withdrawn.
In addition we placed a GB&M continued to develop cross-product greater portion of our liquidity with central banks.
capabilities in the growing renminbi market.
Early in GPB was similarly affected as higher yielding positions matured and as we managed selectively our the year, we issued the first international renminbi bond outside sovereign Chinese territory.
Since then, exposures to eurozone sovereign debt.
Legacy credit a number of significant transactions were supported revenues in the UK also fell as a result of higher by in-depth collaboration between European and interest expense on structured debt issued at the end other regional teams which reinforced our position of 2011, coupled with lower effective yields on as the leading house for international renminbi assets.
RBWM net interest income declined mainly issuance.
In Foreign Exchange, the focus remained in the UK due to lower deposit spreads reflecting on enhancing product offerings in our e-FX strong competition in the low interest rate platforms for a broader client base, particularly to environment.
This was partly offset by strong growth RBWM and CMB customers.
This included the in average residential mortgage balances and launch of a Dynamic Currency Conversion product improved lending spreads in the UK, along with within the transactional Foreign Exchange business.
higher personal lending and cards balances in To enhance coverage efforts in Global Banking, the Turkey as the business expanded.
In addition, net Corporate Finance Group was established to interest income in CMB benefited from higher strengthen the financial advisory and event financing average customer account balances as we continued business.
Payments and Cash Management won a to attract deposits through our Payments and Cash number of mandates and implemented the Global Management products as a result of competitive Liquidity Solutions platform to provide advanced pricing, while average lending balances also rose, liquidity management functionality for its clients.
In mainly in the UK, despite muted demand for credit.
addition, our legacy credit exposure was reduced in Net fee income increased by 2%.
CMB fee Europe by exiting from certain positions and the income rose due to higher transaction volumes business will reduce the size of this portfolio further reflecting new mandates in Payments and Cash as opportunities arise.
RBWM fee income also increased due 83 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions Europe to lower commissions paid as a result of the run-off Net expense from financial instruments and subsequent disposal of the insurance businesses designated at fair value increased by US$4.8bn.
These increases were partly offset by a Excluding adverse fair value movements due to the fall in brokerage fees in GPB, reflecting a reduction change in credit spreads on our own debt held at in client transaction volumes, due in part to lower fair value, net income from financial instruments market volatility.
Fees from assets under designated at fair value of US$1.9bn in 2012 management and account services also declined, as compared with a net expense of US$374m in challenging market conditions in the latter half of 2011.
This reflected favourable foreign exchange 2011 led to a fall in average client assets in 2012, movements on foreign currency debt designated coupled with a reduction in client numbers as we at fair value issued as part of our overall funding repositioned our target client base.
strategy compared with adverse movements in 2011, with an offset reported in Net trading income.
In Net trading income increased by 27%, primarily addition, net investment gains were recognised on due to significantly higher Rates trading revenues the fair value of assets held to meet liabilities under in the UK and France, and higher Credit trading insurance and investment contracts as market revenues, mainly in the UK, as spreads tightened and conditions improved, compared with net investment investor sentiment improved following stimuli by losses in 2011.
The corresponding movement in central banks.
This was despite significant adverse liabilities to customers is recorded under Net fair value movements in Rates, including a charge insurance claims incurred and movement in from own credit spreads on structured liabilities as liabilities to policyholders to the extent that spreads tightened which compared with a gain these investment gains or losses are attributable to reported in 2011, together with a charge as a result policyholders holding unit-linked insurance policies of a change in estimation methodology in respect of and insurance or investment contracts with DPF.
credit valuation adjustments on derivative assets see Note 15 on the Financial Statements.
Revenues in Gains less losses from financial investments our legacy credit portfolio increased due to price decreased by US$133m.
This was driven by higher appreciation and redemption at par of certain assets.
impairments in GB&M in the UK of available-forForeign Exchange income was also stronger due to sale equity securities due to significant write-downs higher income from GB&Ms ongoing collaboration in 2012 on three holdings, two of which were in our with CMB, and increased volumes from direct investment business in run-off.
The decline improvements in our electronic pricing and was also driven by losses on the disposal of legacy distribution capabilities, although this was partly assets, also in GB&M in the UK see page 27, offset by the effect of less volatile markets in 2012. together with the non-recurrence of gains in 2011 on the disposal of available-for-sale debt securities in In addition, trading income benefited from the change in estimation methodology for debit our Insurance business in RBWM.
These factors valuation adjustments on derivative liabilities were partly offset by higher gains on the disposal of see Note 15 on the Financial Statements.
available-for-sale debt securities in Balance Sheet Management, mainly in the UK, as part of structural There were lower adverse fair value movements interest rate risk management activities, coupled on non-qualifying hedges, driven by favourable fair with a rise in disposal gains in Principal Investments value movements on non-qualifying hedges in in GB&M.
HSBC Holdings, compared with adverse fair value movements in 2011, reflecting the less pronounced Net earned insurance premiums decreased by decline in long-term US interest rates relative to 6%.
This mainly reflected lower life insurance sales sterling and euro interest rates than in 2011.
This in RBWM in France as a result of the adverse was partly offset by higher adverse movements on economic environment and increased competition non-qualifying hedges in European operating entities from other banking products.
The run-off and as interest rates fell.
subsequent disposal of the insurance businesses in Ireland in 2012 also contributed to the decline.
This Adverse foreign exchange movements were was partly offset by a rise in net earned premiums reported on assets held as economic hedges of in the UK due, in part, to the sale of a unit-linked foreign currency debt designated at fair value insurance product through two new third party compared with favourable movements in 2011. platforms.
These offset favourable foreign exchange movements on the foreign currency debt which are Other operating income decreased by US$95m.
reported in Net expense from financial instruments GB&M incurred losses on the sale of certain designated at fair value.
syndicated loans in the UK.
In addition, gains in 84 2011 on the disposal of a property fund did not estimated redress to be paid to customers and the recur.
remainder to costs of closing out these positions and related administration costs.
A charge relating to Net insurance claims incurred and movement the US Office of Foreign Asset Control OFAC in liabilities to policyholders increased by 40%, investigation of US$375m was also incurred in driven by net investment gains on the fair value of HSBC Holdings, along with the UK bank levy of the assets held to support policyholder contracts, US$571m.
This was partly offset by an adjustment compared with net losses in 2011.
This was partly of US$99m in the 2011 bank levy charge of offset by lower reserves established for new US$570m as the basis of calculation was clarified.
In business, reflecting the decline in premiums in addition, 2011 included a credit of US$570m France.
US$587m as reported arising from the defined Loan impairment charges and other credit benefit pension obligations in the UK which did risk provisions decreased by 22% to US$1.9bn.
Restructuring costs of US$299m were GB&M reported lower credit risk provisions, mainly US$92m lower than in 2011, as the review initiated in the UK, on available-for-sale ABSs, driven by an in 2011 to improve cost efficiency continued to be improvement in underlying asset prices, as well as implemented and we completed disposals and exits lower charges on Greek sovereign debt.
coupled with a reduction in loan impairment charges Excluding these items, operating expenses in RBWM, notably in the UK, as we continued to marginally increased compared with 2011.
Our pro-actively identify and monitor customers facing organisational effectiveness initiatives progressed, financial hardship and focused on growing higher delivering sustainable cost savings of approximately quality lending.
As a result, delinquency rates US$770m in 2012.
This enabled us to reinvest in, improved across both the secured and unsecured and reallocate capital, to our designated growth lending portfolios.
This was partly offset by an businesses such as our mortgage offering, our increase in loan impairment charges in RBWM in international CMB business and our home and Turkey, reflecting business expansion.
In addition, priority growth markets UK, France, Germany there were higher individually assessed provisions in and Turkey, as well as launching the M&S Bank in CMB reflecting, mainly, the challenging economic the UK.
conditions in the UK, Greece, Spain and Turkey.
Operating expenses increased by 15%, driven Operating expenses in Europe by higher charges relating to UK customer redress 2012 2011 programmes with US$2.3bn reported in 2012, US$m US$m compared with a charge of US$890m US$898m as HSBC Holdings.................... 2,063 1,664 reported in 2011.
In 2012 we included an additional UK 11,993 9,989 charge of US$1.7bn for estimated redress for the Continental Europe............... 5,237 5,563 possible mis-selling of PPI policies and US$598m in Intra-region eliminations...... 198 147 relation to the possible mis-selling of interest rate Total operating expenses...... 19,095 17,069 protection products in previous years, of which US$268m related to the 85 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions Europe Profit loss before tax and balance sheet data Europe 2012 Retail Global Banking Banking Global Interand Wealth Commercial and Private segment 85 Management Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Profit before tax Net interest income expense.... 5,437 3,228 1,409 820 543 43 10,394 Net fee income 2,622 1,658 1,032 848 9 6,169 Trading income excluding net interest income 67 26 848 216 25 1,182 Net interest income on trading activities...... 7 14 1,500 14 33 43 1,525 78 Net trading income................... 74 40 2,348 230 58 43 2,707 Changes in fair value of longterm debt issued and related derivatives.. 3,091 3,091 Net income expense from other financial instruments designated at fair value........... 770 139 1,073 1,106 876 Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value........... 770 139 1,073 4,197 2,215 Gains less losses from financial investments.............. 5 1 375 3 2 364 Dividend income.. 1 104 3 3 111 Net earned insurance premiums.
87 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions Hong Kong Economic background Hong Kong The Hong Kong economy started 2012 on a strong HSBCs principal banking subsidiaries in Hong footing, but lost momentum in the second quarter as Kong are The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking global trade flows slowed and the mainland Chinese Corporation Limited and Hang Seng Bank economy cooled, causing GDP to contract slightly.
The former is the largest bank Domestic demand stayed resilient, however, incorporated in Hong Kong and is our flagship supported by continued wage growth, and firm job bank in the Asia-Pacific region.
It is one of Hong Kongs three note-issuing banks, accounting for market conditions and asset prices.
This underpinned more than 60% by value of banknotes in investment and private consumption growth, leading circulation in 2012. the economy back into expansion in the third quarter 0.6%, quarter-on-quarter, seasonally adjusted.
Slower economic momentum and deflationary pressures in mainland China allowed the pressure on Hong Kongs asset prices to ease through most of 2012 2011 2010 2012, resulting in reduced CPI inflation of 4.1%, US$m US$m US$m compared with 5.3% in 2011.
Net operating income.... 12,348 10,526 10,088 Total operating expenses.
4,848 4,758 4,431 Reported profits included gains on the sale of our shares in Global Payments Asia-Pacific Ltd Operating profit............. 7,500 5,768 5,657 77 of US$212m and the HSBC and Hang Seng Bank Income from associates.
82 55 35 general insurance businesses of US$117m and Profit before tax............. 7,582 5,823 5,692 US$46m, respectively.
Excluding these gains and Cost efficiency ratio........ 39.0 44.5% 43.4% associated operating results, underlying profit of 66 RoRWA 7.0% 5.3% 5.0% US$7.2bn increased by 24%, driven by higher Year-end staff numbers... 27,742 28,984 29,171 net interest income in CMB and RBWM, the gain of US$314m on the sale of non-strategic investments in India, higher trading revenues in GB&M, increased fee income in both CMB and GB&M, and a 24% reduction in loan impairment charges.
These growth in underlying profit before tax favourable movements were partly offset by higher operating expenses.
In RBWM, we continue to develop our Wealth Management services for our retail customers and Market leader in offshore renminbi bond launched new investment funds, including the issuance Global High Yield Bond Fund which attracted over US$1bn of subscriptions by the end of the year.
The sale of the general insurance businesses enabled us to focus on life insurance manufacturing, where we Best Commercial Bank 2012 maintained our market leadership position.
We also FinanceAsia led the market in deposits, mortgages, mandatory provident funds and credit cards.
We maintained our prudent lending approach with average loan-to-value ratios of 48% on new mortgage drawdowns and an estimated 32% on the portfolio as a whole.
We now offer renminbi current accounts for non-residents For footnotes, see page 120. and launched the first mobile payment solution in the region, enabling contactless credit card transactions through Visa payWave terminals.
In addition, deposit connectivity and our standing as a leading trade spreads widened.
finance bank to grow trade-related revenues by 10%, Net fee income of US$3.3bn was 7% higher than particularly with mainland China.
Fees rose from increased transaction between CMB and GB&M continued to strengthen, volumes in trade services, remittances and account with revenue growth of 13%, most notably from the services as we continued to intermediate provision of foreign exchange products to our international trade and capital flows.
We won the FinanceAsia also increased in both CMB and GB&M as we award for Best Commercial Bank 2012 and ten arranged more debt issues for our customers to Asiamoney awards for Payments and Cash satisfy their funding requirements while the market Management, including the Best Local Cash for corporate debt improved.
In RBWM, fees from Management Bank for small, medium and large unit trusts rose reflecting increased sales volumes, corporates.
despite customers increasingly preferring lower In GB&M, we led the market in Hong Kong risk products with lower fees.
These increases were dollar bond issuance and were the leading largely offset by a reduction in brokerage income bookrunner for corporate high yield bonds in Asia from lower market turnover as a result of weaker excluding Japan.
We continued to lead the market in investor sentiment.
offshore renminbi bond issuance with several highNet trading income increased by 23% from profile deals completed in 2012 for multinationals lower adverse fair value movements on derivatives accessing the market.
relating to certain provident funds, following We also reinforced our position as a leading reductions in long-term investment returns in 2011. international bank for offshore renminbi products, There was also a strong performance in GB&M, winning the Asia Risk Renminbi House of the Year notably in Rates trading activities, which reflected award and all seven product categories in increased client demand for risk management Asiamoneys Offshore Renminbi Survey.
products, particularly in yen and renminbi, in part from increased cross-currency debt issuance by The following commentary is on a constant corporates.
Credit trading revenues also rose, in currency basis.
part due to increased client activity.
This was Net interest income was 13% higher than partly offset by a net charge as a result of a change in in 2011, notably in CMB and RBWM, driven by estimation methodology in respect of the valuation increased customer loans and deposit balances and adjustments on derivatives.
by growth in the insurance portfolio.
Net income from financial instruments In RBWM, we continued to grow our average designated at fair value was US$447m compared mortgage balances, reflecting continued strength in with an expense of US$540m in 2011, due to net the property market.
In CMB, average term and investment gains on assets held by the Insurance trade-related lending balances were higher as we business compared with net losses in 2011 as a capitalised on trade and capital flows.
result of more favourable equity market conditions.
To the extent that these investment gains were Asset spreads in CMB were marginally wider attributed to policyholders of unit-linked insurance than in 2011 on trade-related and other lending due policies and insurance contracts with DPF, there was to repricing, though they began to narrow towards a corresponding increase in Net insurance claims the end of the year.
incurred and movement in liabilities to Net interest income also rose due to higher policyholders.
average deposit balances, notably in RBWM, in part reflecting reduced net outflows from customer 89 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions Hong Kong Gains less losses from financial investments by net investment gains on fair value of the assets were US$322m compared with US$25m in 2011, held to support policyholder contracts, compared largely from the gain of US$314m on the sale of our with net losses in 2011.
In addition, policyholder shares in four non-strategic investments in India.
liabilities were established for new business, reflecting the higher premiums, though this was Net earned insurance premiums grew by 17% partly offset by the disposal of the insurance following increased new sales and renewals of life businesses in 2012. insurance products.
The growth in premiums resulted in a corresponding increase in Net Loan impairment charges and other credit risk insurance claims incurred and movement in provisions reduced to US$74m from US$157m liabilities to policyholders.
in 2011, largely due to lower specific impairment charges in CMB and the non-recurrence of charges Other operating income of US$1.9bn was relating to available-for-sale Greek sovereign debt US$235m higher than in 2011.
sale of our shares in Global Payments Asia-Pacific Ltd and the HSBC and Hang Seng Bank general Operating expenses increased by 2%, primarily insurance businesses, realising gains of US$212m, due to higher systems implementation and US$117m and US$46m, respectively.
While the processing costs as we continued to invest in our value of the PVIF asset rose, this was not to the same technology infrastructure, and increased property extent as in 2011 as increased insurance sales in rental costs.
Salaries and wages were broadly 2012 were more than offset by lower positive unchanged as wage inflation was largely offset by assumption updates during 2012 compared with reduced average staff numbers as we continued to 2011and the non-recurrence of the benefit from the improve efficiency across our operations, generating refinement to the PVIF asset calculation in 2011. sustainable annual savings of approximately US$190m.
Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders increased by 38%, driven 90 Profit loss before tax and balance sheet data Hong Kong 2012 Retail Global Banking Banking Global Interand Wealth Commercial and Private segment 85 Management Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Profit loss before tax Net interest income expense.... 2,851 1,629 1,087 149 482 82 5,316 Net fee income 1,769 850 548 155 13 3,335 Trading income expense excluding net interest income........ 176 163 666 170 2 1,173 Net interest income on trading activities 10 2 352 8 82 290 78 Net trading income................... 186 165 1,018 170 6 82 1,463 Changes in fair value of longterm debt issued and related derivatives.. Net income expense from other financial instruments designated at fair value........... 511 53 23 34 447 Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value........... 511 53 23 34 447 Gains less losses from financial investments.............. 2 7 313 322 Dividend income.... 1 5 18 24 Net earned insurance premiums.
92 Economic background Rest of Asia-Pacific In mainland China, economic growth slowed We offer a full range of banking and financial through the first three quarters of 2012 due to a services in mainland China, mainly through our decline in external demand driven by the eurozone local subsidiary, HSBC Bank China Company crisis, the effect of tightening domestic monetary Limited.
We also participate indirectly in policy measures and sharp fide-stocking by industry.
mainland China through our primary associate, This greater than expected deceleration and Bank of Communications.
increasing pressure on the labour market prompted Outside mainland China, we conduct policy makers to ease monetary policy in the business in 21 countries and territories in the summer of 2012, following two interest rate Rest of Asia-Pacific region, primarily through cuts totalling 50bps and two cuts in the reserve branches and subsidiaries of The Hongkong requirement ratio amounting to 100bps in the and Shanghai Banking Corporation, with first half of the year, and speeded up the approval of particularly strong coverage in Australia, India, new infrastructure projects.
As these measures took Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore.
effect, the mainland Chinese economy began to show signs of recovery in the fourth quarter of 2012.
CPI US$m US$m US$m inflation was a modest 2.6%.
Net trading income........... 1,053 1,658 1,618 After a very strong start supported by reconstruction Other income.................... 5,057 1,842 1,854 demand and government subsidies, growth turned 21 Net operating income... 13,584 10,713 9,232 sharply negative in the third quarter as tepid overseas 76 demand prompted a deep slump in exports and LICs 436 267 439 manufacturing.
Sentiment improved by the end of Net operating income..... 13,148 10,446 8,793 2012.
The Bank of Japan took steps to ease monetary Total operating expenses.. 5,806 5,806 5,143 policy in 2012, establishing a 1% inflation goal in Operating profit.............. 7,342 4,640 3,650 February 2012 and expanding its Asset Purchase 77 Programme by JPY46 trillion US$534bn.
Income from associates.. 3,106 2,831 2,252 Profit before tax.............. 10,448 7,471 5,902 Slowing global trade reduced growth in the Rest of Asia-Pacific region.
South Koreas full-year Cost efficiency ratio......... 42.7 % 54.2% 55.7% 66 RoRWA 3.5% 3.1% 3.1% growth slowed to 2.1% in 2012, the lowest annual rate for three years, as the slowdown in global trade Year-end staff numbers.... 85,024 91,051 91,607 hit the export-dependent economy hard in the third quarter.
To support domestic demand, the Bank of Korea lowered its policy rate from 3.25% to 2.75%.
Over US$3bn Singapores economy slowed notably, with GDP gains recognised following growth declining to 1.2% in 2012 from 5% the year strategic disposals in 2012 before.
2012 was a tumultuous year for Taiwans export-reliant economy, as both western and mainland China demand weakened, particularly from April onwards.
However, the impetus provided by 9% key electronic product launches helped to maintain growth in lending balances manufacturing activity and jobs, enabling domestic on a constant currency basis demand to underpin growth more effectively than it did in earlier recessions.
The other ASEAN Association of Southeast Asian Nations countries Best Domestic Cash Management Bank demonstrated more resilience, supported by domestic Euromoney growth.
Growth in Indonesia was driven by across 14 countries in the region favourable demographics and a growing middleincome class.
In Thailand, rebuilding activity and policy support after the floods in 2011 led to a rebound in economic activity.
Growth in India continued to slow during the course of 2012, with For footnotes, see page 120.
In response to monetary policy normalisation and the absence in the global slowdown and to help re-balance growth recent years of structural policies and infrastructure away from mining and towards the non-mining investment playing a role in the slowdown.
sectors, the Reserve Bank of Australia reduced its Encouragingly, the government embarked on a cash rate from 4.25% to 3.00%.
reform programme towards the end of the year which helped lift sentiment and stabilise growth.
Review of performance Growth in the Australian economy was uneven Our operations in the Rest of Asia-Pacific region in 2012 as it absorbed a mining boom which had the reported pre-tax profits of US$10.4bn compared effect of slowing investment in other sectors.
For with US$7.5bn in 2011, an increase of 40% or 2012 as a whole, growth was strong at around 3.5%.
94 Reported profits included a gain on the disposal the continued strength of the property market and the of our associate, Ping An of US$3.0bn.
Our expansion of our distribution network.
remaining shareholding has been classified as a In CMB, trade revenues grew as we capitalised financial investment see Note 26 on the Financial on our global network to capture cross-border trade Statements.
Reported profits also included gains and capital flows, particularly with mainland China.
from the sale of the RBWM business in Thailand We continued to strengthen our infrastructure to US$108m, the GPB business in Japan US$67m capture the outbound opportunities from mainland and our interest in a property company in the China and now have 14 China desks established Philippines US$130m.
Reported profits in 2011 globally to assist customers with their international included an accounting gain of US$181m arising trade requirements.
Significant new mandates in from the dilution of our shareholding in Ping An, 2012 in CMB and GB&M reflected investment in offset by a remeasurement loss of US$48m on its our Payments and Cash Management infrastructure.
consolidation of Ping An Bank formerly Shenzhen We were recognised as Best Domestic Cash Development Bank.
Management Bank by Euromoney in fourteen On an underlying basis, which excludes the countries across the region, Best Overall Cash items described above and the associated operating Management Bank in Asia by Global Finance and results, pre-tax profit rose by 2%.
This was driven Best International Trade Bank in China by Trade by higher net interest income, notably from Balance Finance Magazine.
Sheet Management in GB&M in mainland China, In GB&M, we continued to be a key participant and strong growth in average lending balances in the internationalisation of the renminbi and across most of the region, as well as increased profits enhanced our Payments and Cash Management from our associates in mainland China.
These factors systems with renminbi capabilities.
We continued to were partly offset by adverse fair value movements build our debt and equity capital markets capabilities of US$553m on the contingent forward sale contract in key countries in the region and were involved in related to the Ping An sale, the effect of which was several significant government and large corporate offset in 2013 on completion of the transaction, issues in Australia, Singapore, India and Indonesia.
and higher operating expenses, in part due to Revenues from the collaboration between CMB restructuring costs arising from the ongoing strategic and GB&M increased by 13% as we enhanced sales review of our businesses and support functions in coordination between the global businesses.
Loan impairment charges also rose from a small number of specific corporate impairment The following commentary is on a constant charges, but remained low as credit quality remained currency basis.
Net interest income increased by 8%, notably in We maintained our focus on our key priority mainland China from Balance Sheet Management, growth markets in the region.
In mainland China, arising from growth in the debt securities portfolio we continued to invest in our branch network and and improved yields, as well as from increased at the end of the year had 141 HSBC China outlets, trade-related and term lending in CMB and GB&M.
20 HSBC rural bank outlets and 46 Hang Seng We grew average deposit balances, notably in Bank outlets.
We invested a further US$1.7bn in GB&M and CMB reflecting new Payments and Cash BoCom to maintain our interest of 19.03% in this Management mandates, and in RBWM from deposit strategically important associate and reinforce our acquisition.
The benefit of this growth was partly position as the leading foreign bank in mainland offset by narrower liability spreads reflecting rate China.
cuts and liquidity easing measures by central banks.
In Malaysia, we now have the largest branch In RBWM, residential mortgage balances grew, network amongst foreign banks and were designated primarily in Singapore, Australia, Malaysia and Best Bank for the 10th consecutive year by the mainland China, reflecting the continued strength of Asset Triple A Country Awards.
property markets and expansion of our distribution In RBWM, we made progress in re-shaping the network.
However, net interest income was broadly business in line with our strategy, completing the unchanged due to the effect of the sale of the disposal of the non-strategic business in Thailand RBWM business in Thailand and narrower asset and announcing the sale of our life insurance spreads in a number of countries attributable to business in Taiwan.
With our focus on secured competitive pricing pressures.
lending, we recorded mortgage growth in mainland Net fee income increased by US$29m, primarily China, Singapore, Australia and Malaysia, reflecting in GB&M, from higher fee income from our 95 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions Rest of Asia-Pacific participation in more debt capital markets Other operating income increased by US$201m transactions across the region as we continued to due to gains on the sale of our RBWM business in strengthen our capabilities in this area, and lower Thailand of US$108m, our GPB business in Japan of regulatory fee expenses on Foreign Exchange and US$67m and our interest in a property company in Rates transactions in mainland China as volumes the Philippines of US$130m.
RBWM reported higher income from cards offset by the non-recurrence of an accounting gain in Australia from increased spending and card of US$181m arising from the dilution of our issuance and Wealth Management fees in mainland shareholding in Ping An in 2011.
The increase from cards was more than offset Net insurance claims incurred and movement in by the discontinuation of our Premier business in liabilities to policyholders increased by 22%, driven Japan, the sale of our RBWM business in Thailand, by net investment gains on the fair value of the and a fall in fund management fees as we saw a assets held to support the policyholder contracts move into lower yielding products reflecting compared with net losses in 2011.
In addition, investors lower risk appetite.
policyholder liabilities were established for new Net trading income decreased by 34% compared business, reflecting the rise in premiums across with 2011, mainly from adverse fair value mainland China, Singapore and Taiwan.
movements on the contingent forward sale contract Loan impairment charges and other credit risk of US$553m relating to Ping An see Note 2b on provisions increased by US$170m as a result of the Financial Statements.
Trading income was also individually assessed impairments on a single lower, primarily in mainland China due to lower corporate exposure in Australia and a small number GB&M revenues in Foreign Exchange reflecting of corporate exposures in other countries in the reduced volatility.
These were partly offset by a region as well as a credit risk provision on an net favourable movement as a result of a change in available-for-sale debt security in GB&M.
These estimation methodology in respect of the valuation were partly offset by an impairment release in adjustments on derivatives.
Singapore compared with a charge in 2011.
Net income from financial instruments designated Operating expenses increased by 3%, due to at fair value was US$110m in 2012 compared with a restructuring and other related costs of US$131m net expense of US$19m in 2011.
This was driven by 2011: US$45m incurred across several countries net investment gains on assets held by the Insurance as part of the ongoing strategic review of our business, primarily in Singapore, due to positive businesses and support functions in the region.
To the extent that these This resulted in a net reduction of approximately investment gains were attributed to policyholders of 6,000 FTE staff numbers and generated sustainable unit-linked insurance policies and insurance contracts annual savings of approximately US$200m, which with DPF, there was a corresponding increase in Net were more than offset by inflationary pressures and insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities investment for business growth, including branch to policyholders.
Costs also increased Gains less losses from financial investments from a litigation provision of US$98m made in were US$16m compared with net losses of US$23m respect of a long-standing court case and the write in 2011, due to a disposal gain on investments down by US$51m of our interest in a joint venture.
managed by a private equity fund and a gain on the Share of profit from associates and joint ventures sale of government debt securities in India.
increased by US$212m, driven by higher profits from Net earned insurance premiums rose by 7% BoCom and Industrial Bank which reflected loan to US$812m as a result of increased renewals and growth and higher fee income, partly offset by new business volumes in mainland China, Singapore increased operating expenses and loan impairment and Taiwan.
The growth in premiums resulted in a charges.
The contribution from Ping An reduced due corresponding increase in Net insurance claims to market valuation losses on equity securities held incurred and movement in liabilities to by their insurance business, which reflected volatile policyholders.
domestic equity markets, partly offset by increased income from the banking business, Ping An Bank.
We reported a Gain on disposal of Ping An, an The disposal of Ping An and the dilution of our associate of Mainland China, of US$3.0bn.
Our holding in Industrial Bank, following its issue of remaining shareholding has been classified as a additional share capital to third parties on 7 January financial investment.
2013, are expected to have a significant impact on future profits in the region.
96 Profit before tax and balance sheet data Rest of Asia-Pacific 2012 Retail Global Banking Banking Global Interand Wealth Commercial and Private segment 85 Management Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Profit before tax Net interest income 1,787 1,396 2,156 102 137 187 5,391 Net fee income expense........... 854 499 666 71 7 2,083 Trading income expense excluding net interest income.
96 188 1,002 67 592 761 Net interest income expense on trading activities................ 6 3 100 14 187 292 78 Net trading income expense.. 90 185 1,102 67 578 187 1,053 Changes in fair value of longterm debt issued and related derivatives 4 4 Net income expense from other financial instruments designated at fair value........... 109 1 3 3 110 Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value........... 109 1 3 1 106 Gains less losses from financial investments.............. 1 2 10 25 16 Dividend income 1 4 5 Net earned insurance premiums.
94 156 1,153 66 90 1,379 Net interest income expense on trading activities................ 2 1 76 11 193 279 78 Net trading income expense.. 92 157 1,229 66 79 193 1,658 Changes in fair value of longterm debt issued and related derivatives 4 4 Net income expense from other financial instruments designated at fair value........... 38 2 1 15 20 Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value........... 38 2 1 19 16 Gains less losses from financial investments.............. 2 25 1 1 23 Dividend income 2 2 Net earned insurance premiums.
98 Economic background Middle East and North Africa Real GDP in the Middle East and North Africa The network of branches of HSBC Bank Middle region grew by an estimated 4.5% in 2012.
East Limited, together with HSBCs subsidiaries However, this weighted aggregate figure masked a and associates, gives us the widest coverage in wide disparity between oil producers 5.1% and the region.
Our associate in Saudi Arabia, The non-oil producers 2.9%.
For the Gulf Cooperation Saudi British Bank 40% owned, is the Councils top performers, energy output volumes Kingdoms sixth largest bank by total assets.
remained high and revenues rose, fuelling government spending-driven domestic demand which fed through to a stronger non-oil private 2012 2011 2010 sector performance, job creation and a recovery in US$m US$m US$m bank lending.
Saudi Arabia which recorded growth Net interest income.......... 1,470 1,432 1,367 of nearly 7% in 2012, Qatar 6% and Oman 5% Net fee income................. 595 627 677 fell into this category.
In the UAE, more muted Net trading income.......... 390 482 370 fiscal and monetary stimuli meant overall growth Other income................... 25 66 4 was slower, but Dubais export-oriented service 21 Net operating income.. 2,430 2,607 2,410 sector recorded a good recovery in 2012, and Abu 76 LICs 286 293 627 Dhabi picked up in the second half of the year.
Despite the strong growth, inflation remained low Net operating income.... 2,144 2,314 1,783 across the Gulf region.
Total operating expenses.. 1,166 1,159 1,078 In Egypt, growth remained weak, held back by Operating profit............. 978 1,155 705 ongoing political uncertainty which continued to 77 Income from associates.
372 337 187 weigh on domestic and foreign investment and Profit before tax............. 1,350 1,492 892 consumption.
Pressure on public finances and Cost efficiency ratio........ 48.0% 44.5% 44.7% Egypts external accounts remained pronounced, 66 RoRWA 2.2% 2.6% 1.6% with the Egyptian pound weakening significantly.
Elsewhere in the oil importing parts of the region, Year-end staff numbers... 8,765 8,373 8,676 the pressures were not as great, but in Lebanon, Jordan, Morocco and Tunisia, growth fell and their Completed two acquisitions and external balances deteriorated, with the latter three, made progress on the following a significant worsening of public finances, Groups six filters approaching the International Monetary Fund for assistance by the end of the year.
Review of performance Approximately Our operations in the Middle East and North Africa US$70m reported a profit before tax of US$1.4bn, a decrease sustainable cost savings from our of 10% compared with 2011.
On a constant currency organisational effectiveness programmes basis, pre-tax profits decreased by 9%.
Our reported results in 2012 included an investment loss on a subsidiary of US$85m and 4th 5th adverse movements of US$12m on our own debt consecutive year: consecutive year: designated at fair value resulting from tightening Best Regional Cash Best Trade Finance credit spreads, partly offset by gains recognised on Management Provider Bank in the Middle acquisitions totalling US$21m.
Reported profits in the Middle East East and North Africa in 2011 included a dilution gain of US$27m on our Euromoney Global Trade Review 2012 holding in HSBC Saudi Arabia Ltd following its merger with SABB Securities Ltd and a loss of US$7m relating to the disposal of our Private Equity business.
On an underlying basis, excluding the items noted above, profit before tax decreased by 3% as a result of a small number of significant impairments on GB&M exposures.
We also achieved growth in disposing of non-strategic businesses and continuing profits from our associates, mainly The Saudi British to improve our organisational efficiency while Bank, which won the Euromoney award for investing in strategic acquisitions.
excellence as The Best Bank in Saudi Arabia and The Best Debt House in Saudi Arabia.
Although We made significant progress in integrating profit before tax declined in the UAE as a result of our operations in Oman with OIB following the the impairments in GB&M noted above, it remains a merger in June 2012.
The combined entity, HSBC priority market for HSBC and the economy Bank Oman S. A. O. G. of which we own 51%, is continued to improve in 2012. now the third largest bank in the Sultanate.
We also completed the acquisition of the onshore retail and Delivery of sustainable cost savings remained commercial banking business of Lloyds Banking a priority for 2012.
Our organisational effectiveness Group in the UAE in the fourth quarter of 2012. initiatives included streamlining procedures by Lloyds strong presence in expatriate retail banking delayering our management structure and and commercial banking was a good strategic fit transferring additional operational processes to with our position as the leading international bank in our global service centres.
We realised about the UAE.
We also completed the disposal of 80.1% US$70m in sustainable savings from our of our Private Equity business in December.
announced in September our agreement to sell our In RBWM, we remained focused on growing operations in Pakistan and, in October, the Wealth Management revenues.
We entered into a restructuring of our Amanah business in the region strategic alliance with Zurich Life International outside Saudi Arabia.
Zurich in 2012 to provide wealth and general We remained focused on our priority markets, insurance products to our customers in the region.
delivering profit growth in Egypt and Saudi Arabia.
Our focus on foreign exchange resulted in increased The strong performance in Egypt was driven by transaction volumes, which provided us with higher 100 Wealth Management revenues for 2012.
In addition, utilisation, partly offset by higher insurance revenues we enhanced our internet banking capabilities in the as a result of the strategic alliance with Zurich.
The UAE to provide improved security and rolled out our decline in fees was also attributable to our exit from digital solution for mobile banking in the region to domestic private banking in the UAE.
These factors allow customers greater accessibility.
were partly offset by higher trade import fees in CMB in Algeria, Oman and Jordan driven by higher In CMB, we continued to support internationally volumes from targeted sales activity.
This was evidenced by the launch of our third SME fund in the UAE of AED1bn Net trading income decreased by 18%, mainly US$272m, targeted at international trade due to unfavourable credit valuation adjustments on customers.
We continued to invest in the Global trading positions relating to a small number of Trade and Receivables Finance client service and exposures in GB&M.
We also reported adverse fair business development teams, and enhanced our value movements on certain economic hedges as well Receivables Finance products across the region.
We as on structured liabilities as credit spreads tightened.
endeavoured to strengthen this position by holding This was partly offset by higher revaluation gains on mainland China and Turkey events to focus on these equity holdings in Principal Investments.
Gains less losses from financial investments Our Payments and Cash Management business increased by US$17m, driven by the non-recurrence continued to record strong revenue growth, and was of impairments on two available-for-sale equity named The Best Cash Management House in the securities in 2011, together with gains on the disposal Middle East 2012 in the Euromoney awards for of available-for-sale equity and debt securities in excellence for the fourth consecutive year.
In GB&M, we continued to focus on SouthOther operating income decreased by US$89m, South connectivity.
We leveraged our global driven by the US$85m investment loss on a expertise to provide access to Asian investors for subsidiary.
issuers in the region with funding requirements with Loan impairment charges and other credit our dedicated coverage teams on our mainland China, risk provisions decreased by US$6m.
Lower South Korea and India desks in the UAE and Saudi impairments in RBWM attributable to an Arabia.
We also completed a significant number improvement in delinquency rates reflected the of bond issuances, reflecting the continuing investor repositioning of the book towards higher quality appetite for the regions debt.
We won several lending in previous years.
In addition, CMB recorded Euromoney awards for excellence including The Best a modest reduction in loan impairment charges as Debt House in the Middle East and The Best Flow higher customer recoveries were largely offset by House in the Middle East.
GB&M also won Global individually assessed impairments.
These were partly Investors The Best Domestic Custodian.
offset by significant loan impairment charges recorded The following commentary is on a constant for a small number of large exposures in GB&M.
Operating expenses increased by 1% as a result Net interest income rose by 3%, driven by higher of employee and legal costs relating to the merger of average deposit balances in RBWM, primarily savings our Omani operations with OIB and the acquisition of accounts in Egypt, reflecting the competitive pricing the onshore retail and commercial banking business of introduced at the beginning of the year.
Despite this, Lloyds Banking Group in the UAE.
This was partially we benefited from wider spreads as interest rates rose offset by the benefit arising from sustainable cost in Egypt.
Net interest income in CMB was in line with saving initiatives implemented in 2011 and throughout 2011 as higher income resulting from the merger with 2012.
Excluding the effect of the two acquisitions, we OIB was offset by competitive asset pricing across reduced both our employee numbers and our cost most of the region.
Net fee income decreased by 4% due to a decline Share of profits from associates and joint in credit and lending, Securities Services and ventures increased by 10%, mainly from The Saudi advisory fees in GB&M, which were affected by British Bank.
This was driven by higher revenue lower levels of deal activity and the challenging resulting from strong balance sheet growth, together political and economic environment.
Fees also with lower costs derived from effective control and declined in RBWM due to higher reward scheme monitoring.
103 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions North America Economic background North America In the US, real GDP expanded by 2.2% in 2012, Our North American businesses are located in following 1.8% growth in 2011.
Consumer spending the US, Canada and Bermuda.
Operations in increased at a moderate pace as households the US are primarily conducted through HSBC continued to pay down debt and rebuild wealth.
Bank USA, N. A. and HSBC Finance, a national The housing market improved in 2012.
HSBC Markets investment rose by 11.9%, climbing from a multiUSA Inc. is the intermediate holding company of, inter alia, HSBC Securities USA Inc. HSBC decade low in 2011.
Sales of new and existing Bank Canada and HSBC Bank Bermuda operate homes also increased, and house prices rose in their respective countries.
The growth in fixed investment by business faltered in the middle of 2012, evidenced by a slowdown in capital equipment orders, but began to recover towards the end of the 2012 2011 2010 year.
Export growth slowed to 3.2% in 2012, about US$m US$m US$m half the growth recorded in 2011.
Fiscal consolidation Net interest income.......... 8,117 11,480 12,439 continued to hold back the economy.
Budgetary caps Net fee income................. 2,513 3,308 3,664 Net trading income on spending contributed to a 2.2% decline in federal expense 507 362 314 government expenditure in 2012, in real terms.
State Gains on disposals of US and local government expenditure also continued to branch network and contract, though the severity of the cutbacks cards business................ 4,012 diminished compared with 2011.
Other income expense... 456 1,574 630 21 Net operating income.. 14,693 16,000 17,047 Inflation was generally subdued in 2012.
High unemployment and low Net operating income.... 11,236 8,984 8,752 wage growth continued to hold back labour costs.
8,940 8,919 8,322 In addition, prices for goods imported into the US Operating profit............. 2,296 65 430 experienced very little inflation in 2012.
The Federal 77 Reserve continued to pursue a highly supportive Income from associates.. 3 35 24 monetary policy.
At meetings in January, September, Profit before tax............. 2,299 100 454 and December, the Federal Open Market Committee Cost efficiency ratio........ 60.8 % 55.7% 48.8% adjusted its forward guidance for an exceptionally 66 RoRWA 0.8% 0.1% low federal funds rate and agreed on open-ended Year-end staff numbers... 22,443 30,981 33,865 purchases of longer-term securities in an effort to maintain downward pressure on interest rates, support mortgage markets and help make broader Gross balances in the CML portfolio, financial conditions more accommodating.
including loans held for sale, down by US$6.8bn In Canada, GDP growth slowed in 2012 to 2.0% to US$43bn from 2.6% in 2011.
The slowdown in economic activity was particularly notable in the second half of the year.
One factor contributing to the slowdown, US$3.6bn which took effect in July 2012, was the introduction reduction in loan impairment charges, of measures by the federal government to cool the including US$1.3bn relating to housing market by tightening mortgage lending Card and Retail Services conditions.
House prices, home sales and housing starts declined after those initiatives came into force.
In addition, exports fell sharply with the deceleration Record reported pre-tax profit of in global manufacturing activity and global trade, and US$1.1bn temporary disruptions in energy production in from our Canadian operations Eastern Canada and capacity constraints on Western Canada pipelines.
continued to run off, lower delinquency levels, and Headline CPI inflation fell steadily through the year higher revenue mainly driven by lower adverse to 1.5%, from 2.9% in 2011.
Though the Bank of movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Canada slightly tightened monetary policy early in Finance.
This was partly offset by higher operating 2012, the economic slowdown and the decline in the expenses due to fines and penalties paid of rate of CPI inflation led the Bank to leave rates on US$1.5bn by HNAH and its subsidiaries as part hold throughout the year.
of the settlement of investigations into inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering laws in the Review of performance past.
Our operations in North America reported a profit Underlying profit before tax in Canada rose, before tax of US$2.3bn in 2012, compared with as revenues benefited from an increase in fees from US$100m in 2011.
Our reported profits included commercial lending activities and collaboration gains in the US of US$3.1bn and US$864m with GB&M, higher Rates revenue due to increased on completion of the sale of the Card and Retail trading volumes, and higher revenues in Balance Services business in May 2012 and the 195 nonSheet Management reflecting an increase in gains on strategic retail branches in May and August 2012, sales of available-for-sale assets.
Also included in our reported profits partly offset by lower net interest income due to the was US$618m relating to profit before tax in closure of the Canadian consumer finance company Card and Retail Services prior to the disposal 2011: to new business, spread compression from strong US$2.1bn.
In addition, we recorded a gain of competition and the prolonged low interest rate US$83m from the sale of the full service retail environment.
Our operations in Bermuda reported brokerage business in Canada.
We also recognised a significantly reduced profit before tax, primarily US$1.2bn of adverse movements on our own debt due to higher loan impairment charges on a small designated at fair value resulting from tightening in number of exposures in GB&M and CMB.
credit spreads, compared with favourable We made significant progress in disposing of movements of US$964m in 2011. businesses not aligned with our long-term strategy.
On an underlying basis, our pre-tax loss of On completing the sale of our US Card and Retail US$1.5bn in 2012 compared with a pre-tax loss Services business, we transferred over 5,000 of US$3.1bn in 2011.
This was due to lower loan employees and certain real estate facilities to the impairment charges, primarily in CML, reflecting purchaser.
In addition, we entered into a transition a decline in lending balances as the portfolio services agreement to support some of the account 105 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions North America servicing operations until all systems, processes and businesses in both the US and Canada towards equipment are integrated into the purchasers international customers.
We also completed the sale of In RBWM, we continued to develop our the retail branches, principally in upstate New York, Wealth Management capabilities across the region, recognising gains of US$586m in RBWM and targeting internationally connected customers in key US$278m in CMB.
US and Canadian urban centres.
Our relationshipIn Canada, we completed the sale of the full based model offers a suite of wealth services service retail brokerage business.
We also incorporating HSBC and third-party products, announced the closure of our consumer finance enabling our  customers to business, which had net customer loan balances invest in global markets.
In the US, we launched a of US$1.5bn at 31 December 2012, and ceased the renminbi fixed income fund to provide investors origination of loans as this business did not fit with with the opportunity to access mainland Chinas our core strategy.
We continued to manage the run-off of lending In CMB, we increased the number of balances in our CML portfolio and, in the third relationship managers and specialist sales staff in quarter of 2012, we reclassified non-real estate 2012 in areas with strong international connectivity, personal loan balances of US$3.7bn, net of notably the West Coast, South East and Midwest of impairment allowances, from our CML portfolio the US, leading to higher lending balances than in to Assets held for sale as we actively marketed the 2011.
In Canada, we introduced the first renminbi portfolio.
We also identified real estate secured loan currency account.
We also established dedicated balances, with a carrying amount of US$3.8bn, sales teams to enhance CMBs collaboration with which, as part of our strategy, we have announced GB&M.
In addition, in CMB and GB&M, we we plan to actively market in multiple transactions continued to target companies with international over the next two years.
At 31 December 2012, the banking requirements, leading to a rise in Global carrying value of the non-real estate and the real Trade and Receivables Finance revenues in both the estate secured loans which we intend to sell was US and Canada.
approximately US$1bn greater than their estimated In GB&M, we continued to work on delivering fair value.
We expect to recognise a loss on sale for integrated solutions for our customers across the these loans over the next few years, the actual region, increasing our lending to Latin American amount of which will depend on market conditions corporates.
In addition, we actively reduced our at the time of the sales.
It is expected that reduction legacy credit exposure in the US by exiting certain in these loans in our CML portfolio will be capital positions.
We will continue to reduce the size of this accretive and will reduce funding requirements, portfolio as opportunities arise.
accelerate the winding down of the portfolio and also alleviate some of the operational burdens, given that The following commentary is on a constant these loans are servicing intensive and subject to currency basis.
Net interest income decreased by 29% to At 31 December 2012, lending balances US$8.1bn, due to the loss of income from the Card in CML, including loans held for sale, were and Retail Services business together with the US$43bn, a decline of 14% from December 2011, of continued reduction of the CML portfolio in run-off.
which 8% was attributable to the balances written Also contributing to the decrease was a change in off.
composition of our lending book towards higher levels of lower yielding real estate loans.
We incurred costs of US$221m in 2012 2011: US$235m as a result of restructuring activities in Net fee income decreased by 24% to US$2.5bn, the region.
These costs were mainly related to the primarily due to the sale of the Card and Retail business disposals, the closure of our consumer Services business, the retail branches and the full finance operations in Canada and the continuation of service retail brokerage business in Canada.
This our organisational effectiveness initiatives.
We also was partly offset by fees from the transition service achieved approximately US$230m of additional agreement with the purchaser of the Card and Retail sustainable cost savings in 2012, primarily derived Services business and increased revenues from debt from operational efficiencies.
capital markets origination activity due to the strong debt issuance market.
Following the disposals noted above, we are reshaping our US operations to focus on core activities and are continuing to reposition our 106 Net trading income of US$507m was US$871m we continued to run off the portfolio, and lower higher than in 2011, primarily due to lower adverse delinquency levels.
Loan impairment charges fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in remained adversely affected by delays in expected RBWM as long-term interest rates declined to a cash flows from mortgage loans due, in part, to lesser extent than in 2011.
This was partly offset by delays in foreclosure processing and the higher costs an increase from US$92m in 2011 to US$134m in to obtain and realise collateral, although the effects 2012 of loss provisions for mortgage loan repurchase were less pronounced than in 2011.
In addition, loan obligations related to loans previously sold.
impairment charges declined by US$1.3bn due to the sale of the Card and Retail Services business.
These Net trading income increased in GB&M during decreases were partly offset by an adjustment made 2012 as a result of the improved performance of following a review completed in the fourth quarter of economic hedges used to manage interest rate risk, 2012 which concluded that the estimated average which benefited from a more stable interest rate period of time from current status to write-off was environment.
Rates revenue was higher due to ten months for real estate loans previously a period increased trading volumes.
In addition, credit market of seven months was used.
conditions generally reflected tighter credit spreads, which led to higher income from our credit-related In CMB and GB&M, loan impairment charges products.
These factors were partly offset by adverse increased, mainly in Bermuda, due to individually fair value movements on structured liabilities as own assessed impairments on a small number of credit spreads tightened, together with the closure of exposures.
Credit quality in Canada remained our bank notes business in 2011, and a reduction in broadly unchanged.
foreign exchange revenue as a result of lower trading Operating expenses increased by less than 1% to volumes in less volatile markets.
US$8.9bn, primarily due to a US$1.5bn charge for Net loss from financial instruments designated the settlement of investigations noted above.
at fair value was US$1.2bn compared with net gains Compliance costs increased by US$307m, mainly of US$964m in 2011.
We recognised adverse fair due to investment in process enhancements and value movements on our own debt designated at fair infrastructure related to anti-money laundering and value as credit spreads tightened during 2012, having Bank Secrecy Act consent orders, along with actions widened in 2011.
In addition, there were adverse fair to address the regulatory consent orders relating to value movements from interest rate ineffectiveness foreclosure activities.
In addition, following a review in the economic hedging of our long-term debt of our mortgage foreclosure process, we entered into during the year.
an agreement in principle with US regulators to pay into a fund and provide other customer assistance to Gains on disposal of US branch network and help eligible borrowers who were active in cards business included a gain of US$3.1bn from the foreclosure during 2009 and 2010 and were sale of the Card and Retail Services business and financially disadvantaged during the process, for US$864m from the sale of 195 retail branches in which we recognised a US$104m expense in 2012. upstate New York.
These increases were partly offset by the effect of Other operating income increased by US$176m the sale of the Card and Retail Services business and to US$405m, reflecting lower losses on foreclosed organisational effectiveness initiatives to reduce properties due to the reduction in foreclosure costs as we achieved approximately US$230m of activity, less deterioration in housing prices during additional sustainable cost savings primarily derived 2012 and, in some markets, improvements in pricing from operational efficiencies.
Average employee compared with 2011. numbers decreased from organisational effectiveness initiatives and business disposals.
In addition, Loan impairment charges and other credit risk marketing costs fell and costs of holding foreclosed provisions decreased by 51% to US$3.5bn, mainly in properties declined, while software impairment the US, reflecting lower lending balances in CML as charges in 2011 did not recur.
107 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions North America Profit loss before tax and balance sheet data North America 2012 Retail Global Banking Banking Global Interand Wealth Commercial and Private segment 89 85 Management Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Profit loss before tax Net interest income 5,481 1,443 948 192 118 65 8,117 Net fee income....... 923 562 716 124 188 2,513 Trading income expense excluding net interest income 216 47 466 20 16 333 Net interest income on trading activities............. 17 1 91 65 174 78 Net trading income expense.. 199 48 557 20 16 65 507 Changes in fair value of longterm debt issued and related derivatives......... 1,219 1,219 Net income from other financial instruments designated at fair value............ Net expense from financial instruments designated at fair value............ 1,219 1,219 Gains less losses from financial investments.............. 27 223 7 8 251 Dividend income.... 15 11 32 3 61 Net earned insurance premiums.
109 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions North America Latin America North America RBWM profit loss before tax and balance sheet data 2012 2011 Card and North Card and North Retail Run-off Rest of America Retail Run-off Rest of America Services portfolios RBWM RBWM Services portfolios RBWM RBWM US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Profit loss before tax Net interest income.................... 1,267 2,563 1,651 5,481 4,128 2,990 1,813 8,931 Net fee income expense.......... 395 33 495 923 1,273 49 612 1,836 Trading income expense excluding net interest income 226 10 216 1,145 199 946 Net interest income on trading activities.................... 17 17 25 25 78 Net trading income expense.
110 Economic background Latin America Brazils GDP growth slowed further in 2012, mostly Our operations in Latin America principally due to the effects of higher input costs, concern comprise HSBC Bank Brasil S. A.
-Banco about global financial stability, and domestic Mltiplo, HSBC Mxico, S. A. HSBC Bank regulatory uncertainty.
Despite growth remaining Argentina S. A. and HSBC Bank Panama S. A. low, consumer inflation remained above the 4.5% In addition to banking services, we operate inflation target pursued by the Central Bank, ending insurance businesses in Brazil, Mexico, Argentina and Panama.
By contrast, growth held up well in Mexico in 2012 led, in particular, by favourable industrial exports to the US.
Enhanced competitiveness helped 2012 2011 2010 Mexican exports to gain a larger share of total US US$m US$m US$m imports.
Domestically, demand stayed largely Net interest income.......... 6,984 6,956 6,311 unchanged, encouraged by labour reforms passed Net fee income................. 1,735 1,781 1,749 by the new administration.
Despite the growth Net trading income.......... 971 1,378 733 figures, inflation ended 2012 slightly below 4% Other income................... 1,261 1,338 938 and converging on the 3% inflation target pursued 21 Net operating income.. 10,951 11,453 9,731 by Banco fide Mexico.
Net operating income.... 8,814 9,570 8,187 Balance of payments restrictions gradually escalated Total operating expenses.. 6,430 7,255 6,394 from capital flows to the current account, including Operating profit............. 2,384 2,315 1,793 imports of intermediate goods, which generated 77 disruption in production and deterioration in Income from associates.
Despite this sharp slowdown, Profit before tax............. 2,384 2,315 1,795 inflation continued to remain high, partly due to Cost efficiency ratio........ 58.7% 63.3% 65.7% regulated price increases and import restrictions that 66 RoRWA 2.4% 2.3% 2.0% lowered domestic supply.
Year-end staff numbers... 46,556 54,035 56,044 Review of performance Our operations in Latin America reported a profit Significant progress on reducing before tax of US$2.4bn in 2012, 3% higher than in fragmentation in our portfolio of businesses 2011 and an increase of 16% on a constant currency basis.
This included a gain of US$102m following the completion of the sale of our general insurance manufacturing business in Argentina, a loss of US$62m on the sale of our operations in Costa Rica, Strong underlying revenue growth Honduras and El Salvador and a loss of US$96m across all global businesses recognised following the reclassification of our nonstrategic businesses in Colombia, Peru, and Paraguay to Assets held for sale.
On an underlying basis, pre-tax profits rose by US$475m 76 19%, primarily due to increased revenues across increase in LICs all global businesses, partly offset by higher loan on an underlying basis impairment charges.
In RBWM, the revenue increase reflected growth in average lending balances in Argentina and a higher yielding portfolio mix in Brazil while, in CMB, it resulted from continued balance sheet growth in Brazil which was driven by a strong demand for trade-related lending and higher balances of Payment and Cash Management current accounts in Argentina.
In Brazil, loan transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and impairment charges rose, primarily as a result of other conditions and is expected to complete by the increased delinquency rates in RBWM and CMB, third quarter of 2013. particularly in the Business Banking portfolio, In our RBWM business, we made good progress reflecting lower economic growth in 2012.
Loan in developing a wealth management service that impairment charges improved during the second half addresses our customers needs and we strengthened of 2012, mainly due to lower collective portfolio our sales force capabilities to capture wealth creation provisions in Brazil.
Wealth Management revenues We made significant progress in reducing the increased by over US$275m or 36%.
This included fragmentation in our Latin American businesses the favourable effect of the recognition of a PVIF through disposals in our non-strategic markets.
Excluding this gain, Wealth May 2012, we announced the sale of our businesses Management revenues rose by 17%, mainly from in Colombia, Peru, Uruguay and Paraguay, with insurance and mutual funds.
We will continue to In CMB, we worked closely with GB&M offer full branch services to our customers during to ensure our clients had access to appropriate transition.
In the second half of 2012, we completed products.
In addition, our relationships with CMB the sale of our businesses in Costa Rica, El Salvador payroll customers enabled us to increase personal and Honduras.
In addition, we completed the sale of lending to their employees, who became our RBWM our general insurance manufacturing business in customers.
We were able to provide support to Argentina and announced the agreement to sell a companies as they grow internationally through our portfolio of general insurance assets and liabilities in Global Trade and Receivables Finance products, and Mexico with completion expected in 2013.
Under used our international expertise to capture trade and the terms of these agreements, the purchasers will capital flows, notably in the Brazil-China trade provide general insurance products to HSBC to sell corridors.
We continued to strengthen our service to to our retail customers in the two countries.
This international SMEs by increasing the number of long-term collaboration will broaden and strengthen specialist International Relationship Managers in the suite of general insurance products available to Brazil.
In February 2013, we announced an agreement to sell our operations in Panama.
The In GB&M, we continued to target international 112 corporate customers throughout Latin America.
Net trading income of US$971m was 19% lower We were awarded First place in International Debt than in 2011, primarily due to lower reverse repos Capital Markets by the Brazilian Financial and driven by positions in GB&M in Brazil that had Capital Markets Association and Best Project matured but had not been renewed, and lower Finance House in Latin America from Euromoney.
income related to government debt securities.
This We also maintained a strong presence in the foreign was partly offset by gains in the Rates business as a exchange and derivatives markets.
result of favourable rate movements.
Across the region, we continued to implement Net income from financial instruments measures to improve operational efficiency, designated at fair value increased by 39%, or incurring US$167m of restructuring costs in 2012.
US$187m, mainly in Brazil, reflecting higher We achieved a 14% net reduction of almost 7,500 investment gains arising from favourable equity and FTEs, including more than 4,000 employees debt market movements and growth in policyholder transferred with the disposals described earlier, and assets from higher sales of unit-linked pension approximately US$285m of additional sustainable products.
To the extent that these investment gains savings.
were attributed to policyholders there was a corresponding increase in Net insurance claims The following commentary is on a constant incurred and movement in liabilities to currency basis.
Net interest income increased by 12% compared Gains less losses from financial investments with 2011, with growth across all global businesses.
of US$226m were 79% or US$100m higher than in In RBWM, net interest income rose due to 2011, primarily in Brazil due to gains on sale of higher average lending volumes, mainly in personal shares in non-strategic investments and disposals of loans and credit cards in Argentina as a result government debt securities in GB&M in 2012, partly of successful marketing and sales campaigns.
We offset by the non-recurrence of a gain in GB&M on also benefited from a change in the composition of the sale of shares in a Mexican listed company in the lending book in Brazil as we increased our 2011. balances of higher yielding assets.
Net interest Net earned insurance premiums increased by income from deposits also increased due to higher 5% to US$2.5bn, driven by increased sales in Brazil balances in current accounts in Mexico and savings of unit-linked pension products and term life accounts in Argentina supported by marketing insurance products.
Premiums also rose in Mexico, campaigns.
mainly due to growth in sales of an endowment product.
In Argentina, premiums were lower, In CMB, higher net interest income reflected a rise in average loans and advances to customers in following the sale of the general insurance business Brazil, driven by strong demand for trade-related in 2012. lending and our focus on corporate relationships and Other operating income decreased by 8% sectors with potential for international expansion.
to US$253m, driven by a loss of US$62m on the Net interest income also rose in Argentina, mainly in sale of our operations in Costa Rica, Honduras and Payments and Cash Management current accounts, El Salvador, and a loss of US$96m recognised reflecting higher balances which were supported by following the reclassification of our non-strategic successful marketing campaigns, and wider spreads businesses in Colombia, Peru, and Paraguay to held driven by a rise in interest rates.
In addition, in 2011, we reported a gain on In GB&M, net interest income increased, sale of the Mexican pension administration business, notably in Balance Sheet Management in Brazil, as HSBC Afore, of US$83m and a gain on the sale and we benefited from the downward movements in leaseback of branches of US$53m.
These factors interest rates which lowered the cost of funding were partly offset by the favourable effect of the assets in this portfolio.
recognition of a PVIF asset in Brazil of US$119m relating to unit-linked pensions, together with an Net fee income increased by 8% to US$1.7bn, increase in the value of new term life business in mainly due to higher Payments and Cash Brazil, as well as the gain on sale of the general Management revenues, which benefited from insurance business in Argentina of US$102m.
mandates from new customers and repricing initiatives in Argentina and Brazil.
Fee income was Net insurance claims incurred and movement in also higher as a result of the sale of the general liabilities to policyholders increased by 15%, driven insurance business as fee expense associated with by higher net investment gains on the fair value of this business was no longer incurred.
the assets held to support policyholder contracts.
In 113 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions Latin America addition, liabilities to policyholders were established Operating expenses decreased by US$83m for new business, reflecting the increase in premiums compared with 2011.
Restructuring costs declined in Brazil, though this was partly offset by the by US$137m as 2011 included costs associated with disposal of the general insurance business in the consolidation of the branch network and Argentina in 2012. the reorganisation of regional and country support functions.
These restructuring initiatives and our Loan impairment charges and other credit risk continued efforts to exercise strict cost control and provisions increased by 29%.
This was mainly in progress with our organisational effectiveness Brazil, driven by increased delinquency rates in programmes resulted in approximately US$285m of RBWM and CMB, particularly in Business Banking, additional sustainable cost savings and a net 7% reflecting lower economic growth in 2012.
We took reduction in average FTEs of around 4,000 in 2012. a number of steps to reposition our portfolios in These savings were partly offset by inflationary RBWM and CMB including reducing third-party pressures, union-agreed wage increases in Brazil and originations and lowering credit limits where Argentina and a payment of fines and penalties of appropriate.
We also improved our collections US$29m in connection with non-compliance with capabilities.
Loan impairment charges improved anti-money laundering systems and controls during the second half of the year in Brazil.
including requirements to report unusual transactions, in Mexico.
114 Profit loss before tax and balance sheet data Latin America 2012 Retail Global Banking Banking Global Interand Wealth Commercial and Private segment 85 Management Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Profit loss before tax Net interest income expense.... 4,145 2,173 993 30 2 355 6,984 Net fee income 873 622 207 33 1,735 Trading income excluding net interest income................. 85 99 398 3 1 586 Net interest income on trading activities 29 1 355 385 78 Net trading income................... 85 99 427 3 2 355 971 Changes in fair value of longterm debt issued and related derivatives.. Net income from other financial instruments designated at fair value..... 503 163 1 667 Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value..... 503 163 1 667 Gains less losses from financial investments.............. 75 21 131 227 Dividend income.... 9 5 1 15 Net earned insurance premiums.
116 Disposals, held for sale and run-off continue to affect the geographical regions in the portfolios future.
The table below presents the contribution of In implementing our strategy, we have sold or agreed these businesses and investments to the historical to sell a number of businesses and investments results of geographical regions.
We do not expect the across the Group.
We expect these disposals to have historical results to be indicative of future results a significant effect on both the revenue and the because of disposal or run-off.
Fixed allocated costs, profitability of the geographical regions in the future.
included in total operating costs, will not necessarily In addition, significant portfolios are being run be removed upon disposal and have been separately down.
We expect the losses on these portfolios to identified on page 52.
117 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
