Strategic direction To implement this strategy we have set priorities across three areas to simplify, restructure and grow Our strategic objective is to become the the Group, as described below.
Simplifying HSBC Our strategic direction is aligned to two long-term trends: We will continue to make HSBC easier to manage and control.
This includes i running off legacy Financial flows the world economy is assets in the US and in GB&M, ii addressing becoming ever more connected.
Growth in fragmentation in our business portfolio through world trade and cross-border capital flows continues to outstrip growth in average gross our six filters disposing of non-strategic businesses, domestic product.
Financial flows between and iii improving organisational efficiency.
countries and regions are highly concentrated, In 2012, we added a sixth filter to the existing and over the next decade we expect 35 markets five strategic evaluation criteria used to assess our to generate 90% of world trade growth with a business international connectivity, economic similar degree of concentration in cross-border development, profitability, cost efficiency and capital flows.
The sixth filter requires compliance Economic development we expect economies with our global standards on financial crime and currently deemed emerging to have increased involves the assessment of existing and new client five-fold in size by 2050, benefiting from relationships and activities against those standards.
demographics and urbanisation, by which time they will be larger than the developed world.
By Run-off portfolios then, we expect 19 of the 30 largest economies Run-off portfolios comprise Consumer and will be markets that are currently described as Mortgage Lending portfolios and certain related emerging.
treasury services in the US and, in GB&M, a legacy HSBC is one of the few truly international credit business.
The latter comprises a separately banks and our advantages lie in the extent to which identifiable, discretely managed business comprising our network corresponds with markets relevant Solitaire Funding Limited Solitaire, securities to international financial flows, our access and investment conduits, asset-backed securities, trading exposure to high growth markets and businesses, portfolios and credit correlation portfolios, derivative and our strong balance sheet, which helps to transactions entered into with monoline insurers generate a resilient stream of earnings.
and certain structured credit transactions.
We continue to run off US legacy consumer Based on these long-term trends and our assets and are actively analysing opportunities to competitive position, our strategy has two parts: reduce risk and improve returns.
Network of businesses connecting the world HSBC is well positioned to capture the growing Run-off of portfolio receivables in the US international financial flows.
Our global reach US$bn and range of services put us in a strong position 120 Compound annual to serve corporate clients as they grow from growth rate 19% 101 100 small enterprises into large and international 11 79 corporates.
Our access to local retail funding 16 80 7 and our suite of international products allows 11 58 60 49 7 us to offer distinctive solutions for these clients 43 5 40 4 profitably.
74 61 51 44 20 39 Wealth management and retail with local scale social mobility and wealth creation in the faster- 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 growing markets in which we are positioned 18 Real estate Non-real estate unsecured Vehicle finance will generate demand for financial services which we will meet through our Wealth For footnote, see page 120.
We will only invest in retail businesses in markets We have identified segments of the real estate where we can achieve critical mass.
portfolio in the US that represent a high risk and or a high operational burden or may be sold on a capital 17 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Overview continued Strategic direction Risk accretive basis.
We have also identified the non-real i implementing consistent business models: estate portfolio for sale to reduce operational risk.
ii re-engineering global functions: iii re-engineering operational processes: and In GB&M, decisions to hold or sell legacy iv streamlining IT.
assets depend on whether the net present value of future cash flows from the assets e. g. the terminal Our approach to organisation, talent and values value net of funding and operational costs and the cost of capital exceed the total of the expected loss 8 by 8 Maximum of 8 layers between Group CEO and frontline structure Increased spans of control 8 reports per manager on sale and the costs of the transaction.
With target business and operating models 4 global As non-strategic businesses are exited, we can organise businesses Addressing fragmentation resources at the centre Fragmentation of the business is being addressed 11 global To manage resources globally functions Easier to enforce global controls using the six filters to guide strategic actions.
More visibility for our global talent pool Talent Creating opportunities for talented individuals Using the six filters in decision-making What is the Are the current Values Led from the top and cascaded through the organisation strategic returns Do we adhere to Guiding principle ensuring global adherence to high standards courageous integrity relevance?
Fully integrated into performance management 1.
Financial crime risk Restructuring HSBC 2.
Liquidity Low High We will restructure certain businesses to adapt to the new environment, including GB&M, our US Yes Invest franchise and GPB.
High Turnaround No improve Global Banking and Markets Continue Yes as is Product profitability for the industry as a whole is Medium low declining with client activity relatively subdued and No Discontinue dispose regulatory changes reducing available capital and liquidity while, at the same time, posing significant Since 2011 we have announced and completed a challenges to some traditional business models.
significant number of disposals: Overall, there is downward pressure on returns on capital.
19 Announced transactions GB&M is well positioned for the new business environment, with its deep and diversified client Completed Still to complete base, network of markets covering the majority of 25 global financial flows, global product capabilities and diversified funding base.
14 Number GB&M is actively managing its legacy credit 8 exposures.
In 2012, risk-weighted assets RWAs decreased mainly because of downgrades to 2011 2012 2013 positions which resulted in a change from being risk-weighted to being deducted from capital.
A Afore US Card and Bao Viet Retail Holdings HSBC clear economic framework has been put in place for Services Key Insurance HSBC Bank decision-making over when and how to dispose of UK Ltd US branches Panama S. A. Ping An legacy investments.
With regard to its ongoing business activities, For footnote, see page 120.
GB&M manages its RWAs comprehensively and pro-actively, which helps mitigate RWA growth Improving organisational efficiency arising from regulatory and model changes.
We continued to make headway with the Four Our US businesses Programmes that we launched in May 2011 designed to simplify HSBC and make the Group easier to Our US operations are being reshaped to focus on manage and control.
The Four Programmes are core activities, with the sale of the US Card and Retail Services business and the upstate New York 18 Organisation
