Board of Directors M M Moses, 55 Group Chief Risk Officer The purpose of HSBCs management structure, headed by the Board of Directors of HSBC Holdings Joined HSBC in 2005.
A Group Managing Director the Board and led by the Group Chairman, is to since 2010.
Director of HSBC Insurance Bermuda promote the long-term success of the Company and Limited.
A director of HSBC Private Bank Suisse deliver sustainable value to our shareholders.
The SA and HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse Board sets the strategy and risk appetite for the SA since 19 September 2012.
Former HSBC Group and approves capital and operating plans appointments include Chief Financial and Risk presented by management for the achievement of Officer, Global Banking and Markets.
the strategic objectives it has set.
Implementation of the strategy set by the Board is delegated to the Group Management Board GMB which is led by S P OSullivan, 57 the Group Chief Executive.
Group Chief Operating Officer Directors Joined HSBC in 1980.
Former HSBC appointments include: HSBC Holdings has a unitary Board.
The authority Group Chief Technology and Services Officer: of the Directors is exercised in Board meetings director and Chief Operating Officer of HSBC Bank where the Board acts collectively.
At the time of plc: and Chief Operating Officer of HSBC Bank approval of the Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Canada.
on 4 March 2013, the Board comprised the Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and 13 non-executive Directors B Robertson, 58 whose names and brief biographical particulars are Chief Executive, HSBC Bank plc included on pages 302 to 307.
The Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Joined HSBC in 1975.
A Group Managing Director Director are HSBC employees.
Chairman of HSBC Life UK Limited.
Directors are not HSBC employees and do not Director of HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited since participate in the daily business management of 1 January 2012.
Former HSBC appointments HSBC: they bring an external perspective, include: Group Chief Risk Officer: Group General constructively challenge and help develop proposals Manager, Group Credit and Risk: and Head of on strategy, scrutinise the performance of Global Banking and Markets for North America.
management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the risk profile and the reporting of P T S Wong, 61 performance.
The non-executive Directors bring Chief Executive, The Hongkong and Shanghai experience from a number of industries and business Banking Corporation Limited sectors, including the leadership of large complex multinational enterprises.
Chairman of HSBC Bank China Terms of appointment Company Limited and HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad.
Non-executive director of Hang Seng Bank The Board has determined the time commitment Limited and Bank of Communications Co. Ltd. expected of non-executive Directors to be 30 to 36 Independent non-executive director of Cathay days per annum.
Time devoted to the Company Pacific Airways Limited.
Former HSBC could be considerably more, particularly if serving appointments include: director of HSBC Bank on Board committees.
Ceased to be Vice Chairman of Letters setting out the terms and conditions of HSBC Bank Vietnam Ltd on 16 January 2012 and appointment of each of the non-executive Directors, a director of Ping An Insurance Group Company of including the time commitment expected of each China, Ltd on 7 December 2012. of them, are available for inspection at 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ and will be made available for 15 minutes before the Annual General Meeting and during the Meeting itself.
309 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board of Directors Directors Powers of the Board HSBC Holdings was registered in Hong Kong under part XI of the Companies Ordinance on The Board is responsible for managing the business 17 January 1991. of HSBC Holdings and, in doing so, may exercise its powers, subject to any relevant laws and regulations Board meetings and to the Articles of Association.
In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company Eight Board meetings and a one-day strategy to borrow money and to mortgage or charge all or meeting were held in 2012.
At least one Board any part of the undertaking, property or assets meeting each year is held in a key strategic location present or future of HSBC Holdings and may also outside the UK.
During 2012, Board meetings were exercise any of the powers conferred on it by the held in Hong Kong and Washington D. C. Companies Act 2006 and or by shareholders.
The The table below shows each Directors Board is able to delegate and confer on any Director attendance at meetings of the Board held while he or holding executive office any of its powers, she was a Director during 2012.
One meeting of the authorities and discretions including the power to Board was held at short notice in 2012. sub-delegate for such time and on such terms as it thinks fits.
In addition, the Board may establish any Twelve meetings of committees of the Board local or divisional boards or agencies for managing appointed to discharge specific business were held the business of HSBC Holdings in any specified during 2012.
These meetings are not shown in the locality and delegate and confer on any local or table below.
divisional board, manager or agent so appointed any During 2012, the non-executive Directors and of its powers, authorities and discretions including the Group Chairman met twice without the other the power to sub-delegate for such time and on such executive Directors.
The non-executive Directors terms as it thinks fit.
The Board may also, by power also met twice without the Group Chairman, of attorney or otherwise, appoint any person or including to appraise the Group Chairmans persons to be the agent of HSBC Holdings and may performance.
delegate to any such person or persons any of its powers, authorities and discretions including the Attendance record power to sub-delegate for such time and on such Meetings terms as it thinks fit.
eligible to Meetings attend as The Board delegates the management and dayattended a Director to-day running of HSBC to the GMB but retains to S A Catz 8 8 L M L Cha 8 8 itself approval of certain matters including operating M K T Cheung 8 8 plans, risk appetite and performance targets, J D Coombe.... 8 8 procedures for monitoring and controlling operations, 1,2 6 6 J Faber 3 the authority or the delegation of authority to R A Fairhead.. 6 8 D J Flint 8 8 approve credit, market risk limits, acquisitions, 4 A A Flockhart 4 5 disposals, investments, capital expenditure or 8 8 S T Gulliver.... realisation or creation of a new venture, specified J W J Hughes-Hallett.............. 7 8 senior appointments and any substantial change in W S H Laidlaw 8 8 1 J P Lipsky...... 6 6 balance sheet management policy.
The Board will review its Sir Simon Robertson............... 8 8 J L Thornton 8 8 terms of reference annually.
5 Sir Brian Williamson............. 4 4 The Directors who served during the year 8 Meetings held in 2012........... were S A Catz, L M L Cha, M K T Cheung, 1 Appointed a Director on 1 March 2012.
J D Coombe, J Faber appointed 1 March 2012, 2 Also attended one meeting by invitation before becoming a R A Fairhead, D J Flint, A A Flockhart retired Director.
31 July 2012, S T Gulliver, J W J Hughes-Hallett, 3 Took a temporary leave of absence due to illness.
4 Retired as a Director on 31 July 2012.
W S H Laidlaw, J P Lipsky appointed 1 March 5 Retired as a Director on 25 May 2012.
2012, J R Lomax, I J Mackay, G Morgan retired 6 Retired as a Director on 31 December 2012.
25 May 2012, N R N Murthy retired 31 December 2012, Sir Simon Robertson, J L Thornton and Sir Brian Williamson retired 25 May 2012.
310 1 Appointed senior independent non-executive Director in Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive 2007 and Deputy Chairman in December 2010.
The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and held by experienced Board balance and independence of full-time Directors.
There is a clear division of Directors responsibilities at the head of the Company between The Board includes a strong presence of both the running of the Board and the executive executive and non-executive Directors and no responsibility for running HSBCs business.
The individual or small group can dominate its decision key responsibilities of the Group Chairman and making.
The size of the Board is appropriate given the Group Chief Executive are set out below.
the complexity and geographical spread of our Key responsibilities business and the significant time demands placed on the non-executive Directors, particularly those who 1 Group Chairman D J Flint serve as members of Board committees.
Leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness.
The Nomination Committee regularly reviews Develops relationships with governments, regulators and investors.
the structure, size and composition of the Board Leads the Groups interactions on matters of public policy and including the skills, knowledge and experience regulatory reform with regard to the banking and financial required of Directors necessary to address and services industry.
challenge adequately key risks and issues that Maintains corporate reputation and character.
confront, or may confront, the Board and makes Undertakes performance management of the Group Chief recommendations to the Board with regard to any Executive.
1 Appointed Group Chairman in December 2010.
During 2012, the Board adopted a Board diversity policy.
Further information on this policy 1 Group Chief Executive S T Gulliver can be found on page 329.
Develops, and delivers performance against, business plans.
The Board considers all of the non-executive Develops Group strategy, in agreement with the Group Directors to be independent in character and Chairman, for recommendation to the Board.
The Board has determined S A Catz, As Chairman of the GMB, drives performance within strategic L M L Cha, M K T Cheung, J B Comey, goals and commercial objectives agreed by the Board.
J D Coombe, J Faber, R A Fairhead, R Fassbind, 1 Appointed Group Chief Executive in January 2011.
J W J Hughes-Hallett, W S H Laidlaw, J P Lipsky, J R Lomax, Sir Simon Robertson and J L Thornton The Group Chief Executive has an office in to be independent.
When determining independence London and in Hong Kong.
the Board considers that calculation of the length of service of a non-executive Director begins on the Deputy Chairman and senior independent date of his or her first election by shareholders as a non-executive Director Director of HSBC Holdings.
Given the complexity and geographical spread of our business, the The key responsibilities of the Deputy Chairman and experience of previous service on a HSBC senior independent non-executive Director are set subsidiary company board can be a considerable out below.
benefit and does not detract from a Directors independence.
In reaching its determination of each Key responsibilities non-executive Directors independence, the Board Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive has concluded that there are no relationships or 1 Director Sir Simon Robertson circumstances which are likely to affect a Directors judgement and any relationships or circumstances Deputises for the Group Chairman at meetings of the Board or shareholders.
which could appear to do so were considered not to Supports the Group Chairman in his role.
From the conclusion of the Annual Acts as an intermediary for other non-executive Directors General Meeting in 2013, R A Fairhead will have when necessary.
served on the Board for more than nine years and, in Leads the non-executive Directors in the oversight of the that respect only, will not meet the usual criteria for Group Chairman.
independence set out in the UK Corporate Ensures there is a clear division of responsibility between the Governance Code.
Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
In accordance with the Rules Governing the Is available to shareholders should they have concerns which contact through the normal channels cannot resolve or for Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of which such contact would be inappropriate.
311 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board of Directors Directors Corporate governance codes Hong Kong Limited, each non-executive Director are also arranged for newly appointed members of determined by the Board to be independent has committees.
provided an annual confirmation of his or her independence to HSBC Holdings.
Training and Development Focused in-house training sessions are arranged in Information and support conjunction with scheduled Board meetings.
Unless 1 The Board regularly reviews reports on progress otherwise indicated, all Directors attended Board against financial objectives, business developments Meetings in 2012 at which briefings on the following and investor and external relations.
The chairmen of topics were given: Board committees and the Group Chief Executive 2,3 Capital market perspectives on HSBC report to each meeting of the Board on the activities 2 CMB strategy and business update of the committees since the previous Board meeting.
2 GB&M strategy and business update The Board receives regular reports and presentations 2 RBWM strategy and business update on strategy and developments in the global 2 3 GPB strategy and business update businesses and principal geographical areas.
Regular 2 Macroeconomic outlook 2 reports are also provided to the Board and Board Europe strategy 2 committees on the Groups risk appetite profile, US strategy 2 top and emerging risks, risk management, credit China strategy 2 exposures and the Groups loan portfolio, asset Outlook for Greater China and liability management, liquidity, litigation, Marks and Spencer Bank compliance and reputational issues.
The agenda and Latin America supporting papers are distributed in advance of all Global geopolitics Board and Board committee meetings to allow IT infrastructure time for appropriate review and to facilitate full Except: discussion at the meetings.
All Directors have full 1 R Fassbind and J B Comey who were not Directors at the and timely access to all relevant information and time of the briefings.
2 J Faber and J P Lipsky who were not Directors at the time may take independent professional advice if of the briefing.
necessary at the Companys expense.
3 R A Fairhead who was unable to attend the briefing.
The Directors have free and open contact with Executive Directors management at all levels.
When attending Board offsites and when travelling for other reasons, In the performance of their roles as Group Chairman, non-executive Directors are encouraged to take Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, opportunities to see business operations at first hand respectively, D J Flint, S T Gulliver and I J Mackay and to meet management.
develop and refresh their skills and knowledge of the Groups businesses and operations through day-toNon-executive Directors have an open invitation day interactions and briefings with senior to attend meetings of the GMB to further enhance management of the Groups businesses and their understanding and awareness of our businesses functions: and presenting on the Groups businesses and the senior leadership team.
They remain abreast of developments affecting the financial services sector, Induction and banking in particular, by representing HSBCs Full, formal and tailored induction programmes, interests at conferences, advisory groups and other with particular emphasis on risk management and events and meetings with regulators and other internal controls systems, are arranged for newly authorities.
During 2012, this included the activities appointed Directors.
The programmes consist of a set out below: series of meetings with other Directors and senior executives to enable new Directors to familiarise D J Flint themselves with our strategy, risk appetite and risk Chairman of the International Institute of Finance, management, operations and internal controls.
including leading members meetings and giving Directors also receive comprehensive guidance on keynote speeches.
Participated in panel discussions directors duties and liabilities.
As part of the and gave key note speeches on economic growth and induction process the Group Company Secretary will financial regulation at a number of leading events coordinate a development programme based on an including the International Monetary Conference, the individual Directors needs.
Induction programmes Hong Kong Trade Development Councils Think Asia Event, City Week 2012, a Chatham House 312 conference, St. Gallen Symposium and The Salzburg In addition to the briefings given at Board Global Seminar.
Gave the Aileen Beattie Memorial Meetings of HSBC Holdings, the following nonLecture at the Institute of Chartered Accountants executive Directors undertook bespoke training of Scotland on the opportunities to improve the sessions and other activities, including attending financial services sector following the crisis.
Board committee meetings at which briefings were Presented to the Cambridge Executive Leadership given during 2012 to develop and refresh their Programme on leadership.
Attended and participated knowledge and skills as set out below: in panel discussions at the World Economic Forum in Davos.
Attended prudential regulation meetings S A Catz with the FSA.
Attended bespoke briefings on managing operational and reputational risk and recovery and resolution S T Gulliver planning.
Gave keynote speeches at the Fung Global Institute annual forum and a Conservative Parliamentary L M L Cha China Group meeting on UK trade links with China.
Gave keynote speeches at the Institute of Directors Gave presentations at several Asian-focussed events in Hong Kong on the need for a financial services including the China Development Forum in Beijing, development council and at the Hong Kong the China Investment Corporation global investment Economic Summit.
Participated in the Global forum, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations Agenda Council on Global Financial system at the Finance Minsters Investors Summit in Hong Kong World Economic Forum.
Attended bespoke briefings and the International Advisory Council of the China from HSBC Holdings on: senior management Banking Regulatory Commission.
Attended the succession planning and diversity: extraterritorial World Economic Forum in Davos.
Attended application of laws and their impact on HSBCs prudential regulation meetings with the FSA.
global businesses: HSBC brand management and Chaired the Groups strategy day for investors in sponsorship portfolio: the Groups compliance London.
Gave the keynote speech at an HSBC-led assurance model: regulation and its impact on risk: international corporate and structured banking event and the FSAs Three lines of defence operational for UK exporters.
As a director and Vice Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation I J Mackay attended bespoke briefings or board meetings at Participated in meetings of the European Chief which briefings were given on: the Groups business in Asia-Pacific: international operations: information Financial Officers Network, the FSA Chief Financial Officers Group and the Bank for International technology: CMB: financial regulation: GB&M: the Settlements.
Attended conferences focused on Asian Hong Kong SARs relationships with India and investment and European finance.
Attended China: and RBWM in India.
Participated in the prudential regulation meetings with the FSA and the annual forum for HSBC Group non-executive Hong Kong Monetary Authority.
Groups strategy day for investors in London and hosted regular meetings with investors in the UK, M K T Cheung US and Hong Kong.
Attended events for independent non-executive directors organised by KPMG and Deloitte and Non-executive Directors a seminar on international financial reporting A personalised approach to training and standards organised by the Hong Kong Institute of development of non-executive Directors is applied.
Attended meetings of Non-executive Directors are given opportunities to the Group Audit Committee at which briefings were update and develop their skills and knowledge given on developments in regulatory and accounting through briefings by senior executives and externally requirements and the regulatory environment.
Non-executive Directors have access a director of Hang Seng Bank attended bespoke to internal training and development resources.
briefings or board meetings at which briefings were Development plans and records of training and given on: Basel III requirements: RBWM strategy: development activities are maintained by the the Hong Kong Competition Ordinance: supervisory Group Company Secretary to facilitate the Group requirements of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority: Chairmans annual review of each non-executive changes to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange Listing Director.
313 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board of Directors Directors 1 Rules: obligations under the Hong Kong Securities R Fassbind and Futures Ordinance: and mechanisms for core Undertook a personal induction programme risk appetite measures.
Participated in the annual comprising bespoke briefings on: each of the forum for HSBC Group non-executive directors.
Groups global businesses: the structure and responsibilities of a number of the Groups global J D Coombe functions, including: Strategy and Planning: Attended events for non-executive directors run by Corporate Sustainability: Risk: Finance: Human Tapestry Networks and Ernst & Young on bank Resources: and Internal Audit: corporate governance governance and by  on including Directors duties and obligations, HSBCs updates in financial accounting.
Attended bespoke governance structure, Global Standards and Business briefings on prudential regulation, reform of the UK Principles, international corporate governance codes financial services industry regulatory authorities and and listing obligations : IT and Operations: and the managing operational risk in the Finance global Groups Insurance business.
Attended meetings of Board committees at J W J Hughes-Hallet which briefings were given on the regulatory environment and developments in accounting Attended meetings of the Group Risk Committee at requirements, risk and executive remuneration, the which bespoke briefings were given on the risk risk control frameworks for the global businesses, control frameworks for the global businesses, Group Group recovery and resolution planning and legal recovery and resolution planning and legal and reform.
Chaired the annual forum for the chairmen regulatory reform.
of HSBC Group audit and risk committees.
Participated in the annual forum for HSBC Group W S H Laidlaw non-executive directors.
Attended bespoke briefings on individual liquidity adequacy assessment in the UK.
Attended meetings J Faber of the Group Remuneration Committee at which Undertook a personal induction programme briefings were given on regulatory developments in comprising bespoke briefings on: CMB and GB&M, executive remuneration.
with particular focus on operations in the UK and Europe: the structure and responsibilities of a J P Lipsky number of the Groups global functions, including: Undertook a personal induction programme Strategy and Planning: Corporate Sustainability: comprising bespoke briefings on: GB&M: the Risk including Compliance : Finance: and Legal: structure and responsibilities of a number of the and corporate governance including Directors Groups global functions, including: Strategy and duties and obligations, HSBCs governance Planning: Risk including compliance : Finance : structure, Global Standards and Business Principles, Legal : and governance including Directors duties international corporate governance codes and listing and obligations, HSBCs governance structure, obligations.
Attended bespoke briefings on Global Standards and Business Principles, prudential regulation and HSBCs business in international corporate governance codes and Germany.
Attended meetings of the Group Risk listing obligations.
Attended bespoke briefings on Committee at which briefings were given on the risk prudential regulation.
Attended meetings of the control frameworks for the global businesses, Group Group Risk Committee at which briefings were recovery and resolution planning and legal and given on the risk control frameworks for the global regulatory reform.
businesses, Group recovery and resolution planning and legal and regulatory reform.
Participated in the R A Fairhead annual forum for HSBC Group non-executive Attended bespoke briefings on prudential regulation.
Attended meetings of committees of the Board at which briefings were given on the regulatory J R Lomax environment and developments in accounting Attended an event for non-executive directors run requirements and risk, the risk control frameworks by Tapestry Networks and Ernst & Young on bank for the global businesses, Group recovery and governance and the Trilateral Commissions Europe resolution planning and legal and regulatory reform.
Attended meetings of Participated in a risk workshop co-hosted by HSBC and Cambridge University Centre for Risk Studies.
314 committees of the Board at which briefings and a review of relevant documents.
Factors assessed were given on the regulatory environment and during Bvalcos review included the Groups culture, developments in regulatory and accounting handling of reputational issues, composition of the requirements and risk, the risk control frameworks Board, effectiveness of the Group Chairman, for the global businesses, Group recovery and interaction between Board members and resolution planning and legal and regulatory reform.
management, and Board Committee structure.
Participated in a risk workshop co-hosted by HSBC Bvalcos evaluation of the Board considered and Cambridge University Centre for Risk Studies the balance of skills, experience, independence and in the annual forum for HSBC Group nonand knowledge of the Company on the Board, its executive directors.
diversity, including gender, how the Board works together as a unit and other factors relevant to its Sir Simon Robertson effectiveness.
Attended bespoke briefings on prudential regulation, The Bvalco report concluded that the Board GPB, GB&M, Legal including US regulatory operates effectively with a number of important matters, and Strategy and Planning.
The report is used by the Board in its briefing from the external auditor on its role in the annual evaluation of its own performance and that Groups financial reporting.
Develops and refreshes of its committees and by the Group Chairman in his knowledge of the Groups businesses and operations review of the individual performance of Directors.
through regular interactions with, and receipt of The Board will monitor implementation of actions briefings from, the Group Chairman and Group arising from its 2012 performance evaluation.
Participated in the annual forum actions arising from the Boards 2011 performance for HSBC Group non-executive directors.
It is the intention of the Board to continue to J L Thornton undertake an evaluation of its performance and that Attended bespoke briefings on prudential regulation of its committees and individual Directors annually, and anti-money laundering and compliance.
with external input to the process at least every third Attended meetings of the Group Remuneration year.
Committee at which briefings were given on Formal evaluation of the individual performance regulatory developments in executive remuneration.
of each Director is undertaken annually by the Group As chairman of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. Chairman using the findings of the performance attended board meetings at which briefings were evaluation process undertaken by the Board and, as given on: the Dodd-Frank Act: key US strategic appropriate, the records of training and development considerations comprising the transformation of the activities undertaken by Directors.
During this US business including regulatory and remediation evaluation, the Group Chairman discusses the planning, business disposals and demise, core contribution of the Director and the time spent by business re-engineering and changing the culture : them in performing their responsibilities.
The and the Groups global businesses in the US Group Chairman has confirmed that all of the nonincluding, in particular, the US consumer and executive Directors continue to perform effectively mortgage lending business.
and to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Performance evaluation The non-executive Directors, led by the Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive In September 2012, Bvalco Ltd was commissioned Director, are responsible for the evaluation of the to facilitate and report on the review of effectiveness performance of the Group Chairman.
of the Board, with particular focus on the effectiveness of committees and their interaction Appointment, retirement and re-election of with the Board, the relationship and information Directors flows between the subsidiaries and the Board, the balance of skills on the Board and the level of time The Board may at any time appoint any person who commitment required from Directors.
A legal firm is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy which is engaged from time to time by the Company or as an addition to the existing Board, but the total to provide legal services holds a 20% shareholding number of Directors shall not exceed twenty-five.
in Bvalco Ltd. Bvalco Ltd has confirmed that it does Any Director so appointed by the Board shall retire not have any other connection with the Company.
at the Annual General Meeting following his or her Bvalcos report was prepared following interviews appointment and shall be eligible for re-election but with Directors and senior members of management would not be taken into account in determining the 315 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board of Directors Directors Corporate governance codes number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at through the Group Company Secretary at 8 Canada such meeting in accordance with the Articles of Square, London E14 5HQ.
The Board may appoint any Director During 2012, the Board established a to hold any employment or executive office and shareholder communication policy which is may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
Shareholders may, by ordinary resolution, appoint a person a Director or remove any Director before Conflicts of interest, indemnification of the expiration of his period of office.
On the Directors, relevant audit information and recommendation of the Nomination Committee contracts of significance and in compliance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has decided The Board has authority to approve Directors that all of the Directors should be subject to annual conflicts and potential conflicts of interest and re-election by shareholders.
Accordingly, all of the has adopted a policy and procedures for the Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual determination of terms of authorisation for such General Meeting and offer themselves for resituations.
The Boards powers to authorise conflicts election.
Each of the executive Directors is are operating effectively and the procedures are employed, on a rolling contract which requires being followed.
A review of situational conflicts 12 months notice to be given by either party.
None which have been authorised from time to time and of the non-executive Directors has a service contract the terms of those authorisations is undertaken by with HSBC.
Our Articles of Association provide that Relations with shareholders Directors are entitled to be indemnified out of the All Directors are encouraged to develop an assets of HSBC Holdings against claims from understanding of the views of major shareholders.
third parties in respect of certain liabilities.
Such Non-executive Directors are invited to attend analyst indemnity provisions have been in place during presentations and other meetings with institutional the financial year but have not been utilised by the investors and their representative bodies.
also meet representatives of institutional Each person who is a Director at the time of shareholders annually to discuss corporate approval of this report confirms that so far as he or governance matters.
she is aware, there is no relevant audit information All executive Directors and certain other senior of which the auditor is unaware and the Director has executives hold regular meetings with institutional taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken investors.
The Board receives a regular investor as a Director in order to make himself or herself relations activity report which provides feedback aware of any relevant audit information and to from meetings with institutional shareholders and establish that the auditor is aware of that brokers, analysts forecasts, information from information.
This confirmation is given pursuant to research reports and share price performance data.
section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 and should Twice each year the Board also receives a report be interpreted in accordance therewith and subject from one of our corporate brokers on market views to the provisions thereof.
None of the Directors had, during the year or On several occasions during 2012, nonat the end of the year, a material interest, directly executive Directors, including the senior or indirectly, in any contract of significance with independent non-executive Director, met or any HSBC company.
corresponded with institutional investors and their representatives to discuss governance and Corporate governance codes remuneration.
HSBC is committed to high standards of corporate As senior independent non-executive Director, governance.
HSBC has complied during 2012 Sir Simon Robertson is available to shareholders with the applicable code provisions of: i The UK should they have concerns which contact through Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial the normal channels of Group Chairman, Group Reporting Council: ii the Code on Corporate Chief Executive, Group Finance Director or other Governance Practices set out in Appendix 14 to the executives cannot resolve or for which such contact Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The would be inappropriate.
He may be contacted Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, from 1 January 2012 until its amendment and replacement 316 by the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code on Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of 1 April 2012: and iii the Hong Kong Corporate Listed Issuers Hong Kong Model Code set out in Governance Code from 1 April 2012 to the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The 31 December 2012, save that the Group Risk Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, save that Committee all the members of which are The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited has independent non-executive Directors, which was granted certain waivers from strict compliance with established in accordance with the recommendations the Hong Kong Model Code.
The waivers granted of the Report on Governance in UK banks and by The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited other financial industry entities, is responsible primarily take into account accepted practices in the for the oversight of internal control other than UK, particularly in respect of employee share plans.
internal control over financial reporting and Following specific enquiry, each Director has risk management systems Hong Kong Corporate confirmed that he or she has complied with the Governance Code provision C. 3.3 paragraphs f, code of conduct for transactions in HSBC Group g and h. If there were no Group Risk Committee, securities throughout the year, save that, on 15 June these matters would be the responsibility of the 2012, an independent non-executive Director Group Audit Committee.
At its meeting on 24 May acquired an interest as beneficial owner in 3,950 2012, the Board adopted Terms of Reference and retail bonds and as non-beneficial owner in 1,170 approved a shareholder communication policy retail bonds of RMB10,000 each issued by HSBC as required under the Hong Kong Corporate Bank plc before giving notification and receiving Governance Code.
The UK Corporate Governance written clearance to deal.
On 10 January 2013, an Code is available at www.
uk and the Hong independent non-executive Director disposed of Kong Corporate Governance Code is available at an interest as beneficial owner in 500 units of eurowww.
denominated preferred securities of EUR1,000 each issued by HSBC Capital Funding Euro 2 L. P. The Board has adopted a code of conduct for before giving notification.
All Directors have since transactions in HSBC Group securities by Directors.
been reminded of their obligations under the code of The code of conduct complies with The Model Code conduct for transactions in HSBC Group Securities.
in the Listing Rules of the FSA and with The Model 317 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
