HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Letter from the Group Chairman Directors Fassbind, former Chief Financial Officer of Credit Directors Suisse Group SA, and Jim Comey, former United States Deputy Attorney General.
D J Flint, CBE, 57 Group Chairman We have also taken steps to strengthen nonexecutive oversight of matters relating to anti-money Skills and experience: extensive governance laundering, sanctions, terrorist financing and experience gained through membership of the proliferations financing.
A new Board committee, the Boards of HSBC and BP p. l. c. : considerable Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee knowledge of finance and risk management in FSVC, will provide governance, oversight and banking, multinational financial reporting, treasury policy guidance over the framework of controls and and securities trading operations: honoured with a procedures designed to identify areas where HSBC CBE in recognition of his services to the finance may become exposed, and through that exposure, industry: member of the Institute of Chartered expose the financial system more broadly to Accountants of Scotland and the Association of financial crime or system abuse.
The FSVC will use Corporate Treasurers.
Fellow of The Chartered the knowledge and experience of its members to Institute of Management Accountants.
Joined HSBC place the Group in a position of leadership in this in 1995. area and will provide the Board with a forwardlooking perspective on financial crime risk.
Appointed to the Board: 1995 The executive committee structure has been Current appointments include: director of The enhanced during the year with the establishment Hong Kong Association: and Chairman of the of a regular separate meeting of the Group Institute of International Finance since 6 June 2012.
Management Board to focus on developing and A member of the Mayor of Beijings International implementing global standards reflecting best Business Leaders Advisory Council as well as the practices which must be adopted and adhered to Mayor of Shanghais International Business Leaders consistently throughout the Group.
Advisory Council: and a member of the International Advisory Board of the China Europe International During the year, the Board adopted a Board Business School, Shanghai.
diversity policy, which is consistent with the Groups strategic focus on ethnicity, age and gender diversity Former appointments include: Group Finance for the employee base.
At the 2011 Annual General Director and Chief Financial Officer: and Executive Meeting, I stated the Boards intention to exceed the Director, Risk and Regulation.
Co-Chairman of the aspirational target set by Lord Davies in his report Counterparty Risk Management Policy Group III: Women on Boards of 25% female representation on Chairman of the Financial Reporting Councils the boards of FTSE 100 companies by 2015.
Our review of the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control: policy re-states this intention.
member of the Accounting Standards Board and the Standards Advisory Council of the International We recognise that our strategy to be the worlds Accounting Standards Board: served on the Large leading international bank relies on a foundation of Business Forum on Tax and Competitiveness and the good corporate governance and we endeavour to be Consultative Committee of the Large Business at the forefront of this field in the coming years.
Advisory Board of HM Revenue and Customs: partner in KPMG: and non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of BP p. l. c. S T Gulliver, 53 Group Chief Executive Skills and experience: a career banker with over D J Flint, Group Chairman 30 years international experience with HSBC: has 4 March 2013 held a number of key roles in the Groups operations worldwide, including in London, Hong Kong, Tokyo, Kuala Lumpur and the United Arab Emirates: played a leading role in developing and expanding Global Banking and Markets, the wholesale banking 302 division of the Group with operations in over 65 in Hong Kong: and has worked in the US and Asia.
Appointed to the Board: 2011 Appointed to the Board: 2008 Current appointments include: non-executive Current appointments include: Chairman of The Deputy Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Banking Corporation Limited: non-official member Limited: and Chairman of the Group Management of the Executive Council of Hong Kong SAR: a Board.
A member of the Monetary Authority of Hong Kong Deputy to the 12th National Peoples Singapore International Advisory Panel since 1 June Congress of China: non-executive director of China 2012 and a member of the International Advisory Telecom Corporation Limited: member of the Council of the China Banking Regulatory Advisory Board of the Yale School of Management: Commission since 10 July 2012.
Senior International Advisor for Foundation Asset Management Sweden AB: member of the State Bar Former appointments include: Chairman, Europe, of California: and Chairman of the Financial Services Middle East and Global Businesses and Chairman of Development Council of Hong Kong SAR since HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 17 January 2013.
Appointed a non-executive director and HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA.
of Unilever PLC with effect from 14 May 2013.
Head of Global Banking and Markets: Co-Head of Global Banking and Markets: Head of Global Former appointments include: non-executive Markets: Head of Treasury and Capital Markets in director of Bank of Communications Co. Ltd. Asia-Pacific: Deputy Chairman of HSBC Trinkaus Baoshan Iron and Steel Co. Limited: Johnson & Burkhardt AG and a member of its Supervisory Electric Holdings Limited: and Chairman of the Board.
Ceased to be Chairman of HSBC France on University Grants Committee in Hong Kong.
Ceased to be a director of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited on 24 April 2012: Tata Consultancy Services Limited on 29 June 2012: S A Catz, 51 Chairman of the ICAC Advisory Committee on Corruption on 31 December 2012: and Chairman Skills and experience: a background in international of the Task Force on the Financial Services business leadership, having helped transform Oracle Development Council of Hong Kong SAR on into the largest producer of business management 17 January 2013. software and the worlds leading supplier of software for information management.
M K T Cheung, GBS, OBE, 65 Appointed to the Board: 2008 Current appointments include: President and Member of the Group Audit Committee.
Chief Financial Officer of Oracle Corporation.
Skills and experience: a background in international Joined Oracle in 1999 and appointed to the board business and financial accounting, particularly in of directors in 2001.
Greater China and the wider Asian economy: retired Former appointments include: Managing Director from KPMG Hong Kong in 2003 after more than of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
30 years: awarded the Gold Bauhinia Star by the Hong Kong Government.
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
L M L Cha, GBS, 63 Appointed to the Board: 2009 Member of the Corporate Sustainability Committee Current appointments include: non-executive and, since 1 January 2013, Chairman.
director of Hang Seng Bank Limited and HKR International Limited: non-executive Chairman of Skills and experience: extensive regulatory and the Airport Authority Hong Kong and the Council policy making experience in the finance and securities of the Hong Kong University of Science and sector in Hong Kong and mainland China: formerly Technology: director of The Association of Former Vice Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Council Members of The Stock Exchange of Hong Commission, being the first person outside mainland Kong Limited and The Hong Kong International China to join the Central Government of the Peoples Film Festival Society Ltd: and a member of the Republic of China at vice-ministerial rank: awarded Working Group on Transportation under the Gold and Silver Bauhinia Stars by the Hong Kong Government for public service: formerly Deputy Chairman of the Securities and Futures Commission 303 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Directors Economic Development Commission of the Hong Current appointments include: non-executive Kong SAR Government since 17 January 2013.
Chairman of Hogg Robinson Group plc and nonexecutive Chairman of Home Retail Group plc since Former appointments include: non-executive 4 July 2012. director of Sun Hung Kai Properties Limited and Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited: Former appointments include: executive director Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of KPMG and Chief Financial Officer of GlaxoSmithKline plc: Hong Kong: and council member of the Open non-executive director of GUS plc: member of the University of Hong Kong.
Ceased to be a nonSupervisory Board of Siemens AG: Chairman of The official member of the Executive Council of the Hundred Group of Finance Directors: and member Hong Kong SAR on 1 July 2012. of the Accounting Standards Board.
Ceased to be a council member of The Royal Academy of Arts on 18 September 2012.
J B Comey, 52 J Faber, 62 Member of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee on 4 March 2013.
Member of the Group Risk Committee since 1 March Skills and experience: extensive experience in both 2012. the public and private sectors in the US federal and state justice systems and as General Counsel to Skills and experience: a background in banking leading international businesses.
Former US Deputy and asset management with significant international Attorney General responsible for supervising experience, having worked in Germany, Tokyo, New operations of the US Department of Justice.
Former Chief Executive Officer Attorney for the Southern District of New York, of Allianz Global Investors AG and member of the oversaw the prosecution of corporate executives on management board of Allianz SE: 14 years fraud and securities-related charges and international experience with Citigroup Inc. holding positions in drug cartels.
Trading and Project Finance and as Head of Capital Markets for Europe, North America and Japan.
Has a Appointed to the Board: 4 March 2013 doctorate from the University of Administrative Current appointments include: Columbia Sciences in Speyer.
University Law School, Senior Research Scholar Appointed to the Board: 1 March 2012 and Hertog Fellow on National Security Law.
Current appointments include: Chairman of the Former appointments include: General Counsel supervisory board of Deutsche Brse AG: Chairman of Bridgewater Associates, LP: Senior Vice of the Shareholder Committee of Joh A. Benckiser President and General Counsel of Lockheed Martin SARL from 1 January 2012: independent director of Corporation: US Deputy Attorney General: US Coty Inc. : director of Allianz France S. A. Allianz Attorney for the Southern District of New York: Investment Management GmbH and Allianz Climate and Assistant US Attorney for the Eastern District Solutions GmbH: and member of the advisory of Virginia.
boards of the Siemens Group Pension Board, the European School for Management and Technology and the German Council for Sustainable J D Coombe, 67 Development.
Chairman of the Group Audit Committee and Former appointments include: Chairman of member of the Group Risk Committee and Group Allianz Global Investors  Remuneration Committee.
and Allianz Global Investors Deutschland GmbH: Chairman of the board of Allianz Global Investors Skills and experience: a background in SGR: and member of the board of Allianz SpA and international business, financial accounting and the of the supervisory board of Bayerische Boerse AG.
Formerly Chief Financial Officer of GlaxoSmithKline plc with responsibility for the groups financial operations globally.
Fellow R A Fairhead, CBE, 51 of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Chairman of the Group Risk Committee and the Appointed to the Board: 2005 Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, and member of the Group Audit Committee and Nomination Committee.
304 Skills and experience: a background in international J W J Hughes-Hallett, CMG, SBS, 63 industry, publishing, finance and general management.
Formerly Finance Director of Pearson Member of the Nomination Committee and until plc with responsibility for overseeing the day-to-day 31 July 2012, the Group Risk Committee.
Member running of the finance function and directly of the Corporate Sustainability Committee since responsible for global financial reporting and 1 January 2013. control, tax and treasury.
Has a Masters in Business Administration from the Harvard Business School.
Skills and experience: a background in financial accounting and experience of management of Appointed to the Board: 2004 a broad range of international businesses, Current appointments include: Chairman and including aviation, insurance, property, shipping, director of Financial Times Group Limited: director manufacturing and trading in the Far East, UK, US of Pearson plc and non-executive director of The and Australia.
Awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star by Economist Newspaper Limited.
Will retire from the Hong Kong Government.
Fellow of the Institute these appointments on 27 April 2013.
Non-executive of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
member of the board of the UK Governments Appointed to the Board: 2005 Cabinet Office.
Current appointments include: Chairman of Former appointments include: Executive Vice John Swire & Sons Limited: non-executive director President, Strategy and Group Control of Imperial of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited and Swire Chemical Industries plc: Finance Director of Pearson Pacific Limited: a trustee of the Esme Fairbairn plc: and Chairman and director of Interactive Data Foundation: member of The Hong Kong Corporation.
Association: and Chairman of the Governing Board of the Courtauld Institute of Art.
R Fassbind, 57 Former appointments include: non-executive director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Member of the Group Audit Committee and the Corporation Limited and a trustee of the Dulwich Group Remuneration Committee since 1 March Picture Gallery until 31 December 2012.
Skills and experience: a background in financial W S H Laidlaw, 57 accounting and international business.
Formerly Chief Financial Officer of Credit Suisse Group SA Member of the Group Remuneration Committee.
Has a Masters in Business Skills and experience: significant international Administration and a PhD in Economics from the University of Zurich.
experience, particularly in the energy sector, having had responsibility for businesses in four continents.
Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2013 Qualified Solicitor and Masters in Business Current appointments include: Vice Chairman of Administration from INSEAD.
the Supervisory Board and member of the audit and Appointed to the Board: 2008 compensation committees of Swiss Reinsurance Current appointments include: Chief Executive Company: member of the supervisory board and Officer of Centrica plc: and Lead Non-executive audit committee of Khne Nagel International Board Member of the UK Department for Transport.
AG: independent director of Oanda Corporation: and member of the supervisory board of the Swiss Former appointments include: Executive Vice Federal Audit Oversight Authority.
President of Chevron Corporation: non-executive director of Hanson PLC: Chief Executive Officer Former appointments include: Chief Financial of Enterprise Oil plc: and President and Chief Officer of Credit Suisse Group AG: Senior Advisor Operating Officer of Amerada Hess Corporation.
to the Chief Executive, Credit Suisse Group AG: Ceased to be a member of the UK Prime Ministers Chief Executive Officer of Diethelm Keller Group: Business Advisory Group on 31 December 2012.
Chief Financial Officer of ABB Group: Chairman of ABB Switzerland AG and DKSH AG: and a member of the supervisory board of Winterthur Insurance Company.
305 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Directors Secretary Adviser to the Board Former appointments include: Deputy Governor, Monetary Stability, at the Bank of England and J P Lipsky, 66 member of the Monetary Policy Committee: Permanent Secretary at the UK Government Member of the Group Risk Committee since 1 March Departments for Transport and Work and Pensions 2012 and Nomination Committee since 24 May and the Welsh Office: and Vice President and Chief 2012. of Staff to the President of the World Bank.
Skills and experience: international experience having worked in Chile, New York, Washington and London and interacted with financial institutions, I J Mackay, 51 Group Finance Director central banks and governments in many countries.
Served at the International Monetary Fund as First Deputy Managing Director, Acting Managing Skills and experience: extensive financial and Director and as Special Advisor.
Has a PhD from international experience, having worked in London, Stanford University.
Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Joined HSBC Appointed to the Board: 1 March 2012 in 2007.
Current appointments include: Distinguished Appointed to the Board: 2010 Visiting Scholar, International Economics Program at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced Current appointments include: member of the International Studies, Johns Hopkins University.
Co-chairman of the Aspen Institute Program on the Former appointments include: director of Hang World Economy: director of the National Bureau of Seng Bank Limited: Chief Financial Officer, AsiaEconomic Research: and member of the advisory Pacific: and Chief Financial Officer, HSBC North board of the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy America Holdings Inc: Vice President and Chief Research and the Council on Foreign Relations.
Financial Officer of GE Consumer Finance and A director of the Center for Global Development Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of since 1 May 2012: and Global Policy Advisor for GE Healthcare Global Diagnostic Imaging.
Anderson Global Macro, LLC since 4 February 2013.
Sir Simon Robertson, 72 Former appointments include: Vice Chairman Deputy Chairman and senior independent J P Morgan Investment Bank: director of the non-executive Director American Council on Germany and the Japan Society: and a trustee of the Economic Club of Chairman of the Nomination Committee and member New York.
of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee.
Skills and experience: a background in international J R Lomax, 67 corporate advisory with a wealth of experience in mergers and acquisitions, merchant banking, Member of the Group Audit Committee and Group investment banking and financial markets: honoured Risk Committee.
with a knighthood in recognition of his services to Skills and experience: experience in both the public business: extensive international experience having and private sectors and a deep knowledge of the worked in France, Germany, the UK and the US.
operation of the UK government and financial system.
Appointed to the Board: 2006 Appointed to the Board: 2008 Current appointments include: non-executive Current appointments include: Chairman of the Chairman of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc until 2 May International Regulatory Strategy Group and a 2013.
The founding member of Robertson Robey director of TheCityUK since 1 January 2013: Associates LLP, formerly Simon Robertson non-executive director of The Scottish American Associates LLP: non-executive director of Berry Investment Company PLC, Reinsurance Group of Bros. & Rudd Limited, The Economist Newspaper America Inc. Arcus European Infrastructure Fund Limited: and, since 8 May 2012, Troy Asset GP LLP and Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited Management: partner of NewShore Partners LLP: formerly BAA Limited : member of the Council and trustee of the Eden Project Trust and the Royal of Imperial College, London: and President of the Opera House Endowment Fund.
306 Former appointments include: Managing Director Secretary of Goldman Sachs International and Chairman of Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
Ceased to be a nonR G Barber, 62 executive director of Royal Opera House, Covent Group Company Secretary and Head of Corporate Garden Limited on 31 July 2012.
Group Company Secretary J L Thornton, 59 since 1986 and Company Secretary of HSBC Holdings plc since 1990.
Appointed a Group General Chairman of the Group Remuneration Committee.
Chairman of the Disclosure Skills and experience: experience that bridges Committee.
A member of the Listing Authority developed and developing economies and the public Advisory Committee of the Financial Services and private sectors.
A deep knowledge of financial Authority and of the Primary Markets Group of services and education systems, particularly in Asia.
Fellow of the Institute During his 23-year career with Goldman Sachs, he of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Former played a key role in the firms global development HSBC appointments include: Corporation Secretary and was Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia.
of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and Company Secretary Appointed to the Board: 2008 of HSBC Bank plc.
Current appointments include: non-executive Chairman and director of HSBC North America Adviser to the Board Holdings Inc. : Director and Co-Chairman of Barrick Gold Corporation since 15 February 2012 and 5 June D J Shaw, 66 2012 respectively: professor and director of the Global Leadership Program at the Tsinghua Adviser to the Board since 1998.
Director of HSBC University School of Economics and Management: Bank Bermuda Limited.
Ceased to be a director of Chairman of the Brookings Institution Board of HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA and Trustees: non-executive director of Ford Motor HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA on 19 September Company and China Unicom Hong Kong Limited: 2012.
An independent non-executive director director of National Committee on United Statesof Kowloon Development Company Limited and China Relations: trustee of China Institute and the Shui On Land Limited.
A solicitor and formerly a China Foreign Affairs University: and member of partner in Norton Rose.
the Council on Foreign Relations and the China Securities Regulatory Commission International Advisory Committee.
Former appointments include: non-executive director of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited and Intel Corporation, Inc. : trustee of Asia Society: and President of the Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Ceased to be a non-executive director of News Corporation, Inc. on 30 November 2012.
307 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Group Managing Directors Board of Directors Directors Group Managing Directors Asset Management: Group Treasurer: and Deputy Head of Global Markets.
A Almeida, 56 Group Head of Human Resources and Corporate M P Kaur, 49 Sustainability Group Head of Internal Audit Joined HSBC in 1992.
A Group Managing Director Will join HSBC and become a Group Managing since 2008.
Former HSBC appointments include: Director on 1 April 2013.
Former appointments Global Head of Human Resources for Global include: Global Head of Group Audit for Deutsche Banking and Markets, Global Private Banking, Bank AG: Chief Financial Officer & Chief Global Transaction Banking and HSBC Amanah.
Operating Officer, Restructuring & Risk Division, Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc: Group Head of Compliance and Anti-Money Laundering, Lloyds S Assaf, 52 TSB: and Global Director of Compliance, Global Chief Executive, Global Banking and Markets Consumer Group, Citigroup.
Chairman of HSBC France since A M Keir, 54 22 November 2012.
A director of HSBC Trinkaus & Global Head of Commercial Banking Burkhardt AG.
Former HSBC appointments include: director of HSBC Global Asset Management Joined HSBC in 1981.
A Group Managing Director Limited: Head of Global Markets: and Head of since 2011.
Former HSBC appointments include: Global Markets for Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Group General Manager, Commercial Banking, Ceased to be a director of HSBC Bank Egypt S. A. E. Europe and Global Co-Head, Global Commercial on 7 November 2012.
I M Dorner, 58 S A Levey, 49 President and Chief Executive Officer of HSBC Chief Legal Officer North America Holdings Inc. and HSBC USA.
A Group Managing Director Managing Director since 18 January 2012.
Chairman of HSBC Bank appointments include: Under Secretary for Terrorism USA, National Association and HSBC USA Inc. : and Financial Intelligence in the US Department of President and Chief Executive Officer of HSBC Treasury: Senior Fellow for National Security and North America Inc. Former HSBC appointments Financial Integrity at the Council on Foreign include: Chairman of HSBC Amanah Malaysia Relations: Principal Associate Deputy Attorney Berhad and HSBC Amanah Takaful Malaysia General at the US Department of Justice: and Partner Sendirian Berhad: Deputy Chairman and Chief at Miller, Cassidy, Larroca & Lewin LLP and Baker Executive Officer of HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad: Botts LLP.
Chief Operating Officer, Treasury and Capital Markets: General Manager of Marketing, General Manager of Human Resources: and General A M Losada, 58 Manager of Premier and Wealth Management, Chief Executive, Latin America and the Caribbean HSBC Bank plc.
A Group Managing Director since 1 December 2012.
Chairman of HSBC Bank J M Flint, 44 Panama S. A. since 6 February 2012.
A director of Chief Executive, Retail Banking and Wealth HSBC Bank Argentina S. A. since 2 May 2012 and Management a director of HSBC Mexico, S. A. Institucion fide Banca Multiple, Grupo Financiero HSBC and Grupo Joined HSBC in 1989.
A Group Managing Director Financiero HSBC, S. A. fide C. V. since 20 February since 1 January 2013.
Former HSBC appointments include: Chief Canada since 15 February 2012.
Former HSBC Executive Officer, HSBC Argentina: and Deputy appointments include: Chief of Staff to the Group Head, Personal Financial Services, Brazil.
Chief Executive and Group Head of Strategy and Planning: Chief Executive Officer, HSBC Global 308
