Business Review Global market overview Global marketplace Next-generation products The value of the global tobacco market has been estimated at Increasing prices and higher rates of excise make it ever more around 450 billion and the industry produces around 5.5 trillion important that consumers are offered real value by the tobacco cigarettes a year.
While cigarette sales in developed countries products they buy.
Quality and innovation will both play an continue to decline year-on-year, sustained volume growth is increasing role in delivering market share, as tobacco companies widely predicted in emerging markets, driven by population operate in a highly competitive marketplace.
growth and increasing disposable income.
As a result, the overall These innovations will include next-generation products: value of the tobacco market continues to grow.
new-style tobacco and nicotine products that employ a range The biggest single tobacco market is China, where the industry of new technologies.
Substantial investments have been made is state-owned, with some 350 million smokers who account in developing cigarette alternatives, including nicotine inhalation for more than 40% of global consumption.
products, electronic cigarettes, aerosol nicotine-delivery systems and products that heat tobacco rather than burn it.
The four biggest international tobacco companies British American Tobacco, Imperial Tobacco, Japan Tobacco and The scientific community widely agrees that it is the toxicants in Philip Morris International account for some 45% of the global tobacco and tobacco smoke, not the nicotine, that causes the market, or around three-quarters of the market outside China.
Conventional cigarettes carry the most risks to health, while some forms of low-toxicant smokeless Widely cultivated non-food crop tobacco products, such as Swedish-style snus, although not risk-free, Tobacco is one of the worlds most widely cultivated crops, grown are much less risky.
Regulatory-approved nicotine products that in more than 120 countries.
The farmers who choose to grow it contain no tobacco or smoke toxicants are almost risk-free.
many in developing countries do so because it is hardy, grows The UKs Royal College of Physicians has said if nicotine could be well in poorer soils and volatile weather, and is known for fetching provided in a form that is acceptable and effective as a cigarette stable prices.
Farmers can earn good yields from very small plots substitute, millions of lives could be saved.
of tobacco and are able to grow other crops, such as food, often using the same land at different times of the year.
The techniques We encourage tobacco companies, scientists and regulators to used for growing quality tobacco can also be applied to growing work together to ensure a science-based approach is used to assess these other crops.
new products that potentially pose less risk.
This will provide consumers with the assurance that the product information they Less than 1% of the worlds agricultural land is given over to receive is based on sound science and allows them to make an tobacco farming and only for part of the year, yet it is an important informed choice based on the risk profile of different products.
contributor to the agricultural economy in many countries.
Tobaccos economic contribution The global tobacco industry contributes substantially to the economies of more than 100 countries, and millions of people worldwide depend on it for employment.
Few industries are as wide-ranging and, for most countries, tobacco forms an important part of their economy and society.
Even in countries that do not have tobacco manufacturing, tobacco retail and distribution is an important source of economic activity.
And, of course, tobacco taxes are a major source of revenue for almost every government in the world for example, the UK government alone raised around 12 billion in excise and VAT on tobacco products in 2012.
It is estimated that governments worldwide collect in the region of US$250 billion in excise on the sale of tobacco products each year.
Raising the debate on Twitter British American Tobaccos Twitter account is @BATPress.
Although we dont communicate about our brands and products, we do make our views known on a series of topical industry issues.
We use Twitter to reach key stakeholders, such as journalists, opinion formers and members of the tobacco control community, on the topics that matter to us and our consumers.
Follow us @BATPress 8 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Business Review Regulating the market Tobacco farming a choice for millions of farmers Sound regulation is important in the tobacco industry and, where it is developed with all stakeholders involved, it can help to ensure an orderly marketplace that serves the interests of both consumers and governments.
Much of the tobacco regulation being proposed and introduced around the world is driven by the World Health Organizations Framework Convention on Tobacco Control.
However, excessive regulation often has unintended consequences.
Measures such as retail display bans and sudden increases in excise rates can distort competition among tobacco companies and, in some cases, may result in consumers switching to cheaper illegally trafficked products.
Legislation enacted in 2012 to introduce plain packaging for tobacco British American Tobacco produced a short film in 2012 about products in Australia could affect the livelihoods of small retailers and make counterfeit products easier to produce and sell.
It could also set tobacco farming and made it available on its corporate website a precedent for other consumer goods manufacturers and countries, and YouTube.
as international trademarks are appropriated by local laws.
This is Tobacco can grow in poorer soils and most climates and can why the Australian governments legislation has been challenged easily be grown in rotation with food and other cash crops, by member states of the World Trade Organization WTO.
The helping farmers sustain a diversified income.
The film explains complaint, raised by three separate countries, will be considered how our local experts work with farmers, promoting stable by the WTO in 2013 and a ruling is expected in 2014. livelihoods as well as helping to ensure social and environmental sustainability.
Trafficking of tobacco products Cigarettes are still among the most commonly trafficked products You can view the film at www.
com leaf on the black market due to high profit margins, the relative ease or at www.
of production and movement, along with low detection rates and penalties.
It is a widespread problem that is made worse by excessive regulatory policies in some countries.
Tobacco trafficking accounts for around 600 billion cigarettes sold every year.
This trade has a negative impact on consumers, retailers, governments and tobacco companies.
For consumers, counterfeit cigarettes mean no quality controls and no health warnings, while smuggled genuine products may carry health warnings that do not meet local government regulations.
It is estimated that governments worldwide lose up to US$40 billion a year in excise and other taxes due to the trafficking of tobacco products.
Meanwhile the profits end up in the hands of criminals who dont pay tax and sell their products to anyone, including children.
This illegal trade can only be tackled effectively if the industry, regulators and enforcement authorities work together, supported by appropriate excise policies, sound regulation and effective enforcement.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 9
