Corporate Governance Audit and accountability Summary Terms of Reference Audit Committee The Audit Committee is responsible for: Current members monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements Robert Lerwill Chairman and any formal announcements relating to the Companys Anthony Ruys performance, reviewing significant financial reporting Kieran Poynter judgements contained in them before their submission Ann Godbehere to the Board for approval: keeping under review the consistency of the accounting policies applied across the Group: Attendance at meetings in 2012 reviewing the effectiveness of the accounting, internal control Name Attended Eligible to attend and business risk systems of the Company and its subsidiaries: 4 Robert Lerwill 5 5 reviewing and, as appropriate, making recommendations to the Board on business risks, internal controls and compliance: Anthony Ruys 5 5 3 Kieran Poynter 3 3 monitoring compliance with the Companys Standards of 3 Business Conduct: Ann Godbehere 3 3 2 monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys Sir Nicholas Scheele 2 2 internal audit function: and 1 Christine Morin-Postel 1 1 monitoring and reviewing the performance of the Companys Notes: external auditors, keeping under review their independence 1 Christine Morin-Postel ceased to be a member on 21 February 2012. and objectivity, making recommendations 2 Sir Nicholas Scheele ceased to be a member on 26 April 2012. as to their reappointment or, where appropriate, making 3 Ann Godbehere and Kieran Poynter became members on 26 April 2012. recommendations for change, and approving their terms of engagement and the level of audit fees payable to them.
4 Robert Lerwill will cease to be a member following his retirement as a Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of the AGM on 25 April 2013, at The Committees terms of reference are available at which point Kieran Poynter will take over as Chairman of the Committee.
The Chief Operating Officer and the Finance Director attend all meetings of the Committee but are not members and other Directors attend by invitation.
The Committees meetings are also regularly attended by the Head of Audit Committee evaluation and Business Risk, the General Counsel to the Company and a representative The Committee considered a report prepared by the Company of the external auditors.
Secretary on the effectiveness of the Committee as assessed during Robert Lerwill, Ann Godbehere and Kieran Poynter have recent and relevant the 2012 Board evaluation.
While the Committee was considered financial experience.
to be functioning well, a number of action points were identified: As a matter of best practice, the Committee meets alone with the external auditors at the end of every meeting and also meets separately with the Group Action points Head of Audit and Business Risk at the end of every meeting.
Training and development: A technical briefing session on an Audit related topic should be included in the annual calendar.
The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to review any Chairmans induction: The new Chairman of the Committee should activity within the business.
It is authorised to seek any information receive a comprehensive induction to facilitate a smooth handover.
it requires from, and require the attendance at any of its meetings of, any Director or member of management, and all employees are Committee oversight: The Committee should receive a regular expected to cooperate with any request made by the Committee.
global overview of internal audit required actions and how these The Committee is authorised by the Board to obtain, at the are being tracked, recognising that this information was already Companys expense, outside legal or other independent presented to each Regional Audit Committee individually.
professional advice and secure the attendance of outsiders with relevant experience and expertise if it considers this necessary.
Financial and business reporting The Chairman of the Committee reports to the subsequent Board The Board is satisfied that it has met its obligation to present a meeting on the Committees work and the Board receives a copy balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys of the minutes of each meeting.
The papers considered by the position and prospects in the Directors report and financial Committee are available to any Director who is not a member.
statements and in periodic reports, reports to regulators and price-sensitive announcements.
A summary of the Directors responsibilities for the financial statements and their statement concerning relevant audit information is included at the end of the corporate governance section.
58 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance risks relating to the Groups ability to launch new products Key activities of the Audit and roll out innovations into the Global Drive Brands and Committee in 2012 other brands in its portfolio, which could impact on value and segment share in strategic markets: The Committee held five meetings in 2012.
All of these risks relating to significant or unexpected excise tax rate were scheduled.
increases or structure changes, that can lead to reduced industry volumes and increased illicit trade in a market.
Standing items of business The Committee reviewed in detail a case study on Brazil, The Committee considered the following standing items: where recent significant changes to the excise system have been introduced: the Groups 2011 results and its 2012 half-yearly results and developments and risks arising in connection with the Fox interim management statements, and external auditors River matter in the US, and other litigation involving Group reports in respect of them: companies see the statement on contingent liabilities at periodic reports from the Groups regional audit and CSR note 30 in the notes on the accounts : and committees and corporate audit committee: risks relating to the potential sudden exit of one or more the results of the annual goodwill impairment assessment: countries from the Eurozone, the potential impact on the periodic reports from the Group Head of Audit and Business Group, and the likely effect on its competitors.
The Risk on international audits and the management responses Committee also reviewed the Groups business continuity and action plans being put in place to address any plans in respect of such an event, and noted that a dedicated concerns raised: Euro Exit Risk Committee had been meeting on a regular the 2013 Internal Audit Plan: basis to review and track plans and to monitor developments.
a report from the Head of Group Security on security risks Further specific matters and frauds and losses arising during the preceding year: The Committee considered the following specific matters: compliance with the Groups Standards of Business Conduct and records management procedures: and the inclusion of adjusting items in the consolidated financial statements for the year under review, including restructuring an annual review of the external auditors independence.
costs including costs relating to the implementation of the Groups revised Operating Model and single IT operating Review of the Group risk register system, trademark amortisation relating to the Tekel, ST, The Committee considered the following risk topics: Bentoel and Protabaco brands, and other items: and risks relating to the continuing roll-out of the Groups revised the recent report by Lord Sharman on going concern and Operating Model and single IT operating system, considered liquidity risk, agreeing that in future a paper will be presented a significant area of potential risk given the importance of to the Committee on the steps taken to validate the Going successful implementation to deliver future costs savings: Concern assessment at the half year, as well as at year-end.
The business review includes an explanation of the way the Group The Group has at the date of the report, sufficient existing generates value and preserves it over the long term its business financing available for its estimated requirements for the next model and its strategy for delivering its objectives.
This, together with its proven ability to generate cash from trading activities, the performance of the Groups Global Drive Brands, its leading market positions in a number of countries Going concern and its broad geographical spread, as well as numerous contracts The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to with established customers and suppliers across different affect its future development, performance and position are set geographic areas and industries, provides the Directors with the out in the performance and strategy section and the regional confidence that the Group is well placed to manage its business review.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity risks successfully in the context of current financial conditions and position, facilities and borrowing position are described in the the general outlook in the global economy.
The key group risk factors include an analysis of financial risk and the Groups approach to financial risk After reviewing the Groups annual budget, plans and financing management and notes 21 and 24 in the notes on the accounts arrangements, the Directors consider that the Group has adequate provide further detail on the Groups borrowings and resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future and that management of financial risks.
it is therefore appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 59 Corporate Governance Audit and accountability continued auditors independence and objectivity.
A breakdown of audit, External auditors audit-related and non-audit fees paid to   LLP have been the Companys auditors firms and associates in 2012 is provided in note 3 d in the notes since it listed on the London Stock Exchange in September 1998. on the accounts and is summarised as follows: The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the auditors is working well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
Services provided by  and associates Accordingly, it has not considered it necessary to require the firm to tender for the audit work.
There are no contractual obligations 2012 201 1 m m restricting the Companys choice of external auditor.
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partners responsible for the Audit services 9.5 9.7 Group audit at least every five years and those responsible for the Audit-related assurance services 1.0 0.2 subsidiary audits at least every seven years.
The current lead audit Total audit and audit-related services 10.5 9.9 partner has been in position for three years.
Other assurance services 0.2 Auditor independence Tax advisory services 2.5 3.8 The Audit Committee has an established policy aimed at safeguarding and supporting the independence and objectivity of Tax compliance 0.9 1.3 the Groups external auditors, which is regularly reviewed and Other non-audit services 0.5 0.6 updated to ensure that it reflects best practice.
Total non-audit services 4.1 5.7 The basic principle of the policy is that the Groups external Note: IT-related services amounted to 0.4m in 2012 2011: 0.2m.
These services auditors may be engaged to provide services only in cases where are presented within non-audit services and have been re-presented into this those services do not impair their independence and objectivity, category in the comparative information.
and provided that the total annual fees for non-audit services do In 2012 non-audit fees paid to  amounted not exceed the sum of annual fees for audit and audit-related to 39% of the audit and audit-related assurance fees paid to them services.
In particular, the external auditor may not be engaged to 2011: 57 %.
provide services in circumstances where the provision of such services would result in the external auditor: Annual assessment having a mutual or conflicting interest with any Group company: The Audit Committee assesses annually the qualification, expertise being placed in the position of auditing its own work: and resources, and independence of the Groups external auditors acting as a manager or employee of any Group company: or and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Committees assessment is informed by an external audit satisfaction survey being placed in the position of advocate for any Group company.
completed by members of senior management, which it reviews in detail.
In addition the Finance Director, Group Legal Director, Head Subject to the above, the external auditor is permitted to provide of Internal Audit, Company Secretary and the Committee Chair all certain tax and other non-audit services.
The Committee meet with the external auditors to discuss the progress of the audit recognises that using the external auditors to provide such services and any significant issues are included on the Audit Committees can often bring significant benefits to the Group as a result of their agenda for consideration during the year.
detailed knowledge of its business.
However, a tender process is required for permitted categories of tax and other non-audit The Audit Committee has completed its assessment of the external services where the anticipated spend is above specified thresholds, auditors for the financial period under review.
It has satisfied itself unless a waiver from this requirement is agreed by the Group as to their qualification, expertise and resources and remains Finance Director and notified to the Audit Committee.
confident that their objectivity and independence are not in any way impaired by reason of the non-audit services which they The policy requires the submission to the Audit Committee, provide to the Group.
The Committee recognises that certain typically prior to the year end, of a work plan identifying the total projects on which they are engaged will necessarily span a fees for all audit-related services, tax services and other non-audit number of years and that they will continue to provide those services which it is anticipated will be undertaken by the external services for the length of the project.
Currently projects relating auditor in the following year.
Specific itemisation is required for tax to the Groups long-term IT initiatives fall within this category.
services and other non-audit services in excess of the tender thresholds referred to above.
Updated work plans must then be The Committee has recommended to the Board, for approval by submitted to the Audit Committee at the mid-year and year end.
In shareholders, the reappointment of  as the this way, the Audit Committee has full visibility of the Group spend Companys external auditors.
Resolutions will be proposed at the AGM on 25 April 2013 to reappoint  as the on non-audit services throughout the year, enabling it to discharge Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to agree their its responsibility for keeping such fees under review and ensuring that neither their level, nor their nature, risk impairing the external remuneration for the 2013 audit.
60 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Of the total number of business conduct incidents reported in 2012, Standards of Business Conduct set out above, 39 were brought to managements attention through The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring compliance whistleblowing reports from employees, ex-employees, third parties with the Companys Standards of Business Conduct the or unknown individuals reporting anonymously 2011: 19.
Standards, which underpin the Groups commitment to good corporate behaviour.
The Standards require all staff to act with Political contributions high standards of business integrity, comply with all applicable laws and regulations and ensure that business standards are never The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing donations made for political purposes throughout the Group.
No donation was compromised for the sake of results.
They were updated in 2011 in made in 2012 to any political party registered in the UK under the order to ensure that they remain at the forefront of best practice and are aligned with the provisions of the UK Bribery Act 2010.
Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Subsidiaries of the Company incorporated in the following countries made Every Group company and every employee worldwide, including contributions to non-EU political parties in their respective senior management and the Board of Directors, is expected to live countries totalling 5,583 2011: 209,104 : up to the Standards.
Guidance on them is provided across the Group, including through training and awareness programmes.
All Country Amount Description Group companies have adopted the Standards or local equivalents.
Samoa 604 Sponsored dinner tables at separate Senior managers in the Group must report on annual compliance functions held by the two main political with the Standards within the Group company or department for parties in Samoa, the Human Rights which they are responsible.
Information on compliance with the Protection Party and Tautua Samoa Party Standards is gathered at a regional and global level and reported to South Africa 4,979 Sponsored dinner table at the African National the regional audit and CSR committees and to the Audit Committee.
Congress National Elective Conference The CSR Committee reviews any Group reputational issues arising from non-compliance with the Standards.
The Companys current authority to make donations to EU political organisations and to incur political expenditure expires on 25 April The Standards, and information on the total number of incidents 2013.
Although neither the Company nor its subsidiaries have any reported under them in 2012 and the number of established current intention of making donations to political parties in the EU breaches, is available at www.
The number or incurring EU political expenditure, it remains possible that of incidents reported under the Standards has been reviewed by circumstances might arise in which it would be in the interests of Ernst & Young LLP as part of their process for providing assurance the Company or its subsidiaries to do so or where expenditure of the British American Tobacco Sustainability Report 2012.
Their may be categorised as such.
full assurance statement is available at www.
Accordingly, shareholders authority will be sought at the AGM on In 2012, 45 instances of suspected improper conduct contrary to 25 April 2013 to renew the existing authority, but for a shorter the Standards excluding employee fraud and theft against Group duration one year, instead of four as previously and at a lower companies were reported to the Audit Committee 2011: 28. level 100,000, instead of 1,000,000 as previously.
Full details 16 were established as breaches and appropriate action taken are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
In 24 cases, an investigation found no wrongdoing 2011: 14.
In five cases, the investigation continued at the year-end 2011: three.
No instances involved sums or matters considered material to the Group.
Confidential reporting procedures The Standards of Business Conduct also set out the Groups whistleblowing policy, enabling staff, in confidence, to raise concerns without fear of reprisal provided they are raised in good faith.
The policy is supplemented by local procedures throughout the Group and at the Groups London headquarters, which provide staff with further guidance and enable them to report matters in a language with which they are comfortable.
The Audit Committee receives quarterly reports on whistleblowing incidents.
It remains satisfied that the Groups policy and the procedures enable proportionate and independent investigation of matters raised and ensure that appropriate follow-up action is taken.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 61 Corporate Governance Audit and accountability continued The relevant external and internal auditors regularly attend meetings Risk management and internal control of these committees and have private audiences with members of the committees after every meeting.
In addition, central, regional and Board oversight individual market management, along with internal audit, supports The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the Board in its role of ensuring a sound control environment.
the significant risks that the Group is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives and for maintaining sound risk management Risk management and internal control systems.
With the support of the Audit Risk registers, based on a standardised methodology, are used at Committee, it carries out a review of the effectiveness of the Group, regional, area and individual market level to identify, assess Groups risk management and internal control systems annually and monitor the key risks both financial and non-financial faced by and reports to shareholders that it has done so.
This review the business at each level.
Information on prevailing trends, for covers all material controls including financial, operational and example whether a risk is considered to be increasing or decreasing compliance controls and risk management systems.
As part of its over time, is provided in relation to each risk and all identified risks review in 2012, the Board noted that despite a number of changes are assessed at three levels high medium low by reference to their to the Group Risk Register, which demonstrated the dynamic impact and likelihood.
Mitigation plans are required to be in place to process underpinning it, the Groups risk profile remained stable.
The risk registers and mitigation plans are reviewed on a regular basis.
Regional and above-market risk Overview registers are reviewed regularly by the relevant regional audit and The Company maintains its system of risk management and CSR committee or the corporate audit committee, as appropriate.
internal control with a view to safeguarding shareholders At Group level, specific responsibility for managing each identified risk investment and the Companys assets.
It is designed to identify, is allocated to a member of the Management Board.
The responsible evaluate and manage risks that may impede the achievement of Management Board member is identified in relation to each risk set out the Companys business objectives.
It cannot, and is not designed in the key Group risk factors section of the business review.
The Group to, eliminate them entirely.
The system therefore provides a risk register is reviewed regularly by a committee of senior managers, reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement chaired by the Finance Director, and twice yearly by the Corporate or loss.
A description of the key risk factors that may affect the Committee.
In addition, it is reviewed annually by the Board and twice Groups business is provided in the business review.
a year by the Audit Committee.
The Board and each such committee The main features of the risk management processes and system of reviews changes in the status of identified risks, assessing the impact of internal control operated within the Group are described below, and changes in impact and likelihood, and the Audit Committee also have been in place throughout the year under review and remain in spends time focusing on selected key risks in detail.
They do not cover the Groups associate undertakings.
Internal control processes Audit and CSR committee framework Group companies and other business units are required annually to The Groups audit and CSR committee framework underpins the complete a checklist, called Control Navigator, of the key controls Boards Audit and CSR Committees.
It provides a flexible channel that they are expected to have in place.
Its purpose is to enable them for the structured flow of information throughout the organisation, to self-assess their internal control environment, assist them in with committees at various levels covering key individual markets, identifying any controls which may need strengthening, and support areas and the Groups regions, each referring matters to the next them in implementing and monitoring action plans to address level as appropriate.
This framework ensures that significant control weaknesses.
The Control Navigator checklist is reviewed financial, social, environmental and reputational risks faced by the annually to ensure that it remains relevant to the business and covers Company and its subsidiaries are appropriately managed and that all applicable key controls.
In addition, at each year end, Group any failings or weaknesses are identified so that remedial action companies and other business units are required to: may be taken where necessary.
review their system of internal control, confirm whether it The Groups regional audit and CSR committees which are all remains effective and report on any material weaknesses and the chaired by an Executive Director and attended by one or more of action being taken to address them: and the Non-Executive Directors focus on risks and the control review and confirm compliance with the Standards of Business environment within each region and are in turn supported by area Conduct and identify any material instances of non-compliance and or individual market audit and CSR committees.
The corporate or conflicts of interest identified.
audit committee focuses on the risks and the control environment The results of these reviews are reported to the relevant regional within the Groups operations that do not fall within the regional audit and CSR committee or to the corporate audit committee committees remit, for example head office central functions, global and, where appropriate, to the Boards Audit Committee to programmes and above-region projects.
It comprises members of ensure that appropriate remedial action has been, or will be, the Management Board and is chaired by the Chief Executive and taken where necessary.
attended by one or more of the Non-Executive Directors.
62 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Internal audit function The Groups internal audit function provides advice and guidance to the Groups businesses on best practice in risk management and control systems.
It is also responsible for carrying out audit checks on Group companies and other business units, and does so against an audit plan presented annually to the Audit Committee, which focuses in particular on higher risk areas of the Groups business.
Financial reporting controls The Group has in place a series of policies, practices and controls in relation to the financial reporting and consolidation process, which are designed to address key financial reporting risks, including risks arising from changes in the business or accounting standards.
The Group Manual of Accounting Policies and Procedures sets out the Group accounting policies, its treatment of transactions and its internal reporting requirements.
The internal reporting of financial information for the purpose of preparing the Groups financial statements quarterly, half-yearly and at the year-end is signed off by the heads of finance responsible for the Groups markets and business units.
In addition, the heads of finance responsible for the Groups markets and all senior managers are required to confirm annually that all information relevant to the Group audit has been provided to the Directors and that reasonable steps have been taken to ensure full disclosure in response to requests for information from the external auditors.
The effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting controls is assessed through self-certification as part of the Control Navigator exercise described above and evaluation by internal audit in the context of the annual audit plan.
The integrity of the Groups public financial reporting is further supported by a number of processes and steps to provide assurance over the completeness and accuracy of the content, including: review by the Chairman, Executive Directors and members of the Management Board: review and recommendation by the Audit Committee: and review and approval by the Board.
Annual review The Turnbull Guidance the Guidance sets out best practice on internal control for UK-listed companies to assist them in assessing the application of the Codes Principles and compliance with the Codes Provisions with regard to risk management and internal control.
The processes described above, and the reports that they give rise to, enable the Board and the Audit Committee to monitor the risk management and internal control framework on a continuing basis throughout the year and to review its effectiveness at the year-end.
The Board, with advice from the Audit Committee, has completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the system of risk management and internal control for 2012.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified and the Board is satisfied that, where areas for improvement were identified, processes are in place to ensure that remedial action is taken and that progress is monitored.
The Board is satisfied that the system of risk management and internal control is in accordance with the Guidance.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 63
