Corporate Governance Board effectiveness continued Board evaluation Leadership Leadership Findings Action points The Board was assessed as having a clear understanding of the Shareholder engagement: Chairman and the Chairman of the Groups business and the financial and operational issues it faces, Remuneration Committee to offer to meet together with receiving excellent briefings from the Executive Directors.
The institutions and key shareholders to discuss corporate Board is confident of its ability to accurately assess the Groups governance and remuneration.
overall performance on the basis of the integrity of the information Remuneration policy: Review the Groups remuneration policies and analysis it receives from management.
The Board was very and their alignment to Group strategy in consultation with satisfied with the progress made at its off-site strategy sessions shareholders, in advance of regulatory changes due in 2013. in 2012.
Oversight Oversight Findings Action points The Board considers that it is afforded excellent oversight of the Audit oversight: A summary of all required actions at the Regional Groups activities.
In particular, Non-Executive Directors regard Audit Committee level to be tracked by the Audit Committee.
their participation in the Audit CSR committee framework as an CSR peer comparison: Review how the Company compares important part of this oversight and risk is also monitored to industry peers in terms of delivery and reporting of its effectively by the Board in this context.
Following its strategy CSR agenda.
sessions, the Board was keen that analysis of the impact of key risks continues to be a central component of these debates.
Meetings Meetings Findings Action points The annual Board programme was considered to be CSR Committee focus: Change standard agenda items to increase comprehensive and agendas to be properly prioritised, with focus on regulation and harm reduction.
sufficient time devoted to strategic matters.
The quality of Board papers scored highly.
Their delivery electronically via iPads a 2011 action point implemented in 2012 was embraced as a useful technology delivering administrative efficiencies.
The balance between pre-read, presentations and debate in Board meetings had improved.
The Chairmans management of debate and the effectiveness of Board discussions were considered to be very good.
Calls from the Chairman on issues between meetings offered the Non-Executive Directors a useful early warning system that they valued.
Progress made in 2012 Additional meetings of the Remuneration Committee were held in July and December.
Additional time has been found to extend the Remuneration Committee meetings in the diary for 2013 and 2014.
A secure electronic delivery system for Board papers was introduced in April 2012, via iPad devices, offering a complete suite of Board functionality.
Having been used alongside hardcopy papers in 2012, it is anticipated that Board papers other than to the Chairs of the Committees will be delivered via the new electronic system exclusively from 2013 onwards.
56 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Support Findings Action points The Company Secretarial team was judged to be responsive and Audit Committee training: A new technical training session for effective.
Non-Executive Directors were happy with their access to Committee members to be scheduled at each October Audit and engagement with the business.
All Directors were comfortable Committee meeting.
with the level of training and support they received.
Progress made in 2012 A session on R&D and non-combustibles will be included in an induction for any new Director.
The time commitment expected for the induction has been formalised in the letter of appointment.
Composition Findings Action points The strategic importance of the Far-East Asian market, and Board and Committee balance and skills: Non-Executive Directors progress in R&D, reinforced the desire for Far-Eastern and or with science-based skills and or Asian background and experience Science experience on the Board.
to be appointed to the Board.
Directors acknowledged that, at Board level, the Company has a good gender balance.
A number of Directors looked forward to further progress on gender diversity at senior management level.
Progress made in 2012 The shortlisting and interviewing of candidates with the required skills and background has continued throughout 2012, culminating in Dr Richard Tubbs appointment in 2013.
The search for a Non-Executive Director with an Asian background is continuing in 2013.
Working together Findings Action points It was recognised that the Executive Directors were a dynamic Chairmans briefings: Chairman to provide a regular update at and confident leadership team, but who valued input from the Board meetings on his activities and meetings with investors Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors felt that the Board environment, and inclusive tone set by the Chairman, was conducive to honest and constructive challenge to management proposals.
Board members emphasised that they appreciate receiving feedback on the views of institutional investors, following the Chairmans regular shareholder engagement activities throughout the year.
Progress made in 2012 Time has been allocated at the end of each Board meeting, as appropriate, for a discussion of recent shareholder and other stakeholder activities undertaken by the Chairman since the previous meeting.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 57
