Business Review Asia-Pacific Share of group revenue 27% 2011: 28% Adjusted profit from operations m 1, 666 2011: 1,539 Adjusted profit was up 127 million to 1,666 million as a result of strong performances by a number of markets in the region and favourable exchange rates.
However, this was partially offset by lower profit from South Korea and the increased level of investment in the Indonesian business.
Adjusted profit at constant rates of exchange increased by 114 million or 7%.
Volumes at 188 billion were down 2%, with increases in Bangladesh, Pakistan, Taiwan and Vietnam more than offset by lower volumes in South Korea, Indonesia and Japan.
Adjusting for the one-off comparator in Japan, volumes would have been stable.
The growth in volumes, market share, profit and Global Drive Brands strengthened the Groups market Malaysia leadership position.
Dunhill achieved record share growth.
Profit was up as a result of cost saving initiatives, favourable exchange rate movements and higher Australia pricing, partially offset by lower volumes.
Market share was slightly down but ended the year with good momentum.
Profit grew, while volumes and market share were down, following the one-off sales in the same Japan period last year.
However, underlying market share reached a record high, driven by the success of new innovations in Kent and Kool.
Volumes and market share grew, driven by Kent, State Express 555 and Craven A.
Profit increased Vietnam as a result of productivity savings, higher pricing and increased volumes.
Volumes and market share were down due to competitor pricing activities.
Higher marketing investment South Korea stabilised market share during the last quarter impacting profits.
Strong performances by Dunhill and Pall Mall contributed to a record performance in market share.
Taiwan Increased volumes coupled with higher pricing resulted in a strong increase in profit.
A strong performance by Pall Mall and John Player Gold Leaf drove market share to a record high, Pakistan strengthening the Groups leadership.
Pall Mall is now the largest brand in the market.
Higher volumes and pricing, coupled with productivity savings, drove a significant profit increase.
A significant increase in profit was the result of both market share and volume growth due to the strong Bangladesh performances of Benson & Hedges and the local brands.
The Group continues to invest behind strategic brands.
Launched in March, Dunhill became the fastest Indonesia growing and most successful launch of an international kretek brand in the market.
Profit declined, however, due to lower volumes in low margin brands and higher marketing investment and clove prices.
26 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012
