Responsibility Our people Production Business Review Our business model Our business model is designed to deliver sustainable growth in earnings for our shareholders.
It is built around consumers and is supported by our consistent strategy, with growth and productivity driven by a winning organisation acting responsibly at all times.
How our strategy and business model work together Achieve Our strategy and business model drive our global operations, leadership supported by a strong commitment to good corporate of the global tobacco industry governance.
We have world-class science, well-established brands and a range of product innovations that will deliver relevant benefits to consumers now and in future.
All this contributes to a shareholder value proposition that continues to evolve but has a formidable track record of success in Growth recent years.
Winning Productivity Responsibility organisation Growth Our business model delivering value Our consumer-centric approach to sourcing, production and Innovation Delivering v Walue orld-class science distribution helps us to create value for a wider group of stakeholders throughout our products lifecycles.
These include Our consumer-centric approach to sourcing, production and distribution farmers and their communities, other suppliers, trade partners, helps us to create value for a wider group governments and regulators.
The quality of our people is a of stakeholders throughout our products crucial factor in delivering this and our global presence enables lifecycles.
These include farmers and their us to leverage the value they create on a worldwide scale.
communities, other suppliers, trade partners, governments and regulators.
The quality of our people is a crucial factor Consumers in delivering this and our global presence Distribution Global presence Winning organisation 12 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Productivity Brands Sourcing Business Review World-class science Brands Innovation For over 50 years, we have had an We have a successful brand marketing We make significant investment in extensive scientific research strategy based on our insights of the research and development to deliver programme.
More recently, we have consumer.
Our portfolio of more than innovations that satisfy or anticipate been focusing research on innovative 200 global, regional and local brands is consumer needs and generate growth low-toxicant smokeless tobacco and designed to meet key consumer for the business.
This involves nicotine-based products for adult preferences, wherever they are in the innovations such as capsule products, smokers who want a safer alternative to world.
Our Global Drive Brands all natural products and Reloc, our cigarettes.
Our work with scientists and Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike and Pall Mall resealable pack technology.
We also public health professionals aims to have enjoyed considerable success look outside the traditional cigarette secure widespread support for tobacco and today account for one in three of market and research, develop and test harm reduction, including the regulatory the cigarettes we sell.
Our aim is to new products to meet changing changes needed to support bringing offer a tailored brand solution for every consumer needs.
We continue to reduced-risk products to market.
review potential acquisitions that will complement our in-house research or increase our speed to market.
Our people Consumers Global presence We employ more than 55,000 people We place consumers at the heart of our Our business was born international worldwide from securing our leaf business.
We invest in world-class and, with 110 years of operating supply through production and research to understand changing globally behind us, today we are one of distribution to our efforts to develop consumer needs and buying behaviour, the worlds leading tobacco groups.
Our workforce is creating brands and innovative Our brands are sold in around 180 strongly multi-cultural and we have a products that will fulfil these needs.
markets and our geographic diversity devolved structure, with each local This drives our supply chain, our and strong positions in emerging company having responsibility for its product development, our innovations, markets are key strengths.
We encourage a culture of our brands and our trade activities.
It is robust market positions in each of our personal ownership and value our our aim to satisfy consumers while regions and have leadership in more employees talents.
Their diverse addressing stakeholder concerns and than 60 markets.
With over 200 brands perspectives help us to succeed and we expectations about how we should in our portfolio, we make the cigarette recognise their critical role in achieving market our products.
chosen by one in eight of the worlds the goals we set for our business.
Sourcing Production Distribution We have a significant interest in Manufacturing tobacco products is a Our well-developed distribution tobacco growing and we provide large-scale operation and we have channels are critical enablers of our agronomy support to over 100,000 state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities growth strategy, allowing us to roll out directly contracted farmers.
We work to ensure innovations on a global scale.
We manage our whole supply chain that our costs are globally competitive continuously review our route to responsibly, both leaf and other and that we use our resources as market to ensure we remain materials used across our business, and effectively as possible.
This includes our work with suppliers to create a shared have consolidated their production relationships with wholesalers, understanding of our social, facilities in recent years to ensure that distributors and logistics providers, as environmental and economic impacts.
we can meet the needs of an agile and well as our direct to store sales This enables us and our suppliers to flexible supply chain rationalising our operation.
Almost half of our global manage risks better, while ensuring machinery and technology to establish volume is now sold through retailers that we are agile and flexible, using our a more cost-effective and world-class supplied through our direct resources as effectively as possible.
operational base for the future.
distribution capability or exclusive distributors.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 13
