Business Review Strategic review Growth We continued to achieve sustainable, profitable growth in 2012, Across our GDBs, Fine Cut roll-your-own and make-your-own driven by continued pricing momentum despite a difficult tobacco volumes grew in Western Europe by nearly 30% in 2012. economic environment.
This was underpinned by a strong brand Pall Mall posted impressive results with increased volumes of 18% portfolio, innovative launches and good pricing.
and a strong performance throughout the region.
Lucky Strike more than doubled its volumes, driven by new launches.
Strong growth driven by GDBs Strong performance of international brands Overall GDB volume grew by 3% in 2012 or by 4% excluding the impact of Japan, driven by the expansion of GDBs into new and In addition to our GDBs we have a strong portfolio of international established markets, as well as the roll-out of consumer-relevant brands such as Rothmans, Peter Stuyvesant, Craven A and John innovations.
The GDB share of global volumes has increased from Player Gold Leaf.
18% to 33% since 2005, driven by our innovations.
In 2012 we Rothmans had a very good year on the back of a new launch in remained the market leader for capsule products, with a segment Russia and grew 4% globally.
This was despite reduced volumes in share of over 50% in our key markets.
Egypt due to increased illicit trade, and the brand continued to grow in the Middle East, Nigeria, North Africa, Italy and the UK.
Dunhill, our most prestigious brand, delivered organic growth in 2012 across most of our key markets, including Indonesia, Viceroy volumes were down in 2012 due mainly to a decline in Malaysia, the Gulf Cooperation Council GCC, South Africa, Turkey.
Vogue volumes also fell in 2012 driven by a decline in Taiwan and Romania, driven primarily by innovation.
Despite the Russia, however the brand grew in key Western Europe markets difficult competitive environment in South Korea, total Dunhill such as Romania and Germany.
volume increased by 2% in 2012 to reach 49 billion cigarettes.
John Player Gold Leaf, our key regional brand in Asia-Pacific and Dunhill continued to deploy the Reloc seal across its ranges, with the Middle East, posted good growth with improved performance 62% of all Dunhill cigarettes now sold in this innovative packaging.
in its key markets of Pakistan, Bangladesh and the GCC.
Dunhill also grew across Indonesia, South Africa, Hungary, Romania Benson & Hedges saw good growth in many markets, but overall and Malaysia, helping the brand to reach record volumes in 2012. the brand was adversely impacted by market declines in Australia Kent continued its strong growth in eastern Europe and the Middle and Nigeria.
Global volume grew by 1% to 67 billion cigarettes: 4% Craven A, our regional brand in Asia-Pacific and Eastern Europe, excluding the impact of Japan.
This robust performance was achieved Middle East and Africa EEMEA, had a great year with double-digit through share gains in key markets such as Ukraine, Vietnam and other growth of 11% and an improved performance in all of its key markets.
eastern European and Middle East markets.
Underlying performance of Kool was good, although the brand Kent Convertibles, the innovative range of capsule products declined due to the high comparator caused by the impact of the launched in 2010, is now available in 26 markets.
An upgrade in both out-of-stocks in Japan in 2011. product and packaging design in 2012 resulted in an increase in volume of over 30% for this range.
The further development of Kents Peter Stuyvesant delivered higher volumes in 2012 mainly due HD range also delivered strong volume performance in Russia.
to a stable performance in South Africa and growth in other EEMEA markets.
Lucky Strike had another outstanding year with double-digit growth of 11%.
A record volume of 33 billion cigarettes was sold in Trade marketing and distribution 2012 due to strong performances in Argentina, Chile, France and We have around 10,000 Trade Marketing & Distribution TM&D Germany.
This level of growth was achieved despite the general employees responsible for the selling and delivery of our products, market decline in the key Lucky Strike markets of Spain and Italy.
the presence and activation of our brands at the point of sale and the development of mutually beneficial partnerships with our Lucky Strikes growth continued to come from both capsule technology customers.
This includes engagement in the prevention of youth and the new all natural offer.
There were almost twice as many capsule smoking and illicit trade.
cigarettes sold compared to last year and the all natural offer more than tripled sales within the same period.
These two products accounted for Developing the field force more than 22% of all Lucky Strike cigarettes sold.
To successfully support our brands and innovations in a fast-paced and rapidly changing environment, Positive, a new ambitious programme Pall Mall, our number one volume brand, delivered growth of 3% to train and develop our people is being rolled out globally.
Significant growth came from Pakistan, Germany, Canada, programme provides our people with a competitive edge and ensures Romania, Russia and the UK.
we continue to meet the demands of customers and consumers.
14 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Business Review We also work with exclusive distributors to ensure our products Route to market are effectively sold and delivered to retailers, and almost half of our Our route to market is critical to meet consumer demand at the global volume is sold to retailers through these distributors and point of sale and allows us to roll out brand initiatives and through our own distribution capability.
innovations quickly and on a global scale.
Where appropriate, we believe that direct-to-store sales DSS are an Customer management effective way of serving retailers and building sustainable business Building partnerships with retailers is a key part of our trade partnerships.
DSS gives us visibility and control over the sales and marketing activities.
We work closely with our retail partners to distribution process, allowing us access to both the market and provide support and ensure that at all times they can profitably consumer information.
It also provides a direct commercial link to meet the expectations of adult smokers with regards to availability, our most strategic retail accounts.
In 2012 we further enhanced our pricing and brand quality.
This includes the development of effective capabilities with investments in a number of markets including trading terms, which are a key foundation of a successful partnership.
Key performance indicators KPIs Groups share of key subsidiary markets increase in % share This is our retail market share in the Target Groups Top 40 markets which cover Our target is to continue to grow 0.1% around 80% of the volumes of market share.
The information used in Share figures are rebased annually to reflect this calculation is based on publicly market and segment size changes.
The 2012 available information and internal figure has been rebased to reflect the one-off company analysis.
impact of out-of-stocks in Japan in 2011.
Global Drive Brand GDB volumes GDB volumes are calculated as the total Target volumes of the four GDBs Dunhill, Our target is to increase our GDB share 232bn Kent, Lucky Strike and Pall Mall sold by faster than the rest of our portfolio.
3% Business measures Total cigarette volumes Total cigarette volumes are defined as Objective all cigarettes sold by our subsidiaries.
Our objective is to maintain or grow 694bn our total volumes.
-1.6% British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 15 Business Review Productivity Productivity continues to be an important part of our strategy.
Global supply chain network It provides the capabilities and resources we need to support In 2012 we continued to optimise our manufacturing footprint.
investment in our brands so that we can grow share in our Over the past 10 years we have reduced the number of cigarette key markets.
factories from 87 to 44 in 39 countries, including acquisitions.
Further closures, including at Bremen in Germany, have Our globally-integrated supply chain continues to improve progressed in line with expectations, while the restructuring of efficiency and effectiveness while we are making our operations Boncourt in Switzerland and Vranje in Serbia were announced flexible, agile and truly consumer-centric.
Our ability to roll out during the year.
Investment to support continued growth ensured innovations with speed is evolving and we continue to leverage manufacturing sites were optimised to deliver anticipated our scale.
volumes, coordinated across our global network.
Productivity savings Consolidation of factories around the Group continues to be Cost management remains a focus across the business, and has undertaken responsibly and with care for affected employees and helped to deliver an improved operating margin of 37.4%.
Our key factories now generally serve multiple have also continued to improve our marketing efficiency and portfolios and markets, managed through our above-market capital effectiveness, including reducing unnecessary complexity planning capability.
to save costs and using our cash and assets more effectively.
We are also developing industry-wide supply chain security We continue to realise productivity savings from the supply chain, systems with other international tobacco companies.
This will including indirect material procurement and overhead savings, include identifiers that will allow consumers and authorities to ensuring the Group is able to invest in product enhancements validate a products authenticity, and digital coding technology and capabilities that enhance the consumer experience.
to help governments ensure that all taxes and duties are paid.
New operating model Our track and trace technology, which allows us to monitor the movement of our products within the supply chain, was In 2012 the Group began a medium-term programme to implement implemented in Russia, Poland, Ukraine and Belarus by the end of a new operating model.
This includes revised organisational 2012 and is currently being introduced in Germany and Romania.
structures, standardised processes and shared back-office services, underpinned by a global, single instance of SAP.
The new structures Procurement joint venture and processes are currently being implemented and the deployment Agrega, our procurement joint venture with AB InBev, continues of the new SAP system started in the third quarter of 2012.
This will to expand its geographic reach, leverage scale and build expertise take around four years to fully roll out.
Optimising resource allocation Leaf supply chain Our integrated supply chain enables the group to deliver growth.
Our leaf supply chain is the most vertically integrated in the The transparency of demand and supply at a global level through industry and continues to provide a competitive advantage, global sales and operational planning ensures we are able to deliver faster visibility and cost efficiencies through the quality of our leaf, our and better decision making to allocate resources.
This has also people and through our relationships with farmers.
Our proven allowed us to roll out innovations faster and implement machine expertise in leaf gives us a strong position to address new technology standards improving our sourcing flexibility, consumer needs and the effects of product-based regulation.
contingency planning and capital effectiveness.
We are managing our leaf footprint to ensure sustainability of supply and guaranteeing access to quality sources of leaf.
16 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Business Review Key performance indicators KPIs Adjusted profit from operations at constant exchange rates Profit used in this assessment is the Target adjusted profit from operations of the The Groups medium to long-term target is 5,970m Groups subsidiaries adjusted profit to grow adjusted profit from operations on from operations at constant rates for the average by 6% per annum.
8% items shown as memorandum information on the Group Income Statement.
Cash generated from operations Cash flow from operations is defined as Target the free cash flow excluding restructuring A specific target is set each year for the cash 2,739m costs and dividends and other flow from operations.
The target for 2012 appropriations from associates, per the was exceeded.
alternative cash flow on page 35. Business measures Operating margin This is the percentage of adjusted profit Objective from operations divided by revenue.
Our objective is to increase operating 37.4% margin by 50-100 basis points per annum.
Free cash flow as a percentage of adjusted earnings This measures our free cash flow as Objective a ratio of the adjusted earnings.
Our objective is to maintain a percentage 81% figure over 80%.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 17 Business Review Winning organisation Diversity well above the benchmark of 71% in the fast moving consumer goods FMCG sector.
Our functions, regions and local companies We pride ourselves on having a diverse workforce who meet the are turning the detailed feedback from the survey into plans to needs of our diverse consumers, customers, suppliers and other address areas for improvement.
We have 64 nationalities working at our global headquarters in the UK.
The survey also allows us to determine our overall employee engagement index score.
Broadly, this score combines employee We are committed to improving the diversity of our senior satisfaction with our employees attitudes towards recommending management teams, including by gender and by nationality.
British American Tobacco as a place to work, their desire to stay Local staff account for an average of 62% of employees on top with the organisation and their pride in working for us.
Our teams around the world, an increase from 57% last year.
We are employee engagement index score of 72% in 2012 met our also supporting the career development of female managers to objective of scoring more favourably than the FMCG norm 68%.
increase the number of women in senior roles.
In 2012, the number of women in management roles remained steady at Employee engagement 32% and we had 25% female Board representation.
British American Tobacco is committed to employee engagement We are dedicated to providing equal opportunities to each employee.
throughout the business and this includes acting on areas identified We do not discriminate when making decisions on hiring, promotion as needing improvement in our employee survey.
or retirement and we are committed to providing training and Employees are kept well informed of the strategy, performance and development for employees with disabilities.
objectives of the Group through communication cascades at key points in the year, which involve video broadcasts from the Chief Employee opinion survey Executive, face-to-face presentations and Q&A discussions.
Global, Your Voice is our employee opinion survey that we carry out every regional and local intranets, web-based meetings and presentations, two years to measure employee satisfaction and engagement.
In and electronic employee magazines also provide important 2012 we updated the survey to better meet our business needs and information, while feedback is encouraged through open priorities, and 42,932 employees completed the survey, which was forums and Q&A sessions.
Our Sharesave Scheme, our Partnership Share Scheme and our Share The results help us to understand how our employees view us Reward Scheme are open to all UK employees.
We also operate and any issues they have.
In this latest survey, 80% said they were several similar schemes for senior management in our end markets.
extremely satisfied with British American Tobacco as a place to work, Business measures Employee engagement index Our Your Voice employee opinion Objective survey was updated in 2012 to better Our objective is to achieve a more positive 72% meet our business priorities.
This has score than the norm for the fast moving enabled us to change the business consumer goods companies in our measure and focus it more specifically on comparator benchmark group.
In 2012, our engagement index a measure that our engagement index score was 72%, reflects employee satisfaction, advocacy compared to a norm of 68% for our and pride in the organisation.
18 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Business Review Responsibility In our industry it is particularly important that we act responsibly, Responsible marketing demonstrate openness and build trust.
We do this by managing the Wherever we do business around the world, our companies impact of our operations and products responsibly.
This is backed up marketing is governed by our International Marketing Principles.
by transparent and independently assured reporting, regular They were launched at the end of 2012 and provide a consistent stakeholder engagement and sound governance procedures.
and responsible approach to marketing across the Group, replacing our International Marketing Standards which were We continue to address our social, environmental and economic launched in 2001 and updated in 2007. impacts to build value for the business, for our shareholders and for all the wider stakeholders affected by our business.
To help us do The updated International Marketing Principles reflect developments this, we will be redefining our sustainability agenda: there is more in marketing, technology, regulation and stakeholder expectations information about this in our sustainability overview on page 22. and are available at www.
Our Business Principles and our Standards of Business Conduct set We are committed to 100% compliance to our International out what we require of our companies and our employees in Marketing Principles, and immediate action is taken in response terms of responsible corporate behaviour and personal integrity.
And we support regulation that maintains a balance between consumer preferences and the interests of society, while also Environmental performance enabling our business to continue to compete commercially.
We are working to address both our immediate environmental impacts and the likely environmental pressures on the business Research & development in the future.
This involves risk assessments, performance Our Group Research & Development R&D activities are focused management and making our operations more efficient.
on our harm reduction efforts but also encompass the exploration of new products and innovative technologies.
Group R&D also Our key focus is on minimising energy consumption, reducing our provides guidance on the use of ingredients to ensure our carbon footprint and securing the resources we need for the long term.
To assess our environmental efficiency, we set targets relative products comply with national legislative requirements and our to the volume of cigarettes we produce.
Our principal R&D facilities are located in Southampton and To measure and manage our future environmental performance, Cambridge in the UK and at Cachoeirinha in Brazil.
In 2012, total in 2012 we developed new five-year targets for CO e, energy and 2 water use, as well as year-on-year targets for waste.
You can read investment in Group R&D, including marketing innovations and more about our new targets for 2013 and beyond online at www.
Nicoventures, was 171 million, compared to 166 million in 2011. bat.
In 2012 we gave presentations at a number of scientific conferences, including the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Afforestation and submitted 29 research papers for publication in peer-reviewed Our afforestation programmes encourage tree planting to provide journals.
To increase the transparency of our science we make a sustainable source of wood for farmers who require it for tobacco our research publicly available on our dedicated science website curing.
Our aim is to reduce the use of natural forests for curing www.
by directly contracted farmers to zero by 2015.
In 2012, we made progress towards this target, with a fall from 7.3% to 4.0% As part of our research into tobacco harm reduction we are of wood used by these farmers.
Since 2007 we have planted exploring a range of reduced-risk tobacco and nicotine products.
In 2012, we completed the clinical phase of a study to measure biomarkers of biological effect that could indicate changes in the Biodiversity body relating to disease processes.
Our Biodiversity Risk and Opportunity Assessment BROA tool Regulatory-approved nicotine products, as an alternative to helps our companies protect and improve biodiversity in and conventional cigarettes, offer significantly reduced health risks.
In 2012, we rolled out an updated version Our subsidiary Nicoventures is preparing to launch a nicotine of the BROA tool to all our leaf growing operations.
The next inhalation product that, subject to regulatory approval, could round of assessments will be completed by the end of 2014. provide smokers with a safer alternative to cigarettes.
Since 2001 we have worked with Earthwatch, Fauna & Flora In addition, in 2012 we acquired CN Creative, a UK-based International and the Tropical Biology Association in the British company that specialises in the development of electronic American Tobacco Biodiversity Partnership.
The Partnership seeks cigarette e-cigarette technologies intended to offer smokers less to address some of the challenging issues surrounding the risky alternatives to cigarettes.
This is a natural extension of our conservation and management of biodiversity within agricultural long-term commitment to tobacco harm reduction.
landscapes and the ecosystems on which we depend.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 19 Business Review Responsibility continued people training, education and opportunities to help them develop: Human rights promoting activities that aim to enrich public and community life: We recognise that we have a role in addressing human rights and making meaningful contributions to local agriculture.
issues and we use our influence with our suppliers to improve conditions in our supply chain.
In 2012, we reviewed our Our global CSI expenditure in 2012 was 11.6 million 2011: approach, drawing on the UN Universal Declaration of Human 13.7 million as defined by the statutory reporting criteria for Rights and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and charitable donations.
Developments OECDs Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
Health and safety Human rights criteria are incorporated into our major supply chain We are committed to providing a safe place to work for all management programmes, including our Business Enabler Survey employees and contractors.
In 2012, we strengthened our accident Tool and our Social Responsibility in Tobacco Production programme.
Our suppliers are required to meet criteria on issues including workers review processes and launched Closing the gap to zero, our rights and child labour, and we are incorporating human rights global awareness campaign.
This campaign was led by our Chief criteria into all our framework agreements with global suppliers.
We Executive and Group Operations Director.
also encourage compliance with Group policy and local laws.
Following targeted initiatives, we saw fewer accidents than the Child labour is an important issue for an industry like ours with previous year in all six most common causes of accidents.
We also an agricultural supply chain.
In 2001 we helped to establish the reduced the number of reported lost workday cases across the Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco Growing ECLT Foundation Group by 20%.
Regrettably, we suffered an increase in serious and we support it actively as a founding member, helping injuries and fatalities to our employees and contractors working in communities understand child labour issues and improving some of the more challenging environments around the world.
access to education and health services for children.
Reported serious injuries increased from 30 to 43 and fatalities from Corporate social investment seven to 12.
The rise in fatalities was mainly due to an increase in Our corporate social investment CSI activities include a range of assaults on our sales representatives and security guards and community and charitable projects, centred on empowerment, civic serious road traffic accidents.
Detailed reviews of each incident are life, environment and sustainable agriculture.
This means giving undertaken to learn lessons and identify actions for the future.
Business measures Carbon dioxide equivalent CO e tonnes CO e per million cigarettes equivalent produced 2 2 CO e is largely derived from energy Objective 2 consumption and we track this in tonnes Our objective is to reduce Group CO e 2 0.81 per million cigarettes equivalent produced.
41% 2000 baseline The 2012 figure includes the performance data for the business we acquired in Colombia in October 2011.
Group energy use gigajoules per million cigarettes equivalent produced This measure tracks Group energy use Objective in gigajoules per million cigarettes Our objective is to reduce energy use 10.31 equivalent produced.
to 9.82 by 2017, 17% lower than our lower than 2007 baseline.
2007 baseline 13% Group energy use is the energy used by the Group in its own operations, business travel and freight.
We do not include energy used to produce and deliver purchased energy.
The 2012 figure includes the performance data for the business we acquired in Colombia in October 2011.
20 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Business Review Business measures Water use cubic metres per million cigarettes equivalent produced This measure tracks Group water use Objective in cubic metres per million cigarettes Our objective is to reduce water use 3.77 equivalent produced.
to 3.6 by 2017, 26% lower than our lower than 2007 baseline.
22% 2007 baseline The 2012 figure includes the performance data for the business we acquired in Colombia in October 2011.
Waste to landfill tonnes per million cigarettes equivalent produced This measure tracks Group waste sent to Objective landfill in tonnes per million cigarettes Our objective is to sustain waste sent to 0.012 equivalent produced.
landfill at no more than 0.016 tonnes per lower than million cigarettes equivalent produced, The 2012 figure includes the performance data 52% 2007 baseline 36% lower than our 2007 baseline.
for the business we acquired in Colombia in October 2011.
Recycling percentage of waste recycled This measure tracks the total percentage Objective of Group waste re-used or recycled Our objective is to recycle more than 92.5% against total waste generated.
85% of waste generated in each year.
Lost Workday Case Incident Rate LWCIR The LWCIR is a standard health and safety Objective measure that helps us measure working The local target set for all of our companies 0.23 days lost through injury on a consistent is zero accidents, and we have a zero basis year-on-year.
accidents ambition for the whole group.
LWCIR: Lost workday cases through injury x 200,000 total hours worked.
For more information on our environmental objectives and to access our Sustainability Data Centre, visit the Sustainability section of our website.
com sustainability British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 21
