Business Review Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa EEMEA Share of group revenue 27% 2011: 26% Adjusted profit from operations m 1, 414 2011: 1,311 Adjusted profit increased by 103 million to 1,414 million.
This was principally due to stable volumes and price increases, partially offset by the adverse impact of exchange rate movements.
Adjusted profit at constant rates of exchange increased by 200 million or 15%.
Volumes were marginally lower than last year at 235 billion with increases in a number of markets including South Africa and Ukraine, partially offset by the declines in Egypt, Turkey and Nigeria.
Kent maintained its leadership of the premium segment and the successful launch of Rothmans drove Russia market share higher.
Strong profit growth was the result of higher pricing, an improved mix and productivity savings, with volumes essentially flat.
Volumes and market share increased with a good performance from Kent.
However, profit was lower Ukraine due to a competitive pricing environment and increased marketing investment.
Continued volume declines in low margin brands impacted profit and market share, despite growth by Turkey Kent and Lucky Strike.
Profit was up strongly due to a better product mix and price increases across all markets.
Good growth Gulf Cooperation in market share was mainly due to the performance of Dunhill and Rothmans.
Volumes were in line with Council GCC last year.
markets Market instability led to record levels of illicit trade following multiple and significant excise increases Egypt over the past three years.
Both profit and volumes decreased as a result.
Political and social unrest resulted in a substantial reduction in industry volumes, which led to Nigeria lower profits.
Profit in local currency grew but was more than offset by the adverse exchange rate movement.
Volumes South Africa increased despite the continuing high incidence of illicit trade.
Dunhill and Peter Stuyvesant confirmed their positions as market leaders.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 29
