Corporate Governance Our vision Growth Winning Productivity Responsibility organisation Strategic Board activities in 2012 Growth Satisfying itself throughout the year that management was on Keeping the Groups trading and performance under review, track to deliver the Groups strategy, and endorsing the direction with regular attention to the performance of the Groups key and activities proposed by management to achieve the Groups markets and its Global Drive Brands.
Considering the impact on the business of key Group risk factors Considering the Groups innovation pipeline for combustible set out in the business review and how these are mitigated, in products in light of new consumer trends and insights, and how consultation with the Audit Committee.
For example, the Board planned innovations can help strengthen its product portfolio.
considered the Groups tactical plans for dealing with one or more countries exiting suddenly from the Eurozone, following Considering the Groups proposed vision, strategy and pipeline a detailed review by the Audit Committee.
for non-combustible products in light of consumer research and the regulatory landscape.
Regularly reviewing the Groups liquidity, confirming that the Company was conforming with its financing principles Discussing the Groups Risk Register and how it is kept under including counterparty exposure limits and approving major review, improving the Boards understanding of Group-wide and new financing decisions, such as the Groups issue of debt regional risks, and helping it determine the Groups risk appetite securities of US$2 billion in the US capital markets.
in the context of specific growth opportunities.
Productivity Overseeing initiatives aimed at delivering a globally integrated Considering how the key priorities for delivering the Groups enterprise with cost and capital effectiveness for example, the strategy are allocated resources, and how the efficient rolling implementation of the Groups new Operating Model and deployment of those resources is best measured for example, Global IT solution, anticipated to improve operating efficiency.
through brand spend effectiveness models.
Discussing the proposed strategic direction of leaf supply, Discussing the purchase of the freehold to the Groups UK intended to ensure that the Group can source greater quantities head office, which will deliver on-going financial efficiencies.
and secure a consistent supply of high-grade tobacco leaf.
Responsibility Approving revised International Marketing Principles, intended Monitoring the Groups science-based approach to developing to ensure that the Groups responsible approach to marketing potentially reduced-risk products, including at Nicoventures, reflects developments in marketing, technology, regulation and a company established to focus exclusively on the development changing stakeholder expectations.
and commercialisation of innovative, regulatory-approved nicotine products.
Reviewing the Groups regulatory strategy in the context of the current regulatory landscape and likely regulatory progression in Approving a new Environmental Policy, demonstrating the the Groups key markets over the next three to five years notably Groups commitment to environmentally responsible and in Australia, where plain packaging has now been introduced.
Winning organisation Reviewing the results of the Groups biennial employee survey Discussing the reintroduction of the Groups Guiding Principles Your Voice.
The Board welcomed the strong sense of teamwork of Enterprising Spirit, Freedom through Responsibility, Open and job satisfaction among staff as a reflection of the Groups Minded and Strength through Diversity, and how the Groups culture and values.
It also acknowledged that all leaders have a leaders will share these with employees and bring them to life role in inspiring employees with a vision of the future.
The Board through their actions, behaviour, and as role models.
noted that each function and region is turning the feedback from Reviewing detailed succession planning at Board level and the survey into detailed action plans.
re-emphasising the Boards desire for scientific and or a Far-East Reviewing the talent pipeline to the Management Board and Asian business experience in candidates for the next cycle of confirming proposed appointments, in consultation with the Non-Executive Director appointments.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 53 Corporate Governance Board effectiveness continued Information and professional development Board evaluation Board induction Evaluation process On joining the Board, all Directors receive an induction covering their The performance and effectiveness of the Board and its duties and responsibilities.
Non-Executive Directors also receive a full Committees, the Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the programme of briefings on all areas of the Companys business from Chairman were assessed in 2012 using both questionnaires and the Executive Directors, members of the Management Board, the one-on-one interviews with each Board member, conducted by Company Secretary and other senior executives.
The expected time the Company Secretary.
commitment from Non-Executive Directors for their induction is An evaluation report was prepared for the Board on the results formalised in the standard letter of appointment and visits to an of this exercise, and a summary of the findings is set out in overseas factory location and the Groups R&D Centre in the accompanying table, grouped by the themes used to Southampton are required elements of the induction.
While the Board and its Committees are Following his appointment, Dr Richard Tubb will be attending considered to be fully effective, a number of new action points induction briefings covering the Groups strategy, organisational were identified see table on page 56.
In both 2010 and 2011, the structure, business functions, statutory reporting cycle, financing Board evaluation process was externally facilitated.
Details of principles, R&D activities, IT strategy and legal and regulatory continued progress against 2011 action points are also included.
He will also be attending sessions addressing corporate Constructive feedback governance, the Groups internal control and risk management Each of the four principal Committees received and separately framework and the role of the external auditors.
As part of his considered a report on their own effectiveness.
Further details of induction, he is due to visit one of the Groups factories.
the findings and action points for each Committee are included in Training and development their respective reports in this section.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to attend meetings of the In addition, the Chairman received a report on the performance of Groups regional Audit and CSR committees, in order to give them the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
A report on a better sense of the Groups regional operations.
The Nonthe Chairmans own performance was prepared for the Senior Executive Directors are also each invited to accompany a Regional Independent Director.
Individual feedback was given to all Board Director on a scheduled market visit, in order that they receive members.
Individual Directors, including the Chairman, continued regular exposure to the Groups business on the ground.
All Directors, including the Chairman, were assessed Non-Executive Directors went on market visits to Australia, to be making an effective personal contribution to the Board.
The Board and its Committees receive regular update briefings on Shareholder engagement legal and regulatory developments.
In 2012, these included Commitment to dialogue corporate governance updates from the Company Secretary on The Board is committed to high-quality dialogue with shareholders.
the revised UK Corporate Governance Code and Guidance on The Executive Directors lead in this respect, facilitated by the Head Audit Committees published by the FRC, changes to the of Investor Relations.
The Chairman also contacts major regulatory requirements for annual reporting including shareholders periodically, and in advance of the AGM each year, in remuneration reporting in 2013, the revised UK Stewardship Code order to understand their views and ensure that these are for institutional investors and the good practice recommendations communicated to the Board.
The Senior Independent Director and in Professor John Kays report on UK equity markets.
other Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with major The Chairman meets with each Non-Executive Director in the latter shareholders at their request.
part of each year, at which they can discuss their individual training Annual programme and development plans.
As part of the Audit Committees 2013 A full programme of engagement with identified priority investors action points, its members will receive additional technical training and analysts, both in the UK and overseas, is undertaken each year every year in October.
by the Head of Investor Relations.
He is often accompanied by one Information and advice or more Executive Directors and Management Board members.
The Board and its Committees receive Board papers for review in good Over 400 meetings were held in 2012 with over 275 of the time ahead of each meeting.
The Company Secretary, under the Companys institutional shareholders in 10 countries, spanning direction of the Chairman, ensures good information flow within the four continents.
In terms of percentage shareholding, the Board and its Committees, and between the Non-Executive Directors Company spoke with the owners of the majority of its shares.
She is also responsible for advising the The Chairman had 14 personal meetings with major shareholders Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, and a procedure is in place for them to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense if required.
54 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Regular investor presentations are also given.
These are published on www.
Results presentations are available by webcast.
There is a debt micro site on www.
com for debt investors, which includes comprehensive bondholder information on credit ratings, debt facilities, outstanding bonds and maturity profiles.
The AGM provides a useful opportunity for shareholder engagement and, in particular, for the Chairman to explain the Companys progress and receive questions from investors.
The chairmen of the Audit, CSR and Remuneration Committees are normally available to take relevant questions and all other Directors attend, unless illness or another pressing commitment precludes them from doing so.
All Directors at the time attended the AGM in April 2012.
Details of the date and location of our AGM in 2013 can be found in the other statutory and regulatory information section.
Topics of discussion A wide range of issues was discussed with shareholders in 2012.
Many wanted to talk about challenges facing the Group and our approach to them.
Regulation was one such challenge, in particular how our marketing model can adapt to plain packaging regulation.
Another related to excise increases and how these affect our product pricing and encourage illicit trade.
The challenging global economic environment was a frequent topic, specifically our exposure to weakness in the Eurozone.
The Company also spoke about its strategy for future growth, through both combustible and non-combustible product innovations.
At least twice a year, the Head of Investor Relations presents a report to the Board on our investor relations activities, identifying the key issues raised by institutional shareholders.
In addition, the Board receives a report at each of its meetings on any changes to the holdings of the Companys main institutional shareholders.
Significant shareholders At 31 December 2012, the following substantial interests 3% or more in the Companys ordinary share capital voting securities had been notified to the Company in accordance with section 5.1.
2 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules.
As at 27 February 2013, the Company had not received notification either of any change in the interests below or that any other person holds 3% or more of its ordinary shares.
Number of % of issued Name ordinary shares share capital BlackRock, Inc. 132,891,526 6.88 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 67,664,399 3.51 Reinet Investments S. C. A.
84,303,670 4.37 Legal & General Group plc 79,243,066 4.10 Note: The percentage of issued share capital excludes treasury shares.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 55
