Business Review Western Europe Share of group revenue 23% 2011: 23% Adjusted profit from operations m 1, 186 2011: 1,228 Adjusted profit decreased by 42 million to 1,186 million, mainly as a result of adverse exchange rate movements and tough market conditions in southern Europe.
This was partially offset by good performances in Germany, Romania, Switzerland, Sweden and the United Kingdom.
Adjusted profit at constant rates of exchange increased by 34 million or 3%.
Regional volumes were 5% lower at 129 billion mainly as a result of market contractions in Italy, Spain, Poland, Hungary and Denmark.
The difficult economic environment resulted in lower industry volumes, with market share and profit Italy declines.
However, market share and profit in the Fine Cut segment grew strongly.
Profit increased as a result of higher pricing and good cost management.
Volumes rose in a declining Germany market as a result of the good performances of Lucky Strike and Pall Mall, leading to an increase in market share.
In the Fine Cut segment, share grew strongly due to the performance of Pall Mall.
Industry volumes were lower but market share increased.
This was achieved through a strong France performance of Lucky Strike.
Profit increased due to improved pricing.
Profit grew strongly as a result of higher pricing and lower costs.
Volumes were stable but market share Switzerland rose due to strong performances of Parisienne, Lucky Strike and Pall Mall.
Industry volumes continued to decline sharply.
Despite the strong growth of Lucky Strike, market share Spain was down.
Profit grew on the back of both pricing and a lower cost base.
Higher market share was the result of strong performances of Dunhill and Pall Mall.
Profit grew as a Romania result of both higher volumes and pricing.
Industry volumes continued to decline, reducing volumes and profit.
Lucky Strike and the international Poland brands performed well despite difficult trading conditions.
Strong performances from Pall Mall and Rothmans led both to increased volumes and market share.
United Kingdom Profit grew strongly due to price increases and cost management.
Significant market contraction led to a decline in volumes, however, exit market share grew compared to Denmark the previous year.
Profit grew strongly and margins improved.
Profit increased strongly as a result of lower costs and higher prices, with volumes stable.
Market share Sweden grew due to the performances of Pall Mall and Lucky Strike.
28 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012
