Business Review Americas Share of group revenue 23% 2011: 23% Adjusted profit from operations m 1, 415 2011: 1,441 Adjusted profit declined by 26 million to 1,415 million, mainly attributable to adverse exchange rate movements and lower profit from Mexico.
Adjusted profit at constant rates of exchange rose by 103 million or 7%.
Volumes were down 1 billion to 142 billion, mainly as a result of industry decreases in Brazil, partially offset by increases in Colombia, following the Protabaco acquisition.
Organic volumes were down 4 billion to 139 billion.
Strong profit growth was driven by an improved product mix and higher pricing.
This was offset by the Brazil adverse exchange rate movement.
Market share rose strongly but volumes were lower due to market contraction after a significant excise increase and a subsequent rise in illicit trade.
Volumes and market share increased, consolidating leadership in each of the segments.
The company Canada was the only one to increase market share.
There was good market share growth but lower volumes as a result of an increase in illicit trade Mexico following a significant excise-led price increase in 2011.
Profits were down due to a tough comparator resulting from an excise windfall.
Profit was higher, while volumes and market share were stable.
The growth of Lucky Strike led to an Argentina increase in market share of the premium segment.
Higher volumes were achieved as a result of the strong performance of Lucky Strike and this led to an Chile increase in profit.
Market share was higher and profit rose strongly as a result of price increases.
This was partially offset by Venezuela the inflationary pressure on costs and adverse product mix.
Volumes were stable despite the growth in illicit trade.
The integration of the companies following the acquisition resulted in a significant increase in volumes Colombia and profit.
There was good growth from the Global Drive Brands and Mustang, the main brand acquired in the acquisition.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 27
