Corporate Governance Appointments to the Board Nominations Committee Summary Terms of Reference The Nominations Committee is responsible for: Current members Richard Burrows Chairman reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board Sir Nicholas Scheele and Management Board to ensure that both have an Karen fide Segundo appropriate balance of skills, expertise, knowledge and Ann Godbehere in the case of the Board independence: Robert Lerwill reviewing the succession plans for the Executive Directors Christine Morin-Postel and members of the Management Board: Dr Gerry Murphy ensuring that the procedure for appointing new Directors is Kieran Poynter rigorous and transparent and that appointments are made Anthony Ruys on merit against objective criteria and with due regard for Dr Richard Tubb with effect from 28 January 2013 the benefits of diversity, including gender diversity: making recommendations to the Board on suitable Attendance at meetings in 2012 candidates for appointment as Board Directors or as members of the Management Board: and Name Attended Eligible to attend assessing the time needed to fulfil the roles of Chairman, Richard Burrows 4 4 Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Director, 1 Sir Nicholas Scheele 4 4 and ensuring that Non-Executive Directors undertake that Karen fide Segundo 4 4 they will have sufficient time to fulfil their duties.
Ann Godbehere 4 4 The Committees terms of reference are available at 1 Robert Lerwill 4 4 www.
Christine Morin-Postel 4 4 Dr Gerry Murphy 4 4 Committee evaluation Kieran Poynter 4 4 The Committee considered a report prepared by the Company Anthony Ruys 4 4 Secretary on the effectiveness of the Committee as assessed during the evaluation of the Board in 2012.
While the Committee was Notes: considered to be functioning well, the Committee agreed the 1 Sir Nicholas Scheele and Robert Lerwill will cease to be members following following action point.
their retirement as Non-Executive Directors at the conclusion of the AGM on 25 April 2013.
Action point The Chief Executive and Management Board member responsible for Human Meetings: Review frequency of meetings and regular agenda items.
Resources regularly attend meetings by invitation but are not members.
The Committee noted that further work aimed at improving gender diversity at senior management level was in hand and The Nominations Committee is responsible for identifying progress would be monitored.
Further details and commentary candidates to fill vacancies on the Board.
This process includes an on diversity are included in the Board evaluation section of the evaluation of the skills and experience to be looked for in corporate governance statement.
candidates to ensure continuing Board balance and relevant experience.
The selection process will generally involve interviews with a number of candidates, using the services of external search Terms of appointment to the Board firms specialising in board level recruitment to identify and shortlist The Executive Directors have rolling contracts of one year.
This process was followed for the Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the recruitment of Dr Richard Tubb, who was shortlisted by an Company but instead have letters of appointment.
All Non-Executive external consultancy and interviewed by the Chairman and Directors have terms of appointment of one year only, which are Executive Directors, and members of the Nominations Committee, considered for renewal around the time of the Companys AGM which then recommended his appointment to the Board.
Further when, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, each non-executive appointments remain under active consideration.
Director is subject to election or re-election by the shareholders see below.
Details of the Companys policy on Executive Directors service contracts and the terms of appointment for Non-Executive Directors are set out in the remuneration report.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 67 Corporate Governance Appointments to the Board continued the steps being taken to search for potential non-executive Key activities of the Nominations appointments, in particular a candidate with Asian experience: Committee in 2012 changes in the composition of the Management Board, including: The Nominations Committee held four meetings during 2012, the departure of Mark Cobben and David Fell from the two of which were scheduled and two of which were convened Management Board with effect from 31 December 2012: to address Board and Management Board succession issues.
the appointment of Jack Bowles, previously Regional The other specific items considered by the Committee included: Director, Americas, to the role of Regional Director, revised standard terms of appointment for Non-Executive Asia-Pacific, with effect from 1 January 2013: Directors, updated to make clear that a minimum time the appointment of Ricardo Oberlander to the role commitment of 30 days per year was likely to be required of Regional Director, Americas, with effect from in the first year of service to take into account the time 1 January 2013: and required for a full Board induction, and that telephone attendance at Board meetings was permissible in the appointment of Naresh Sethi, previously Group exceptional circumstances: Business Development Director, to the role of Regional Director, Western Europe, with effect from 1 January 2013. the recruitment of Dr Richard Tubb and his appointment to the Board as a Non-Executive Director, with the assistance of A further review of succession planning for Executive Directors an external recruitment consultancy: and for the Management Board will take place in April 2013.
The Board continues to take into account the need for it to refresh Annual General Meeting 2013 its membership progressively over time.
Non-Executive Directors At this years AGM on 25 April 2013, the Company will be will normally be expected to serve for six years.
They may be invited submitting all eligible Directors for re-election all Directors, with to serve for longer, but service beyond nine years is unlikely.
Any the exception of Sir Nicholas Scheele and Robert Lerwill and, additional service beyond six years is subject to rigorous review.
in the case of Dr Richard Tubb, election for the first time.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that any Director Directors interests and indemnities who has been appointed by the Board since the last AGM is Further details of Directors contracts and letters of appointment, required to retire from the Board at the next AGM and, being remuneration and emoluments, and their interests in the shares of eligible, may offer himself or herself for reappointment.
the Company including interests in share options and deferred Accordingly, Dr Richard Tubb will retire and offer himself for shares as at 31 December 2012 are given in the remuneration re-appointment in accordance with these provisions.
No Director had any material interest in a contract of Non-Executive Directors who serve for a total of more than six significance other than a service contract with the Company or years are subject to a particularly rigorous review.
This has been any subsidiary company during the year.
done in 2012 and 2013 in the case of Anthony Ruys, who will have The Company has arranged appropriate insurance to provide served for just over seven years at the time of the 2013 AGM.
cover in the event of legal action against its Directors and also Robert Lerwill and Sir Nicholas Scheele, each of whom has served provides indemnities to its Directors in accordance with the for eight years, will retire at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
Companys Articles of Association and to the maximum extent The Chairmans letter accompanying the Notice for this years AGM permitted by law.
As at the date of this report, such indemnities are in force covering any costs, charges, expenses or liabilities that they confirms that the performance of the Directors being proposed for re-election continues to be effective and that they continue to may incur in or about the execution of their duties to the Company demonstrate commitment to their roles as Non-Executive or to any entity which is an associated company as defined in Directors, including commitment of the necessary time for Board Section 256 of the Companies Act 2006, or as a result of duties performed by the Directors on behalf of the Company or any such and Committee meetings and other duties.
Biographical details of the Directors are also provided.
68 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012
