Corporate Governance Other statutory and regulatory information 15 March 2013, no transfers between the UK main register and Companies Act 2006 the South Africa branch register are permitted and no shares The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to set out in this may be dematerialised or rematerialised between 11 March 2013 report the development and performance of the business of the and 15 March 2013, both days inclusive.
Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2012, including an analysis of the position of the Group at the end of the financial South Africa branch register: Dividend year, and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Withholding Tax information facing the Group.
South African Dividend Withholding Tax of 185.53302 SA cents per ordinary share will be withheld from the gross final dividend Principal activities paid to shareholders on the South Africa branch register at the rate British American Tobacco p. l. c. is a holding company which owns, of 15% unless a shareholder qualifies for an exemption.
After Dividend directly or indirectly, investments in the numerous companies Withholding Tax has been withheld, the net dividend will be constituting the British American Tobacco Group of companies.
1,051.35381 SA cents per ordinary share.
The principal subsidiaries and associates are listed on the principal The Company, as a South Africa non-resident, was not subject to subsidiary and associate undertakings pages.
All subsidiary the secondary tax on companies STC regime which used to undertakings are involved in activities directly or indirectly operate before the introduction of Dividend Withholding Tax.
related to the manufacture, distribution or sale of tobacco No STC credits are available for set-off against the Dividend and nicotine products.
Withholding Tax liability on the final dividend which is regarded as a foreign dividend for the purposes of the South Africa Dividend Group results and dividends Withholding Tax.
British American Tobacco p. l. c. is registered with the South African Revenue Service SARS with tax reference Results number 9378193172.
The Group results are addressed fully in the financial statements Dividend Withholding Tax and the information provided above is and in the Directors report: business review.
only of direct application to shareholders on the South Africa branch register.
Shareholders on the South Africa branch register Final dividend recommendation should refer to Shareholder and contact information for the The Board recommends to shareholders for approval at the Annual contact details of Computershare Investor Services Pty Ltd, General Meeting on 25 April 2013, a final dividend of 92.7p per the Companys registrar for the branch register.
ordinary share of 25p for the year ended 31 December 2012. Dividend information Final dividend key dates and South Africa Further details of the total amounts of dividends paid in 2012 branch register with 2011 comparatives are given in note 8 on the accounts.
In compliance with the requirements of the London Stock Exchange LSE and Strate, the electronic settlement and custody Annual General Meeting AGM system used by the JSE Limited JSE, the following are the salient The AGM will be held at The Banqueting House, Whitehall, dates for the payment of the final dividend: London SW1A 2ER at 11.30am on 25 April 2013.
Details of the Event Date 2013 business to be proposed at the meeting are contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which is sent to all shareholders Last day to trade LDT cum-dividend JSE 8 March and is also published on www.
Shares commence trading ex-dividend JSE 11 March The Company provides for the vote on each resolution to be Shares commence trading ex-dividend LSE 13 March by poll rather than by show of hands.
This provides for greater Record date JSE and LSE 15 March transparency and allows the votes of all shareholders to be counted, Payment date 8 May including those cast by proxy.
The Chairman announces the provisional voting results at the meeting, and the final results are announced on the As the Group reports in sterling, dividends are declared and payable same day through the Regulatory News Service and on www.
in sterling except for shareholders on the branch register in South Africa whose dividends are payable in rand.
A rate of exchange of :R Share capital 13.34290 as at 26 February 2013 the closing rate for that date as As at 31 December 2012, the Company had an allotted and fully quoted on Bloomberg, results in an equivalent final dividend of paid share capital of 2,026,267,623 ordinary shares of 25p each 1,236.88683 SA cents per ordinary share.
From the commencement with an aggregate nominal value of 506.6 million including of trading on 28 February 2013 the date of the preliminary treasury shares and shares owned by the employee share trusts.
announcement until the close of business on 15 March 2013, no removal requests between the UK main register and the South Africa At the close of business on 26 February 2013 the latest practicable branch register in either direction are permitted.
Further, from the date prior to the recommendation of the final dividend for the close of business on 8 March 2013 until the close of business on year ended 31 December 2012, the Company had a total of British American Tobacco Annual R eport 2012 99 Corporate Governance Other statutory and regulatory information continued 1,930,496,805 ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares.
derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the The Company held 95,892,487 ordinary shares in treasury giving a five business days immediately preceding the day on which the total issued share capital of 2,026,389,292 ordinary shares.
ordinary share is contracted to be purchased.
During the year ended 31 December 2012, the Company made Stock market listings on-market repurchases totalling 38,894,725 of its own ordinary shares, representing 2.01% of the issued share capital excluding Premium listing treasury shares as at 31 December 2012 and at a value of 1,250 The ordinary shares of the Company as British American Tobacco million, excluding transaction costs.
In accordance with the p. l. c. have been listed on the Official List and traded on the main Companys policy, all of these repurchased shares are held as treasury market of the London Stock Exchange for listed securities since shares and as at 31 December 2012 the number of treasury shares 8 September 1998 Share Code: BATS and ISIN: GB0002875804.
While treasury shares are held no dividends are paid This is classified as a premium listing.
The share registrar is on them and they have no voting rights.
Treasury shares may be Computershare Investor Services PLC.
Secondary listing Renewal of authority to purchase shares Since 28 October 2008, the Companys ordinary shares have had The present authority for the Company to purchase its own shares a secondary listing on the JSE Limited in South Africa JSE, under the will expire at the 2013 AGM, where it is proposed that the Companys abbreviated name BATS and the trading code BTI.
As at 31 December authority to purchase its own shares is renewed.
This will enable the 2012, 270,808,601 ordinary shares of the Company being 14.03% share buy-back programme to continue for a further year.
In the of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury opinion of the Directors, the exercise of this authority is likely to result shares were on its South Africa branch register for which in an increase in the Companys earnings per share and will be in the Computershare Investor Services Pty Ltd are share registrars.
interests of its shareholders generally.
Details of the applicable resolution and explanatory notes are contained in the Notice of American Depositary Receipts Annual General Meeting which is sent to all shareholders and is also published on www.
The Companys ordinary shares are also traded on NYSE MKT in the form of American Depositary Receipts ADRs under the symbol BTI with a CUSIP number 110448107.
Each ADR represents Significant agreements change of control two of the Companys ordinary shares and at 31 December 2012, The following significant agreement contains certain termination 39,272,271 ADRs were outstanding, represented by 78,544,542 and other rights for our counterparties upon a change of control ordinary shares.
Citibank, N. A. continues to act as depositary for of the Company.
A. T. International Finance The Company has unlisted trading privileges for the ADR p. l. c. and British American Tobacco Holdings The Netherlands B. V. programme and none of its securities are listed on any United as borrowers and, in the case of the Company, as a borrower and States securities exchange or registered pursuant to the securities guarantor entered into a revolving credit facility agreement with HSBC laws of the United States.
As a result, the Company is subject to Bank plc as agent and certain financial institutions as lenders neither the NYSE MKT listing standards nor the corporate pursuant to which the lenders agreed to make available to the borrowers governance rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
2 billion for general corporate purposes the Facility.
Pursuant to the Nevertheless, the Board has chosen, in the interests of good Facility, should a borrower other than the Company cease to be a governance, to make a voluntary statement explaining the direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company, such borrower shall principal differences and common areas between the Companys immediately repay any outstanding advances made to it.
Where there corporate governance practices and those that would be required is a change of control in respect of the Company, the lenders can if the Company were subject to those rules.
The updated require all amounts outstanding under the Facility to be repaid.
statement will be available on the corporate governance section of Details of the change of control provisions contained in the Companys www.
com from the date of publication of the Annual Report.
Long-Term Incentive Plans are given in the remuneration report.
Purchase of own shares Contractual arrangements Share buy-back programme 2012 Individual operating companies in the Group have contractual and other arrangements with many third parties in support of the The Board reinstated its on-market share buy-back programme Groups business activities including those covering input materials following the Companys Preliminary Announcement on filter tow, tobacco leaf and wrapping materials, logistics and 27 February 2012 and under the authority granted by shareholders distribution and information technology.
At the 2012 AGM, the Company was given authority to arrangements may be deemed to be essential to one or more purchase up to 196,600,000 of its ordinary shares.
The minimum operating companies but there are no contracts or arrangements price that may be paid for such shares is 25p and the maximum considered to be essential to the operation and understanding of the price is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle business or the Group as a whole.
market prices shown in the quotation for an ordinary share as 100 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance result, since the introduction of the provision of UK Corporate Articles of Association Governance Code in 2011 that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies The following description summarises certain provisions of the should be subject to annual re-election by shareholders, all of the Companys current Articles of Association as adopted by special Directors of the Company will be subject to either election i. e. resolution at the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2010, those Directors appointed by the Board of Directors during the applicable English law and the Companies Act 2006 the year or re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to Companies Act.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by be held on 25 April 2013. reference to the Companies Act and the Companys Articles of A Director who retires at an Annual General Meeting and is not Association, a copy of which is available on www.
reappointed shall retain office until the meeting elects someone in his place or, if it does not do so, until the conclusion of the meeting.
Share capital In addition to any power of removal under the Companies Act, the All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid and, Company may, by special resolution, remove a Director before the accordingly, no further contribution of capital may be required by expiration of his period of office and, subject to the Articles of the Company from the holders of such shares.
Association, may by ordinary resolution, appoint another person who is willing to act as a Director, and is permitted by law to do so, Objects and purposes to be a Director instead of him.
A person so appointed shall be The Company is incorporated under the name of British American subject to retirement as if he had become a Director on the day on Tobacco p. l. c. and is registered in England and Wales under which the Director in whose place he is appointed was last registered number 3407696.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the appointed or reappointed a Director.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman shall be determined by the Directors but shall not exceed in aggregate an Directors: appointment and retirement annual sum of 2,500,000, unless determined otherwise by The Companys Articles of Association provide for a Board of Directors, ordinary resolution of the shareholders.
The remuneration of the consisting unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution of Executive Directors is determined by the Remuneration Committee the shareholders of not fewer than five Directors, not subject to any which is comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors.
maximum, who shall manage the business of the Company.
Directors: meetings and voting The Directors and the Company by ordinary resolution may appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a The quorum for meetings of Directors is two Directors.
The vacancy or as an additional Director.
A Director appointed by the Directors may delegate any of their powers that are conferred Directors shall retire at the next Annual General Meeting and will upon them under the Articles of Association to such person or put himself herself forward to be reappointed by the shareholders.
committee as they consider appropriate.
Such a Director shall not be taken into account in determining the The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a Director number or identity of the Directors to retire by rotation at that next voting at a meeting of the Directors on any resolution concerning Annual General Meeting.
a matter in which he has an interest other than by virtue of his At each Annual General Meeting, all Directors shall retire from interest in shares in the Company.
However, in the absence of office by rotation who: 1 held office at the time of each of the some other interest not indicated below, a Director is entitled to two preceding Annual General Meetings and who did not retire at vote and to be counted in a quorum for the purpose of any vote either of them: and 2 if the number of Directors retiring in 1 relating to a resolution concerning the following matters: above is less than one-third of the Directors who are subject to 1. the giving to him of a guarantee, security or indemnity in respect retirement by rotation or, if their number is not three or a multiple of money lent to, or an obligation incurred by him for the benefit of three, is less than the number which is nearest to but does not of, the Company or any of its subsidiaries: exceed one-third of the Directors, such additional number of Directors as shall, together with the Directors retiring under 1 2. the giving to a third party of a guarantee, security or indemnity in above, equal one-third of the Directors or, if their number is not respect of an obligation of the Company or any of its subsidiaries three or a multiple of three, the number which is nearest to but for which the Director has assumed responsibility in whole or does not exceed one-third of the Directors.
part and whether alone or jointly with others under a guarantee or indemnity or by the giving of security: Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act and the Articles of Association, the Directors to retire at an Annual General Meeting 3. the giving to him of any other indemnity which is on substantially under 2 above will be those who have been in office the longest the same terms as indemnities given, or to be given, to all of the since their appointment or last reappointment.
other Directors and or to the funding by the Company of his expenditure on defending proceedings of the doing by the Notwithstanding these provisions contained in the Articles of Company of anything to enable him to avoid incurring such Association, the Company is not restricted to the number of expenditure where all other Directors have been given, or are to Directors who may retire and seek re-election each year.
The be given, substantially the same arrangements: Articles of Association merely set a minimum number of Directors who must be subject to retirement by rotation each year.
As a British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 101 Corporate Governance Other statutory and regulatory information continued 4. any proposal concerning the purchase of Directors and officers 4. shall not infringe his duty to avoid a situation in which he has, or liability insurance: can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company as a result of any such 5. any proposal concerning his being, or intending to become, a office or employment or from any such transaction or participant in the underwriting or sub-underwriting of an offer of arrangement or from any interest in any such body corporate: any such shares, debentures or other securities for subscription, purchase or exchange: 5. shall not be required to disclose to the Company, or use in performing his duties as a Director of the Company, any 6. any arrangements which relate in any way to a retirement benefits confidential information relating to such office or employment if scheme or any arrangement for the benefit of the employees of to make such a disclosure or use would result in a breach of duty the Company or any of its subsidiaries including but without or obligation of confidence owed by him in relation to or in being limited to an employees share scheme, which does not connection with that office or employment: accord to any Director any privilege or advantage not generally accorded to the employees and or former employees to whom 6. may absent himself from discussions and exclude himself from information, which will or may relate to that office, employment, the arrangement relates: and transaction, arrangement or interest: and 7. any transaction or arrangement with any other company, being a 7. no such transaction or arrangement will be liable to be avoided company in which the Director is interested only as an officer, because of any such interest or benefit.
creditor or shareholder, provided that he is not the holder of or beneficially interested in 1% or more of the equity share capital of For the purposes of the Articles, a general notice given to the that company or of any other company through which his interest Directors that he is to be regarded as having an interest of the nature is derived and not entitled to exercise 1% or more of the voting and extent specified in the notice in any transaction or arrangement rights available to members of the relevant company disregarding, in which a specified person or class of persons is interested is deemed for the purposes of this proviso: i any shares held by a Director as to be a disclosure that the Director has an interest in any such bare or custodian trustee and in which he has no beneficial interest: transaction of the nature and extent so specified.
ii any shares comprised in an authorised unit trust scheme in which An interest of which a Director has no knowledge and of which it is the Director is interested only as a unit holder: and iii any shares of unreasonable to expect him to have knowledge is not treated as an that class held as treasury shares.
interest: an interest which consists of a Director being a Director or The Company may by ordinary resolution suspend or relax to any other officer of, or employed by any subsidiary of the Company is extent, either generally or in respect of any particular matter, any not deemed to be a material interest: a Director need not disclose provision of the Articles prohibiting a Director from voting at a an interest if it cannot be reasonably regarded as likely to give rise meeting of the Directors or of a committee of the Directors.
to a conflict of interest: and a Director need not disclose an interest if, or to the extent that, the other Directors are already aware of it.
Directors: borrowing powers A Director will no longer be regarded as having an interest in a Without prejudice to their general powers, the Directors may transaction by virtue of a person connected to the Director having exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to a relevant interest.
However, the Director and the Company must mortgage or charge its undertaking, property, assets present and still take a view each time a matter is being considered as to future and uncalled capital or any part thereof, and subject to the whether the interests of the Directors connected persons mean provisions of the Articles of Association to issue debentures, that a Director should be treated as interested in a transaction.
debenture stock and other securities whether outright or as The Directors may subject to such terms and conditions, if any, as security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company they may think fit to impose from time to time, and subject always or of any third party.
to their right to vary or terminate such authorisation authorise, to the fullest extent permitted by law: Directors: interests 1. any matter which would otherwise result in a Director infringing Provided that the Director has disclosed to the other Directors the his duty to avoid a situation in which he has, or can have, a direct nature and extent of any material interest of his, a Director, or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the notwithstanding his office: interests of the Company and which may reasonably be regarded as likely to give rise to a conflict of interest including a conflict of 1. may be a party to, or otherwise interested in, any transaction or interest and duty or conflict of duties : arrangement with the Company or in which the Company is otherwise interested: 2. a Director to accept or continue in any office, employment or position in addition to his office as a Director of the Company and 2. may be a Director or other officer of, or employed by or may be a may authorise the manner in which a conflict of interest arising party to, or otherwise interested in, any transaction or out of such office, employment or position may be dealt with, arrangement with anybody corporate promoted by the Company either before or at the time that such a conflict of interest arises, or in which the Company is otherwise interested: provided that the authorisation is only effective if: 3. shall not, by reason of his office, be accountable to the Company 1. any requirement as to the quorum at the meeting at which for any benefit which he derives from any such office or the matter is considered is met without counting the Director employment or from any such transaction or arrangement or in question or any other interested Director: and from any interest in any such body corporate: 102 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance 2. the matter was agreed to without their voting or would have nominate a valid account.
The Company shall not be a trustee of any been agreed to if their votes had not been counted.
such monies, shall be deemed to have discharged its payment obligations by paying the relevant monies into such account and If a matter, or office, employment or position, has been authorised interest will not accrue for shareholders on any such monies pending by the Directors then subject to such terms and conditions, if any, payment to such persons.
as the Directors may think fit to impose from time to time, and subject always to their right to vary or terminate such authorisation Voting rights or the permissions set out below : Voting at any general meeting of shareholders is by a show of 1. the Director shall not be required to disclose any confidential hands unless a poll is demanded.
On a show of hands, every information relating to such matter, or such office, employment shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting has one or position, to the Company if to make such a disclosure would vote regardless of the number of shares held by the shareholder.
result in a breach of a duty or obligation of confidence owed by him in relation to or in connection with that matter, or that office, Every proxy appointed by a shareholder and present at a general meeting has one vote, except that if the proxy has been duly employment or position: appointed by more than one shareholder entitled to vote on the 2. the Director may absent himself from discussions, whether in resolution and is instructed by one or more of those shareholders meetings of the Directors or otherwise, and exclude himself from to vote for the resolution and by one or more others to vote information which will or may relate to that matter, or that office, against it, or is instructed by one or more of those shareholders to employment or position: and vote in one way and is given discretion as to how to vote by one or 3. a Director shall not, by reason of his office as a Director of the more others and wishes to use that discretion to vote in the other Company, be accountable to the Company for any benefit which way he has one vote for and one vote against the resolution.
he derives from any such matter, or from any such office, On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy employment or position.
has one vote for every share held by the shareholder.
A shareholder or his duly appointed proxy entitled to more than one vote need Dividend rights not use all his votes or cast all the votes he uses in the same way.
Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may, by ordinary A poll may be demanded by any of the following: resolution, declare dividends but may not declare dividends in 1. the Chairman of the meeting: excess of the amount recommended by the Directors.
The Directors may also pay interim dividends if it appears that such 2. the Directors: dividends are justified by the profits available for distribution.
No 3. not less than five shareholders having the right to vote at the dividend shall be paid otherwise than out of profits available as meeting: specified under the provisions of the Companies Act.
4. a shareholder or shareholders representing not less than The Directors may, with the sanction of an ordinary resolution of one-tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders having the the shareholders, offer any holders of ordinary shares the right to right to vote at the meeting excluding any voting rights attached elect to receive ordinary shares credited as fully paid instead of cash to treasury shares : or in respect of the whole or part of all such dividends as may be 5. a shareholder or shareholders holding shares which confer a right specified by the resolution.
Any general meeting declaring a dividend may, upon the recommendation of the Directors, direct to vote on the resolution at the meeting being shares on which an payment or satisfaction of such dividend to be wholly or partly by aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than one-tenth the distribution of specific assets.
Where difficulty arises in regard to of the total sum paid up on all shares conferring that right distribution, the Directors may ignore fractions or issue fractional excluding any voting rights attached to treasury shares.
certificates, fix the value for distribution of any assets and may Matters are transacted at general meetings of the Company determine that cash shall be paid to any shareholder in order to by the proposing and passing of two kinds of resolutions: adjust the rights of such members.
1. ordinary resolutions, which can include resolutions for the Any dividend which has been unclaimed for 12 years from the date appointment, reappointment and removal of Directors, the when it became due for payment shall, if the Directors so resolve, be receiving of the Annual Report, the declaration of final dividends, forfeited and shall cease to be owed by the Company.
The Company the appointment and reappointment of the external auditor, the can cease sending dividend warrants and cheques by post or authority for the Company to purchase its own shares and the otherwise if these have been returned undelivered to, or left uncashed grant of authority to allot shares: and by, the shareholder on at least two consecutive occasions, or, if following one such occasion, reasonable enquiries have failed to establish the 2. special resolutions, which can include resolutions amending the Companys Articles of Association and resolutions relating to members new address.
No dividend shall bear interest against the certain matters concerning a winding-up of the Company.
Company, unless provided by the rights attached to the share.
An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a simple The Directors may elect to make payments of dividends to shareholders by bank or electronic transfer only.
Amounts due to majority of the votes cast at a meeting at which there is a quorum shareholders who provide no, or invalid, account details may be held in order to be passed.
Special resolutions require the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the votes cast at a meeting in an account in the Companys name until such shareholders British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 103 Corporate Governance Other statutory and regulatory information continued at which there is a quorum in order to be passed.
The necessary Company to issue shares, securities convertible into shares or rights quorum for a meeting of the Company is a minimum of two to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, is shareholders present in person or by proxy or by a duly authorised restricted.
Under the Companies Act, the Directors of a company representative s of a corporation which is a shareholder and are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities entitled to vote.
without express authorisation, which may be contained in a companys Articles of Association or given by its shareholders in When convening a meeting the Company may specify a time not a general meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting excluding any than five years.
Under the Companies Act, a company may also not part of a day that is not a working day by which a person must be allot shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to an employee share entered on the register of members in order to have the right to scheme without first making an offer to existing shareholders to attend or vote at the meeting.
allot such shares to them on the same or more favourable terms in proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless this Winding-up requirement is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders.
If the Company is wound up, the liquidator may, with the sanction of a special resolution and any other sanction required by law, Alteration of share capital subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, divide among the The Company may, from time to time, by ordinary resolution: shareholders the whole or any part of the assets of the Company, and may, for that purpose, value any assets and determine how the 1. consolidate and divide all or any of its shares into shares of a larger division is to take place as between the shareholders or different amount than its existing shares: classes of shareholders.
Alternatively, with the same sanction, the 2. sub-divide any of its shares into shares of smaller amount than its liquidator may vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees existing shares: and upon trusts for the benefit of the shareholders, but no shareholder 3. determine that, as between the shares resulting from such a will be compelled to accept any asset upon which there is a liability.
sub-division, any of them may have any preference or advantage as compared with the others.
Transfer of shares Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act: Shares may be transferred by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the Directors may approve and shall 1. the Company may reduce its share capital, its capital redemption be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and, where the share is reserve and any share premium account in any way: and not fully paid, by or on behalf of the transferee.
The Directors can, in 2. the Company may purchase its own shares, including their absolute discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a share in redeemable shares, and may hold such shares as treasury shares certificated form which is not fully paid, provided that such a refusal or cancel them.
would not prevent dealings in shares in certificated form which are not fully paid from taking place on a proper basis.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in certificated form Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares whether fully paid or not unless the instrument of transfer: There are no provisions in the Articles of Association whereby persons acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage of 1. is lodged, duly stamped, and is deposited at the registered office the Companys shares are required to make disclosure of their of the Company or such other place as the Directors may appoint ownership percentage, although there are such requirements and is accompanied by a certificate for the shares to which it under statute and regulation.
The basic disclosure requirement relates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably under Part 6 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and the Transparency Rules made by 2. is in respect of only one class of share: and the Financial Services Authority imposes a statutory obligation on 3. is in favour of not more than four transferees.
a person to notify the Company and the Financial Services Authority of the percentage of the voting rights in the Company he In the case of uncertificated shares, transfers shall be registered only in directly or indirectly holds or controls, or has rights over, through accordance with the terms of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations his direct or indirect holding of certain financial instruments, if the 2001 so that Directors may refuse to register a transfer which would percentage of those voting rights: require shares to be held jointly by more than four persons.
1. reaches, exceeds or falls below 3% and or any subsequent whole If the Directors refuse to register a transfer of shares, they must give percentage figure as a result of an acquisition or disposal of shares the transferee notice of this refusal as soon as practicable and in or financial instruments: or any event within two months of the instrument of transfer being lodged with the Company.
No fees may be charged for the 2. reaches, exceeds or falls below any such threshold as a result of registration of a transfer of shares.
any change in the number of voting rights attached to shares in the Company.
Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares The Disclosure Rules and the Transparency Rules set out in detail the While holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under circumstances in which an obligation of disclosure will arise, as well the Articles of Association, the ability of the Directors to cause the as certain exemptions from those obligations for specified persons.
104 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Under Section 793 of the Companies Act, the Company may, by shares ranking in priority for payment of a dividend or in respect of notice in writing, require a person that the Company knows or has capital or which confer on the holders voting rights more favourable reasonable cause to believe is or was during the three years than those conferred by the first-mentioned shares, but shall not otherwise be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further preceding the date of notice interested in the Companys shares, to shares ranking pari passu with them or subsequent to them.
indicate whether or not that is the case and, if that person does or did hold an interest in the Companys shares, to provide certain information as set out in that Act.
The Disclosure Rules and the Repurchase of shares Transparency Rules further deal with the disclosure by persons of Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company interests in shares or debentures of the companies of which they may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies are Directors and certain associated companies.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also imposes strict upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of disclosure requirements with regard to dealings in the securities of the Companys issued share capital.
There is no longer a requirement an offeror or offeree company on all parties to a takeover and also for public companies to have specific authorisations in their articles on their respective associates during the course of an offer period.
of association to undertake these actions.
General meetings and notices Creditor payment policy An AGM and all other general meetings of the Company must be Given the international nature of the Groups operations, there is called by at least 21 clear days written notice.
However, the not a global standard code for the Group in respect of payments to Companies Act allows for this period of notice for meetings other suppliers.
In the UK, the operating subsidiaries have signed up to than AGMs to be reduced to 14 clear days notice provided that the Better Payment Practice Code under which each company two conditions are met: 1 a company must allow shareholders undertakes to: 1 seek agreement on payment terms with its to make proxy appointments via a website such as that hosted suppliers at the outset of each transaction: 2 explain its payment by its share registrars : and 2 shareholders must pass a special procedures to its suppliers: 3 pay bills in accordance with the resolution at the AGM every year approving that shortening of agreed terms and all legal requirements: and 4 inform suppliers the notice period to 14 days.
A special resolution enabling the without delay when contesting an invoice and settle disputes Company to hold general meetings other than AGMs on quickly.
Details of the Code are available on the website, www.
14 days notice will be proposed at the AGM to be held on payontime.
Non-UK operating subsidiaries are responsible for agreeing Subject to the resolution being passed, the approval of the terms and conditions for their business transactions when orders shortening of the notice period will be effective until the for goods and services are placed, ensuring that suppliers are Companys next AGM, when it is intended that the approval be aware of the terms of payment and including the relevant terms renewed.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter in contracts where appropriate.
These arrangements are adhered of routine.
Rather the Directors will consider on a case-by-case to provided that suppliers meet their contractual commitments.
basis whether the use of the flexibility offered by the shorter Creditor days have not been calculated for the Company as it is notice period is merited, taking into account the circumstances, an investment holding Company and had no trade creditors at including whether the business of the meeting is time sensitive, 31 December 2012. and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Further, the shorter notice period would not be used unless both Intra-Group pricing of the conditions as stated above are met.
The prices agreed between Group companies for Intra-Group sales Variation of rights of materials, manufactured goods, charges for royalties, services If the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of and fees are based on the normal commercial practices which would apply between independent businesses.
shares, the rights attached to any class of shares may only be varied, either in such a manner as provided by those rights or in On behalf of the Board the absence of any provision, with the consent in writing of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate Nicola Snook meeting of holders of such shares.
At any separate meeting, the Secretary necessary quorum is two persons together holding or representing 27 February 2013 by proxy at least one-third in nominal amount of the issued shares of the class but at an adjourned meeting shall be any one person British American Tobacco p. l. c. holding shares of the class or his proxy.
Unless otherwise Registered in England and Wales No.
3407696 expressly provided by the rights attached to any shares, those rights shall be deemed to be varied by the reduction of the capital paid up on those shares and by the creation or issue of further British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 105
