18 Global Executive Management Group Michael Spencer John Nixon Iain Torrens Group Chief Executive Officer Group Executive Director Americas Group Finance Director Michael Spencer was the founder of Intercapital in John Nixon has management oversight and Iain Torrens joined ICAP in 2006 as group treasurer, 1986 and became Chairman and Chief Executive of responsibility for fixed income ICAP Electronic became group financial controller in 2008 and Intercapital in October 1998, following the Exco Broking and the Americas voice broking business.
Michael, together with IPGL Prior to his appointment to the board in 2008, John ICAP, Iain worked in a number of senior financial and its subsidiary companies, is a substantial had served from 1998 to 2002 as a non-executive roles for CP Ships Limited and Cookson Group plc.
He is the chairman director and from 2003 to 2008 as a member of Iain is chairman of the GRACC and a member of the of IPGL and is on the board of many of IPGLs the GEMG responsible for strategic acquisitions.
He is a Chartered Accountant, Corporate investments.
Michael is chairman of the GEMG.
John has extensive experience in the interdealer Treasurer and a Chartered Secretary.
He was previously the Chief Executive Officer of Tullett and Tokyo Forex, now part of Tullett Prebon, where he worked from 1978 to 1997 in Toronto, London and New York.
Mark Beeston David Casterton Hugh Gallagher Chief Executive Officer, Portfolio Risk Services Chief Executive Officer, London and EMEA voice Chief Executive Officer, Asia Pacific voice Mark Beeston is responsible for post trade risk Since June 2008 David Casterton has been Since September 2010 Hugh Gallagher has been and information business.
Prior to joining ICAP in responsible for all voice broking and related responsible for voice broking, technology and December 2009, he spent four years as President support functions in London and EMEA.
Between support functions throughout Asia Pacific.
Hugh of T-Zero now ICE Link.
Before this he spent 13 1995 and 2008, David worked in a number of was appointed to the GEMG in January 2012.
He years at Deutsche Bank where, among other roles, senior broking roles and had responsibility for has held several senior positions within ICAP since he served as Chief Operating Officer for Global interest rate derivatives, money markets, repos, joining in 1988, including Chief Executive Officer Credit Trading, Chief Operating Officer for OTC government bonds and financial futures.
Prior to joining ICAP, Hugh worked Derivatives and global head of Money Market joining ICAP in 1995 he was with MW Marshalls for Citibank and Lloyds in FX and money markets.
Mark represented Deutsche and Guy Butler International.
Hugh has more than 25 years experience working Bank at board level across numerous industry in OTC markets in the Asia Pacific region.
companies and associations including ISDA, Markit, OTCDerivNet and DTCC DerivServ.
ICAP in 10 Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders ICAP plc Annual Report 2012 Global Executive Management Group 19 Gil Mandelzis Mark Price Douglas Rhoten Chief Executive Officer EBS Group Chief Operating Officer Chief Executive Officer Americas voice Gil Mandelzis co-founded Traiana in April 2000 Mark Price has overall responsibility for IT Douglas Rhoten is responsible for ICAPs voice and, on his appointment as Chief Executive Officer infrastructure, risk, compliance and human broking, technology and support functions in the of EBS in March 2012, was appointed Executive resources.
He joined ICAP in 2011 from Deutsche US and Latin America, including ICAPs operations Chairman of Traiana.
Gil led Traianas growth Bank where from 2009 he was Chief Operating in Brazil.
He is also a director of SIF ICAP SA fide CV, from a small start-up to a recognised global Officer for Global Credit and Emerging Market Debt.
ICAPs joint venture in Latin America.
Doug was a leader in post trade services resulting in Traianas While at Deutsche Bank he held a number of senior founding member of The Green Exchange and a acquisition by ICAP in 2007.
Gil was appointed roles involving both business management and former member of the US Federal Reserve Bank to the New York Federal Reserves Foreign operating responsibilities, including as the Chief Foreign Exchange Committee.
Operating Officer for Sales, Deputy Head of the middle office, and Head of the Credit Trading Product Control Group.
Prior to joining Deutsche Bank in 1998, Mark worked at Merrill Lynch for three years in Credit Derivatives Product Control.
He is chairman of the GOC and a member of the GRACC.
Duncan Wales Group General Counsel Duncan Wales has been responsible for the global legal function since December 2008.
He has occupied a number of senior roles within the legal and compliance departments at ICAP, including director of government affairs.
Prior to its acquisition by ICAP in 2003, he was director of legal affairs at BrokerTec.
As well as having experience in investment banks, Duncan spent five years at Clifford Chance as a derivatives and OTC markets specialist.
He is a member of the GOC and the GRACC.
He is a member of the GC 100 Group and the Council of the Wholesale Markets Brokers Association.
