56 Remuneration report Statement by the chairman of Remuneration is aligned with ICAPs risk profile the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present the Groups Remuneration is earned on revenue ICAP employees cannot increase their remuneration report which provides that is certain.
Due to the nature of remuneration simply by taking on more details of the remuneration policy and the ICAPs roles as an intermediary, post risk.
ICAPs market and credit risk profile remuneration for each of the directors of trade service provider and information is substantially different from that of the ICAP plc for the year ended 31 March 2012 provider, Group revenue is in the form large risk-taking banks, investment banks, and the proposals for the remuneration of of i commissions for successful hedge funds and insurance companies.
executive directors for 2012 13. execution or processing of our customers trades and ii fees for the provision of Capital is not a constraining factor The committees responsibility is the market data services.
The conversion in the management and planning oversight of the remuneration strategy for of commissions or fees invoiced into of our activities.
the Group, to ensure that ICAPs approach collected revenue is very rapid typically to remuneration is appropriate to it being within 60 days and not contingent on the largest interdealer broker and a leading the future performance of any underlying provider of post trade risk and information reference asset or transaction.
services, to ensure the alignment of the interests of employees and shareholders and to comply with current best practice and regulatory requirements.
As an Remuneration Committee at the beginning year bonus pool of 11.3 million excluding interdealer broker, ICAP does not take of the year, included strategic goals in the bonus paid to Mark Yallop as the outright position risk and the remuneration respect of other financial objectives, voice, previous Group Chief Operating Officer.
policy is aligned with the activities the electronic, post trade risk and information Group undertakes and is compatible services, process and people.
The As a result, the total compensation paid with the Groups risk policies.
committee assessed managements to the Group Chief Executive Officer for achievement of these objectives at 68% 2011 12 was 27% below the prior year.
Remuneration for the year ended which resulted in a bonus pool, in respect of Full details of all executive directors 31 March 2012 the qualitative factors, of 3.97 million.
remuneration are set out on page 61.
There has been no increase in base salaries Had the quantitative factor been applied in for the executive directors for the year full to the profit before tax, acquisition and As in prior years, of the bonus pool for ended 31 March 2012.
The targets for the disposal costs and exceptional items of 2011 12 of 8.5 million, half is paid in cash bonus arrangements for the year ended 354 million, this would have resulted in a and half is used to acquire shares a basic 31 March 2012 were set out in the bonus pool for the financial performance of award under the BSMP.
Based on achieving 11.86 million making a total bonus pool over the same number of shares as the basic the target profit, and full achievement of of 15.83 million.
The committee exercised award is then made to the executive director the agreed objectives for the year, the total its discretion in reducing the bonus pool by and is subject to a performance condition.
bonus pool for 2011 12 would have been considering the overall financial and trading 19 million.
Where targets and objectives performance of the Group and by a Group Chief Operating Officer are not met in full, which was the case for reduction in the size of the pool as a result Mark Yallop served as the Group Chief the year under review, there are both of the remuneration paid to Mark Yallop Operating Officer from July 2005 until quantitative and qualitative factors the as Group Chief Operating Officer for the his resignation on 30 September 2011. committee has to consider when exercising period he was in office and by the costs He received a cash bonus for the period to its discretion in assessing the quantum of of recruiting the current Group Chief 30 September 2011 of 1.1 million.
The quantitative factor, the Operating Officer who is not an executive Price was appointed the Group Chief financial performance, is given a weighting director.
As a result, the bonus pool for Operating Officer on 1 October 2011 of 67% of the total pool and the qualitative the three executive directors for the year and, as part of his joining arrangements, factors represent 33% of the total pool.
ended 31 March 2012 was reduced to the Company bought out his deferred The objectives for 2011 12, agreed by the 8.5 million, which compared with the prior compensation, stock and cash, from his ICAP in 10 Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders ICAP plc Annual Report 2012 Remuneration report 57 previous employer which will vest in Changes to the bonus scheme The table below provides examples of accordance with its original vesting for 2012 13 the sensitivities of the bonus pool figure schedule.
From 1 April 2012, Mark Price, The existing bonus scheme will be amended to the achievement of targeted profit as Group Chief Operating Officer, will to incentivise executive directors to increase before tax and the achievement of the participate in the bonus pool arrangements profit and will further align their interests with strategic objectives.
for executive directors but his long-term those of shareholders by the creation of a Profit Profit Profit incentive arrangement will be satisfied by profit level below which no bonus will be Achievement before before before his participation, as a member of the GEMG, payable, a payout curve which will increase up of strategic tax tax tax objectives target target target in the ICAP LTIP rather than the BSMP in to the target level and a maximum level above % 10% 354m 10% which only executive directors participate.
which no additional bonus would be payable.
25 7.2m 8.6m 11.5m The bonus pool floor has been set for the year 50 7.7m 9.3m 12.4m Proposed remuneration for the ending 31 March 2013 at 75 million.
This 75 8.3m 9.9m 13.2m year ending 31 March 2013 figure will increase by RPI 3% on an annual 100 8.8m 10.6m 14.1m As a result of feedback from previous basis which will have the effect of increasing Profit before tax, acquisition and disposal costs remuneration reports regarding the need each tier by a multiple of the floor level.
to reward profit growth while also capping payout curve for 2012 13 is illustrated in the the absolute size of the bonus pool, table below.
The maximum bonus pool is The qualitative objectives, to be assessed we have, during the year under review, capped at a maximum achievement of 120% by the committee, for the year ending undertaken a consultation programme of the target profit figure.
31 March 2013 will include delivery of: with key shareholders on ICAPs approach a broad, innovative service offering: Marginal to remuneration.
A number of areas were superior shareholder returns: Profit bonus rate discussed and it was agreed that the the leading market position: and before tax for 2012 13 Tier m % following issues would be taken into greater optimisation of people, 1 floor 0 75 0 account in the review of the bonus systems and processes.
2 76 149 2.75 arrangements for the executive directors 3 150 224 3.50 and members of the GEMG: Of the bonus pool, half will continue to be 4 225 299 4.25 the objective of the review was to paid in cash.
The executive directors will be 5 300 353 5.00 fide-emphasise simple profit sharing required to acquire shares in the Company 6 target and focus on the increase in profit with the remainder of their after tax bonus maximum 354 424 10.00 growth: and pool.
Matching awards will be granted over 7 424 0 to ensure that the incentive shares with a value equal to the remainder arrangements are aligned with of an executive directors bonus pool before the future performance of ICAP.
From this schedule, the gross bonus pool tax.
A matching award will usually be is calculated, 75% of which will relate to released after three years if the executive The main changes are as follows: the achievement of the financial objective director to whom the particular award was the new scheme has substantially higher and 25% will relate to the achievement of made is still employed, has retained the hurdles for the same level of bonus: the strategic objectives over which the shares purchased with his net of tax bonus the new scheme rewards profit growth committee will exercise its discretion as amount and the performance condition and success: to the level of achievement.
the hurdles for the scheme to pay in the percentage of the pool attributable out rise each year: and to the achievement of the financial and The BSMP was approved by shareholders there are no cliff payments.
strategic objectives is designed to remove at the annual general meeting in 2003 with some level of discretion and to recognise a ten-year life.
It is therefore proposed that The committee remains satisfied that, those actions undertaken by executive the scheme be renewed and a resolution is with these changes, the key principles management which may contribute in being proposed for approval at the annual of the remuneration policy are those non-profit terms to maintaining the general meeting in July 2012.
No material that create sustainable value for our franchise and in providing long-term growth.
Details of the shareholders over the long term.
scheme are included in the Notice of the As an example, assuming the achievement annual general meeting which is being of a target profit before tax of 354 million sent to all shareholders.
for 2012 13, and the achievement of the strategic objectives at the same level as 2011 12, this would produce a bonus pool for the executive directors and the Group Chief Operating Officer of 9.8 million.
