44 Chairmans statement Throughout the year, all your nonThere was unanimous agreement that executive directors have contributed the dynamics of the boardroom, including extensively to the business of the board the environment and the ability of the and demonstrated a high level of non-executive directors to challenge involvement in the activities of the Group.
the executive management, worked well.
They have been exposed to the operations However, there were some areas in which and management teams across the global further development was considered businesses and have had opportunities to advisable.
These included global HR and challenge performance and the control IT strategy and succession planning, with framework within each business.
greater board visibility of executives Charles Gregson below the GEMG.
These areas have been Non-executive Chairman My principal responsibilities as Chairman incorporated into the board schedule are to lead the board and to ensure its for 2012 13. effectiveness.
To this end, the boards time On behalf of the board, I am pleased has been prioritised to focus as much as I am delighted that the results of the board to report to you on ICAPs corporate possible on activities which we consider evaluation have confirmed that, individually governance, where we aim to central to proper oversight.
For the year and collectively, your board and committees demonstrate our continuing to March 2012, these activities included performances were and are effective and commitment to strong oversight approval of the Groups strategy, review that each director has the appropriate at a time when our industry of the delivery of the strategy and skills and expertise to continue to drive the is facing increased regulation and development of the risk management Company forward.
In accordance with the close scrutiny from investors.
We also spent time examining UK Corporate Governance Code, and as we and understanding developments in the did last year, all directors will be offering The board considers that it has complied regulatory and competitive environment themselves for re-election at the annual with the principles and provisions of the UK and looking at the effectiveness and general meeting in July 2012.
The board Corporate Governance Code throughout development of ICAPs culture.
has agreed that all directors are qualified the year with the single exception of the to stand for re-election and that the appointment of a senior independent Board and committee effectiveness non-executive directors remain independent.
director for the full period under review.
assessments were undertaken during As you may be aware, the membership the year using the services of Lintstock, During the year there has been continued of the board had changed significantly an external facilitator.
The structure of focus by both investors and external and, until the board had worked together the review included the completion of an regulators on levels of remuneration and for a period of time, a decision on the online questionnaire followed by one-tothe connection with performance.
ICAPs appointment of a senior independent one interviews.
Topics covered in the Remuneration Committee has spent much director was felt not to be appropriate.
assessment included board composition of its time focusing on this issue.
The We are delighted that, following this and organisation, board processes, roles Remuneration Committee, on behalf of assessment period, John Sievwright has and responsibilities, communication, the board, remains committed to ICAPs now been appointed the senior independent boardroom dynamics, the relationship remuneration policy of reward for director, a role he has undertaken in addition between the board and senior management performance as we continue to believe to that of chairman of the Audit and and the quality of boardroom discussion.
that this structure fully aligns the Risk Committee.
During the period when The process also included feedback interests of executive management there was no senior independent director from members of the GEMG.
appointed, I remained available for assessment an action plan was developed consultation with shareholders.
ICAP in 10 Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders ICAP plc Annual Report 2012 Chairmans statement 45 During the year we consulted with discussions with executives, the directors a number of key investors and stakeholders have been very encouraged by the high on the remuneration structure for level of understanding of, and commitment executive management and, as a result to, the corporate values.
In particular, the of the feedback received and our internal board has seen the care taken in striking review, a number of changes are being the right balance between the commercial proposed to the bonus arrangements for values of leadership and entrepreneurship the year ending 31 March 2013.
Further and the protective values of integrity details are set out in the remuneration and respect for control.
These values report on pages 56 to 64. continue to strengthen the corporate governance structure throughout ICAP.
There has been, and will continue to be, an increase in the responsibilities of the I would like to thank all my board Audit and Risk Committee and the board colleagues for their continuing support has therefore made a decision to separate and the commitment they have each made these responsibilities and form an Audit to their board responsibilities.
As a board Committee and a Risk Committee.
This we will continue, particularly in light of change is effective from May 2012.
In external and regulatory developments, light of the ever increasing demands to ensure that the corporate governance on board members and, as best practice framework supports the ICAP Group and prevents my being eligible for either of enables it to perform well.
these committees, the board is considering its composition.
Any recruitment for a non-executive director will be considered Charles Gregson using the same selection policy as that Non-executive Chairman used throughout the Group.
While we welcome the increased focus on board diversity following the publication of the Davies report on Women on Boards, we do not support the implementation of quotas and any recruitment will continue to be based on merit.
One of the boards focus areas for 2011 12 has been ICAPs culture, in particular ensuring that the Companys cultural values are communicated and embedded throughout the Group.
During the boards visits to different ICAP businesses and locations and our
