Chief Executives review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW European contribution to Group revenue We experienced varying conditions through the year and this Europe saw 26% growth with a 32% increase in active clients, The Monetary Authority of Singapore MAS has indicated was reflected in a range of growth rates across the Group.
For partially offset by a 5% fall in revenue per client.
Germany an intention to reduce leverage on forex from 50 times to 20 1 the year as a whole we increased revenue by 17.3%.
This was and Italy were the strongest-growing in the first half, but in times.
While we do not welcome this development, we believe split into 28% growth in the first half, 1.5% in the third quarter the second half produced weaker growth, while our Iberian that the impact it will have on our revenue will be significantly 19% and then 12% for the final quarter.
High levels of market business accelerated to become the fastest growing of our less than similar changes previously made in Japan, as the MAS volatility in August 2011 resulted in record monthly revenues.
rules are more flexible and recognise the positive impact that This effect was greatest in our southern hemisphere businesses stops have on reducing client risk.
Growth in active clients excluding Japan in Australia and Singapore.
In the northern hemisphere the Singapore achieved 49% growth, mainly driven by a 30% impact was more muted as it coincided with the summer increase in revenue per client.
South Africa produced revenue Several countries in continental Europe have indicated an holidays.
Elevated client activity continued to a lesser extent for of 4.0 million, compared to 2.7 million for the nine months it intention to bring in a financial transaction tax which is similar 11% the remainder of the first half.
As is often the case, this period was included in the prior year.
in style and scope to UK stamp duty.
Initial indications are of prolonged elevated client activity was followed by a more that it will not apply to derivative transactions and, as with UK subdued period as many of our clients reduced their trading There are signs that our Japanese business has stabilised after stamp duty, it may therefore result in a competitive advantage Percentage of clients using mobile technology activity.
This effect was exacerbated by the extended seasonal the leverage restrictions introduced in August.
Revenue per when comparing trading CFDs on individual equities with us holiday period in December and January.
This resulted in a quarter has been steady at around 4.0 million in each of the to trading conventional cash equities.
We continue to monitor muted third quarter.
The year ended on a stronger note with last three quarters.
We have reduced the cost base for this developments in this area closely.
43% good year-on-year growth in the final quarter, particularly in business to a level appropriate for its revenue, and it continues April and May.
to generate a reasonable level of profit.
INTERNATIONAL GROWTH This was the first full year of operation for our Amsterdam There is a trade-off between the number of active clients and Our US business, Nadex, remains a long-term project, but we office, which we opened in May 2011, and our South African average revenue per client, and for the last 18 months our are seeing some very early signs that it is gaining traction, with office, which was established in September 2010 when we focus, particularly in our longer-established markets, has been a steady increase in the number of members trading over the acquired the business and client list of Ideal CFDs.
Both on improving the quality of our client base.
We have sought second half of the year, albeit from a small base.
This growth businesses performed well during the year and by the end to recruit higher-value new clients, and have ensured that our was principally driven by direct client recruitment.
of the year were achieving monthly revenues of 100,000 very largest clients receive a dedicated personal service.
therefore pleased that during this financial year we achieved EXTRABET improvements in revenue per client of 10%, 9% and 30% During July 2011 we closed our Sport business, extrabet, and We intend to continue to expand geographically and our respectively in the UK, Australia and Singapore.
sold part of its client list to Spreadex under an arrangement corporate development team, under the leadership of where we receive a share in the revenue that they generate Andrew MacKay, has developed plans for our ongoing In Europe revenue per client is some 20% higher than it is in from those clients for three years after the sale.
During the year international rollout.
For competitive reasons I believe it our much longer-established UK market, reflecting the relative this arrangement produced income of 1.0 million, which is would be counterproductive to provide further detail until immaturity of our European businesses, where high-value reported within other income.
shortly before any new country is due to go live.
early adopters still raise the average.
Revenue per client in Europe fell by 5% this year in a continuation of what is now a The closure of extrabet has enabled us to focus singleI would like to add my thanks to those of our Chairman for clear trend.
Over time I would expect revenue per client for the mindedly on our core financial business and has had several Andrews contribution to IG over the past 13 years, and established and newer markets to slowly converge.
benefits, including increasing our ability to carry out systems in particular the major part he has played in shaping our maintenance and development over the weekends.
international expansion to date and providing a plan and PERFORMANCE OF OUR MAIN BUSINESS UNITS the infrastructure which will enable us to continue to expand Our UK business continues to deliver good levels of growth, REGULATION AND TAX in the coming years.
with revenue up 15% for the year, driven by a 10% increase in During the year we have seen a focus from a number of revenue per client and a 5% growth in active clients.
regulators globally on client money protection, and also on capital adequacy.
These are both areas of competitive We saw faster growth in Australia, up 22%, driven in almost advantage for us and we welcome this increased regulatory equal measure by growth in active clients of 11% and increased focus.
In Australia a number of competitors have moved to full revenue per client of 9%.
UK-style client money segregation, something we have always offered our Australian clients.
1 Net trading r evenue is trading revenue excluding interest on segregated client funds and is presented net of introducing broker commissions.
All references to revenue in this statement are made with regards to net trading revenue 04 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 05
