Corporate governance: Directors statutory report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued CLIENT MONEY COMMITTEE DIRECTORS STATUTORY REPORT The Client Money Committee is an executive committee.
Activity during the financial year The Directors are pleased to submit their report together with the achieve business objectives and provide reasonable, but not The committee meets fortnightly and is chaired by the Chief The committees main activities during the financial year included: Group financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2012. absolute, assurance against the risk of material misstatement Financial Ocer.
It is attended by the Chief Risk Ocer, the Group or loss.
Head of Legal and Compliance, the Group Financial Controller Review of global client money regulatory requirements Relations with shareholders and members of the risk, finance, compliance and other Review of processes and controls over client money The Board recognises the importance of communications Management is also responsible for establishing and maintaining business functions.
segregation in each regulatory jurisdiction with shareholders.
The Chairmans statement, Chief Executives adequate internal control over financial reporting.
Internal controls Review of external auditor opinions on client money review and the Operating and Financial Review include detailed over financial reporting are carried out under the supervision of the Overview of the financial year Review of internal audit reports on client money reviews of the business and future developments.
There is regular Chief Financial Ocer to provide reasonable assurance regarding The Client Money Committee was set up during the year to Design and implementation of management processes dialogue with institutional shareholders, including presentations the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the monitor the design and eectiveness of the Groups framework of required to monitor and complete FSA client money reporting by management around the time of the Groups preliminary consolidated financial statements for external reporting purposes, processes and controls for segregating client monies.
Regulatory Review of financial institution counterparty risk on banks announcement of the year-end results and at the half-year.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and the International authorities have placed an increased emphasis on client money holding client money These presentations are made available on the Groups website at segregation and, in particular, the FSA requires all rms to Review of the implications of the failure of a bank holding www.
com, which also provides information to Accounting Standards Board IASB.
designate a named individual who is responsible for overseeing client money shareholders and prospective shareholders.
Feedback is provided that rms processes for segregating client funds.
In addition, the to the Board following these investor presentations of any views or Internal controls over financial reporting focus on the most material Group is required to provide monthly reporting to the FSA on a The activity of the Client Money Committee is reported to the concerns expressed by shareholders.
financial statement items and include policies and procedures that number of client money related metrics.
Risk Committee on an annual basis.
If necessary, the Chairman of pertain to the maintenance of records that: the Risk Committee will provide a report to the Board and or the The Board uses the Annual General Meeting AGM to Furthermore the Group has engaged  Audit Committee on any pertinent issues.
communicate with private and institutional investors and Fairly reect transactions and dispositions of assets, accurately PwC LLP to provide independent assurance on our client asset welcomes their participation.
The Chairman aims to ensure that all and in reasonable detail segregation processes and controls, so that it may reassure The following chart highlights how the Committee spent its time of the Directors, including the Chairmen of the Remuneration and Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded customers as to the control environment over money held by during the year ended 31 May 2012.
Audit Committees, are available at the AGM to answer questions.
as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in the Group on their behalf.
The final report will be available to The Annual Report and notice of the AGM are sent, or made accordance with IFRS clients.
This assurance work is over and above PwC LLPs reporting available on the Groups website at www.
com, to the Ensure that receipts and expenditures are being made Client Money Committee requirements to the Groups various regulators.
shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the meeting only in accordance with authorisations by management Allocation of time being held.
and the Directors Role of the Client Money Committee Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely Processes and controls The main responsibilities of the committee are to: Roger Yates, the Senior Independent Director, is available to meet detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of assets Client money reporting shareholders on request and to ensure that the Board is aware of that could have a material eect on the financial statements Regulatory compliance Ensure that internal systems, controls, processes and shareholder concerns not resolved through other mechanisms for Regulatory developments procedures are operating eectively to maintain and safeguard shareholder communication.
The Annual Report is reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Business and industry the protection and segregation of client money Board prior to publication.
developments Ensure compliance with applicable legislation concerning the The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director provide Client money placement protection and segregation of client money feedback to the Board of any views or concerns expressed to them Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have Review the accuracy and timeliness of the FSA client by shareholders.
inherent limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
money reporting Also, projections of any evaluation of eectiveness to future Review any breaches of client money legislation and ensure Risk management and internal controls periods are subject to the risk that internal controls may become that process and controls are appropriately rectied The Group is exposed to a number of business risks in providing inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of Monitor daily client money reports prepared by the products and services to its clients.
The Board is responsible for compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
finance department establishing the overall appetite for these risks, which is detailed Respond to consultation papers that relate to client money and approved in the risk appetite statement.
The Risk Management Review of risk management and internal controls Implement appropriate client money and asset resolution Framework is supported by a system of internal controls that is The Risk Management Framework has been in place for the full year packs required for each FSA-regulated entity, and subsequently designed to embed the management of business risk throughout under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, oversee their ongoing maintenance the Group.
Both the risks to which the Group is exposed and the and is in accordance with the Turnbull guidance, Internal Control: Review and respond to issues raised by external auditors Risk Management Framework are outlined in the Managing Our Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, published in connection with regulatory audits of client money and Business Risk section of the business review.
by the Financial Reporting Council.
assurance reports over controls and their operation Internal control The Board and Audit Committee have reviewed the design Management has designed and implemented a system of internal and eectiveness of managements system of internal control control to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to covering financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
No significant weaknesses were identied during this review.
74 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 75
