Business review: Managing our business risk MANAGING OUR BUSINESS RISK Eective management of our business risks is critical to the successful delivery of our strategy.
It is imperative that we identify the nature and potential impact of these risks, in order to maintain a risk-controlled environment throughout the business.
The following section outlines how we manage risk in accordance with our risk appetite statement and Risk Management OUR RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Framework.
It also explains in detail the key risks we face, the governance structure for risk, and the reporting cycle that we In order to establish an effective environment for risk control, we have developed a Risk Management Framework to identify, use to monitor and report on risk.
measure, manage and monitor risks faced by the business.
Our Risk Management Framework provides the Board with assurance that our risks are understood and managed within appropriate boundaries, and comprises both our Risk Governance Framework RISK APPETITE STATEMENT AND Environmental risks and Risk Reporting Cycle.
KEY RISK INDICATORS We take responsibility for risk management at all levels of the These are risks over which we have minimal control.
Our Risk Governance Framework Group.
Our risk appetite statement is defined by the Board They include but are not limited to : The following Risk Governance Framework diagram sets out the framework for the Board and executive committees, Non-Executive and provides guidelines for risk management throughout the Director NED review, independent control functions and ongoing business operations that exercise governance over risk.
To help define our risk appetite statement, we have Natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes and identified three major categories of risk: disease epidemics THE BOARD Strikes and civil unrest Business model risks AUDIT REMUNERATION EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES RISK APPETITE STATEMENT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE These are risks we actively manage and are able to measure, We aim to maintain a conservative risk-reward profile and have Risk Committee ICAAP & ILAA Client Money control, and assign limits and parameters to: developed a risk appetite statement based on the following Board 1 Non-Executive Committee Committee four key principles: committees Director Client credit risk Risk Working NED risk review Senior Review by Internal Audit The Board will adopt measures to ensure a low level of Group 2 Non-Executive Accounting of risk management Market risk volatility in revenues and earnings Directors Ocer and internal controls The Board will promote orderly business operations to guard Committee Liquidity risk against a loss of confidence by shareholders, clients, staff and partners CONTROL FUNCTIONS Industry risks The Board will adopt measures to minimise regulatory risk The Board will review the risk profile of strategic projects Finance Risk Compliance Legal Internal Audit These are risks we accept as a consequence of operating in against the risk profile of the core business BUSINESS OPERATIONS the financial services sector.
For these risks we set a tolerance rather than an appetite.
They include but are not limited to : To report the performance against the risk appetite statement, Internal controls implemented by management the Board has implemented a set of Key Risk Indicators KRIs.
Financial institution credit risk The Board reviews the KRIs in conjunction with the risk appetite statement twice a year.
Taken together, the KRIs are The Board Board committees Operational risk a balanced mix of quantitative and qualitative measures that The responsibilities of the Board in relation to risk management The Board is supported in its monitoring of the Risk Framework provide an important indication of increasing or decreasing are to: by the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Audit Regulatory risk levels of risk.
Committees responsibilities in relation to risk management Set and review the risk appetite statement are to: Approve the Key Risk Indicators Review and challenge biannual updates from the Review the design and effectiveness of the Groups Risk department internal control and risk management system Review and challenge the system of internal control Approve the Key Risk Indicators in conjunction with and risk management the Board Review and challenge capital and liquidity stress testing, Approve the internal audit programme including the FSA required ICAAP and ILAA Review internal audit reports and the external audit Approve the Corporate Governance Report in the control report Annual Report The Remuneration Committees responsibility in relation to risk management is to review remuneration levels throughout the business and assess the impact of remuneration on risk.
An overview of both the Audit and Remuneration Committees main duties and activity during the financial year is set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
24 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 25 Business review: Managing our business risk MANAGING OUR BUSINESS RISK continued Executive committees and independent review Risk Working Group Our Risk Reporting Cycle Risk Committee The Risk Working Group comprises managers from across the This diagram represents the flow of information and feedback that supports the Risk Governance Framework.
The Risk Committee meets on a weekly basis, and if any business and provides a forum for sharing cross-functional material risks are identified will inform the Board.
Members of feedback on the management of risk in the business.
the Risk Committee receive a monthly risk event report from the risk department.
Non-executive risk review Twice a year, a sub-group of the NEDs conducts a review of OUR KEY RISKS BOARD REVIEW An overview of the Risk Committees main responsibilities and the most significant risks and controls across the business, in activity during the financial year is set out in the Corporate discussion with the Chief Risk Officer and control functions.
The NEDs are a step removed from the daily operations of the business, enabling them to assess and challenge the risk Client Money Committee management processes from an independent standpoint.
BOARD AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES CREDIT Regulatory authorities have recently placed an increased Remuneration t Risk t Client Money t ICAAP & ILAA emphasis on client money segregation.
The FSA in particular Senior Accounting Officer Committee Risk Working Group t Senior Accounting Ocer now requires that all firms designate a named individual, who The Senior Accounting Officer SAO Committee meets quarterly, and is responsible for the review and challenge of is responsible for overseeing processes and controls over the segregation of client funds.
In response to this requirement, we processes and controls put in place to ensure compliance established the Client Money Committee during the financial with HMRC requirements in certifying that each of our UK year to monitor the effectiveness of our global processes and subsidiaries had appropriate tax arrangements throughout REPORTS ACTIONS controls for segregating client money.
The committee reports to the Chief Financial MARKET Officer, who is the designated SAO.
Periodic reporting The Client Money Committee meets fortnightly and receives daily monthly quarterly periodic reports from a number of control functions.
Control functions Monthly risk event report Additional levels of assurance are provided by control An overview of the Client Money Committees main duties and functions which are independent of the business, namely Monthly Key Risk Indicators KRIs Control activity during the financial year is set out in the Corporate finance, risk, compliance, legal and internal audit.
The control AUDIT improvement Governance Report.
functions provide periodic reporting to the Board and the Internal audit COMMITTEE actions Board and executive committees as appropriate.
LIQUIDITY Risk registers ICAAP and ILAA Committee In addition to the management of individual risks, we undertake Business operations Most significant risks stress and scenario testing as part of the Internal Capital In addition to the control functions, we have embedded much Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and Individual Liquidity of our risk management into underlying business operations.
External audit control report Adequacy Assessment ILAA.
These assessments are the Heads of department are responsible for maintenance of risk ICAAP & ILAA responsibility of the ICAAP and ILAA Committee, and stressregisters and, where necessary, taking action to mitigate risks test the potential impact on capital and liquidity of a series of and enhance the control environment.
The risk and compliance OPERATIONAL combined risk events, to ensure that the business is prepared for control functions use these registers in co-ordinating the any major changes in strategy or our operating environment.
identification, measurement and monitoring of risk across the business.
The ICAAP and ILAA are prepared according to FSA CONTROL FUNCTIONS requirements and are subject to independent review by Finance t Risk t Compliance t Legal t Internal Audit a sub-group of the Non-Executive Directors NEDs.
The ICAAP and ILAA Committee is an executive committee that REGULATORY also receives the monthly Key Risk Indicator reporting.
BUSINESS CONTROLS 26 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 27 Business review: Managing our business risk MANAGING OUR BUSINESS RISK continued OUR KEY RISKS general market volatility or specific volatility relating to an The following section describes the key risks that we face and instrument in which the client has an open position.
the steps that we take in order to manage these risks.
We mitigate client credit risk in a number of ways.
We only Credit risk accept clients that pass certain suitability criteria, and our Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty fails training programme aims to educate clients in all aspects to perform its obligations, resulting in financial of trading and risk management and encourages them to loss.
Our credit risk is managed on a Group-wide collateralise their accounts to an appropriate level.
The principal sources of credit risk to our business are from financial institutions and individual clients.
We offer a number of risk management tools that enable clients to manage their exposures, including: guaranteed and Financial institution credit risk non-guaranteed stops: stop and order limits: the ability to All financial institutions with whom the Group has a relationship hedge positions: the availability of liquid, tradable contracts are subject to a credit review.
Exposure limits are set and when underlying markets are closed eg 24-hour quoted approved by the Risk Committee.
We also maintain multiple indices and full trading capability on a wide range of brokers for each asset class.
Where possible, we negotiate for mobile devices.
our funds to receive client money protection, which can reduce direct credit exposure.
In addition, we manage our overall credit risk exposure through real-time monitoring of client positions via our closeout monitor and through the use of tiered margining.
For more We monitor a number of key metrics on a daily basis in respect of financial institution credit risk, including: balances held, information refer to note 36 to the financial statements.
We change in shortand long-term credit rating and any change in also perform pre-deal credit checking of every client order.
credit default swap CDS price.
The provision for new doubtful debts recognised in the year The Group is responsible, under various regulatory regimes, for was 2.3 million, representing less than 0.6% of revenue the stewardship of client monies.
These responsibilities include 2011: 1.2 million, less than 0.4% of revenue.
the appointment and periodic review of institutions where we deposit client money.
Our policy is that all financial institutions Market risk holding client money must have a minimum Standard and Poors Market risk is the risk that the fair value of short-term and long-term rating of A-2 and Arespectively.
financial assets and financial liabilities will In some operating jurisdictions it can be problematic to find a change due to movements in market prices.
counterparty satisfying these requirements, and in these cases we seek to use the best available counterparty.
We also use these Market risk is managed on a real-time basis, with all client target minimum ratings for financial institutions where we hold positions monitored against market risk limits set by the our own bank accounts.
The Group operates within these limits by hedging the market risk exposure as and when required.
We The majority of deposits that we make to these institutions are do not take proprietary positions based on the expectation on an overnight or breakable term basis, which enables us to of market movement.
react immediately to any downgrade of credit rating status or material widening of CDS spreads.
Deposits of an unbreakable Our technology enables us to monitor our market exposure nature or requiring notice are held only with a subset of against these limits constantly and in real time.
If exposures counterparties which have been approved by the exceed these limits, our risk management policy requires that Risk Committee.
we hedge the positions to bring the exposure back in line.
Client credit risk Our conservative management of market risk, and the Client credit risk principally arises when a clients total funds consistency and distribution of our daily revenue, can be seen deposited are insufficient to cover any trading losses incurred.
in the chart in the Operating and Financial Review.
For more In particular, client credit risk can arise where there are information, including our risk limits and residual exposures at significant, sudden movements in the market, due to high 31 May 2012, refer to note 36 of the financial statements.
28 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 29 Business review: Managing our business risk MANAGING OUR BUSINESS RISK continued Liquidity risk Our approach to managing operational risk is governed by the The Australian Securities and Investments Commission to be seen, and depends on the details of such taxes.
Liquidity risk is the risk that we will be unable risk appetite statement and Risk Management Framework.
We ASIC has carried out a large amount of policy work in our We are monitoring the situation carefully to meet payment obligations as they fall due.
have designed and implemented a system of internal controls industry over the past year.
A number of changes have or will The Privacy and Electronic Communications EC Directive to manage, rather than eliminate, operational risk.
come into effect in the coming year as a result of this work, Amendment Regulations 2011, which amend the Privacy We manage liquidity risk by ensuring that we have sufficient including regulatory capital changes, disclosure changes and Electronic Communications Regulations 2003 the liquidity to meet our broker margin requirements and other The reliability of our client trading platforms is key to and client suitability changes.
We have engaged closely with Cookie Directive have come into force and regulate the way financial liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed delivering our strategy, and we invest significantly in IT ASIC on these issues and we do not expect the changes to in which we can use cookies as part of our online marketing, conditions.
We carried out an Individual Liquidity Adequacy infrastructure to ensure that these platforms are resilient.
have a substantial impact on our business and as a means to improve customer experience and Assessment ILAA during the year, and while this applies On a monthly basis, the Risk Committee reviews our Key Risk The Monetary Authority of Singapore MAS has recently understand analyse how our customers interact with our specifically to the Groups FSA regulated entities, it provides Indicators, which includes monitoring levels of core system released a consultation paper detailing proposed new websites.
We are still assessing the impact that the Cookie the context within which liquidity is managed throughout uptime and deal latency.
rules to regulate providers of retail over-the-counter OTC Directive will have on our business the business.
The proposals include strengthening client As noted in the Chairmans statement, the Groups annual To ensure that we provide our clients with a consistent and money protection, reducing leverage on FX contracts with charges from the Financial Services Compensation Scheme Due to the very short-term nature of our financial assets and uninterrupted level of service, we run a complete disaster no stop level attached and increasing the regulatory capital FSCS have remained at elevated levels.
In the short term we liabilities, we do not have any material mismatches in our recovery solution, which involves a fully-functional secondary requirements of licence holders.
We are responding to the continue to maintain a dialogue with the FSCS, in order that liquidity maturity profiles.
Short-term liquidity gaps can arise, site with real-time replication of all systems across the two MAS consultation and assessing the impact that the draft we are aware of potential claims on the compensation pot however, in special circumstances, due to our commitment locations.
We support these systems with ongoing business proposals might have on our Singaporean business to which we are required to contribute.
In the medium term to segregate all individual client funds.
If there are significant continuity planning and regular testing.
All our IT and data we understand the Financial Services Authority FSA will The MAS has also recently issued two consultation papers in market falls we are required to fund margin payments to security systems conform to the ISO27001:2005 Information relation to proposed changes to technology risk management undertake a review of the funding arrangements of the FSCS.
brokers prior to releasing funds from segregation.
During Security Management System standards.
One consultation paper relates to We are monitoring the situation carefully periods of very high client activity, or significant global market the introduction of mandatory requirements relating to increases, we are required to fund higher margin requirements Regulatory risk critical systems and protecting customer information from Over the next 12 months the regulatory structure in the UK is with our brokers to hedge increased underlying client Regulatory risk is the risk of non-compliance unauthorised access.
The other consultation paper relates to due to change.
The FSA will be split into to two new bodies: positions.
These additional requirements are funded from our with, and future changes to, regulatory rules the introduction of updated technology risk management the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and the Financial own available cash resources.
potentially impacting our business in the markets guidelines that are industry best practices for financial Conduct Authority FCA.
Following the split, our business will in which we operate.
It is likely that we will need to expend some be regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
We also have available liquidity, including committed time and resource on upgrading our IT systems in order to unsecured facilities after the payment of broker margin, of Our products have several features which make them highercomply with the proposed changes if they are introduced, and We work closely with our regulators to ensure that we operate 311.5 million as at 31 May 2012 2011: 218.8 million.
We risk when compared to traditional forms of trading.
They are therefore we are consulting with MAS on the proposals to the highest regulatory standards and can adapt quickly to monitor total available liquidity on a daily basis, including our leveraged, derivative products, are not listed on any exchange A number of our regulators, including the European regulatory change.
We are committed to engaging proactively committed unsecured facilities.
apart from Nadex products and are not assignable or tradable Commission, MAS, ASIC and the US Commodity Futures with regulators and industry bodies, and will continue to with any other third party.
Consequently, our regulatory licenses, Trading Commission CFTC, are considering proposals to support changes which promote protection for clients and We perform daily stress tests and regularly stress test our which enable us to trade our products with retail clients, are strengthen the regulations governing OTC markets.
This is greater clarity of the risks they face.
However, we cannot three-year liquidity forecast to validate the correct level of subject to a large number of rules.
Compliance with these rules is as a result of the G20s commitment to bringing large parts provide certainty that future regulatory changes will not have committed unsecured bank facilities held.
At the year-end, fundamental to the business, and we invest significant resources of the OTC market onto exchanges and or through clearing an adverse impact on our business.
these amounted to 180.0 million 2011: 180.0 million and to ensure that we comply with both the letter and the spirit of houses by the end of 2012.
It is unlikely that such proposals were not drawn upon during the current nor prior year other these rules.
will apply to our retail OTC contracts, but we are monitoring than for testing purposes.
Additionally, our Japanese business the situation carefully IG Markets Securities has a 300 million 2.5 million liquidity The regulatory environment continues to evolve and there A number of EU member states are considering or have facility as at 31 May 2012. are currently a number of policy initiatives and proposals in brought in transactional taxes for example, the French stamp development that may impact or have already impacted our duty on equity instruments expected to be 0.2%.
There For more information on how we calculate our total available sector, as described below: are also continued discussions at an EU level about the liquidity see note 36 to the financial statements.
introduction of an EU-wide financial transactions tax FTT The European Commission is reviewing the Markets in that would apply to a wide array of financial instruments.
Financial Instruments Directive MiFID, having released From our current understanding, it is unlikely that an EU Operational risk Operational risk is the risk of financial loss due draft legislation in the second half of 2011.
Based on this FTT can be implemented, but there is the possibility that an to inadequate or failed internal processes and draft legislation, we do not believe that the MiFID review will FTT could be introduced by a group of EU member states systems.
It can also arise from human error or pose a threat to our UK and European businesses but we are through the EU process of enhanced cooperation.
Whether external events that we cannot influence.
monitoring the situation carefully such taxes will be a benefit or risk for our business remains 30 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 31
