Corporate governance: Directors statutory report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued CLIENT MONEY COMMITTEE DIRECTORS STATUTORY REPORT The Client Money Committee is an executive committee.
Activity during the financial year The Directors are pleased to submit their report together with the achieve business objectives and provide reasonable, but not The committee meets fortnightly and is chaired by the Chief The committees main activities during the financial year included: Group financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2012. absolute, assurance against the risk of material misstatement Financial Ocer.
It is attended by the Chief Risk Ocer, the Group or loss.
Head of Legal and Compliance, the Group Financial Controller Review of global client money regulatory requirements Relations with shareholders and members of the risk, finance, compliance and other Review of processes and controls over client money The Board recognises the importance of communications Management is also responsible for establishing and maintaining business functions.
segregation in each regulatory jurisdiction with shareholders.
The Chairmans statement, Chief Executives adequate internal control over financial reporting.
Internal controls Review of external auditor opinions on client money review and the Operating and Financial Review include detailed over financial reporting are carried out under the supervision of the Overview of the financial year Review of internal audit reports on client money reviews of the business and future developments.
There is regular Chief Financial Ocer to provide reasonable assurance regarding The Client Money Committee was set up during the year to Design and implementation of management processes dialogue with institutional shareholders, including presentations the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the monitor the design and eectiveness of the Groups framework of required to monitor and complete FSA client money reporting by management around the time of the Groups preliminary consolidated financial statements for external reporting purposes, processes and controls for segregating client monies.
Regulatory Review of financial institution counterparty risk on banks announcement of the year-end results and at the half-year.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and the International authorities have placed an increased emphasis on client money holding client money These presentations are made available on the Groups website at segregation and, in particular, the FSA requires all rms to Review of the implications of the failure of a bank holding www.
com, which also provides information to Accounting Standards Board IASB.
designate a named individual who is responsible for overseeing client money shareholders and prospective shareholders.
Feedback is provided that rms processes for segregating client funds.
In addition, the to the Board following these investor presentations of any views or Internal controls over financial reporting focus on the most material Group is required to provide monthly reporting to the FSA on a The activity of the Client Money Committee is reported to the concerns expressed by shareholders.
financial statement items and include policies and procedures that number of client money related metrics.
Risk Committee on an annual basis.
If necessary, the Chairman of pertain to the maintenance of records that: the Risk Committee will provide a report to the Board and or the The Board uses the Annual General Meeting AGM to Furthermore the Group has engaged  Audit Committee on any pertinent issues.
communicate with private and institutional investors and Fairly reect transactions and dispositions of assets, accurately PwC LLP to provide independent assurance on our client asset welcomes their participation.
The Chairman aims to ensure that all and in reasonable detail segregation processes and controls, so that it may reassure The following chart highlights how the Committee spent its time of the Directors, including the Chairmen of the Remuneration and Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded customers as to the control environment over money held by during the year ended 31 May 2012.
Audit Committees, are available at the AGM to answer questions.
as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in the Group on their behalf.
The final report will be available to The Annual Report and notice of the AGM are sent, or made accordance with IFRS clients.
This assurance work is over and above PwC LLPs reporting available on the Groups website at www.
com, to the Ensure that receipts and expenditures are being made Client Money Committee requirements to the Groups various regulators.
shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the meeting only in accordance with authorisations by management Allocation of time being held.
and the Directors Role of the Client Money Committee Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely Processes and controls The main responsibilities of the committee are to: Roger Yates, the Senior Independent Director, is available to meet detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of assets Client money reporting shareholders on request and to ensure that the Board is aware of that could have a material eect on the financial statements Regulatory compliance Ensure that internal systems, controls, processes and shareholder concerns not resolved through other mechanisms for Regulatory developments procedures are operating eectively to maintain and safeguard shareholder communication.
The Annual Report is reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Business and industry the protection and segregation of client money Board prior to publication.
developments Ensure compliance with applicable legislation concerning the The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director provide Client money placement protection and segregation of client money feedback to the Board of any views or concerns expressed to them Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have Review the accuracy and timeliness of the FSA client by shareholders.
inherent limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
money reporting Also, projections of any evaluation of eectiveness to future Review any breaches of client money legislation and ensure Risk management and internal controls periods are subject to the risk that internal controls may become that process and controls are appropriately rectied The Group is exposed to a number of business risks in providing inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of Monitor daily client money reports prepared by the products and services to its clients.
The Board is responsible for compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
finance department establishing the overall appetite for these risks, which is detailed Respond to consultation papers that relate to client money and approved in the risk appetite statement.
The Risk Management Review of risk management and internal controls Implement appropriate client money and asset resolution Framework is supported by a system of internal controls that is The Risk Management Framework has been in place for the full year packs required for each FSA-regulated entity, and subsequently designed to embed the management of business risk throughout under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, oversee their ongoing maintenance the Group.
Both the risks to which the Group is exposed and the and is in accordance with the Turnbull guidance, Internal Control: Review and respond to issues raised by external auditors Risk Management Framework are outlined in the Managing Our Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, published in connection with regulatory audits of client money and Business Risk section of the business review.
by the Financial Reporting Council.
assurance reports over controls and their operation Internal control The Board and Audit Committee have reviewed the design Management has designed and implemented a system of internal and eectiveness of managements system of internal control control to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to covering financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
No significant weaknesses were identied during this review.
74 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 75 Corporate governance: Directors statutory report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued DIRECTORS STATUTORY REPORT continued Accountability and audit The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on 23 October Change of control Independent auditors A statement of the Directors responsibilities in respect of the 2012 to those shareholders on the register at 21 September 2012.
Following any future change of control of the Company, the A resolution to re-appoint the Groups Auditors, financial statements is set out immediately prior to the financial Groups banking facilities, which are currently undrawn refer to  LLP, will be put to shareholders at the statements, and a statement regarding the use of the going Directors and their interests note 36 of the financial statements, will be cancelled and any forthcoming AGM on 18 October 2012. concern basis in preparing these financial statements is given later Biographical details of the Directors who held oce at the end of obligations will become immediately due and payable.
the year are given at the beginning of this Corporate Governance Going concern Report.
Details of the service contracts for those Directors and the Annual General Meeting The Directors have prepared the financial statements on a going Directors interests in the share capital of the Company are set out in The independent Auditors report, which sets out the Auditors The Groups Annual General Meeting will be held on 18 October concern basis, which requires the Directors to have a reasonable reporting responsibilities, is also given immediately prior to the the Directors remuneration report.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in financial statements.
Meeting are set out in a separate circular sent to all shareholders.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Share capital Principal activities Details of the Companys equity and preference share capital are Registered number The Directors have reviewed the Groups processes to control An overview of the principal activities of the Group is provided in given in notes 27 and 26 respectively to the financial statements.
The registered number of IG Group Holdings plc is 04677092. the financial risks to which the Group is exposed, its available the business review.
Details of the Groups required regulatory capital are disclosed liquidity, its regulatory capital position and the annual budget.
in note 37 to the financial statements and in the Operating and Conflicts of interest As a result of this review, the Directors have a reasonable Operations outside the United Kingdom Financial Review.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, all Directors must expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue In line with strategic objectives, the Group has branches in each disclose both the nature and extent of any potential or actual in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, of Australia, South Africa, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, the The Group purchases its own shares in order to satisfy awards under conicts with the interests of the Company.
The articles of they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and Sweden.
the Groups share incentive plan schemes and the Group issues association allow the Board to authorise potential conicts that financial statements.
shares in respect of long-term incentive plan and value-sharing may arise and to impose such conditions or limitations as it sees Review of business and future developments plan schemes.
Details of the shares held by the Groups Employee t. There were no conicts of interest raised in the year.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information A review of the Groups progress, outlining developments during benefit Trusts and the amounts paid during the year are disclosed to auditors the year and giving an indication of future developments, is in note 28 to the financial statements.
Insurance and indemnities So far as each person who was a Director at the date of approving provided in the business review.
The business review also covers an The Group purchases appropriate liability insurance for all this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being analysis of the financial position of the Group at the year-end and Major interests in shares Directors and ocers.
information needed by the Auditors in connection with preparing Key Performance Indicators.
Notications shown below have been received by the Company their report, of which the Auditors are unaware.
Each Director of shareholdings of three percent or more of the issued ordinary Supplier payment policy and practice has taken all the steps that he is obliged to take as a Director in Results share capital: The Group does not follow any stated code on payment practice.
order to make him aware of any relevant audit information and to The Groups statutory profit for the year, after taxation amounted As at 17 July 2012 As at 31 May 2012 It is the Groups policy to agree terms of payment with suppliers establish that the Auditors are aware of that information.
to 136,760,000 2011: loss of 25,292,000, of which a profit of when agreeing the terms for each transaction and to abide by Number of Number of shares % shares % 136,792,000 2011: loss of 25,453,000 is attributable to the equity those terms.
Standard terms provide for payment of all invoices members of the Company.
within 30 days after the date of the invoice except where dierent Black Rock Inc. 18,569,298 5.11 18,569,298 5.11 terms have been agreed with the supplier at the outset.
There Cantillon Capital 18,219,714 5.01 18,219,714 5.01 Related party transactions were 4.9 creditor days of suppliers invoices outstanding at the Management LLC Details of related party transactions are set out in note 34 to the year-end 2011: 5.5 for the Group.
Services Company Donations Investec Asset 17,863,943 4.92 17,863,943 4.92 Subsequent events Management Limited The Group made no political donations in the year 2011: nil.
On 17 July 2012, Andrew MacKay, Director of Corporate Strategy, The Group made charitable donations of 56,667 in the year Ameriprise Financial Inc. 17,774,188 4.89 17,774,188 4.89 and its group announced his decision to step down from the Board with eect 2011: 119,036 as follows: from 31 July 2012, as noted in the Chairmans statement and Chief Standard Life Investments 17,564,421 4.83 17,564,421 4.83 Limited Executives review.
Employee-matched giving various causes 8,676 Artemis Investment 16,555,321 4.56 16,555,321 4.56 Management Limited Everest Challenge 2,000 Dividends JP Morgan Chase & Co 15,830,307 4.36 15,830,307 4.36 Volunteer Reading Help 3,000 The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 16.75 pence Legal and General The Red Cross 1,339 per share, amounting to 60,769,000, making a total of 22.5 pence 14,287,840 3.93 14,287,840 3.93 Group plc Shakespeares Globe 2,500 per share and 81,628,000 for the year.
Dividends are recognised Ignis Investment Services Specialist schools 30,000 in the financial statements in the year in which they are paid, or in 11,851,906 3.26 11,851,906 3.26 Limited Other 9,152 the case of a final dividend, when approved by the shareholders.
Prudential  56,667 The amount recognised in the financial statements, as described in note 14, is made up of this financial years interim dividend and the final dividend from the previous year, which were both paid during the financial year.
76 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 77
