Business review: Our strategy OUR STRATEGY Our four strategic objectives combine technological excellence with We monitor a suite of Key Performance Indicators KPIs to ensure we client service to drive growth in new and established markets.
are achieving our objectives and maximising return for our shareholders.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs MAINTAIN OUR MARKET LEADERSHIP Revenue and profit generation Net trading revenue represents overall Group turnover from commissions, Net trading revenue total, daily We are a leading global provider of derivative trading spreads and financing on client trades, and is our primary KPI.
Profit before and by asset class 2 services to retail investors.
taxation and diluted earnings per share are used to measure the quality of Profit before taxation PBT 2 our profitability at a Group level.
Diluted earnings per share EPS We are maintaining our position at the forefront of the industry, building on our key advantages and strengthening Client trading activity metrics the retail lead we have established in the major markets There are a number of important client trading KPIs, with number of active where we operate.
clients and revenue per client being the key drivers of revenue growth.
Market share percentage We also commission independent research to evaluate our market share Number of active clients performance, measured on a primary account basis.
Average revenue per client see page 14 SUSTAIN OUR LEADERSHIP IN TECHNOLOGY Trading systems performance We carry out ongoing assessments to measure the performance of key Average trade execution time Our financial strength has enabled us to invest in operating systems, especially at peak trading times.
Core platform uptime IT development and build superior technology.
Technology usage We focus on fulfilling our clients needs, and we work We observe the deployment and adoption of IT developments closely, Percentage of clients using mobile devices continually to enhance the platform performance and proven with particular focus currently on customer usage of mobile technology.
Percentage of revenue generated from resilience that underpin our market-leading position.
mobile devices We offer a highly automated trading platform that enables 24 hour trading even when some markets are closed.
see page 16 STRENGTHEN OUR GLOBAL PRESENCE Performance in newer markets We use many of the KPIs listed above to evaluate our success in newer Geographic net trading revenue Having established offices in several new countries, we are territories.
This includes comparing current performance against the Active client base growth, relative building a growing client base in the markets that can be more established markets at a similar stage of maturity.
to more mature markets targeted from these regions.
Geographical profitability evaluation We identify and pursue new business opportunities in We measure EBITDA earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, Geographic EBITDA territories that offer a favourable regulatory environment and amortisation by geographical area.
and sizeable potential for long-term growth and market penetration.
see page 18 DELIVER QUALITY SERVICE Treating Customers Fairly TCF We use a scorecard of TCF measures to ensure that we treat customers fairly.
Percentage of automated transactions We are committed to maintaining absolute integrity in our relationship with clients, and have received top ratings for Customer service market research 1 customer satisfaction in independent research.
We commission external research to assess how we perform against peers Customer surveys including Net Promoter Score and client expectations.
We deliver speed and reliability of deal execution to our clients.
We give clients 24-hour service with our help and support 1 Investment Trends 2011 UK Financial Spread Betting and CFD Trading Report October 2011 portal and our comprehensive range of educational resources.
2 The comparative profit before tax and diluted earnings per share are based on an adjusted We are fully committed to the FSAs Treating Customers measure excluding the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets associated with the Groups Japanese business and impairment of the goodwill associated with the Groups Sport Fairly TCF initiative, ensuring our pricing strategy remains business.
Comparative diluted EPS also excludes the taxation related to the amortisation of see page 20 competitive, fair and transparent.
intangible assets associated with the Groups Japanese business 12 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 13 Business review: Our strategy OUR STRATEGY continued MAINTAINING OUR MARKET LEADERSHIP ESTABLISHED GLOBAL LEADER AWARD WINNING BUSINESS BUILDING ON OUR STRENGTHS COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE We hold a market-leading position in many countries, including We have been recognised with industry awards, endorsing We capitalise on the size and stability of our business as well The scale of our operations and the strength of our balance the UK, Australia and France.
our product offering, overall quality of service and superior as our heritage and reputation.
The following areas are key to sheet enable us to invest continuously in technological technology, on multiple occasions.
Recent examples include: maintaining our market-leading position, enabling us to attract advancement and high-quality marketing.
This, in turn, Independent research company Investment Trends has and retain clients and increase our revenue per client: helps us maintain and increase our lead, driving sustainable confirmed we are the largest single provider of CFD accounts in Britains Most Admired Companies UK competitive advantage and stronger results.
the UK, Australia and France, with our market share of primary 2011: Ranked No.
1 for Quality of Marketing, Quality Security and integrity 1 2 3 accounts at 24%, 34% and 23% respectively.
In the UK of Management and Capacity to Innovate Our clients look to us to provide a secure and trusted way to 2010 and 2011: Ranked No.
1 for Quality of Marketing we are also the largest spread betting provider, with a market trade, and we respond by taking an industry-best stance on 1 share of 41% of primary accounts.
and Speciality & Other Finance client money protection.
We maintain our market-leading position through growth What Investment Magazine Awards UK We take a best practice approach to client money protection in active clients, focus on client quality and continued 2011 Spread Betting Provider of the Year and offer full segregation of all individual client funds, including development of our product offering.
those in territories where the regulations do not require the level 2011 Financial Times Investors Chronicle Awards UK of protection stipulated by the UKs FSA.
In Australia we have In the current year our active client base has continued to grow Best Spread Betting App voluntarily adopted full UK-style segregation of client funds.
in our more mature markets: in the UK by 5% and Australia by 11%.
In France, our client base has grown by 26%.
2012 TheBull Stockies Awards Australia Superior technology Best CFD Provider awarded for the fourth consecutive year Extensive investment in IT development has enabled us to develop our trading platforms and launch initiatives that keep us at the forefront of the industry.
1 Investment Trends: 2011 UK Financial Spread Betting & CFD Trading Report October 2011 The quality and resilience of our technology is a major factor 2 Investment Trends: 2011 Australia CFD Report July 2011 in maintaining high levels of client retention.
3 Investment Trends: 2012 France CFD & FX Report May 2012 Marketing capability Our marketing initiatives can increase the average revenue per Revenue growth 2007 to 2012 client by improving the quality of our new accounts.
We target individuals who are already familiar with derivative trading products, and we use sophisticated marketing technologies 300 Australia UK to tailor our messages to their needs.
Our in-house marketing team produces high-profile 250 advertising campaigns across multiple channels.
Most recently, we have developed our online marketing capability, using the latest technologies.
200 150 100 50 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 14 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 15 Revenue m Business review: Our strategy OUR STRATEGY continued SUSTAINING OUR LEADERSHIP IN TECHNOLOGY ADVANCED TRADING PLATFORMS RECENT ENHANCEMENTS We have won multiple awards for our trading technology, We aim to maximise the efficiency of our technology, ensuring Composition of mobile revenue Percentage of clients using mobile and more than 143,000 clients use our platforms to make that we can respond well to changes in client trading activity.
25 45 iPad Android Other mobile iPhone over a million transactions each month.
Client-focused inititatives Security, reliability and speed remain key to platform This year we launched Insight, a tool that provides clients 20 40 performance, with 99.39% of automated trades executed in with market data, live news and expert analysis all in one 1 less than 0.1 seconds, and 99.94% core platform uptime.
Insight is now used by our clients in the UK, Singapore and Australia.
IT INVESTMENT 15 35 In the past year, we have grown our team of in-house Mobile dealing solutions are a key focus, and we have released developers to almost 300 staff, allowing us to advance multiple customised apps for all major mobile devices, with 43% of technology initiatives.
clients now using mobile technology to execute at least one transaction.
Furthermore, 23% of all client transactions are now 10 30 The efficiency and stability of our systems allows us to achieve placed using a mobile device 2011: 13%.
For spread betting consistent platform performance in volatile market conditions clients, who were first to have access to mobile platforms, 21% of and during peak periods of trading activity.
revenue is now generated from mobile.
5 25 Over the last two years we have invested 17 million in IT System upgrades hardware and software.
We have increased our platforms capability to handle periods of high demand, and enabled the more efficient transmission 1 Execution speed and platform uptime gures relate to the year ended 0 20 31 May 2012. of prices to international clients by reducing latency.
We offer tailored apps for all major mobile devices Trading platform BlackBerry iPhone Android Windows iPad Insight Phone 7 16 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 17 Jan-11 Feb-11 Mar-11 Apr-11 May-11 Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11 Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12 Mar-12 Apr-12 May-12 Jan-11 Feb-11 Mar-11 Apr-11 May-11 Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11 Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12 Mar-12 Apr-12 May-12 Percentage of revenue Percentage of clients Business review: Our strategy OUR STRATEGY continued STRENGTHENING OUR GLOBAL PRESENCE INCREASED MARKET PENETRATION In most of the countries where we operate, we expect our Over the past six years, we have opened 11 new offices around products to reach market penetration levels similar to those the world.
achieved in our more established markets.
We continue to grow our client base in markets where we NADEX already have an established commercial presence.
Our network We continue to develop our US subsidiary, Nadex, and produce of global offices enables us to drive further growth by targeting integrated marketing campaigns across multiple channels to regional markets from the countries where we already operate.
promote our unique product range.
In February this year, the launch of the new Nadex website marked the completion of We also continue to explore new territories, where regulatory a business-wide rebrand.
Most recently, we have launched a markets are favourable or are expected to become favourable.
range of customised mobile apps.
During the year, we grew the number of active clients by We continue to optimise our technology to facilitate 32% in Europe.
Spain and Italy hit record levels for client moreclient introductions from other brokers and futures recruitment during the year, despite the economic gloom.
The new office in the Netherlands now has 411 active clients after 12 months of trading.
CENTRALISED OPERATIONS Our centralised operating model promotes the effective For the financial year ended 31 May 2012, revenue in South management of our global businesses.
It supports organic Africa has more than doubled compared to the 12 months growth and ensures that our commercial activities are both prior to our acquisition of the Johannesburg-based business low-cost and capital-efficient.
Singapore has also shown strong growth, with a 49% increase in revenue since last year.
We continue to invest in targeted marketing initiatives and have been working closely with a specialist consultancy to enhance brand reach across all territories.
Active client base growth relative to more mature markets 13,000 Europe Australia 12,000 11,000 10,000 9,000 8,000 7,000 6,000 5,000 4,000 18 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 19 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09 Jan-10 Mar-10 May-10 Jul-10 Sep-10 Nov-10 Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12 Number of active clients Business review: Our strategy OUR STRATEGY continued DELIVERING QUALITY SERVICE CLIENT MONEY PROTECTION COMPETITIVE AND TRANSPARENT PRICING the time it is executed within our set margin of tolerance.
This Independent research company Investment Trends measured Our best-practice approach to client money protection We offer competitive prices, without compromising on the price-improvement technology can also secure clients a better satisfaction among spread betting and CFD trading clients follows the client-asset rules set by the UKs Financial Services quality of our service.
Our spreads start from just 0.8 pips on price if one becomes available during this time.
Last year, this via the NPS method, asking if they would recommend their 1 Authority FSA.
In other jurisdictions we adhere to similar rules the major currency pairs and our commission rates start from technology saved our clients over 13.7 million.
Additionally provider to a friend or colleague.
The study found that we 1 set by local regulators, including the Monetary Authority of 0.1% on UK equities.
99% of all executed client orders are now fully automated.
currently have the highest NPS of all UK spread betting Singapore MAS, the Australian Securities and Investments companies, with a score of 19 for spread betting and 19 for 2 Commission ASIC and the Japanese Financial Services We source prices from Europes top multilateral trading CLIENT SUPPORT AND EDUCATION CFD trading.
facilities MTFs, including Turquoise and BATS as well as from We recognise the importance of educating and supporting our the major European exchanges, such as the London Stock clients.
Our extensive range of client resources includes: The quality of our customer service is widely recognised across In the UK, Europe and Australia we go above and beyond Exchange and Euronext.
This enables us to offer narrow market all the regions in which we operate, with Australia achieving an 3 4 regulatory requirements, ensuring that all individual clients spreads derived from the best underlying bid and offer prices An introductory education programme promoting NPS of 17 and Germany achieving an NPS of 4. funds are segregated into client money bank accounts.
available and also the liquidity accessed in these markets.
responsible trading A wide range of client seminars and webinars, available The NPS is calculated by asking respondents: How likely are TREATING CUSTOMERS FAIRLY online and in person you to recommend this company to a friend or colleague?
We hold all individual client money in segregated We are proud of our reputation for excellent customer service Daily research bulletins on major financial markets Respondents reply on a 0-10 scale, with the final NPS calculated as accounts with a range of major banks and client support, and are always seeking ways to improve.
We A comprehensive online help portal the percentage of promoters those answering 9 or 10 minus the have developed a unique set of measures to help us monitor Regular technical analysis from our in-house team and percentage of detractors those answering 0 to 6.
We only use our own funds for hedging our treatment of clients, demonstrating our commitment to third-party sources the FSAs Treating Customers Fairly TCF initiative.
Insight our new research tool We do not pass individual client money through to 1 Price improvement and automated client order gures are for the year ended hedging counterparties 31 May 2012 The quality of our clients trading experience is central to NET PROMOTER SCORE 2 Investment Trends: 2011 UK Financial Spread Betting & CFD Trading Report our own TCF policy.
We offer high-speed execution, we never Our Net Promoter Score NPS is one of the Key Performance October 2011 We are regulated by the FSA in the UK, as well as re-quote prices, and we accept orders even if the market moves Indicators KPIs that we use to gauge how successfully we are 3 Investment Trends: 2011 Australia CFD Report July 2011 other major regulators in our overseas locations against the client between the time they place the order and achieving our strategic objectives.
4 Investment Trends: 2012 Germany CFD & FX Report June 2012 Net Promoter Score UK CFDs UK spread betting Germany Australia IG Nearest competitor Industry average IG Nearest competitor Industry average IG Nearest competitor Industry average IG Nearest competitor Industry average 19 19 4 17 -1 -23 -8 -27 -7 -14 -8 -12 -30 -20 -100 1020 -30 -20 -100 1020 -30 -20 -100 1020 -30 -20 -100 1020 Weighted by primary market share Weighted by primary market share 20 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 21 Business review: Our strategy OUR STRATEGY continued OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR CLIENTS We deliver our strategic objectives through a commercial model developed to harness the demand for derivative trading services.
An international network of offices and high-quality partners, supported by targeted advertising campaigns, enables us to attract clients globally.
We offer a wide range of products, which we complement with quality execution and a fast and stable trading platform.
Over 67,000 clients recruited in the 2012 financial year This enables our clients to access global financial markets and trade with efficiency and confidence.
Over 143,000 clients currently trading 14 international sales offices Our management processes and continued profitability mean that we can reinvest in technology and infrastructure Online presence in 20 countries to improve our offering and attract new clients.
294 global business partners OUR PRODUCTS OUR EARNINGS Our award-winning platform is equipped with a suite of features to Our systems and processes are designed to manage market provide a superior trading experience.
and credit risk and ensure that we consistently generate high-quality earnings.
Our clients gain access to thousands of financial markets through the derivative services we offer: Revenue sources Initial spread or commission for each trade Contracts for difference CFDs Client funding charges to reflect leveraged trading Financial spread betting Interest on cash balances Exchange-traded derivatives USA Revenue is earned across multiple asset classes Financial markets Risk management Forex t Indices t Shares t Commodities t Binaries t Options t Interest rates t Bonds t ETFs Scale of operations creates natural hedging, with client positions offsetting each other Our liquidity enables funding of large hedging positions OUR CORE STRENGTHS with brokers when necessary Clients must provide margin up-front, and positions are We grow and retain our client base by offering a superior trading experience, closed out if margin is significantly eroded peerless service, and the assurance only a market leader can provide.
Real-time mark-to-market trading platform calculates client profit and loss continuously, enabling risk management Strength & stability Authority & expertise Superior technology Client focus Established FTSE 250 Market leader for 38 years Professional-quality 24 7 customer service Consistent performance member with surplus Multiple awards won trading platforms Comprehensive range Risk-averse hedging process ensures we can profit whether liquid regulatory capital every year High-speed execution of educational resources markets rise or fall, as long as clients keep trading Consistent profitability One of Britains top Tailored solutions for Commitment to FSAs No loss-making days since May 2008 enables investment employers, attracting all mobile devices treating customers in technology high-calibre staff fairly TCF initiative and marketing 22 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 23
