Corporate governance: The Board CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued THE BOARD Jonathan Davie Tim Howkins Non-Executive Chairman, 65 years old Chief Executive, 49 years old Jonathan qualied as a Chartered Accountant.
He joined George Tim has a first class degree in Mathematics and Computer M. Hill and Co, a jobber on the London Stock Exchange, in 1969.
He qualied as a Chartered Accountant Wedd Durlacher Mordaunt and Co then acquired the rm, where with Ernst & Young and is also a member of the Chartered Jonathan became a partner in 1975.
He was the senior dealing Institute of Taxation.
Tim was one of a group of partners and partner of the company when it was later acquired by Barclays sta who left Ernst & Young in 1990 to form Rees Pollock, a rm Bank to form BZW in 1986.
Jonathan developed BZWs xed of Chartered Accountants targeted at entrepreneurial, ownerincome business prior to becoming CEO of the global equities managed businesses.
Tim was a partner in Rees Pollock for business in 1991.
In 1996 Jonathan became Deputy Chairman seven years, where he was responsible for the Groups audit.
He of BZW and then Vice Chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston in then joined IG as Finance Director in 1999, and became Chief 1998, when they acquired most of BZWs businesses.
Tim is a member of the board and executive is presently a Non-Executive Director of Persimmon plc and committee of the Futures and Options Association.
Chairman of First Avenue, an alternatives advisory boutique.
Christopher Hill Peter Hetherington Andrew MacKay Stephen Hill Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer Director of Corporate Strategy Non-Executive Director 41 years old 43 years old 46 years old 52 years old Christopher read Modern History at Peter read Economics at Nottingham Andrew has a Masters in History from Stephen served as CEO of the Financial Oxford University.
He is a Chartered University and has a Masters in Finance St Andrews University and completed Times for Pearson plc between 1996 and Accountant and an associate member of from the London Business School.
Peter the Law Society Finals examination at the 2002, and on Pearsons management the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
was an ocer in the Royal Navy before College of Law in London.
He was the CEO of Betfair plc from He joined IG Group in April 2011 from joining IG Group, as a graduate trainee, a lawyer with Linklaters and worked there 2003 to 2005.
Stephen is an experienced Travelex, a group providing cross-border in 1994.
He became Head of Financial for seven years, principally in the litigation Non-Executive Director, having previously payment and foreign exchange services to corporate and retail Dealing in 1999 and was appointed as Chief Operating Ocer of and financial services practices.
In 1998, Andrew moved to LIFFE served on the boards of the Royal SunAlliance Insurance Group customers, where he was Chief Financial Ocer.
Prior to joining IG Group in 2002. as Market Investigations Manager before joining IG as Legal plc, Psion plc and Channel 4.
He was also Chairman of Interactive Travelex in 2007, Christopher worked at VWR international, Counsel in March 1999.
Andrew was appointed a Director Data Corporation of the US from 1998 to 2002.
Currently he a global laboratory supply company from 2005 to 2007, at of IG Group in 2003.
He served as Head of Asia Pacic for three is Chairman and CEO of DAval Limited, a private investment General Electric from 2000 to 2005 and at Arthur Andersen years before returning to London to lead the new Corporate company, and Trustee, Hon.
Treasurer and Deputy Chairman of from 1992 to 2000.
the Royal National Institute for Deaf People Action on Hearing Loss, where he chairs the Audit and Investment Committees.
Stephen also serves as a member of the Advisory Board of the Cambridge University Judge Business School.
Roger Yates Nat le Roux Martin Jackson David Currie Senior Independent Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 65 years old Non-Executive Director 55 years old 63 years old 55 years old Nat was Chief Executive of IG Group Martin was appointed a Non-Executive David Currie Lord Currie of Marylebone Roger joined the Board as senior for four years before he became Director of IG Group and Chairman of the was the founding Chairman of Ofcom, independent Non-Executive Director in Non-Executive Deputy Chairman in Audit Committee in April 2005.
He was where he served from 2002 to 2009.
Roger read Modern History at 2006.
He initially joined the Group as the Group Finance Director of Friends Previously he was a Non-Executive Worcester College, Oxford, and has 28 years Financial Dealing Director in 1992 after Provident plc between 2001 and 2003, Director of Abbey National plc from 2001 experience in the fund management industry a career in futures broking and stock of Friends Provident Life Oce between to 2002, a founder and Chairman of the as an investment professional and business manager.
Nat holds a Masters in Law from Cambridge University 1999 and 2001, and of London & Manchester Group plc from International Centre of Financial Regulation and Chairman of was Chief Investment Ocer of Invesco Global and held senior roles and an MSc in Anthropology from University College, London.
He 1992 to 1998 up until it was acquired by Friends Provident Life Independent Audit from 2003 to 2007.
Between 2001 and 2007 for fund management companies LGT and Morgan Grenfell.
He joined is an independent Director of the London Metal Exchange, where Oce.
He is a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Group David was the Dean of Cass Business School, and before that Henderson Global Investors as Chief Executive in 1999.
In 2003, Roger he chairs the Audit and Risk Committees.
Risk Committee of Admiral Group plc.
He is also a fellow of the Deputy Dean at the London Business School.
He is currently a went on to lead the fide-merger from its then parent AMP, becoming Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Non-Executive Director of Royal Mail Holdings plc, BDO LLP, the Chief Executive of the resulting listed entity now Henderson Group Dubai Financial Services Authority and the London Philharmonic plc until November 2008.
From December 2009 until July 2010, Orchestra.
David is currently serving as a panel member of the Roger was CEO of global asset manager Pioneer Investments.
He is a Leveson Inquiry into the press.
Non-Executive Director of JP Morgan Elect Investment Trust plc and of Electra Private Equity Trust plc.
50 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 51 Corporate governance: The Board CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued THE BOARD continued Leadership Matters not specifically reserved for the Board are delegated other Directors when necessary.
The Senior Independent How the Board discharged its responsibilities during the Role of the Board to the Executive Directors.
These include: Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which financial year The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Group.
communication via the normal channels of Chairman, Chief During the year, the Board has been engaged across the key It is accountable for ensuring that, as a collective body, it has the Developing and recommending strategic plans for the Group Executive Ocer or other Executive Directors has failed to resolve, areas of strategy, financial performance, governance and risk as appropriate skills, knowledge and experience to perform its role Implementing strategies of the Group or for which communication is inappropriate.
highlighted in the following chart.
In addition to regular reviews eectively.
It provides guidance and leadership by challenging Day-to-day monitoring of the operating and financial results of performance, the Board has further discussed risk appetite, business performance, and sets the strategic direction of the Group.
of the Group How the Board operates capital and liquidity planning, and talent management, including Prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human resources The Board meets regularly: at least five times a year.
The powers of the Board are set out in the Companys articles of Developing and implementing risk management systems, policies the Board meets when necessary to discuss important ad-hoc association, which are available on the Groups website, and procedures emerging issues that require consideration between standard The Board www.
The articles may be amended by way of a Promoting good standards of corporate governance and Board meetings.
All Directors make every eort to attend each Allocation of time meeting: each Director committed an appropriate amount special resolution of the members of the Company.
The Board may shareholder engagement Quarterly forecast and budget exercise all powers conferred on it by the articles and in accordance of time to their duties during the financial year and the NonStrategy with the Companies Act 2006, and other applicable legislation.
Board structure Executive Directors met the time commitment specified in their Business and operational During the year, the Company was headed by an experienced letters of appointment.
highlights Specic key decisions are reserved for the Board in order to ensure Board of ten Directors, comprising an independent Non-Executive Current trading that it meets its responsibilities.
These include: Chairman, a non-independent Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet formally in the Risk four Executive Directors, including the Group Chief Executive absence of the Executive Directors at least twice a year.
Others Setting Group strategy Ocer, and four independent Non-Executive Directors.
Year-end matters Approving major acquisitions, divestments and Attendance at Board meetings Client money capital expenditure The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the The number of full Board meetings attended by each Director Approving expansion into new business or geographic areas Chief Executive Ocer is clearly dened in writing and has been during the year is set out below: Board and executive committees Approving annual budgets approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the The Board has delegated certain governance responsibilities to Approving changes relating to the Groups capital structure leadership of the Board and creating the conditions for its eective Scheduled Board Scheduled Board Board committees in order both to assist it with carrying out its meetings eligible meetings including reduction of capital working.
The Chairman sets the Boards agenda in consultation responsibilities and to ensure that there is independent oversight Board attendance to attend attended Reviewing operational and financial performance with the Chief Executive Ocer and Company Secretary, taking full of internal control and risk.
These Board committees comprise Setting the risk appetite of the Group account of the issues and concerns of Board members and giving Group Chairman independent Non-Executive Directors only and have agreed Approving any changes to the Groups risk management consideration to the need to allow sucient time for the discussion J R Davie 55 terms of reference, which are available on our corporate website, policy which materially increase the Groups risk prole of items on the agenda.
Reviewing the Groups systems of internal control and T A Howkins 55 Chief Executive Ocer risk management With the exception of the Deputy Chairman, all the Non-Executive The Chairman of each Board committee reports to the Board on Approving Board, Board committee and Company Directors are independent of management and are considered C F Hill 55 the matters discussed at committee meetings, and the minutes Secretarial appointments by the Board to be free from any business or other relationships P G Hetherington 55 of each of the committee meetings are made available to all Ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board which could interfere with the exercise of their independence.
Please see the following section for reports for the year Independent Non-Executive Directors and senior management role is to advise and constructively challenge management, along from the Chairman of each Board committee.
Dening and setting Board committee terms of reference with monitoring managements success in delivering the agreed D Currie 55 Approving policies relating to Directors remuneration and strategy within the risk appetite and control framework set by the S G Hill 55 Certain governance responsibilities have also been delegated the severance of Directors contracts Board.
They are also responsible for determining appropriate levels D M Jackson 55 to executive committees, whose members include Executive of remuneration for the Executive Directors.
Receiving reports on the views of the Companys shareholders R P Yates 55 Directors and members of senior management.
Please see the Non-independent Non-Executive Director following section for reports for the year from both the Risk and A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board Roger Yates is the Senior Independent Director and provides N B le Roux 55 Client Money Committees.
can be found on the Groups website, at www.
support to the Chairman, serving as an intermediary for the 52 52 | IG GR | IG GROUP HOLDING OUP HOLDINGS PL S PLC | 2 C | 2012 ANNU 012 ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT T 53 53
