Corporate governance: Remuneration Committee CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The committees other responsibilities are to: will help to ensure that rewards are balanced between shortThe following chart highlights how the committee spent its time term financial and long-term strategic goals.
For the year ended during the year ended 31 May 2012.
Roger Yates, Chairman of the Determine and review the Groups remuneration policy, 31 May 2013, the Executive Director bonus scheme is structured Remuneration Committee, ensuring it is consistent with eective risk management such that 75% of the maximum bonus opportunity is to be Remuneration Committee reviews the committees across the Group, and to consider the implications of this judged on financial measures ie EPS growth and 25% of the Allocation of time activities during the remuneration policy on risk maximum bonus opportunity is to be judged on non-financial financial year Approve the remuneration of the Chairman performance measures more detail on which is set out in the Approve all share-based awards under the Groups employee following Directors remuneration report.
incentive schemes, to determine each year whether awards will Bonus scheme In relation to long-term variable remuneration, the hurdle rate be made and, if awards are made, to monitor their operation, arrangements the size of such awards and the performance targets to be used at which the profit before tax element of the value-sharing Incentive awards plan VSP awards vest was reviewed against a number of Chairmans overview Establish the selection criteria, appoint and set the terms Remuneration regulation The committees focus during the financial year has been of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise comparable measures by the committee, with support from Remuneration reporting on ensuring an appropriate balance between the levels of the committee Kepler Associates during the year.
As a result of this review, Remuneration policy remuneration required to attract, retain and motivate talented the hurdle rate has remained unchanged at 12% per annum leaders in a competitive market, and setting policies that are aligned The Board determines the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors.
more detail on which is set out in the following Directors Advisors with the interests of shareholders and regulatory requirements.
The committees work is supported by independent professional Activity during the financial year advice received from Kepler Associates.
During the year Kepler Remuneration Committee Remuneration framework For the forthcoming year, the committee has decided it is Associates provided advice in relation to trends in executive membership and attendance The committee recognises that the Group must be able necessary to undertake a comprehensive and holistic review remuneration, the Executive Directors salaries, the Groups bonus to attract, retain and motivate leaders who are focused on into Executive Director remuneration.
This is for a number scheme for Executive Directors and employees and the hurdle Scheduled Scheduled delivering the business strategy in line with the interests of of reasons: rate associated with the Groups value-sharing plan.
In 2011, meetings meetings shareholders, and the committee strives to ensure that the eligible to attend attended Kepler Associates provided remuneration benchmarking data Groups remuneration framework is structured in order to enable The positioning of Executive Directors salaries against their to the Group.
To this end, and with support from Kepler Associates, the peers in a range of comparator companies Committee committee spent time during the year reviewing the Executive Recent and forecasted performance of the Group The committee will continue to report transparently on all Roger Yates 44 Directors remuneration and the bonus arrangements for the Developing regulation in the area of executive remuneration aspects of Directors remuneration and to actively engage with Independent Groups sta.
The results of this review are explained below.
shareholders when developing executive remuneration policies Non-Executive Directors We intend to consult with shareholders about the nature, scope and structures.
David Currie 44 Regarding xed remuneration, the committee reviewed the and outcome of this review over the coming year.
Martin Jackson 44 salaries of Executive Directors against a comparator group of Stephen Hill 43 companies.
Whilst the Executive Directors salaries were found Remuneration regulation Jonathan Davie 44 to be below the lower quartile of the comparator group, and The committee continues to focus on the recent developments whilst the Group has performed well within a challenging in this area, including the governments proposals to enhance The committee meets four times a year, and as and when required.
environment, the committee determined it was best to take shareholder voting rights in relation to executive remuneration Roger Yates a prudent approach to increasing levels of xed pay this year.
and to strengthen the legislation and regulation around Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Role of the Remuneration Committee After giving consideration to the level of salary awards made to remuneration governance.
In June 2012, the government 17 July 2012 The committee is responsible for making recommendations to the all of the Groups UK employees, it was decided that Executive announced a package of proposed reforms to the framework for Directors salaries would be increased in line with ination only Board on the Groups remuneration policy.
Operating within agreed executive remuneration, and the committee will consider all of terms of reference, it determines an overall remuneration package 3%.
This is in line with the proposed salary increases for the these proposed reforms when setting policy.
for the Executive Directors in order to attract, retain and motivate Groups employees as a whole.
The Chairman and other Nonhigh-quality Directors capable of achieving the Groups objectives.
Executive Directors also received an inationary increase in fees.
Other activities During the year, the committee also completed the following: The Committee determines the contractual terms, remuneration Regarding variable remuneration, the committee reviewed the and other benets for each of the Executive Directors, bonus arrangements for the Executive Directors and employees Review and approval of the 2011 Directors remuneration report including performance-related bonus schemes, pension rights, participating in the general sta bonus scheme, in order to and review of the final outcome of AGM voting compensation payments and contingent share awards.
In setting ensure that there is an ongoing link between performance on the report the remuneration for Executive Directors, the committee has the and reward.
The committee determined it was appropriate to Review of the annual Directors remuneration report discretion to take performance on environmental, social, regulatory incorporate some non-financial measures into the metrics for Review and approval of both the share incentive plan and governance matters into account.
The committee considers that this change and the value-sharing plan oerings Review of the Group remuneration policy and the risk report on remuneration policy Review of the Groups arrangements for the implementation of the FSA Remuneration Code 56 56 | IG GR | IG GROUP HOLDING OUP HOLDINGS PL S PLC | 2 C | 2012 ANNU 012 ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT T 57 57
