Chief Executives review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued INVESTMENT IN TECHNOLOGY CLIENT SERVICE Our ongoing investment in technology remains key to driving Another key development that we have been working on for our continued market leadership and our continued growth.
some time is the ongoing improvement of our price delivery The majority of this investment is the direct employment cost and deal execution: this enables us to deliver a superior service of our in-house IT department.
By the end of the financial to clients.
We continue to improve the speed at which we year we had 397 people in IT, and their cost including bonus deliver price ticks to clients and the level of automation of our payments for the year was 28.6 million, compared to deal execution.
I believe this ongoing improvement is one of 23.5 million the year before.
a number of factors which has helped to drive our improving revenue per client.
One of our key initiatives over the last two years has been the development of apps for all of the major mobile platforms.
STRONGLY POSITIONED During the last year we completed the initial roll-out of apps for IG remains extremely strong financially.
Perhaps just as iPhone, iPad, Android, BlackBerry and Windows Phone 7.
All of importantly we maintain a strong corporate culture with these have been developed as native apps, meaning that they very high levels of employee engagement.
During the year are developed specifically for each mobile operating system we conducted two employee surveys and approximately and therefore conform closely to the normal user experience for two thirds of our global employees responded.
This approach allows us to make full use of all the provide us with valuable feedback and we continue to make features that each operating system provides and will enable us changes so as to further improve employee engagement.
to continue to develop increasingly rich-featured apps.
Client I was particularly pleased to see in the most recent survey usage of these apps has been increasing progressively, and last that roughly 85% of our employees say they are excited about month 21% of all client initiated transactions were made using where IG is going, with similar percentages saying that they are one of these mobile apps, while 43% of the clients who dealt proud of IG, that IG is a company full of great people and that with us last month executed at least one transaction using a we have a positive working culture.
Our talented and highlymobile app.
I believe that mobile will become an ever more motivated employees have played a crucial role in driving the important channel for our industry going forward, and we success of IG for many years, and I believe will continue to be intend to continue to invest appropriately to ensure that we are the main driving force of the business going forward.
at the forefront of this key technology.
CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK Two other long-term IT development projects also came to Revenue in the first six weeks of the current financial period fruition this year: charts and Insight.
has been lower than the same period last year, as dull markets in this period have presented our clients with fewer Charts are an important tool which many of our clients use trading opportunities.
As we have previously commented, to inform and track their trading decisions, and we took the comparatives are increasingly challenging for the remainder of decision three years ago that we should reduce our dependence the current quarter and the beginning of the next.
Against this on external providers and increase our flexibility by bringing our backdrop, revenue this year is forecast to be more weighted charting in house.
This work is largely complete, and the charts towards the second half than historically.
Under normal market which the vast majority of our clients use, both on our webconditions, we continue to expect modest growth in revenue based platform and within our mobile apps, were developed for the year as a whole.
We remain committed to investing and are maintained fully in house.
We continue to add features appropriately in the capabilities of our business, in technology, to these in response to client feedback.
marketing and geographic and product development, to position the business for long-term growth.
I remain confident Insight is a new resource tool which we provide to our clients.
in the prospects for the business going forward.
It brings together a wide range of information about each financial market which our clients can trade, including information about overall client sentiment.
Initial client feedback has been extremely positive and we continue to develop and enhance Insight.
Tim Howkins, Chief Executive 17 July 2012 06 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2012 ANNUAL REPORT 07
