Intermediate Capital Group plc 02 Our business Our model We deploy capital on behalf of more than 200 investors through mezzanine, The Fund Management Company The Investment Company credit and minority equity funds.
We also FMC IC invest our own capital alongside these third party funds.
The FMC is the operating vehicle of ICG plc The IC is the investment unit of ICG plc and that sources and manages investments co-invests alongside our third party funds.
onbehalf of our third party funds and the IC.
3 F ull details of the ICs portfolio are listed on 3 Full details of our funds are available on pages 4654 pages 4445 There are three fund management teams within the FMC: mezzanine funds, credit funds and ICG Longbow funds Our mezzanine and equity funds Our credit funds Our ICG Longbow fund ICG mezzanine and equity funds invest ICG credit funds deploy third party capital ICG Longbow deploy third party capital inmezzanine and minority equity assets investing in senior loans and high yield investing in real estate mezzanine and ofproven mid-market companies with bonds of proven European companies.
The IC provided leading market positions.
The IC co-invests TheIC provides seed capital to launch seedcapital to launch Longbow UK Real alongside the funds at predetermined ratios.
We operate in Europe, the US and Asia.
11.4bn Behind these funds is our Where we source capital Where we invest capital longestablished and rigorous Third party investors Mezzanine approach to originating ICG Credit funds investment opportunities: assessing and pricing risk appropriately across the capital structure of a company before weinvest.
Our competitive 2.7bn 5.0bn advantage isour local network ofinvestment professionals withunparalleled access to their localmarket combined with the resources andknowledge of an established global asset manager.
8.7bn 6.4bn Includes Longbow UK Real Estate Debt Investments II Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Our business 03 Business review 10 Funds and portfolio 40 Governance 55 Accounts 83 Our strategy Grow our Fund Management Company We aim to increase AUM by building on the strong will continue to review opportunities toexpand our record of our credit strategies and launching new franchise geographically andthrough selective acquisitions.
products for institutional investors and, to this end, we have established an experienced distribution ICG Longbow team which we will continue to expand in order to In commercial real estate mezzanine, we see opportunities further deepen our institutional reach.
to grow our ICG Longbow franchise and replicate the Mezzanine and equity funds success we haveenjoyed in the buyout market.
In buyout mezzanine, we continue to build on our Expanding our asset classes leadership position and strong track record in European and Asia Pacific mezzanine and continue to expand Over the past 23 years ICG has built a leading global ourpresence in the US.
mezzanine platform and a strong European leveraged loan and high yield bond business.
This success was Credit funds achieved by combining local, dedicated teams of investment specialists with a common investment As one of the longest established European credit discipline and operating platform.
In 2010, we acquired managers we are well placed to grow AUM in senior a 51% stake in ICG Longbow Real Estate to gain a loans and high yield bonds through a growing range of foothold in the real estate mezzanine market.
We are further seeking to exploitnew continue to grow our product offering through measured opportunities arising as a result of the liquidity shortage in expansion into adjacent asset classes where our core Europe.
Our expanded distribution team is further helping in skills, global reach and infrastructure can create value marketing these opportunities toinvestors.
In addition we 1 forour institutional clients and shareholders.
Invest selectively ICG has one of the widest and most experienced teams have built long-standing relationships with local networks dedicated to sub-investment grade localprivate equity sponsors, banks, advisors and investments and as a result has a strong deal management teams, providing deal flow and early origination capability.
Each investment opportunity is considered individually We recognise the importance of having local teams on its merits and in the context of the expected risk and return requirements set by the Investment Committee.
thatspeak the languages and understand the cultures Particular emphasis is placed on limiting the downside risk ofthe markets in which they operate.
These investment of the investment and the underlying focus is on cash flow teams have established our reputation as a trusted generation and repayment of the investment.
ICGs investment andexperienced investment partner with innovative strategy has been underpinned by rigorous analysis of the structuring ability.
Equally importantly, our investment credit fundamentals of each investment to achieve this aim.
2 Manage our portfolio to maximise value Regular involvement with portfolio companies is Board representation assists in: fundamental to managing and supporting the value Effective portfolio management due to access of our investments.
tomanagement and company information: and Building and strengthening relationships with Post-investment monitoring is a key focus of both ICG stakeholders, which has historically provided a investment executives and the Investment Committee significant number of both follow-on and new and typically we seek board attendance rights from investment opportunities.
Investment executives are responsible for attending monthly or quarterly board meetings.
Closely monitoring investments enables us to identify risks within the portfolio at an early stage.
ICG executives have experience in default situations and the recovery ofprincipal.
