Intermediate Capital Group plc 58 Directors report The directors present their annual report and the audited financial Christophe Evain, CEO and CIO.
The consideration of new senior statements for the 12 months ended 31 March 2012. debt, second lien debt and high yield investments has been delegated to the Credit Funds Investment Committee.
This Principal activities and business review Committee is chaired by Christophe Evain, CEO and CIO.
All investments are reviewed by the corresponding Investment The principal activities of the Group are those of providing Committee.
The approving Committees, comprise up to seven mezzanine and equity finance to companies throughout Europe, additional members for mezzanine investment and five additional Asia Pacific and North America along with the management of third members for credit fund management.
The CIO selects the party funds.
members among two predefined lists of people including managing The Groups profit before taxation was 243.8 million 2011: directors and senior investment executives.
One of these members 186.3 million.
The directors consider the state of the Companys will be nominated as Sponsor member, depending on affairs to be satisfactory.
the specificities of the investment geography, size, nature of the The review of the Groups business as required by section 417 transaction.
By chairing both Investment Committees, the CIO of the Companies Act 2006 including its likely future development is ensures consistency in the Global Investment Strategy of the firm.
contained in Our business, the Business review and on pages 41 to 54, which are incorporated into this report by reference, Key performance indicators KPIs together with this report itself.
The Corporate Governance Statement, set out on pages 63 to 67, forms part of this report.
Details of the KPIs are shown in the Business review on pages 22 The Pillar 3 disclosure is available on the shareholders section of to 25. the Companys website www.
Directors Investment process The directors, who served throughout the year except as noted, The Group has a defined and disciplined investment process for were as follows: all mezzanine and equity investments.
Investments are sourced by Justin Dowley Non Executive Chairman ICGs network of investment professionals in Europe, Asia Pacific Christophe Evain Chief Executive Officer and the US from financial partners including private equity sponsors, banks and professional advisers and or directly with the Tom Attwood Managing Director management teams of companies.
Investment teams assess all Philip Keller Managing Director investment opportunities against ICGs investment criteria and Franois fide Mitry Managing Director present potential investments to the Investment Committee with Jean-Daniel Camus Non Executive Director details of pricing, leverage, capital structure and a full commercial background of the company.
The Investment Committee is Peter Gibbs Non Executive Director responsible for approving the Groups investments in opportunities James Nelson Non Executive Director and will guide the investment teams on due diligence and set Kevin Parry Senior Independent financial parameters.
Extensive due diligence is then undertaken Non Executive Director by advisers, retained by the equity sponsor or appointed directly by ICG, covering the management team, the market, financial The composition of each of the Committees of the Board and the and legal review, sustainability and corporate social responsibility Chairperson of each Committee are detailed on pages 65 and 66. issues.
The due diligence focuses on the protection of principal Mr fide Mitry retired on 31 July 2011 and Mr Attwood retired on and interest and assessing the future value of the equity.
Once completed, a further Investment Committee meeting is The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions for held to review all available information and reach a consensus the periodic retirement of directors.
However, in accordance with unanimous approval is required before an investment can be made.
the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Board A similar process is followed for all credit fund investments, with has decided it would be appropriate for all directors to submit to a two-step Investment Committee process approving trading limits reappointment every year.
The process works on a shorter time frame Accordingly Mr. Dowley, Mr. Evain, Mr. Keller, Mr. Gibbs, and with the team usually benefiting from pre-agreed documentation Mr. Parry retire by rotation at the next annual general meeting and, and a prepared due diligence set of information.
being eligible, offer themselves for re election.
In order to effectively manage potential conflicts of interests Mr. Camus and Mr. Nelson will not stand for re election.
between both ICGs businesses, namely mezzanine investment and Benot Durteste was appointed to the Board as a managing credit fund management, two separate and independent Investment director on 21 May 2012.
Mr. Durteste retires at the next annual Committees have been set up: the consideration of new mezzanine general meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for re election.
loans or equity investments for approval and monitoring of performance of existing mezzanine loans and equity investments has been delegated to the Mezzanine and Minority Equity Investment Committee.
The Committee is chaired by Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Our business 02 59 Business review 10 Funds and portfolio 40 Governance Accounts 83 Directors interests Dividend The directors who held office at 31 March 2012 and their connected The directors recommend a final net dividend payment in respect persons, as defined by the Companies Act, had the following of the ordinary shares of the Company at a rate of 13 pence per interests in the ordinary shares of the Company: share 2011: 12 pence, which when added to the interim net dividend of 6 pence per share 2011: 6 pence, gives a total net 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Number of 20p Number of 20p dividend for the year of 19 pence per share 2011: 18 pence.
ordinary shares ordinary shares The amount of dividend paid in the year was 70.1 million Tom Attwood 1,298,633 1,178,649 2011: 65.6 million.
Jean-Daniel Camus Justin Dowley Chairman 119,639 112,092 Trade creditors Christophe Evain It is Group policy to agree and clearly communicate terms of Chief Executive Officer 781,627 775,650 payment as part of the commercial arrangements negotiated with Peter Gibbs suppliers and then to pay according to those terms, based upon Philip Keller 152,158 69,500 the timely receipt of an accurate invoice.
The Group does not follow James Nelson 40,180 40,180 any code regarding terms of payment.
During the financial year our Kevin Parry trade creditor days, based upon the ratio of amounts that were owed to trade creditors at the year end to the aggregate amounts There have been no changes to the directors interests in shares at invoiced by trade creditors during the year, were 21 days 31 March 2012 as set out above as at 21 May 2012.
Directors share options Auditor Details of directors share options are provided in the Report of the A resolution for the reappointment of the current auditor, Deloitte Remuneration Committee on pages 75 and 76.
During the financial LLP, will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of auditors year ending 31 March 2012, the directors had no interests in the remuneration for audit and non audit work are disclosed in note 9 shares of any subsidiary company.
No Company shares were to the accounts.
issued under the Executive Share Option Schemes during the year.
Disclosure of information to auditor Significant shareholdings Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this As at 21 May 2012 the Company had been notified or otherwise report confirms that: become aware of the following interests pursuant to the Disclosure so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit Rules and the Transparency Rules representing 3% or more of the information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and issued share capital of the Company: the director has taken all reasonable steps that he ought to have Number Percentage of of shares voting rights Institution taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant Aviva Investors 32,729,648 8.18 audit information and to ensure that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Newton Investment Management Ltd 28,972,137 7.24 F & C Asset Management Plc 28,032,394 7.00 This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Baillie Gifford & Co Ltd 23,322,777 5.83 with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Legal & General Investment Mgmt Ltd 14,084,419 3.52 Charitable and political contributions TD Direct Investing 12,974,684 3.24 LSV Asset Management 12,637,817 3.16 During the year the Group made charitable donations of 38,000 J O Hambro Capital Management 12,051,399 3.01 2011: 97,000 principally to local charities serving the communities in which the Group operates.
19,000 of donations 2011: 59,000 have been made to the Private Equity Foundation this year, a foundation backed by private equity firms and their advisers.
Their mission is to empower young people, by investing both money and expertise from the private equity community, to help charities achieve a significant change in their impact.
The Group also allows employees to take two days paid leave a year to devote to charitable causes supported by the Group under its Corporate Social Responsibility programme, further details of which are given on pages 38 and 39.
No contributions were made during the current and prior year for political purposes.
Intermediate Capital Group plc 60 Directors report continued Directors indemnity B he or any interested person has failed to supply the Company with the information requested within 14 days where the shares The Company has entered into contractual indemnities with the subject to the notice the default shares represent at least directors pursuant to the amendment to the Companys Articles of 0.25% of their class or in any other case 28 days after delivery Association authorised at the 2010 AGM and these remain in force.
The Company also provides Directors and Officers insurance for Where the default shares represent 0.25% of their class, unless the directors.
the Board decides otherwise, no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and no transfer of any default shares shall Acquisition of shares by Employee Benefit Trust be registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by During the year the Intermediate Capital Group Employee Benefit the Company of a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or Trust 2002, funded in full by the Company, purchased 4,813,531 all the information required by the relevant section 793 notice, 2011: 7,452,221 ordinary shares in the Company having an whichever is the earlier.
aggregate nominal value of 962,706.20 2011: 1,490,440.20 The directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share for a consideration of 12.9 million 2011: 21.0 million.
The shares which is not a fully paid share, although such discretion may were purchased in order to hedge the Companys future liabilities not be exercised in a way which the Financial Services Authority in relation to the vesting of awards under the Companys long term regards as preventing dealings in the shares of the relevant class incentive plans.
or classes from taking place on an open and proper basis.
This represented 1.20% 1.87% of the Groups share capital The directors may likewise refuse to register any transfer of a at 31 March 2012. share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Company is not aware of any other restrictions on the transfer Share capital and rights attaching to the of ordinary shares in the Company other than: Companys shares certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by As at 31 March 2012 the issued share capital of the Company was laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws or the 400,190,206 ordinary shares of 20 pence each.
Certain key matters UK Takeover Code : and regarding the Company share capital are noted below: pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority Under the Companys Articles of Association, any share in the whereby certain employees of the Company require approval Company may be issued with such rights or restrictions, whether of the Company to deal in the Companys shares.
in regard to dividend, voting, transfer, return of capital or The Company is not aware of any agreements between otherwise as the Company may from time to time by ordinary shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of resolution determine or, in the absence of any such securities or voting rights.
determination, as the Board may determine.
All shares currently in issue are ordinary shares of 20 pence each carrying equal rights.
At the 2011 Annual General Meeting the directors were given the power to allot shares and grant rights to subscribe for, or convert At a general meeting of the Company every member present in any security into, shares: up to an aggregate nominal amount of person or by a duly appointed proxy has one vote on a show of 26,621,764 plus, in the case of a fully pre-emptive rights issue hands and on a poll one vote for each share held.
only, a further amount of up to 53,243,529.
A resolution will be The Intermediate Capital Group Employee Benefit Trust 2002 proposed to renew the Companys authority to allot further new holds shares which may be used to satisfy options and awards shares at the forthcoming AGM.
In accordance with the granted under the Companys employee share schemes institutional guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers including its long term incentive plans.
The voting rights of these ABI, the proposed new authority will allow the directors to allot shares are exercisable by the Trustees in accordance with their ordinary shares equal to an amount of up to one third of the fiduciary duties.
Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 21 May 2012 plus, The notice of any general meeting specifies deadlines for in the case of a fully pre-emptive rights issue only, a further exercising voting rights either by proxy or present in person in amount of up to an additional one-third of the Companys issued relation to resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
Further details of the resolutions No shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to proposed at the forthcoming AGM are set out on pages 61 and attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting 62. or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder if: The directors authority to effect purchases of the Companys A he or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a shares on the Companys behalf is conferred by resolution of notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which shareholders.
At the 2011 AGM the Company was granted confers upon public companies the power to require information authority to purchase its own shares up to an aggregate value with respect to interests in their voting shares : and of approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 03 June 2011.
The authority to effect purchases of the Companys shares is renewed annually and approval will be sought at the forthcoming AGM for its renewal.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Our business 02 61 Business review 10 Funds and portfolio 40 Governance Accounts 83 Powers of directors 6 The employee share schemes, details of which can be found in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 69 Subject to its Articles of Association and relevant statutory law to 81, Awards and options under the 2001 Approved and and to such direction as may be given by the Company by special Unapproved Executive Share Option Schemes and SAYE Plan resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board, 2004 become exercisable for a limited period following a change who may exercise all powers of the Company whether relating of control whereas awards under the KERSP will only become to the management of the business or not.
exercisable if the Remuneration Committee so decides.
Awards The Companys Articles of Association give power to the and options under the Omnibus Plan and the BSC Plan vest Board to appoint directors.
The Articles also require any directors immediately on a change of control.
appointed by the Board to submit themselves for election at the first AGM following their appointment and for one-third of the 7 75m private placement arrangements signed on 9 November Companys directors to retire by rotation at each AGM.
2011 under which a change of control triggers an immediate Directors may resign or be removed by an ordinary resolution prepayment obligation of all outstanding principal, accrued of shareholders.
Notwithstanding the above, the Company has interest and all other amounts due under the agreement.
elected, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 8 The terms and conditions of the 35m retail bond issue sets out to have all directors reappointed on an annual basis.
that following a change of control event, investors have the right but not the obligation to sell their notes to ICG if the change Change of control agreements of control results in either a credit ratings downgrade from There are no agreements between the Group and its directors investment grade to non-investment grade, or a downgrade of or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or one or more notches if already non-investment grade, no credit employment that occurs because of a takeover bid apart from the ratings being in existence.
usual payment in lieu of notice.
Annual General Meeting There are no significant agreements to which the Group is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the A number of resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Group following a takeover bid, other than: Meeting AGM as ordinary and special business as follows: Resolutions 13, 14 and 15 will be proposed as special 1 The multi currency revolving loan facility agreement of 1,067 resolutions.
All other resolutions will be proposed as ordinary million dated 5 April 2005 as amended and restated on resolutions.
To pass special resolutions 75% or more of the votes 8 December 2006 where a change of control is an event cast must be in favour.
Voting on all resolutions will be by way of default and gives lenders the right, but not the obligation, of poll.
to cancel their commitments to the facility and declare the loans repayable on demand.
Resolutions 2 The multi currency forward start revolving loan facility agreement Financial Statements and Reports Resolution 1 of 250 million dated 1 July 2009 where a change of control is The directors are required to present to shareholders at the an event of default and gives lenders the right, but not the AGM the financial statements and reports for the year ended obligation, to cancel their commitments to the facility and 31 March 2012. declare the loans repayable on demand.
Directors Remuneration Report Resolution 2 3 The three Private Placement arrangements totalling 316 million The directors are required to seek approval of the shareholders for dated between 28 June 2001 and 28 February 2007 where a the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March change of control gives rise to a downgrade in the credit rating 2012.
The resolution is an advisory vote, as permitted by law, and and the loans are thereafter repayable on demand.
no entitlement to remuneration is made conditional on the resolution 4 The Private Placement arrangement totalling 34 million dated being passed.
The Report of the Remuneration Committee is on 26 June 2008 where a change of control in the Company gives pages 69 to 81. rise to an event of default under the agreements.
The loans are Dividend Resolution 3 thereafter repayable on demand.
The directors recommend a dividend of 13 pence per share.
5 The forward start loan facility agreement of 250 million dated The final dividend cannot exceed the amount recommended by 1 June 2009 and amended and restated 1 July 2009 where a the directors.
If approved by shareholders, the final dividend will change of control gives lenders the right, but not the obligation, be paid on 13 July 2012 to those shareholders on the register as to cancel their commitments to the facility and declare the loans at 1 June 2012. repayable on demand.
The Auditor Resolutions 4 and 5 The shareholders are asked every year to approve the re appointment of the auditor, Deloitte LLP, as auditor of the Company and agree that the directors may approve their remuneration.
Intermediate Capital Group plc 62 Directors report continued Re election of directors Resolutions 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11 Repurchase of own Shares Resolution 14 In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance The Company may buy its own shares with the authority of Code relating to the annual re election of directors, Justin Dowley, shareholders.
Resolution 14 seeks to renew the current authority Christophe Evain, Philip Keller, Benot Durteste, Peter Gibbs, and given at the 2011 AGM.
The resolution specifies the maximum Kevin Parry are retiring and will be standing for re election at the number of shares that may be purchased in the markets up to AGM.
The Chairman is satisfied that, following formal performance a limit of 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as evaluation, each director continues to be effective and at 21 May 2012 and the highest and lowest prices at which they demonstrates commitment to his role.
The Board considers that may be bought.
In the event that shares are purchased, they would each of the directors brings experience and skills valuable to the be either cancelled and the number of shares in issue would be Boards effective performance and that their re-appointment is in reduced accordingly or, in accordance with the Companies Act the best interest of the Company.
Biographies of all the directors 2006, be retained as treasury shares for re-sale or transfer for use appear on pages 56 and 57. with the Companys employee share plans.
Authority to allot shares Resolutions 12 General Meetings Resolution 15 The directors may allot relevant securities only if authorised to do Resolution 15 is required to meet the requirements of the so by shareholders.
The authority granted at the 2011 AGM is due Shareholder Rights Directive, which would otherwise require the to expire at this years AGM.
Resolution 12 seeks to renew this notice period for General Meetings of the Company to be not less authority for a period until 30 September 2013, or the date of the than 21 days.
2013 AGM, whichever is the earlier.
The Shareholder Rights Directive provides that the Company Paragraph a of Resolution 12 will allow the directors to allot must have shareholder approval to allow the Company to call ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 26,679,347 General Meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice.
representing approximately one-third 33.33% of the Companys The approval given at the 2011 AGM is due to expire at this years existing issued share capital and calculated as at 21 May 2012 AGM.
If granted, the 2012 AGM approval will be effective until the being the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Notice 2013 AGM or 30 September 2013, whichever is the earlier.
In accordance with the latest institutional guidelines The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic issued by the ABI, paragraph b of Resolution 12 will also allow voting under the Directive before it can call a general meeting on directors to allot, including the ordinary shares referred to in 14 days notice.
paragraph a of Resolution 12, further ordinary shares in connection with a pre emptive offer by way of a rights issue to ordinary shareholders up to a maximum nominal amount of 53,358,694, representing approximately two-thirds 66.67% of the Companys Justin Dowley existing issued share capital calculated as at 21 May 2012.
Chairman The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
22 May 2012 However, if they do exercise the authority, the directors intend to follow emerging best practice as regards its use including, where appropriate, the directors standing for re-election as recommended by the ABI.
Issue of Shares Resolution 13 If the directors wish to allot equity securities or sell treasury shares for cash, the Companies Act 2006 requires that these shares are offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
These requirements are known as shareholders pre emption rights.
There may be occasions, however, when, in order to act in the best interests of the Company, the directors need flexibility to finance business opportunities as they arise without offering securities on a pre emptive basis.
Resolution 13 asks shareholders to renew the directors authority to allot equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 4,001,902 being equivalent to approximately 5% of the ordinary issued share capital as at 21 May 2012 without the shares being offered first to existing shareholders.
If given, this power will expire on 30 September 2013 or at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM, whichever is the earlier.
