Intermediate Capital Group plc 08 Our business: Progress towards  Priorities for FY12 Market drivers The volatility experienced in the past five years, combined with the impact of new regulations such Grow our Fund asSolvency II for insurance companies, have made yield based investments strategies more attractive to Management Company institutional investors.
In the context of low yields on traditional fixed income products, there is a growing interest for alternative credit investments and we expect this trend to prevail in the medium term.
Although this medium term trend is favourable, periods of heightened uncertainty, such as the secondhalf of 2011, can lead to a slowdown in newcommitments to funds.
A long, solid track record and stable teams are key advantages in a challenging environment as investors seek reassurance on the long term sustainability of theplatform.
In this environment, a distribution capability acrossgeographies offers a clear advantage in 1 accessing capital.
Priorities for FY12 Market drivers Banks continue to have limited capacity to finance the LBO market as they respond to capital constraints.
Invest selectively In addition, structured vehicles are increasingly unable to deploy capital as they reach the end of their investment period.
As a result, pricing of buyout debt remains high and overall leverage levels limited, extending to only three turns of EBITDA in most transactions, leaving ample room for mezzanine capital.
The European sovereign debt crisis, however, caused a slowdown in investment opportunities in the second half of the year.
2 Priorities for FY12 Market drivers The economic slowdown in Europe is providing a more challenging backdrop for cyclical assets.
Manage our portfolio to maximise value 3 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Our business 09 Business review 10 Funds and portfolio 40 Governance 55 Accounts 83 Progress Priorities for FY13 We have continued to make progress in making good progress towards our 2billion On the mezzanine side, our focus will be on building the platform to grow AUM.
We also reached a final close reaching the final close of ICG Europe Fund V further expanded our distribution capability onLongbow UK Real Estate Debt and preparing the launch of our successor and have recruited a highly experienced Investments II.
Our mezzanine assets under funds in Asia Pacific mezzanine and UK individual to lead this team.
We also launched management have grown 7% in the year to commercial real estate.
In respect of credit funds, our objective isto We have made a strong start in raising our We have also enhanced our range of make progress towards a first closing for our next European mezzanine fund, ICG Europe V credit products in order to enable institutional Senior DebtPartners Fund as well as building on with a strong first close in September and, investors to capture attractive opportunities themomentum of the recent months in marketing although fundraising was slower in the second across the debt spectrum.
However, private mandates, which invest across our senior half of 2011 due to market conditions, fundraising was slow inthe second half and loans, high yield and structured credit capabilities.
To date we CFM AUM decreased by 11% as a result of The positive response to our credit fund have received commitments of 1.4 billion, our older CLOs being in their run-off periods.
offerings since year end is beginning to lead including 500 million from the plc and are tonew commitments to the funds, via several segregated mandate commitments from institutional investors.
3 For more information see We will also continue to review page 14 opportunities to seed new investment funds and build our US platform.
Progress Priorities for FY13 As a result of the slowdown in market activity We made one new investment in Europe and We will continue to focus on local transactions in the second half of the year and our cautious one in the US in the first half.
The Asia Pacific where our long term relationships with stance in a deteriorating economic environment, market was more active throughout the year sponsors and management teams enable us we arranged 406 million on behalf of our and we completed four transactions.
to generate attractive proprietary deal flow.
mezzanine funds, our investment company Since year end we have seen a material and third parties during the year, the IC pick up in new deals.
This compares toclose to 1billion last year, of which 311million wasinvested on behalf of the IC.
Thelower level of investment was due to themarket slowdown in the second half.
3 For more information see page 16 Progress Priorities for FY13 Our portfolio showed resilience in a difficult expect at this stage that provisions in the We remain cautious and vigilant, given the economic environment.
current year will remain broadly in line with our macroeconomic environment, and managing At year end, 65% of our portfolio companies historical average.
our portfolio to maximise value remains a were performing equally as well or better than We have realised significant value from strategic priority.
the prior year compared to 69% in September.
our portfolio, having exited eight portfolio We continue to target strategic exit We have, however, seen some softness companies and completed one partial exit, opportunities for our existing portfolio.
in performance in the most recent months which generated 74 million of realised capital against an economic environment which gains, 365 million in repayments of principal remains challenging.
This has been particularly and the crystallisation of 113 million of the case for our weaker and most cyclical accrued interest for our Investment Company.
assets, the majority of which have been at least partially provided for.
As a result, we 3 For more information see page 19
