Intermediate Capital Group plc 14 Business review: Year in review We have continued to make progress Grow the Fund Management Company towardsour strategic objectives: grow ourFundManagement Company FMC, manage our portfolio to maximise value Our strategy for growing the FMC centres on andinvest selectively.
takingadvantage of the growing interest for alternative yield strategies by broadening our product offering through judicious expansion into new geographies and adjacent asset classes, supported by a strong internal distribution capability.
Central to the strategy is maintaining our strong track record of outperformance.
In the last 12 months we have made significant investments in the platform that will support the growth of our Fund Management Company.
We have worked very closely with our institutional clients and their advisers to broaden ourproduct offering to enable institutional investors to capture the attractive economics in our asset classes.
In terms of pooled funds, we have launched a dedicated fund ICG Senior Debt Partners to capitalise on the lack of senior debt inthe European market and are pleased by the initial reception from institutional investors.
This willbe complementary to our existing loan fund, which invests in more liquid strategies.
Given the significant demand for senior loans in the next five years and the limited number of fund managers with the skills and reach to address it, we believe there isa significant opportunity to grow our loan funds.
We have launched a combined loans, high yield and structured credit pooled fund that appeals to smaller institutions with limited internal resources dedicated to asset allocation between credit assetclasses.
We have also enhanced our ability tooffer tailored investment strategies under private mandate agreements.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Our business 02 15 Business review Funds and portfolio 40 Governance 55 Accounts 83 Grow the Fund Management Company 1 We have further expanded our marketing and We are, however, confident that we are building distribution team with additional sales executives momentum in our pooled fund vehicles and inAsia Pacific and Scandinavia, bringing our segregated mandates and have seen some distribution team to 14.
We have also hired ahighly recentpositive developments.
The 100 million experienced Head of Distribution to further drive mandate from a European financial institution that forward our brand, product launches and investor we announced in January contributed 13 million reach.
This has recently been In terms of new funds raised in the year to expanded to a target size of 350 million.
We will 31March 2012, we successfully launched our next continue to seek to grow our segregated mandate European mezzanine fund, ICG Europe FundV, offerings as we continue to see significant growth which held a first close in September 2011at 1.1 potential in private mandates.
billion, including 500 million from ourInvestment Total AUM stood at 11.4 billion at 31 March Company.
Since then we have received additional 2012, down 3% compared to 31 March 2011. third party commitments of over 300million Although we are disappointed that AUM decreased despite the challenging environment.
over the period, the performance of our existing We also successfully completed the final close of funds continues to underpin our long term Longbow UK Real Estate Debt Investments II Fund growthplans.
in September, with 242 million of commitments Our mezzanine funds have performed received from a variety of institutional investors and stronglyand have remained in line with top ICG, which committed 50 million to the fund.
quartileperformance private equity returns Third party mezzanine AUM stood at since2000 in terms of net multiples generated.
3.7billionat 31 March 2012, up 7% compared These funds have benefited from the resilience to31 March 2011. ofour portfolio and the additional strong exits AUM in our CFM division, however, were down during the period, in particular CPA Global, 11% at 5.0 billion, as our older CLOs have now whichhas materially boosted distributions to reached the end of their investment periods and are investors in the ICG Minority Partners Fund 2008 consequently returning capital to investors.
The and ICG European Fund IV 2006.
Longbow UK fundraising environment was particularly challenging Real Estate Debt Investments II is now 62% for European investment products in the second half invested having benefited from a very strong of the year as the European economic situation was pipeline of transactions in 2012 and is performing watched apprehensively by prospective investors.
Our most recent Asia Pacific fund is benefiting from a strong pipeline.
Our credit funds have also performed well.
Our12 month senior loan default rate for the year ended 31 March 2012 was 1.9%, compared to 5.3% for the market.
As a result of the low default rate, we have earned junior fees on all the CLOs All our funds continue we manage.
The ICG High Yield Bond Fund has outperformed the market by 1% since inception, to performverystrongly.
and has generated an annualised return of 10.2%.
Intermediate Capital Group plc 16 Business review: Year in review continued In the 12 months to 31March 2012 wehave arranged 406 million of mezzanine investments, 122 million of which was onbehalf of our Investment Company.
Invest selectively 2 Given the subdued market and the uncertain In Asia Pacific, the Investment Company made economic environment following the European 30million of new investments in four transactions debtcrisis in the second half of the year, our in the 12 months to 31 March 2012.
In the 12 months we provided mezzanine and equity financing to to31March 2012 we have arranged 406 million support the secondary buyout of Tegel Foods ofmezzanine investments, 122 million of which byAffinity Equity Partners.
ICG had supported was on behalf of our Investment Company.
theprevious buyout of the company in 2006.
In Europe the Investment Company reinvested InJanuary 2012, we supported Ventura Motors 71 million, primarily in the new buyout of Bureau inits acquisition of Grenda Transit Management.
Since year end we have seen a material The combined entity accounts for over 60% of pick up in new deals.
In April we acquired a Melbournes bus market.
This transaction is the 256million portfolio of performing loans from a firstsponsorless mezzanine deal for ICG Asia European bank on favourable terms.
We also completed two small investments transaction was financed with a vendor debt facility in China as part of our co-investment agreement of 104million and 152 million of equity provided with CITIC Capital.
Since year end, we have made byICG Europe Fund V, ICG Recovery Fund and afurther sponsorless investment in Australia, theInvestment Company.
supporting a management team in its buyout In the US, the Investment Company invested ofacompany, with over AUD$150 million of 21 million of mezzanine and equity in one equity, mezzanine and senior debt.
The transaction involved the tounderwrite the whole financial structure was acquisitionof Cogent Healthcare by Hospitalists akey factor in our ability to secure this highly Management Group HMG.
HMG and Cogent attractive transaction.
The final hold for the IC Healthcare have merged to form the largest private isexpected to be AUD$13.5 million.
Details of hospitalist hospital based general practitioner thetransaction remain confidential at this stage.
company in the United States, with nearly 1,000 affiliated hospitalists practising in more than 100 healthcare facilities nationwide.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Our business 02 17 Business review Funds and portfolio 40 Governance 55 Accounts 83 Ventura Motors investment In January 2012, ICG underwrote, led, managed and arranged AUD155 million of mezzanine and equity capital in support of the acquisition of Grenda Transit Management by Ventura Motors Pty Limited.
ICGs capital enabled Ventura, an 80 year old Australian family business, to raise the necessary funding to purchase itslargest and longest standing competitor, emerging as the winner of a competitive sale process over several large listed and international transport companies.
Ventura is now well positioned to grow further as the bus industry continues to consolidate.
The combined Ventura Grenda business is the largest bus operator in Victoria and accounts for over60% of Melbournes bus market, operating morethan 1,250 buses and employing over 2,300 staff.
It is supported by long term government-backed contracts in key franchise areas and enjoys exposure tohigh growth corridors around the city.
The Ventura transaction was the first sponsorless mezzanine deal for ICG Asia Pacific.
Country: Australia Sector: Shipping and transport Year: 2012 Status: Current investment www.
au Photo courtesy of Michael Coley Intermediate Capital Group plc 18 Bureau van Dijk In 2011, ICG provided financing to Bureau van Dijk BvD.
This was the first investment by ICG Europe Fund V. ICG has held an investment and a board representation in BvD since 2007.
ICG then led a reshuffling of the financial structure with the introduction of mezzanine facilities and subsequently the purchase of the senior debt position of the arranging bank at a deep discount.
As a result of this historic relationship, ICG has a detailed knowledge of the business and a close relationship with the senior management team.
BvD is a leading, global electronic publisher and aggregator of company financial information with a focus, unique in the industry, on private companies.
Based in Belgium, BvD operates a global database ofcompany information covering around 100 million companies.
BvD has demonstrated exceptional performance historically with annual double-digit growthincluding through the 2008 09 downturn.
In 2011, ICG invested alongside Charterhouse, underwriting a senior mezzanine tranche of 140 million, of which 65 million was syndicated.
A 50 million PIK tranche initially envisaged was eventually rolled into the equity quasi equity in which ICG now holds 75 million, representing 15% of the equity tranche.
Country: Belgium Sector: Printing and advertising Year: 2007, 2008, 2011 Status: Current investment www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Our business 02 19 Business review Funds and portfolio 40 Governance 55 Accounts 83 Business review: Year in review continued Manage our portfolio to maximise value 3 Portfolio performance showed the resilience of The gross impairment charge for the year to ourportfolio in a difficult economic environment.
31March 2012 was 84 million, compared to At year end, 65% of our portfolio companies 90million last year.
In the period, we have written were performing equally as well or better than the back 13 million of provisions against previously prior year compared to 69% in September.
Given impaired assets which now show significantly the weaker economic environment in Europe, improved operating performance and financial further realisations of high performing assets and outlooks compared to 19 million last year.
strong prior year comparables, this shows the Netimpairments were flat at 71 million.
resilience of our portfolio companies.
We have realised significant value from Our 20 largest assets, which account for ourportfolio having exited eight portfolio approximately half of our portfolio, continue to companies in full and completed one partial exit, perform well with 85% performing at least as well which generated 74 million of realised capital asin the prior year.
gains, 365 million in repayments of principal and The vast majority of our portfolio companies 113 million crystallisation of accrued rolled up operate in the strongest European economies, interest for our Investment Company.
Key exits in theUS, and Asia Pacific.
We have very limited the period included Bureau van Dijk, CPA Global, exposure to Spain and Italy about 10% of our Eismann, Raet and Tegel.
We also partially exited portfolio companies by value and no investments our investment in Au Bon Pain after the company inGreece, Ireland or Portugal.
refinanced its existing debt and repaid our We have, however, seen some softness in mezzanine investment.
performance in the most recent months against an The valuation of our equity portfolio has economic environment which remains challenging.
resulted in an uplift in reserves of 101 million as We therefore remain extremely vigilant.
This has at30 September 2011 and a further 6 million at been particularly the case for our weaker and most 31March 2012.
In addition, this also generated cyclical assets, the majority of which have been at unrealised capital gains recognised in the Income least partially provided for in prior periods.
At this Statement of 27 million as at 30 September 2011 stage, we expect provisions in the current year to and a further 17 million at 31 March 2012. remain broadly in line with our historical average.
Portfolio performance showed the resilience ofour portfolio in a difficult economic environment.
Intermediate Capital Group plc 20 Business review: Year in review continued Key priorities for the current year We have taken a series of initiatives to grow AUMacross asset classes for our Fund Management Company.
In terms of mezzanine funds, we are making good progress towards our final target for ICG Europe Fund V. We will also be launching the successor funds to Longbow UK Real Estate Debt Investments II and our Asia Pacific Fund 2008.
For our credit funds our objective is to make significant progress towards the first closing for ourSenior Debt Partners fund as well as building on themomentum of the recent months in marketing private mandates and pooled funds which invest across our senior loans, high yield and structured credit capabilities.
We will also continue to review opportunities toseed new investment funds and build our USplatform.
For the Investment Company, we are seeing anincreased pipeline of investment opportunities and expect to maintain the solid momentum seen over the last two months and further capitalise onthe imbalance between demand and supply ofdebt capital.
Since year end we have created good momentum towards delivering on these priorities.
However, the market volatility of recent weeks is currently providing a more challenging backdrop which reduces our short term visibility.
Prolonged market volatility might impact our ability to obtain investment mandates from the US and Asia.
Itwould, however, provide increased opportunities toinvest on exceptionally attractive terms.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Our business 02 21 Business review Funds and portfolio 40 Governance 55 Accounts 83 Hammersmith Grove In November 2009 ICG Longbow structured and, throughamanaged account, provided a 15 million mezzanine loan secured on a 200,000 sq ft near primeoffice in Hammersmith, West London in anoff-market recapitalisation of the property.
The borrower, a joint venture between an international REIT and a London based property fund each of whom were well known to ICG Longbow, had recently completed a comprehensive refurbishment ofthe rear wing of the building and, at the time of financing, approximately 25% of the office space was vacant.
The investment was underwritten based on leasing up 50% of the vacant space over a three year period, resulting in a 12.5% vacancy level in the building over double the prevailing vacancy rate in what, even in 2009, was a supply constrained sub-market.
With ICG Longbows financing, the borrower was able toexecute its business plan, ultimately leasing up all ofthe vacant floor space within a year.
The loan was structured to provide ICG Longbows investors with an attractive running coupon and participation in any uplift in value of the property resulting from the leasing of the vacant floorspace, whilst providing strong capital and income protection through the combination of resilient cash flow, attractive underlying property market dynamics and a highly experienced borrower.
Country: UK Sector: Commercial property Year: 2009 Status: Current investment
