DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Our business WHO WE ARE Sky is the leading pay television provider in the UK and Ireland and the fastest growing provider of home communications services in the UK.
As at 30 June 2012, we had 10.6 million customers taking a total of 28.4 million products.
OUR APPROACH We have a clear and consistent strategy: to attract new customers to Sky: sell more products and services to our existing customers: and develop our adjacent businesses.
To achieve this broadlybased growth, we continue to invest in the customer experience while improving the efficiency of our operations: all with the aim of building a larger, more profitable business.
WHAT WE DO Sky retails pay TV services to residential customers in SD, HD and 3D via satellite, on demand with Anytime and on the move with Sky Go.
We keep our customers connected with great-value broadband and telephony products in the home via DSL and fibre, and away from the home with The Cloud WiFi.
We also offer a number of our TV services to commercial customers and we operate adjacent businesses wholesaling our channel portfolio, selling advertising on our own and partner channels, and offering a range of betting and gaming services.
In July 2012, we launched our new internet streaming service under a different brand, NOW TV, giving consumers a new, flexible way to access Skys content and allowing us to distribute our content more broadly across new platforms.
OUR PAID-FOR SUBSCRIPTION PRODUCTS Television: DTH via the satellite High Definition Multiroom Internet streaming via NOW TV Broadband Telephony Line Rental ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 8 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW OUR BUSINESS MODEL We want to be the first choice for entertainment and communications so we put customers at the heart of everything we do.
Through focus on quality, flexibility, value and service we can grow in a variety of ways, create value for shareholders, and make a broader contribution to the community.
Invest in Add value Grow share in Increase Grow adjacent standout through home operating businesses content innovation communications efficiency Develop our long-term capability Build a larger, more profitable business We invest in high-quality, exclusive content to give Our content investments supports growth in customers a greater choice of TV that they are our adjacent wholesale, advertising and Sky Bet passionate about.
We deliver innovative new products and services which We focus on operating efficiency to deliver the best improve the experience of watching TV and add more service, underpin investment in future growth and value for customers.
increase profit, cash flow and returns.
More customers are choosing Sky home We continue to invest in the key building blocks of communications products over other providers for our our brand, our people and our infrastructure as key quality, value and reliable service.
HOW WE DO BUSINESS At Sky, we are focused on building a sustainable business because we believe that is the best way to achieve long-term success and create value for shareholders.
We know that our reputation is a valuable asset and we want to be known for being a great company to do business with, for making a positive contribution to UK and Irish life and for being a great place to work.
A responsible business day to day Inspiring action Because we never forget that people make a choice when they At Sky, we use our innovative technology to connect, entertain, buy our products or watch our programmes, we pay as much inform and inspire our customers to take action, extending our reach beyond the screen to make a positive impact on society attention to the way we do business as we do to the quality of the services we offer see page 19. see page 23.
Our people How we manage risk We know that the performance of our people is critical to our The Group has a formal risk management framework embedded growth and success.
We aim to attract the best talent and create within the business to support the identification and effective a culture where our people can achieve their potential and have a management of risk across the Group see page 28. great career see page 25.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 9
