Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW UK broadcasting licences Commercial success comes from delivering what our customers The Group is party to a number of Ofcom broadcasting licences want.
for the broadcast of the Sky Channels.
The Broadcasting Act Sky plays a key role in making the television sector more 1990 as amended by the Broadcasting Act 1996 and the competitive in the UK and Ireland, offering quality, choice and Communications Act lays down a number of restrictions on more great viewing experiences at affordable prices.
Our awardthose parties permitted to hold Ofcom broadcasting licences.
winning Sky News provides non-stop independent current Among those restricted from holding Ofcom broadcasting affairs coverage and world-class journalism.
The nature and licences or from controlling a licensed company are a local documentary channels we distribute give viewers a bigger authorities, b political bodies, c religious bodies, d any window on their world.
And through sports, movies, arts and company controlled by any of the previous categories or by their original drama, we deliver content that gives people of all officers or associates, e advertising agencies or any company interests and backgrounds the chance to indulge and share their controlled by such an agency or in which it holds more than a 5% passions.
Licensees have an ongoing obligation to comply with these ownership restrictions.
Failure by a licensee to do so either This means that, beyond providing simply entertainment, we are by the licensee becoming a disqualified person or any change changing the cultural landscape of the UK and Ireland, enabling affecting the nature, characteristics or control of the licensee our viewers to access more diverse, high quality, informative and which would have precluded the original grant of the licence may inspiring content than ever before.
constitute a breach of the licence and, if not rectified, could result in revocation of the licence.
The creative industries are one of Britains key economic strengths.
Sky is a central part of this.
We make a huge Ofcom also has a duty under the Broadcasting Acts to be contribution to the growth and success of this sector in the satisfied that any person holding a broadcasting licence is fit UK.
Sky is the UKs biggest commercial investor in TV content, and proper to hold those licences and may revoke those licences spending over 2 billion a year, two-thirds of which is in the UK.
if it ceases to be so satisfied.
On 9 March 2012, Ofcom stated that it is continuing to gather and assess evidence as part of its Our investment ongoing assessment of whether Sky is fit and proper to hold its Sky is amongst the most innovative broadcasters in the world, broadcasting licences.
driving the advance of media and communications technology in the UK and Ireland.
A pioneer of multi-channel television, we have also been at the forefront of the rollout of high-speed HOW WE DO BUSINESS broadband, digital and HD television and now 3D TV.
Sky is part of the everyday lives of millions of people in the UK and Ireland and has an unparalleled opportunity to ensure our Since 2000, Sky has invested some 3.2 billion in the media and impact on society is a positive one.
By connecting people to the communications infrastructure in the UK and Ireland, helping to wider world we can inspire action that makes a difference to the lay the foundations of a modern service economy.
This makes us communities where we live and work.
one of the largest technology investors in these countries.
This also helps us to be a better business by building our brand In 2012, a study by Oxford Economics estimated Skys success to and our reputation.
We want to be known for being a great have resulted in a contribution of 5.4 billion to the UK economy company to do business with, for making a positive contribution in 2011.
This is equivalent to around 40% of the contribution to UK and Irish society and for being a great place to work.
made by the entire UK television and radio creative sector.
Our operations resulted in 941 million being paid in taxation in that Skys Ways of Working year to the UK government and we provided employment for We never forget that people make a choice when they buy our 22,800 direct and full-time contract people, with thousands products or watch our programmes.
We pay as much attention more suppliers and business partners jobs depending on our to the way we do business as we do to the quality of the services operations.
We make sure that everyone at Sky understands how we do business by communicating our expectations of them through our code of conduct, called Skys Ways of Working.
This defines A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS DAY TO DAY our commitment to our customers, colleagues, shareholders, At Sky, we recognise that doing the right thing in our day-tobusiness partners and the broader community, clearly setting out day operations is vital.
This is how we build trust among our our values as a business.
customers, employees, suppliers and the wider community.
We do this through our products, services and programming, our Our role in society positive actions in the communities where we live and work, As a broadcaster, our primary role in society is to entertain, our partnerships with our suppliers and the steps we take to inform and inspire the millions of people that access our services.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 19 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Review of our business continued Customers We monitor the effectiveness of our approach and in results We put our customers at the heart of everything we do.
We published in June 2012 by Ofcom, Sky was the best performing aim to continue to provide products that people want at an of all pay TV companies, with only 3 complaints to Ofcom per affordable price and to back this up with excellent customer 100,000 customers.
Data protection Great service delivery Customers trust us with their personal details and we make Delivering great service is critical to keeping our customers for sure that this information is kept confidential and secure.
We do this by making it easy for them to interact have clear data protection policies and compliance processes.
with us online or on the phone.
We ensure our products are Our Data Governance Committee, chaired by a member of our Executive team, promotes best practice in the way we handle reliable and we deliver high levels of service when our customers personal data and helps to ensure compliance with relevant contact us.
We provide training for our people so that they We have focused on enabling our customers to get in touch with understand their responsibilities in relation to the protection of us in multiple ways.
Our live chat capability is now at scale and information and who to contact should they have any questions.
our customer help forum attracts over 1 million thread views Over the year Sky was not found in breach of any data protection each week.
Online is also now our leading channel for new sales laws and was not subject to any enforcement notices or court and product upgrades.
We have made it easy for customers to proceedings with regards to data protection.
A small number self-serve for basic services such as resetting a PIN or changing of complaints regarding Sky were sent to the regulator over payment details and they can do this online, on mobile or through the year and they were all resolved without the Information automated voice services.
Commissioners Office taking formal action.
Further, we We know that great service comes from having great products.
successfully implemented the new requirements for monthly By bringing the design and control of our set-top box in house, logging and reporting of data breaches to the Information weve driven efficiencies in cost and improved reliability.
This Commissioners Office in July 2011. also ensured we were able to maintain supply following the Thai Access for all floods in 2011 which impacted global supply of hard disk drives.
It is important to us that our products and services can be Our engineers are trained to provide a top quality end-to-end enjoyed by everyone, including those with disabilities.
We have a service in the home and as a result we have seen a 30% reduction comprehensive approach to building accessibility into our core in service visits, the lowest level for over eight years.
products, services and customer support channels because we Over the past year we have expanded our customer management know the important role that television and communications play centres from Scotland, Stockport, London and Leeds, opening in in connecting those with disabilities to each other and to the Sheffield and Newcastle and creating over 1,200 new customer wider world.
We will open our Dublin centre later this year to For people with visual impairments, we provide audio description locally serve customers in Ireland.
As well as employing local on 26% of our programming, significantly exceeding the 10% now people, we have invested over 700,000 hours in training all required by Ofcom.
For deaf and hard-of-hearing customers, customer-facing staff to deliver high quality service.
we offer over 400,000 hours of subtitling per year and we Our commitment to getting it right first time has resulted in a invest in the development of quality  50% reduction in our call waiting times.
programming through our support of the British Sign Language Broadcasting Trust.
The table below shows the total average We use a range of mechanisms to gather feedback from our quotas and performance of Skys access service provision on five customers to help improve the services and products that we core channels.
In November 2011, Ofcom rated Sky number 1 in the UK for overall customer service for fixed broadband, pay TV and landline services.
We want our customers to enjoy and value our products and services.
We provide honest and accurate information and, if a customer is disappointed or unhappy, we listen and take their concerns seriously.
We know that sometimes things go wrong and, when this happens, we work to get issues fixed as fast as possible.
If a customer wants to complain about our services, we tell them how to do so and try to resolve their complaint quickly.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 20 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW i Access service provision against Ofcom requirements gambling websites.
We are proud that all our services are GamCare accredited, one of a number of independent charitable 2010 11 2011 12 organisations with whom we work closely, who offer confidential Key performance Annual Annual help and support to our customers.
And in 2011 Sky Betting & indicator Quota Achieved Quota Achieved ii Gaming was named Socially Responsible Operator of the Year Subtitling % 60 68 70 74 at the 5th International Gaming Awards in recognition of our Audio iii Description % 10 27 10 26 commitment to delivering the highest standards for customer Notes protection.
i 2011 12 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be viewed online at www.
com thebiggerpicture Programming ii average across Sky News, Sky 1, Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports News and Sky Movies Were proud of our track-record as a responsible broadcaster.
For Premier over twenty years, we have brought choice and innovation to UK iii average across Sky 1, Sky Sports 1 and Sky Movies Premier: Sky News and Sky Sports News are exempt audiences.
Over the year, we continued to improve how we support Editorial practices customers with disabilities through completing detailed userWe are committed to maintaining the highest editorial standards, testing with blind and partially-sighted customers on our EPG with our news channels governed by strong editorial controls and our Accessibility Website, as well as first of its kind research that ensure honest, independent and accurate journalism.
During to understand how our customers with disabilities would like the year we concluded a review of editorial practices at Sky to see us improve our accessibility offering in the future.
Our News finding no evidence of impropriety.
Separately, the Audit engagement with disability stakeholders has also seen Sky sign Committee reviewed the Companys approach to two separate up to the Employers Forum on Disability Accessibility Charter.
investigations undertaken by Sky News in which a Sky News journalist accessed the email of individuals suspected of criminal Child safety activity.
Following a thorough review of each of those cases, Sky Keeping children safe is an important issue for our customers.
is satisfied that the action was justified in the public interest and We make sure parents and customers have the tools to protect subject to proper editorial oversight.
their children when watching Sky TV and using Sky Broadband.
On our television platform, we continue to provide market-leading Advertising and marketing parental control technology which includes the ability to set Our Sales and Marketing Code of Practice outlines specific a bespoke watershed or restrict access to specific channels required behaviours for all staff in their sales and marketing altogether.
Likewise every broadband customer can take up dealings with customers.
Adherence to these important policies parental controls on their home computer, free for as long as they is overseen by senior managers and our internal compliance want them, and we provide advice and support on how customers team through mystery shopping, site visits, and periodical call can protect themselves and their families on www.
In our sales operations alone, more than 8,000 evaluations are completed by managers and the Sales Quality Over the last year, Sky has actively engaged with government and Team each month.
interested parties around online safety issues.
We contributed to the Bailey Review on the Commercialisation and Sexualisation Copyright of Children and, along with relevant stakeholders, co-authored We have invested billions of pounds in high-quality the UKs first Code of Practice for child internet safety.
We are entertainment for our customers because we know how much continuing to work collaboratively to deliver against this Code our customers value it.
Its therefore important that companies while also exploring other ways to help empower parents further like ours do what they can, alongside the Government and the to keep their children safe when using the internet.
rest of the media and technology industries, to help protect their copyright.
Such protection makes sure that consumers continue Responsible betting and gaming to benefit from TV programmes, movies and music both now and At Sky we are all about entertainment.
Many people enjoy in the future.
This means taking effective action against online the excitement that comes with placing a bet on a sport they piracy and copyright infringement.
And with online gaming people can connect with a great community of players who share their passion for challenge and Environmental impact fun.
We know we need to provide these services in a way that We constantly work to reduce the environmental impact of our encourages responsible gambling so that we ensure that Sky day-to-day operations.
We have been focusing on tackling climate Betting & Gaming is a successful business.
change since 2005 and in 2009 we set ten challenging targets to reduce our impact and inspire action through our programming Tools such as deposit limits on accounts help our customers and our partnerships.
stay in control of their gambling.
We make filtering software available so that parents can prevent children accessing ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 21 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Review of our business continued Improving our efficiency Our fleet is renewed regularly and as part of this we continually Our performance against two of our targets is reproduced purchase more efficient vans.
However, currently there is no viable below and all ten targets and our performance against them low emissions alternative available and so our focus is on reducing can be viewed at www.
Over the last year the emissions within our control.
To do this we have installed our absolute gross emissions fell by 10% despite Sky continuing telematics into all our vehicles and incentivised our engineers to to grow as a business.
This represents a 31% reduction in gross drive efficiently.
We will continue to actively encourage the industry CO e emissions per m revenue against our 2008 09 baseline, to develop low emission alternatives through collaboration with 2 set when we established our targets.
This exceeds our target of other businesses through membership of the UK Corporate a 25% reduction by 2020.
We have cut total energy consumption Leaders Group on Climate Change and the Aldersgate Group.
We TEC by 29% in Sky HD boxes, effectively achieving our target.
have improved customer satisfaction through better customer service and more reliable products, also reducing engineer visits Our performance against key environment targets and our environmental impact.
Key perfomance ii ii ii Sky remains compliant with the environmental regulations that indicator Target 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 apply to our business and shows best practice by going beyond Change in total gross tonnes of CO e the minimum requirements wherever possible.
We chair the EU 2 emissions per m Voluntary Agreement on energy efficiency of complex set-top i iii iv revenue % -25 -8 -21 -31 boxes and we maintain a fully managed service for the return, Change in total repair and recycling of Skys set-top boxes.
energy consumption of newly installed v vi We have now realised the majority of the opportunities to reduce Sky HD boxes % -30-29 -29-29 the absolute total emissions resulting from the day-to-day Notes operations and we offset the remainder through the purchase of i 2011 12 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be viewed online high quality carbon offsets.
com thebiggerpicture ii performance relative to base year 2008 09 As a result of meeting our targets, we have reviewed our iii target is to reduce 25% of CO e emissions tonnes m revenue by 2020 2 iv historic data is recalculated each year in line with the latest Guidelines to Defra environment strategy, setting ourselves further goals that will DECCs Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company Reporting and result in even fewer impacts, better, more sustainable products, re-stated accordingly and inspire our customers to take action on environment issues.
v target was to reduce total energy consumption by 30% by 2012 vi -29% was the maximum efficiency achievable for this model of the set top box, Our new targets can be found at www.
effectively meeting our target Our products and services i Our total gross CO e emissions 2 We are also increasing our focus on helping our customers to Key performance reduce their impacts on the environment.
To extend the reach and indicator Baseline 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 impact of auto standby on all set-top boxes, we have upgraded our Total gross CO e 2 software so that all inactive boxes switch to standby during the ii iii emissions tCO e 107,215 110,531 109,042 97,904 2 day as well as overnight.
Our HD digibox further leads the way in Notes energy efficiency with a passive standby of watt.
com thebiggerpicture This year we carried out an assessment of our latest set-top box to ii historic data is recalculated each year in line with the latest Guidelines to Defra understand its environmental impact from design, build, use and DECCs Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company Reporting and re-stated accordingly end of life.
This highlighted the important role we have in helping iii tCO e emissions including emissions from premises and company-owned 2 our customers save energy so, along with improving the efficiency vehicles Scope 1 and 2 of our set-top box, we are designing energy efficiency into the Our improvements in efficiency reflect the long-term investments heart of all our products including our energy smart Sky Wifi Hubs we have made in our buildings, fleet and travel, and is reflected which change to low power when they are not connected.
in Skys retention of The Carbon Trust Standard and inclusion We also recognise that the media industry faces specific in the Carbon Disclosure Projects Leadership Index.
Alongside challenges in reducing its environmental footprint from creating these, we continue to reduce our reliance on fossil fuels, through new programmes.
To address these, we have joined BAFTAs our installation of on-site renewable energy.
This year we Albert Sustainability Working Group, creating the Albert commissioned our Combined Cooling Heat and Power plant Production Carbon Calculator alongside the BBC, ITV and a and have completed construction of our wind turbine.
These number of production companies.
We are leading the way across contribute to heating, cooling and powering Sky Studios, our our industry in promoting sustainable production, integrating the broadcasting facility.
The remaining electricity is purchased from carbon calculator into the commissioning process of a number of renewable sources.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 22 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Suppliers Our employees can make tax-free donations to any UK registered Our business relies on strong relationships with a wide range of charity of their choice directly from their salary and we give suppliers and distributors.
We build productive, fair and ethical an extra 50p for every 1 donated.
We also support employee relationships with them, based on our shared drive for continuous fundraising with pound-for-pound matching, up to 300 if improvement.
We expect our suppliers to deliver a high-quality fundraising as an individual, or 1,000 if fundraising as part of a team of two or more Sky people.
This year an average of 797 Sky service and provide good value for money, as well as maintain the people per month gave to charities of their choice through the highest ethical standards and comply with all relevant laws and payroll.
We recognise that working with our suppliers helps us improve INSPIRING ACTION our performance and also helps them to improve.
We continue As a Company we Believe in Better.
Using innovative technology to embed our Responsible Sourcing Principles throughout our and great content, we connect, entertain, inform and inspire supply chain and in 2011 12 we incorporated our Responsible our customers, our people and wider stakeholders.
Through our Sourcing Questionnaire into our central procurement process.
presence in the everyday lives of millions of people in the UK and This helps to give us greater visibility of the social, ethical and Ireland we extend our reach beyond the screen to make a positive environmental impacts of the production and supply of products impact on society.
and services to Sky and enables us to support our suppliers to reduce these.
We focus our work in four of the areas that were passionate about inspiring our people and customers to protect the We have also been working with our top 50 suppliers to help environment, inspiring and improving lives through sport, inspiring them measure and manage their carbon impact which also helps and enabling creativity through the arts, and inspiring and raising us to reduce ours.
Through participating in the Carbon Disclosure the aspirations of young people in schools.
Projects Supply Chain Programme 2011, we know that all our top suppliers are taking action to reduce their emissions and we are Environment engaging with a number of them to help them with their carbon At Sky, we believe that the effect of a changing climate is one of reporting.
We are also working with our suppliers to embed the most important issues facing our society.
We want to inspire features that save energy and use less resource into the up-front our customers and our people to reduce their impact on the design of our core products.
We do this through Sky Rainforest Rescue, our partnership with WWF to help save a billion trees in the Amazon rainforest.
By Community Action partnering with WWF, we are helping customers to do their bit to Making a positive contribution in our local communities is tackle tropical deforestation, the biggest contributor to global important to us and encouraging Sky people to get involved warming.
makes us an employer of choice.
We support the growth of our local communities by offering opportunities for young people to We reached our fundraising target of 2 million by June 2012, learn about a range of careers at Sky, improving young peoples which Sky has matched pound-for-pound to a total of 4 million, skills and aspirations.
Through our on the ground initiatives with well ahead of our three year target.
We now have over 34,000 our charity partners we bring our focus on environment, sport supporters.
We are reducing current levels of deforestation in and arts to life.
Acre, a state in Brazil, by making the forest worth more alive than dead to local communities.
We have recruited over 1,000 families Sky people are able to get involved through volunteering and into the governments land voluntary certification scheme and making donations, maximising the reach and impact that are helping to identify new market opportunities for sustainable we are able to make.
This year we have worked with our core forest products like rubber.
partners to actively expand our reach, reflecting changes in the regional structure of our business and ensuring we are offering i Funds raised for Sky Rainforest Rescue opportunities for all Sky people to get involved, wherever they Key performance are based across the UK and Ireland.
We have worked with new indicator Target 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 partners such as Sport Inspired, a social enterprise that aims Total donations since to bring communities, and in particular young people, together the launch of Sky through taking part in large scale community based sporting Rainforest Rescue in ii events.
Since October 2011, over 400 Sky volunteers have 2009 2 million 335,000 790,000 2,000,000 supported 2,000 school students at these events.
And over the Notes past year, a total of 1,630 Sky people have volunteered their time i 2011 12 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be viewed online to help make a difference.
com thebiggerpicture ii cumulative year on year ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 23 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Review of our business continued Over the year we have focused on reaching new audiences to schools to sign up through promotion on Sky Sports.
As a result, raise the issue of deforestation We supported WWFs global there was increased demand from schools and in 2011 12, 868 initiative Earth Hour, broadcasting a weekend of dedicated schools participated, 16% above our target of 750 schools and  programming, premiering the stunning more than twice the number for the previous year.
Since 2003, new documentary Secret Life of the Rainforest on Sky 3D, which we have worked with over 2,650 secondary schools and helped takes viewers up close to life in the rainforest.
In November 2011, Londons Somerset House launched a In partnership with British Cycling, we have continued to make brand new exhibition, AMAZON in aid of Sky Rainforest Rescue, excellent progress towards our goal of getting one million more displaying images by top photographers Sebastio Salgado and people cycling regularly by 2013, with 688,000 new people Per-Anders Pettersson, which emphasised the urgent need to becoming regular cyclists since the launch of our partnership in tackle deforestation.
The exhibition also travelled to Dublin and 2009. received over 20,000 visitors.
i Improving lives through cycling We are also helping people to learn about environmental issues Key performance iii iii iii in interactive ways.
Our Sky Rainforest Rescue Pod, an interactive indicator Target 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 virtual rainforest, travelled to Sky-supported UK events such Number of new as the Hay Festival and has been installed at four Forestry people cycling ii regularly by 2013 1 million 92,000 376,000 688,000 Commission sites.
It allows visitors to learn about the people of the Amazon, their culture and livelihoods, and the threat that Notes deforestation poses for current and future generations.
We also i 2011 12 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be viewed online at www.
com thebiggerpicture work to guide, educate and empower 8 14 year old students and ii number of new people cycling on average once a month or 12 times a year as a staff to take action to help protect precious rainforests through result of Skys initiatives Sky Rainforest Rescue Schools Challenge.
This interactive online iii cumulative year on year programme is now in its second year with 287 schools actively Now in its fourth year, our partnership offers a number of ways for participating in the challenge since it started.
people of all ages and abilities to get on their bikes and have fun.
In 2011, we expanded our Sky Ride programme to 17 events in 14 cities, In July 2011, Skys professional cycling team, Team Sky, raised providing traffic free streets for cyclists to enjoy and attracting awareness of the campaign through changing their blue cycling over 200,000 participants.
We have been developing our strategy kit to green for the 2011 Tour fide France and we broadcast proto increase the opportunities for people to get on their bikes riders talking about Sky Rainforest Rescue.
across the UK, running 17 events in 17 cities in 2012 and connecting As a result of the fundraising efforts of all of our supporters, we people with their local communities through Sky Ride Local, Breeze are extending the campaign for another three years to focus on Bike Rides for women and through launching social cycling groups.
promoting sustainable alternatives to deforestation and using We also saw even more Sky people get involved through our Sky our position as a broadcaster and media company to drive even staff events, ride to work schemes and on-site facilities.
greater awareness in the UK and Ireland.
The success of elite riders helps to inspire people to get involved.
Sport Since Team Sky hit the road in 2010, our professional road cycling Sport is at the heart of what we do at Sky and we believe in its team has gone from strength and strength as it has pursued power to improve lives.
We give our customers a wealth of sport its bold ambition to win the Tour fide France and make more on TV, online and on-the-go and the breadth of coverage goes fans of cycling.
The teams success, positive profile and attitude well beyond the nations biggest sports.
That programming have been a catalyst for people of all ages to get involved.
We and investment helps to fund and promote these sports and continue to support the elite GB team including men and get more people watching and playing.
We also work with the women, Olympians and Paralympians - so that we contribute to governing bodies, our long-term partners, using our reach and the maintaining Britains outstanding record of success.
power of the Sky Sports brand to encourage more people to get In 2011, Sky and British Cycling commissioned a report from the involved.
London School of Economics charting, for the first time, the We believe that sport has a critical role in inspiring people to extent of cyclings contribution to the British economy.
The make a positive change in their lives.
This year we reviewed and report shows considerable evidence of increasing participation improved Sky Sports Living for Sports, our partnership with the in cycling, with events such as Sky Ride contributing.
This Youth Sports Trust to help 11 to 16 year olds build life skills and participation also brings broad socio-economic benefits such confidence.
We responded to feedback from our stakeholders, as a 2.9 billion total contribution to the UK economy, a 28% introducing more athlete mentor visits and encouraging more increase in volume of cycle sales in 2010, over 500m generated ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 24 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW in wages and 100m in taxes from 23,000 employed directly very encouraged by the feedback with over 65% of the arts in bicycle sales, distribution and the maintenance of cycling organisations who attended agreeing that the Sky Arts Ignition infrastructure and health benefits saving the economy 128m per Series was very beneficial for the arts industry.
The report demonstrates where We have continued our investment in books through our cycling is now and where it has the potential to go with the right partnerships with four leading literary festivals, contributing support, delivering benefits that everyone can enjoy.
to their growth and sustainability and bringing the festival In 2011, we added to our investment in sporting talent, with the experience to those unable to attend through our broadcast announcement in November of our new Sky Sports Scholarships coverage.
As well as taking the Book Show on the road, filming scheme, which supports 11 of the UK and Irelands most exciting exclusive episodes in front of live festival audiences, we continued to offer festival goers free creative classes and inspiring athletes to help them fulfil their potential on the international stage and prepare them for life in the spotlight.
performances in the Sky Arts Den.
Over the year there were 77,624 visits by people at our on-the-ground activities in the Den.
We also know that the future of sport is dependent on the many i Engagement with Sky Arts activities on the ground people that give their time and expertise at grassroots level.
We continue to support the England and Wales Cricket Board ECB Key performance indicator 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 to develop the long-term health of the game through training Number of visits to Sky Arts more coaches at all levels of the sport.
Since its launch in 2006, activities on the ground at UK the Sky Sports ECB Coach Education Programme has awarded book festivals 28,348 63,142 77,624 over 45,000 new coaching qualifications to people who are now Notes working across the country to develop the next generation of i 2011 12 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be viewed online players.
com thebiggerpicture We also want to ensure that we support and develop regional Arts arts organisations.
Since 2004 we have partnered with over 60 At Sky, we believe that the arts play an essential role in the cultural organisations to help promote their work to our customers and life of a nation which is why Sky Arts is a leading supporter of make them more accessible, offering over 1,200 low cost tickets the arts in the UK and Ireland.
To do this, we make a multi-million to the public over the last two years.
pound investment each year to showcase the best of the arts from the UK and Ireland, and across the world, both on-screen for our Schools customers and on the ground for everyone to enjoy.
This year we have had an even bigger focus on the work we do in schools to build life skills and raise aspirations over the next Innovative arts partnerships are crucial to the vitality of the arts three years.
scene across the UK and Ireland.
In 2011, we launched the Sky Arts Ignition Series which will see us collaborate with six arts We are building on the work that we already do with our organisations in the creation of new ground-breaking art works, local primary and secondary schools in West London, Leeds projects, events and performances.
For each of these chosen and Scotland through volunteering, mentoring and offering projects, Sky Arts provides direct investment of up to 200,000 opportunities to learn about the media through work placements.
We are also using our experience in developing as well as working with the arts partners to bring their projects initiatives that we know make a difference for young people such to life through Skys innovative technology including broadcast as Sky Sports Living for Sport and Sky Rainforest Rescue Schools and online opportunities.
From our first application round in 2011, Challenge to create even greater opportunities.
we are partnering with Tate Liverpool on an exciting new public art commission by renowned contemporary artist Doug Aitken, One of the ways we will do this is through our newly constructed opening in September 2012, as part of the Liverpool Biennial.
Sky Skills Studios which we have been working on over the past year.
Opening its doors in 2012, Sky Skills Studios is a unique The Sky Arts Ignition: Futures Fund is designed to help emerging learning experience that helps to build life skills and raise talent working in visual art, theatre, performance art, music, aspirations of young people across the UK.
Students age 8 to 18 dance or literature to boost their careers as working artists.
will have the chance to tour our studios and then work with our Each year, Sky Arts provides five promising young people with state of the art technology, including broadcast quality cameras, bursaries of 30,000 allowing them time to focus on creating a green screens and touch screen edit tables, to make their very new work while also receiving mentoring from Sky to help develop own television report on subjects they are studying at school.
their commercial skills and knowledge.
Sky Arts had over 1,500 applications in the first year alone.
PEOPLE To help support the arts, we toured the UK and Ireland to We aim to attract and select the best people and provide raise awareness of our Sky Arts Ignition Series and were opportunities so that everyone can fulfill their potential.
We work ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 25 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Review of our business continued hard to create a great place to work and build an open culture Investing in Future Talent and Youth that rewards and recognises good performance.
This year we increased our graduate intake by 40% with graduate placements across a range of job disciplines.
In addition this Developing our People year we created a Software Academy to build our internal pool Our peoples performance is the key driver of our growth and of future talent in technology.
So far we have employed over success.
We provide many opportunities for employees to build 50 technology graduates who are now making an immediate their careers and offer a wide range of development and skills contribution to our strategic software development programmes.
training through face to face training or through our online This year our Skygraduates.
com website was recognised as the facility, the Sky Development Studio.
Best Employer website at the Recruitment Advertising Design awards.
Throughout last year we carried out comprehensive training for our contact centre staff.
Over 10,000 employees have been Work placements offer an opportunity for Sky to contribute to trained in a wide range of skills and over 800 managers have the development and experience of young people, particularly been through a series of management training sessions and those who may struggle to get into the industry.
We have also invested in providing an accredited training programme offers a taste of what working at Sky is like.
This programme for our sales advisors in association with the Institute year we increased the number of opportunities to over 500 of Customer Service.
On completion our employees receive a placements.
These include placements that last from 1 week to certificate in selling, compliance and customer service.
We work in conjunction with local schools and groups graduation of employees was held in March.
that are focused on providing opportunities to those from ethnic minorities.
Providing easy access and flexible development options is an ongoing priority and this year we opened our online Development We have ambitious plans to improve and expand our proposition Studio to our outsource contact centre partners enabling their for youth employment this year to build on our success in this 9,000 advisors to gain access to our e-learning suite.
area and become the employer of choice for young people.
The Development Studio has had 363,000 visits this year.
More Making Sky a great place to work than 240,000 e-learning courses have been accessed via the Because our aim is to make Sky a great place to work, it is vital Development Studio, up 50,000 on the last full financial year.
that we are in touch with what our employees think about our 118,000 development days have been undertaken this year.
Employee engagement is a good indicator of how our were pleased to win the UK E-learning award for outstanding employees feel about Sky so to measure this we run a People achievement.
Last year we did this through an external provider, Towers Watson, thereby allowing us to benchmark We have continued to build strong leadership capability of our ourselves against other UK companies.
senior team through training and the introduction of leadership surveys which provide direct feedback to managers from their The proportion of our people participating in the survey was high teams.
This year, we apportioned an element of the senior 83% compared with external benchmarks and showed a high managers annual bonus to their performance in this area.
We introduced a series of master classes which focused on delivering Skys Leadership behaviours and values and introduced As well as reaching a high performance indicator for employee a new programme for the most senior managers and directors engagement 87%, up one point from last year on a like for like in conjunction with Henley Business School.
This is aimed at basis compared with other blue-chip companies, we performed broadening thinking and strengthening collaboration across the above the benchmark in 9 of the 13 categories we measured.
did particularly well in the categories of reward and recognition, brand and customer focus, performance and development and Providing job opportunities for new entrants and career moves corporate social responsibility.
for our employees is important to us and this year we were able to provide over 2,000 completely new job opportunities over a Benchmarking has also helped us prioritise activity in support wide range of functions but specifically in our service areas and of our overall employment proposition.
We have also introduced our technology function.
We have instigated more internal moves pulse surveys every four months to allow us to monitor and job rotations for our existing employees to encourage the the organisation continuously so we can keep in touch with development of a broader skills base.
Our regular succession employees views all year round.
planning process now focuses on increasing internal job mobility.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 26 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW The following are key performance indicators that we derive from Through the Diversity Communications Board we are able to the results of our surveys unite our efforts on and off screen.
This was demonstrated in the work that we did for International Womens Day 2012 where we % of employees who showcased female talent on air throughout the week and hosted Statement agree with the statement an internal event featuring senior female talent at Sky.
The focus I fully support Skys strategy and goals 88% on diversity is beginning to have a real impact on life at Sky and I understand how my work contributes to we are continuing to build momentum particularly in our focus Skys business objectives 88% areas of female representation in senior positions and Black, I am willing to go the extra mile to help Sky succeed 94% Asian and Minority Ethnic representation more generally.
Sky is an equal opportunities employer and we believe that everyone should have full and fair consideration for all vacancies, promotions, Having open and transparent communications throughout the training and development.
Should an employee become disabled business is important to us.
Our Sky Forum plays a significant during their employment with the Company, where possible, we role in this.
The Sky Forum is a team of 80 elected employee will actively re-train and adjust their environment to allow them representatives from across the business.
They meet several to maximise their potential.
Over the course of the year, we have times a year to discuss a wide range of business issues and partnered with various not-for-profit organisations with the aim of to provide input that helps Sky to continuously innovate and providing more opportunities for people with disabilities.
improve the way that we do things.
The national meetings are attended by the most senior executives of the Company.
Health, Safety & Wellbeing The health, safety and wellbeing of all our people is of paramount We are always conscious that we need to give our people the importance to us: wherever and whenever they work for us and right tools they need for the job.
This year weve continued to whatever they are doing.
invest in workplace technology to help people work more flexibly and collaborate easily with colleagues across the business.
We We take a holistic approach to keeping Sky a safe place to work, have given people new lap-tops with software that enables video so whilst accident prevention and safety training is a priority, the conferencing direct from the PC and have installed WiFi networks long-term wellbeing of our people is equally important.
We continue to invest in new technology Our Occupational Health service supports our people to stay which helps everyone be more efficient in their jobs.
For instance productive and healthier with a range of support and facilities secure access to our corporate network is now significantly easier to help keep people healthy.
Enhancements this year include when our people are out and about.
the launch of Shift into Sports in conjunction with the Fitness Diversity Industry Association which brings together a wide range of We recognise the importance of representing the communities discounts and offers on gym membership and other fitness around us, on and off screen.
Diversity and inclusion forms one initiatives for shift-workers who may find it more difficult to of the key pillars of our People plan.
As part of the plan we have access facilities due to work rotas.
Sky, as the first company to established: participate with the FIA on a UK wide basis, played an important role in the launch of this initiative nationally.
A Diversity Communications Board which is responsible for Recognition and reward overseeing delivery against the diversity and inclusion plan There are a number of recognition schemes across the Company A Company wide diversity and inclusion training and that provide us with the opportunity to reward and recognise education programme employees who have provided exceptional customer service or have gone the extra mile in delivering their normal day to day A comprehensive review and update of our recruitment duties.
In addition, we continue to run an annual Corporate Scheme channels and processes called Believe in Better that rewards outstanding achievement.
This year the awards had a record number of nominations with over This year we won the Women of the Future Corporate Award 2011 3,000 people and around 700 teams being nominated.
and we are active in our work with a number of organisations such as Stonewall and the Creative Diversity Network.
We have This year the Free Share award that we gave staff in 2009 to also developed and funded a number of programmes that celebrate Skys 20th anniversary vested, with more than 10,500 aim to encourage diversity such as our work with the Mama staff receiving a share bonus worth around 700 each.
Youth Project through which we provide paid placements This year and last, we held Sky Fest, a 2 day music and with production companies to youth from underprivileged entertainment event for all our employees and their families.
Events took place in both Osterley and Edinburgh.
All the events were highly successful and approximately 20,000 people attended.
This is a huge event and is a highlight of the Sky calendar.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 27
