International Public Partnerships Limited Case Studies UK Offshore Transmission About the sector UK Offshore Transmission Owner OFTO projects form a new and rapidly growing infrastructure sector in its own right.
Created from the sale by wind farm developers of the transmission cables and sub-stations linking the wind farm generation activities i. e. turbines to the national grid, the future capital value of OFTO projects is forecast to be more than 14 billion over the next nine years.
The investment is availability-based and therefore takes no exposure to the electricity generation capacity of the wind farm.
The sector has been created through tKH UHTXLUHPHQW IRU HOHFWULFLW FRPSDQLHV WR XQEXQGOH JHQHUDWLRQ activities from transmission activities in accordance with European Commission regulations.
The sale of such assets has been achieved through a competitive tender process run by Ofgem, the UK electricity regulator.
International Public Partnerships role INPP has been extremely successful, securing 5 of the 11 projects currently awarded, making it the holder of the largest number of UK OFTO licences.
These assets now comprise c. 20% of INPPV SRUWIROLR E value.
During 2012, INPP reached financial close on the 115.1 million Ormonde OFTO, the fourth project to be awarded to INPP by Ofgem.
The 150 megawatt MW project structured on a 20 year availability-based revenue stream is unique in its move away from financing OFTOs in the long-term bank debt market.
QVWHDG, 133 LQYHVWHG DFURVV WKH SURMHFWV HQWLUH FDSLWDO VWUXFWXUH HQDEOLQJ WKH IXQG WR WDNH DGYDQWDJH RI the 100%-inflation linked revenues across the whole asset.
Other assets already in the portfolio are: x Robin Rigg East and West Located in Cumbria with 180 MW of capacity: acquired in March 2011 x Gunfleet Sands 1 & 2 Located In Essex with 172 MW of capacity: acquired in July 2011 x Barrow Located in Barrow-in-Furness with 90MW capacity: acquired in September 2011 INPP is well positioned to take advantage of the future pipeline of OFTO projects due to come to market.
It is the preferred bidder on Lincs OFTO 270MW which is expected to complete during 2013 and is shortlisted for another project currently being tendered.
Northern Diabolo Project About the Project The Northern Diabolo Project is a Belgium based project that provides greater rail access to Brussels airport.
The project involved a five year construction programme to build a new tunnelled rail connection under Brussels airport runway, linking the airport to the new Brussels-Antwerp High Speed rail line.
International Public Partnerships holds a 75% stake in the project to build and finance the airport section over the five year construction period and then operate for a further 35 years.
At the time of its opening by King Albert II of Belgium in June 2012 it was the largest project by value in, 133V SRUWIROLR The project receives a combination of fixed availability income paid by the Belgian railway infrastructure provider Infrabel NV and non-fixed price passenger based income paid by Belgian railway operator NMBS NV.
39 International Public Partnerships Limited Case Studies continued International Public Partnerships Role Having commenced construction in October 2007, INPPV, QYHVWPHQW Advisor worked with the construction contractor joint venture THV Dialink consisting of BAM, Vinci, and Smet Tunnelling to successfully complete the construction phase on time and to budget on 25 February 2012.
After this date the Diabolo project was extensively tested by the authorities, and went into service on 10 June 2012.
This was a major achievement given the complexities of the project, which included an extension of the existing railway platform and approximately 3 kilometres of track, a new 300 metre cross-over chamber and two 7.3 metre diameter single-track bored tunnels that extended beneath the airport runway.
During the Diabolo rail tunnelling works extensive road works were required at the E19 highway Brussels Antwerp junction with the airport cargo area.
These road works were carried out by the same project management team and contractor.
During the entire construction and commissioning phase, the project was managed on site by a dedicated Amber asset manager who supervised the project team.
All project parties worked well together, coordinating interaction with all authorities.
This hands-on approach ensured completion of the project on time and within budget.
The valuation benefits for the portfolio of the project having completed construction are expected to occur over successive periods of the operational phase.
40 International Public Partnerships Limited 'LUHFWRUV 5HSRUW The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the financial statements and auditors' report thereon, for the year ended 31 December 2012.
These financial statements have been prepared by the Directors in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and the majority of whom are independent, who served throughout the year are listed below and were appointed on 2 August 2006 unless stated otherwise : Keith Dorrian Rupert Dorey Giles Frost Carol Goodwin appointed 19 February 2007: resigned 31 December 2012 John Whittle - appointed 6 August 2009 Claire Whittet appointed 10 September 2012 The biographical details of the current serving directors are given below: Keith Dorrian Chairman Born in 1946, he is a XHUQVH UHVLGHQW DQG KDV HDUV H[SHULHQFH LQ the offshore finance industry.
Joining Manufacturers Hanover in 1973, he moved to First National Bank of Chicago in 1984 where he was appointed Vice President and Company Secretary.
In 1989 he joined ANZ Bank Guernsey where, as a Director of the Bank and Fund Management company, he was closely involved in the banking and fund management services of the Group.
He took up the position of Manager Corporate Clients in Bank of Bermuda Guernsey Ltd in 2000 and was appointed local Head of Global Fund Services and Managing Director RI WKH XHUQVH %DQNV XQG $GPLQLVWUDWLRQ FRPSDQ 0DQDJHPHQW, QWHUQDWLRQDO XHUQVH Limited, in 2001, retiring on 31 December 2003.
He is currently a member of the Guernsey Investment Fund Association, the Institute of Financial services, has been elected a Fellow of the Institute of Directors DQG KROGV WKH, QVWLWXWHV 'LSORPD LQ &RPSDQ 'LUHFWRUV DQG LV D 'LUHFWRU RI D QXPEHU RI IXQGV DQG IXQG management companies.
As at the date of this report Mr Dorrian is a director of the following companies: AB Alternative Strategies PCC Limited Pensus Limited AB International Fund PCC Limited Premium Portfolio Fund PCC Ltd Arab Bank Fund Managers Guernsey Limited Premium Series PCC Ltd Asian Alternative Strategies Fund Ltd PSource Structured Debt Limited BH Credit Catalysts Limited Re Investments Alternative Strategies IC Ltd Cayuga Investment Management Re Investments Global IC Ltd Credit Suisse Core Alternative Strategies Ltd Re Investments ICC Ltd Credit Suisse Global Real Estate & Infrastructure Re Investments LEA Markets Ltd Opportunities Ltd Credit Suisse Opportunistic Alternative Strategies Ltd Secundum Series PCC Limited Custom Portfolio PCC Ltd Strategic Investments GP Limited Eagle & Dominion Growth Fund Limited Strategic Investment Portfolio Holdings Limited 41 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued Eagle & Dominion Limited Third Point Offshore Investors Limited Eurocastle Investments Limited UK Commercial Property Estates Holdings Limited Hermes Emerging Markets Private Equity Fund GP UK Commercial Property Estates Limited Limited IIAB PCC Limited UK Commercial Property GP Limited International Public Partnerships Limited UK Commercial Property Holdings Limited K A N Consulting Limited UK Commercial Property Nominee Limited Master Capital Fund Limited UK Commercial Property Trust Limited Rupert Dorey Born in 1960, he is a resident of Guernsey, has over 22 years experience in debt capital markets, VSHFLDOLVLQJ LQ FUHGLW UHODWHG SURGXFWV LQFOXGLQJ GHULYDWLYH LQVWUXPHQWV 0U 'RUH V H[SHUWLVH LV SULQFLSDOO in the areas of debt distribution, origination and trading, covering all types of debt from investment grade to high yield and distressed debt.
He was at Credit Suisse First Boston for 17 years from 1988 until May 2005, holding a number of positions including fixed income credit product coordinator for European offices and head of UK Credit and Rates Sales.
Since leaving CSFB, Mr Dorey is acting in a non-executive directorship capacity for a number of hedge funds, funds of hedge funds and private equity funds.
He is the current President of the Guernsey Chamber of Commerce.
He is a member of the Institute of Directors.
As at the date of this report Mr Dorey is a director of the following companies: AAA Guernsey Limited Endurance High Performance Fund Limited AIAF PCC Limited Strategic Opportunities Arbitrage Episode Inc Fund AIAF PCC Limited G7 Fixed Income Fund Episode LLP AIAF PCC Limited Fixed Income Macro Fund Green Park Capital Investment Management Limited International Public Partnerships Ltd Guernsey Chamber of Commerce AIAF PCC Limited Strategic Equity Advantage Fund Harbour Vest Senior Loans Europe Limited AP Alternative Assets LP M&G General Partner Inc Celadon Fund PCC Limited Onesimus Dorey Holdings Limited Clifford Estate Company Limited Partners Group Global Opportunities Limited Clifford Estate Company Chattels Limited Alternative Liquidity Solutions Limited Cognis General Partner Limited Sovereign Credit Opportunities Master Investment Company Limited Cognis 1 Fund LP Tetragon Financial Group Fund Limited Cognis 1 Master Fund LP Tetragon Financial Group Master Fund Limited CQS Diversified Fund Limited 42 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued Giles Frost Aged 50, resident in the United Kingdom, is a founder and director of Amber.
Giles has worked in the infrastructure investments sector for nearly 20 years and prior to establishing the Investment Advisor in 2009, he was joint head of the European public infrastructure business unit at Babcock & Brown.
Prior to this he was a solicitor and partner in the law firm Wilde Sapte now SNR Denton.
Mr Frost is a director of Amber Infrastructure Group Holdings Limited, the ultimate holding company of the Investment Advisor to the Company and various of its subsidiaries.
Mr Frost is also a director of a number of the CompanyV entities and of other entities in which the Company has an investment.
He received no directors fees from such roles for the Company.
John Whittle appointed 6 August 2009 Aged 57, is a resident of Guernsey.
He is a Chartered Accountant and holds the IoD Diploma in Company Direction.
He is a non-executive director of Starwood European Real Estate Finance Limited LSE, Aurora Russia Ltd, India Capital Growth Fund Ltd and Advance Frontier Markets Fund Ltd all listed on AIM.
He also acts as non-executive director to several other Guernsey investment funds.
He was previously Finance Director of Close Fund Services, a large independent fund administrator, where he successfully initiated a restructuring of client financial reporting services and was a key member of the business transition team.
Prior to moving to Guernsey he was at Price Waterhouse in London before embarking on a career in business services, predominantly telecoms.
He co-led the business turnaround of Talkland International now Vodafone Retail and was directly responsible for the strategic shift into retail distribution and its subsequent implementation: he subsequently worked on the 20 million private equity acquisition of Ora Telecom.
As at the date of this report Mr Whittle is a director of the following companies: Advance Frontier Markets Fund Limited India Capital Growth Fund Limited 1 Aurora Russia Limited International Public Partnerships Limited B&Q Retail Guernsey Limited Perusa Partners Management Limited B&Q Retail Jersey Limited The Solar Park Fund GBP IC Limited CPL GP Limited Pont du Val Limited CPL Guernsey Limited Sciens Global Strategic Fund Limited Mid Europa III Management Limited Starwood European Real Estate Finance Limited EMP Europe CI Limited Steadfast Capital III GP Limited Mid Europa IV Management Limited The IPM Renewable Energy Fund ICC Limited Guernsey International Management Company The Offshore Mutual Fund PCC Limited Limited Guernsey Yacht Club LBG 1 An announcement has been made in respect RI 0U :KLWWOHV intention to resign as a Director in respect of this entity.
Claire Whittet appointed 10 September 2012 $JHG VKH KDV HDUV H[SHULHQFH LQ WKH EDQNLQJ LQGXVWU DQG VLQFH KDV EHHQ D 'LUHFWRU DQG more recently, Co-Head of Rothschild Bank International Ltd and a Director of Rothschild Bank CI Ltd. Claire began her career at the Bank of Scotland where she was for 19 years in a variety of personal and corporate finance roles.
Subsequently, Claire joined Bank of Bermuda and was Global Head of Private Client Credit before taking up her current position at Rothschild.
43 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued Ms Whittet is a member of the Chartered Institute of Bankers in Scotland, a member of the Chartered Insurance Institute, a Chartered Banker, a member of the Institute of Directors and holds the Institute of Directors Diploma in Company Direction.
She is a resident of Guernsey.
As at the date of this report Ms Whittet is a director of the following companies: Guernsey Loan Asset Securitisation Scheme Limited Rothschild Switzerland CI Nominees Limited Old Court Limited Guernsey International Public Partnerships Limited Rothschild Bank CI Limited Monico Investments Limited Rothschild Bank International Limited Monico Limited Rothschild Finance C. I.
Limited $V GLVFXVVHG LQ WKH &KDLUPDQV HWWHU Carol Goodwin, who had served as an independent non-executive director since 2007, as a member of the Audit Committee and as chairman of the Management Engagement Committee, resigned as a Director of the Company with effect from 31 December 2012 for personal family reasons.
RUHVHHLQJ &DUROV GHSDUWXUH &ODLUH :KLWWHW ZDV DSSRLQWHG DV D QRQ-executive director on 10 September 2012.
Ms Whittet was also appointed to the Audit Committee on 23 November 2012.
&ODLUHV Vignificant experience in the finance sector, particularly within credit markets, together with her knowledge of corporate governance and regulation will be a valuable addition to the Board.
HLWK 'Rrrian, has notified the Board of his intention to retire as Chairman with effect from the 31 December 2013 and, due to retire in rotation, will not offer himself for re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
7KH %RDUG LV PLQGIXO RI SODQQLQJ IRU 0U 'RULDQV VXFFHVVLRQ DQG ZLOO actively search to find an additional Board member prior to Mr DorULDQV UHWLUHPHQW It is envisaged that the current Chair of the Audit Committee, Rupert Dorey, will be appointed to the role of Chairman of the Board on Mr DorrLDQV resignation and that Mr John Whittle, a qualified accountant, will take over as Chair of the Audit Committee on the same date.
In the period to the end of the year, both Mr Dorey and Mr Whittle will be familiarising themselves with their new roles to ensure a seamless takeover of responsibilities.
Principal activities The principal activity of the Group comprises the investment in the equity and debt of public infrastructure projects in order to provide shareholders with long-term distributions, and increasing the capital value where possible through active management.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in notes 17, 18 and 19 to the financial statements.
Business review A review of the business for the year ended 31 December 2012 is contained in the Letter from the Chairman pages 5 to 11 and Investment Advisors Report pages 12 to 27.
Results The results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 63.
44 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks and uncertainties of the business are discussed in more detail in the Risks and Risk Management report pages 33 to 36.
Explanations of credit risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk of and the way in which they are managed are contained in note 30 to the financial statements.
Key Performance Indicators The Board uses a number of performance measures to assess the CompanyV VXFFHVV LQ PHHWLQJ LWV objectives.
The key performance indicators are long-term yield and capital growth.
The Board also PRQLWRUV WKH &RPSDQ V VKDUH SULFH DQG DVVHVVHV WKH &RPSDQ V 1HW $VVHW 9DOXH These metrics for the year ended 31 December 2012 DUH UHIHUUHG WR LQ WKH &KDLUPDQV 6WDWHPHQW DQG, QYHVWPHQW 0DQDJHUV Report.
The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies AIC.
'LUHFWRUV UHPXQHUDWLRQ During the period 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012 WKH 'LUHFWRUV UHPXQHUDWLRQ ZDV SDLG DV IROORZV Base Other Total Total 2012 2011 Keith Dorrian Independent Non- 47,000 10,000 57,000 47,000 Executive Chairman Rupert Dorey Independent Non- 37,000 10,000 47,000 37,000 Executive Director Giles Frost NonExecutive 32,000 10,000 42,000 32,000 Director Carol Goodwin Independent Non- 32,000 10,000 42,000 32,000 Executive Director John Whittle Independent Non- 32,000 10,000 42,000 32,000 Executive Director Claire Whittet Independent Non- 9,826 - 9,826 N A Executive Director Represents additional services undertaken in respect of the June 2012 capital raising.
There are no service contracts in existence between the Company and any Directors but each of the Directors was appointed by a letter of appointment which sets out the terms of their appointment.
The emoluments for Mr Frost are paid to his employer Amber Infrastructure Limited, a related company of the CompanyV, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRU.
45 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued 'LUHFWRUV LQWHUHVWV The Directors who held office at 31 December 2012 had the following interests in the shares of International Public Partnerships Limited: 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Number of Ordinary Shares Number of Ordinary Shares NonNonName of Director Beneficial Beneficial beneficial Beneficial 1 1 Keith Dorrian - 51,467 - 44,205 Giles Frost 298,745 - 273,745 2 2 Rupert Dorey - 593,687 - 493,687 3 Carol Goodwin 45,047 - 33,983 1 John Whittle - 36,626 - 34,875 Claire Whittet - - - - 1 Holds shares indirectly through a Retirement Annuity Trust Scheme 2 Shares owned E 0U 'RUH V VSRXVH 3 Holds shares directly through an investment company Mr Frost is also a Director of International Public Partnerships Lux 1 Sarl and International Public Partnerships Lux 2 Sarl, wholly-owned subsidiary undertakings of the Company.
Mr Frost is also a director of a number of other companies in which the Company directly or indirectly has an investment, although Mr Frost does not control or receive remuneration in relation to these entities.
In accordance with the articles of association at least one third of the Independent Directors will retire at each Annual General Meeting whilst Mr Frost as the non independent Director will retire at each Annual General Meeting.
As all of the Directors are non-executive directors, the Company considers the recommendation for annual re-election of all Directors is not appropriate in these circumstances as it potentially exposes the Company to additional risk.
The Board undertakes a formal written and verbal review of its own performance annually and that of its individual directors and committees.
The most recent review was conducted in March 2013.
The Board believes that the Chairman and each Director continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role, as well as to the efficient running of the Company.
The Board and its committees demonstrate a good range of skills and competency.
'LUHFWRUV LQGHPQLWLHV The Company has made qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors which were made during the period and remain in force at the date of this report.
46 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued Substantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2012 the Company had been notified, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following substantial voting rights as shareholders of the Company.
Voting rights and issued No of ordinary Nature of Name of holder share capital % shares holding Investec Wealth & Investment Ltd. 11.20 79,693,898 Indirect Schroder Investment Management Ltd. 11.00 78,279,768 Indirect M&G Investment Management Ltd. 6.64 47,266,851 Indirect Brewin Dolphin Ltd. 6.26 44,580,117 Indirect Sarasin & Partners LLP 3.97 28,268,058 Indirect Legal & General Investment Management Ltd. 3.23 22,950,358 Indirect Deutsche Bank Private Wealth Management 2.71 19,316,065 Indirect British Steel Pension Fund 2.50 17,819,067 Indirect Smith & Williamson Investment Management Ltd. 2.47 17,545,521 Indirect London Borough of Enfield Pension Fund 2.25 15,982,731 Indirect In addition, the Company also provides the same information as at 28 February 2013, being the most current information available.
Voting rights Nature and issued No of ordinary of Name of holder share capital % shares holding Schroder Investment Management Ltd. 10.96 81,556,440 Indirect Investec Wealth & Investment Ltd. 10.65 79,248,219 Indirect M&G Investment Management Ltd. 6.06 45,061,177 Indirect Brewin Dolphin Ltd. 5.99 44,578,415 Indirect Sarasin & Partners LLP 3.18 23,671,523 Indirect Legal & General Investment Management Ltd. 3.09 22,957,582 Indirect Deutsche Bank Private Wealth Management 2.40 17,864,665 Indirect Smith & Williamson Investment Management Ltd. 2.39 17,781,366 Indirect British Steel Pension Fund 2.26 16,819,067 Indirect London Borough of Enfield Pension Fund 2.15 15,982,731 Indirect Listing Requirements On 1RYHPEHU WKH &RPSDQ V 2UGLQDU 6KDUHV ZHUH DGPLWWHG WR WKH 2IILFLDO LVW PDLQWDLQHG E WKH Financial Services Authority.
Throughout the year the Company has complied with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Advisory Services Amber Fund Management Limited AFML provides advisory services to the Company.
A summary of the contract between the Company and AMFL in respect of investment advisory services provided is given in note 41 to the financial statements.
Amber Fund Management Limited has also been appointed as Operator to International Public Partnerships Limited Partnership a subsidiary of the Company pursuant to the Limited Partnership Agreement and Operating Agreement.
As Operator, Amber Fund Management Limited is responsible for the GLVFUHWLRQDU LQYHVWPHQW PDQDJHPHQW RI, QWHUQDWLRQDO 3XEOLF 3DUWQHUVKLS LPLWHG 3DUWQHUVKLSV 47 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued investment portfolio.
In addition, it or its associates provides in conjunction in some cases with the Administrator accounting and finance resource, legal, company and asset management, compliance and risk management services, and IT systems to the Company and its subsidiaries and the asset holding entities in which it is invested.
Share Capital 7KH &RPSDQ V VKare capital at 31 December 2012 is comprised entirely of ordinary shares which rank equally in all respects.
The rights attached to the ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred on their KROGHUV E ODZ DUH VHW RXW LQ WKH &RPSDQ V $UWLFOHV RI $VVRFLDWLRQ 7KH &RPSDQ V $UWLFOHV RI Association may only be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders.
In June 2012, 2,149,168 new ordinary fully paid shares of 0.01 pence each were issued as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the final dividend in respect of the six months ended 31 December 2011.
In June 2012, the company announced the issue of 172,043,011 new Ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each for cash at 116.25 pence per share through a Placing, Open Offer and Offer for Subscription.
In October 2012, 3,155,528 new ordinary fully paid shares of 0.01 pence each were issued as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the interim dividend in respect of the six months ended 30 June 2012.
The total number of Ordinary Shares in issue at 31 December 2012 was 711,581,898.
'HWDLOV RI WKH &RPSDQ V VKDUH FDSLWDO DUH VHW out in note 31.
'LUHFWRUV $XWKRULW WR %X %DFN 6KDUHV DQG 7UHDVXU 6KDUHV The Company did not purchase any shares for treasury or cancellation during the year.
The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the issued Ordinary Share Capital expires on 12 June 2013.
The Company will seek to renew such authority at the Annual General meeting to take place on 12 June 2013.
Any buy back of Ordinary Shares will be made subject to Guernsey law and within any guidelines established from time to time by the Board and the making and timing of any buy backs will be at the absolute discretion of the Board.
Purchases of Ordinary Shares will only be made through the market for cash at prices below the prevailing NAV of the Ordinary Shares as last calculated where the Directors believe such purchases will enhance shareholder value.
Such purchases will also only be made in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority which provide that the price to be paid must not be more than 5% above the average of the middle market quotations for the Ordinary Shares for the five business days before the shares are purchased unless previously advised to shareholders.
In accordance wLWK WKH &RPSDQ V $UWLFOHV RI $VVRFLDWLRQ XS WR RI WKH &RPSDQ V VKDUHV PD EH KHOG DV WUHDVXU VKDUHV Foreign exchange, gearing and treasury policy The Company has exposure to foreign currency as a result of investments outside of the United Kingdom and, as such, is exposed to movements in exchange rates between the Euro, Canadian Dollar, Australian Dollar and GBP.
The Company may enter into forward exchange contracts to mitigate these risks.
The existing 100 million debt facility was re-negotiated in April 2011 with Royal Bank of Scotland and National Australia Bank and as at 31 December 2012 was undrawn and expires in May 2014.
The Board may from time to time consider increasing the amount of this facility if it considers that such an increase will assist the Company in the acquisition of assets seen by the Board as attractive and accretive to the &RPSDQ V SHUIRUPDQFH DQG SRUWIROLR GLYHUVLILFDWLRQ 7KH %RDUG FRQVLGHUV WKDW DQ VXFK LQFUHDVH ZRXOG be a trigger for a further equity raising.
48 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued Regulation The Company has been declared an Authorised Fund under the Authorised Closed-ended Investment Schemes Rules of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share were 4.80 pence for the year ended 31 December 2012 2011: 3.33 pence.
Dividend and distribution policy Distributions on Ordinary Shares are expected to be paid twice a year, normally in respect of the six months to 30 June and 31 December each year, subject to the provisions of Guernsey law, by way of dividends.
The Company may also make distributions by way of capital as well, or in lieu of, by way of dividends and if to the extent that the Directors consider this to be appropriate and permitted by the Listing Rules, the Laws and the Articles.
In accordance with announcements made, a distribution of 3.0 pence per share for the period 1 January 2012 to 30 June 2012 was paid on19 October 2012.
The distribution of 3.0 pence per share for the period 1 July 2012 to 31 December 2012 is to be paid on 14 June 2013.
XUWKHU GHWDLOV RI WKH &RPSDQ V GLVWULEXWLRQV DUH VHW out in note 13.
Going concern basis The Directors have acknowledged their responsibilities in relation to the financial statements for the year to 31 December 2012.
7KH URXSV EXVLQHss activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Investment Strategy and Principal risk and uncertainties sections of this report.
The Directors have considered significant areas of possible financial risk and comprehensive financial forecasts have been prepared and submitted to the Board for review.
The Directors have, based on the information contained in these forecasts and the assessment of the committed banking facilities in place, formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
After consideration, the Directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements refer to note 1.
Investment Policy and Strategy The Company continues to pursue a strategy focussing on investment in infrastructure assets offering a low level of credit and other risks that provide secure yield and potential capital growth particularly from assets which are in construction and yet to reach their operational stage.
Details of the &RPSDQ V Investment Policy and Strategy are set out in more detail on pages 28 to 32.
Corporate Governance The Board attaches great importance to corporate governance issues.
The Company complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code and AIC codes except where exceptions are noted and treats matters of appropriate corporate governance with great importance and care.
Further details are provided in the Corporate Governance section of this report.
49 International Public Partnerships Limited Directors Report continued Relations with shareholders The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an active and transparent dialogue with shareholders and is committed to ensuring that communications are given the highest priority.
'HWDLOV RI WKH &RPSDQ V approach to its investor relations activities are outlined in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 51 to 58.
Post balance sheet events The Company undertook a capital raising on 10 January raising 40 million from existing and new investors through a tap issue.
The Company has the authority to issue up to 10 per cent of its equity capital on a non pre-emptive basis by way of tap issue or otherwise, as and when the Board deem appropriate.
The Board deemed such a raising DSSURSULDWH EDVHG RQ WKH SUHPLXP WKDW WKH &RPSDQ V shares traded at that time relative to the NAV per share as well as, 133V good pipeline of investment opportunities.
Auditors Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this annual report confirms that: x so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditors are unaware: and x the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 249 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
$V SUHYLRXVO UHSRUWHG UQVW RXQJ 3 ZHUH DSSRLQWHG DV WKH URXSV DXGLWRUV IRU WKH ILQDQFLDO year and the Board would like to acknowledge the substantial commitment and interest shown in ensuring that the accounts were audited in a timely and professional manner.
