International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Policy and Strategy Investment Objectives Distributions 7KH &RPSDQ ZLOO VHHN WR SURYLGH 6KDUHKROGHUV ZLWK D SUHGLFWDEOH DQG DWWUDFWLYH LHOG RQ WKH &RPSDQ V investments.
7KH &RPSDQ V LQWHQWLRQ LV WR SURYLGH RYHU WKH ORQJ-term, distributions at levels that are both sustainable and which preserve the capital value of the CompanyV SRUWIROLR RI LQIUDVWUXFWXUH LQYHVWPHQWV RYHU WKH long-term subject, where relevant, to amortisation of the CompanyV LQYHVWPHQWV RYHU WKH WHUP RI WKH relevant concession periods of such investments.
The Company will target a minimum dividend per DQQXP DQG WKH &RPSDQ ZLOO DLP WR PDLQWDLQ DQG HQKDQFH WKH OHYHO RI GLVWULEXWLRQV 7KH &RPSDQ V WDUJHW dividend for 2013 is 6.15 pence per Ordinary Share which equates to a dividend yield based on the NAV 10 per Share as at 31 December 2012 of approximately 5.1%.
7KH &RPSDQ V DELOLW WR PDNH GLVWULEXWLRQV DQG RU WR SD GLYLGHQGV ZLOO EH VXEMHFW DOZD V WR WKH requirements of the Law.
Capital Growth The Directors also believe that long-term capital growth can be achieved.
The Company will target an 11 internal rate of return IRR equal to or greater than 8% on the Initial Public Offer issue price of 100 pence per Ordinary Share to be achieved over the long-term and the Company hopes to achieve this through amongst other techniques asset development, future acquisitions, active management and prudent use of gearing.
The Directors believe, based on the advice of the Investment Advisor, that there are currently opportunities to acquire further iQYHVWPHQWV WKDW PD HQKDQFH WKH &RPSDQ V internal rate of return.
Investment Policy Introduction 7KH &RPSDQ V LQYHVWPHQW SROLF LV WR LQYHVW GLUHFWO RU LQGLUHFWO LQ SXEOLF RU VRFLDO LQIUDVWUXFWXUH DVVHWV located in the UK, Australia, Europe and North America.
The Investment Advisor will also consider investment in other core OECD countries, such as New Zealand, where it considers that the risk profile of D SDUWLFXODU RSSRUWXQLW PHHWV WKH &RPSDQ V UHTXLUHPHQWV The Company intends to continue acquiring operational and construction phase assets from the Investment Advisor and or third party vendors.
The Company intends but is not bound to hold its investments for the long-term and may well hold its investments for the life of a project.
The Company will seek to enhance the capital value of its investments and the income derived from its investments.
The Company intends to acquire further investments within any of the following parameters: investments with characteristics similar to the existing portfolio: investments in other assets, businesses or concessions having a public infrastructure character and in respect of which availability based payments are or will become payable or in respect of which a property rental is or will become payable or in respect of which user paid charges or payments related to amount of use are or will become payable: or 10 These are targets only and not profit forecasts.
There can be no assurance that these targets will be met or that the Company will make any distributions whatsoever.
11 These are targets only and not profit forecasts.
28 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Policy and Strategy continued investments in infrastructure assets or concessions which, based on the advice of the Investment Advisor, the Directors believe have high barriers to entry and expect to generate an attractive total rate of return over the whole of the life of the investments.
Such investments may be for investment capital in single assets or portfolios of assets and may arise globally.
The Company may therefore make investments in any location or jurisdiction where the investment in question meets the parameters set out above, although the Company does not currently expect to invest to any material extent in infrastructure projects located in non-OECD countries in the foreseeable future.
It is expected that further investments will be sourced by the Investment Advisor and it is likely that some of these will be investments that have been originated and developed by, and may be acquired from the Amber Group.
Members of the Amber Group and other companies in which Amber has an interest also provide services including but not limited to origination, development, financial advice, transaction execution, asset and special purpose vehicle management with respect to infrastructure assets and entities including project entities that are or may be owned directly or indirectly by the Company.
They will not be liable to account for any profit earned from any such services.
New investments and conflicts of interest The Company has established the following procedures and arrangements to deal with the possible conflicts of interest that may arise in respect of any proposed acquisition of an investment from the Amber Group and to manage the conduct of such acquisitions accordingly.
The potential conflicts of interest that may arise include that Amber will be an existing investor in the asset while its subsidiary, Amber Fund Management Limited AFML DFWV RQ WKH EX VLGH DV, QYHVWPHQW Advisor and Operator.
The Investment Advisory Agreement contains procedures with the intention of ensuring that the terms on which the vendors of such assets dispose of their assets are fair and reasonable to the vendors: and on the EX VLGH $ 0 DV, QYHVWPHQW Advisor and Operator must be satisfied as to the appropriateness of the terms for and the price of, the acquisition.
Key features of these procedures include: the creation of separate committees within the Amber Group.
These committees represent the interests of WKH YHQGRUV RQ WKH RQH KDQG WKH Sellside Committee DQG WKH &RPSDQ RQ WKH RWKHU WKH Buyside Committee WR HQVXUH DUPV OHQJWK GHFLVLRQ PDNLQJ DQG DSSURYDO SURFHVVHV 7KH membership of each committee is restricted in such a way as to ensure its independence and to minimise conflicts of interest arising: a requirement for the Buyside Committee to conduct an independent due diligence process on the assets proposed to be acquired prior to making an offer for their purchase: a requirement for any offer made for the assets to be supported by advice on the fair market value for the transaction from an independent expert: WKH HVWDEOLVKPHQW RI LQIRUPDWLRQ EDUULHUV EHWZHHQ WKH %X VLGH DQG 6HOOVLGH &RPPLWWHHV ZLWK appropriate information barrier procedures to ensure information that is confidential to one or the other side is kept confidential to that side: WKH SURYLVLRQ RI D UHOHDVH OHWWHU WR HDFK HPSOR HH RI WKH UHOHYDQW $PEHU URXS FRPSDQ ZKR LV D member of the Buyside and Sellside Committees.
The release letter confirms that the employee shall be treated as not being bound by his her duties as an employee to the extent that such duties FRQIOLFW ZLWK DQ DFWLRQV RU GHFLVLRQV ZKLFK DUH LQ WKH HPSOR HHV UHDVRQDEOH RSLQLRQ QHFHVVDU IRU him her to carry out as a member of the Buyside Committee or Sellside Committee: individuals with material direct or indirect economic interests in the relevant assets will not participate in Buyside Committee and Sellside Committee discussions regarding the relevant assets: and a requirement that the financial statements, policies and records of any such asset offered to the Company can be made compliant with IFRS.
In addition to the procedures detailed above, the acquisition of assets from any member of the Amber Group will be considered and approved by the Independent Directors of the Company.
In considering any 29 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Policy and Strategy continued such acquisition, the Independent Directors will, as they deem necessary, review and ask questions of the Buyside Committee of the Investment Advisor and the GURXSV RWKHU advisors and the acquisition will be approved by the Directors on the basis of this advice.
The purpose of these procedures is to ensure that WKH WHUPV XSRQ ZKLFK DQ LQYHVWPHQW LV DFTXLUHG IURP D PHPEHU RI WKH $PEHU URXS LV RQ DQ DUPV length basis.
Any entities that provide services to the Company and or affiliates of such entities and the Directors and any person or company with whom the Directors are affiliated or by whom they are employed may contract or enter into any financial or other transaction with any member of the Company or with any Shareholder or any entity whose securities are held by or for the account of the Company, or be interested in any such contract or transaction.
Portfolio composition While there are no restrictionV RQ WKH DPRXQW RI WKH &RPSDQ V DVVHWV ZKLFK PD EH LQYHVWHG LQ DQ RQH area or sector, the Company will, over the long-term, seek a spread of investments both geographically and across industry sectors in order to achieve a broad balance of risk in the CRPSDQ V SRUWIROLR Shareholders should note that the actual asset allocation will depend on the development of the infrastructure market, market conditions and the judgment of the Investment Advisor and the Board as to what is in the best interests of Shareholders at the time of the relevant investment.
As at 31 December 2012 the Company had 38% of its investment portfolio in assets outside the UK, a significant increase from 10% at WKH WLPH RI WKH &RPSDQ V, 32 The Company will not other than in respect of holding entities lend to, or invest in the securities of, any one company or group, more than 20% of the CompanyV WRWDO DVVHWV DV FDOFXODWHG DW WKH WLPH WKH investment or loan is made.
The Directors have adopted this investment restriction with the intention of maintaining a spread of investment risk.
This investment restriction applies at the time of investment.
The Company will not be required to rebalance its investment portfolio in accordance with such investment restriction as a result of a change in the NAV of any investment or of the NAV of the Company as a whole.
As at 31 December 2012, the largest investPHQW LQ WKH &RPSDQ V SRUWIROLR, Ormonde OFTO, accounted for 14.7%.
:KLOH WKH &RPSDQ V ODUJHVW WHQ LQYHVWPHQWV DFFRXQW IRU 64.3% of the portfolio.
Details of the ten largest investments FDQ EH RQ WKH &RPSDQ V ZHEVLWH ZZZ  FRP Cash management Until the Company is fully invested and pending re-investment or distribution of cash receipts, cash received by the Company will be invested in cash, cash equivalents, near cash instruments, money market instruments and money market funds and cash funds.
The Company may also hold derivative or other financial instruments designed for efficient portfolio management or to hedge interest, inflation or currency rate risks.
The Company and any other member of the Company may also lend cash which it holds as part of its cash management policy.
Hedging Where investments are made in currencies other than GBP, it is expected that the Company will consider whether to hedge currency risk in accordance with the CompanyV FXUUHQF DQG KHGJLQJ SROLF DV determined from time to time by the Directors.
A portion of the CompanyV XQGHUO LQJ LQYHVWPHQWV PD EH GHQRPLQDWHG LQ FXUUHncies other than GBP.
For example, a portion of the portfolio is denominated in Australian Dollars, Canadian Dollars and Euro.
However, any dividends or distributions in respect of the ordinary shares will be made in GBP and the market prices and NAV ordinary shares will be reported in GBP.
30 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Policy and Strategy continued Currency hedging may be carried out to seek to provide some protection to the level of GBP dividends and other distributions that the Company aims to pay on the ordinary shares, and in order to reduce the risk of currency fluctuations and the volatility of returns that may result from such currency exposure.
Such currency hedging may include the use of foreign currency borrowings to finance foreign currency assets and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Interest rate hedging may be carried out to seek to provide protection against increasing costs of servicing debt drawn down by the Company to finance investments.
This may involve the use of interest rate derivatives and similar derivative instruments.
Hedging against inflation may also be carried out and this may involve the use of RPI swaps and similar derivative instruments.
Currency, interest rate and any inflationary hedging policies are reviewed by the Directors on a regular basis to ensure that the risks associated with movements in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and inflation are being appropriately managed.
Such transactions if carried out are undertaken for the purpose of efficient portfolio management to enhance returns from the portfolio and will not be carried out for speculative purposes.
The execution of currency, interest rate and inflationary hedging transactions is at the discretion of AFML in its capacity as operator, subject to the policies set by and the overall supervision of the Directors.
Leverage The Company intends to make prudent use of leverage to enhance returns to investors, to finance the acquisition of investments and to satisfy working capital requirements.
Borrowings may be made by the Company itself or by any of the subsidiary holding entities.
Under the CompanyV $UWLFOHV WKH CompanyV RXWVWDQGLQJ ERUURZLQJV LQFOXGLQJ DQ ILQDQFLDO JXDUDQWHHV to support subscription obligations in relation to investments, are limited to up to 50% of the Gross Asset Value of the CompanyV LQYHVWPHQWV DQG FDVK EDODQFHV ZLWK WKH &RPSDQ KDYLQJ WKH DELOLW WR ERUURZ LQ aggregate up to 66% of such Gross Asset Value on a short-term i. e. less than 365 day basis if considered appropriate.
Circumstances where this might be the case include for the purposes of new acquisitions.
For the purposes of the borrowing limitation, outstanding borrowings exclude intra-group borrowings and the debts of underlying project entities.
The Company may borrow in currencies other than GBP as part of any currency hedging strategy.
Following the capital raising undertaken in June, the Company repaid the 18.1 million drawn against its corporate debt facility and as at 31 December 2012, the Company had no outstanding borrowings against this facility.
Debt secured against any of the &RPSDQ V LQvestments is on an individual investment basis and is nonrecourse to the Company.
The Company also seeks, where possible, to secure long-term debt matched to the concession life of the asset.
For example, the average life of the existing project-level debt is 21 years FRPSDUHG WR WKH DYHUDJH UHPDLQLQJ OLIH RI WKH &RPSDQ V DVVHWV RI 23 years.
Changes to investment policy Material changes to the investment policy set out in this section may only be made by ordinary resolution of the shareholders in accordance with the Listing Rules.
Investment Strategy The Directors believe that the opportunity offered to the Company by its relationship with the Investment Advisor will lead to the Company being well placed to acquire further iQYHVWPHQWV PHHWLQJ WKH &RPSDQ V investment objectives and policy.
The Directors believe that there are two ways in which this is likely to occur: 31 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Policy and Strategy continued acquisition of further investments developed by Amber the Directors are aware of a number of further transactions within the PPP sector for which Amber is preferred bidder or which are under development by Amber : and DFTXLVLWLRQ RI IXUWKHU LQYHVWPHQWV WKDW DUH VRXUFHG WKURXJK RSSRUWXQLWLHV LGHQWLILHG E $PEHUV infrastructure team.
The Company will seek to acquire further infrastructure assets where the Directors believe that this will create shareholder value and expect that the project origination skills of AFML and Amber will assist the Company in identifying new investment opportunities.
Such acquisitions may be of single assets, of portfolios or shares in companies or partnership interests.
The acquisition of further investments will be financed from cash reserves including those arising from raising debt and or through seeking additional capital from the shareholders and equity capital markets or a combination of these.
Acquisitions will be led by a desire to increase value for shareholders.
Further investments may be either direct or indirect i. e. through the Company investing in a company or other entity which itself has a direct or indirect interest in the underlying investment opportunity.
It is currently expected that any further investments will, as with the existing portfolio, be held through the Company structure but the Directors and the Investment Advisor will keep the structure under review and amend it as may be appropriate for the most efficient holding of investments.
