governance corporate governance report UK corporate governance code compliance The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance and supports the principles laid down in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
This statement describes how the principles of the Code are applied and reports on the companys compliance with the Codes provisions.
The directors consider that the company has been in compliance with the provisions of the Code throughout the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2012.
The board The board of directors the board currently has seven members, comprising the non-executive chairman, chief executive, finance director, three further independent non-executive directors and the PepsiCo nominated non-executive director.
All of the directors bring strong judgement to the boards deliberations.
The board is of sufficient size and diversity that the balance of skills and experience is considered to be appropriate for the requirements of the business.
With the exception of the PepsiCo nominated non-executive director, Joanne Averiss, the non-executive directors are all independent of management and free from any business or other relationship, including those relationships and circumstances referred to in provision B.
1.1 of the Code that could materially interfere with the exercise of independent and objective judgement.
In addition to her duciary obligations to act in the best interests of the Company, Joanne Averiss is required under her letter of appointment to discharge her duties in the interests of the company notwithstanding her connection with PepsiCo.
The company considers that, on appointment, the chairman was independent for the purposes of provision A.
The non-executive directors were all appointed for an initial three-year term and, thereafter, subject to satisfactory performance, may serve one or two additional three-year terms, with a thorough review of their continued independence and suitability to continue as directors if they are to remain on the board for more than six years.
The chairman and chief executive The different roles of the chairman and chief executive are acknowledged.
A responsibility statement for each of those roles has been agreed with the chairman and chief executive, respectively, and adopted by the board.
The chairman is primarily responsible for the workings of the board and ensuring that its strategic and supervisory role is achieved and for ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
The board has delegated appropriate responsibilities to the Executive Committee which comprises in addition to the executive directors, the marketing director, supply chain director, strategy director, human resources director, and the managing director of Britvic GB who are responsible for the day-to-day running of the business, carrying out agreed strategy and implementing specic board decisions relating to the operation of the group.
Senior independent non-executive director The senior independent non-executive director, Bob Ivell, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which are not resolved through the normal channels of chairman, chief executive or finance director: or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The directors The biographical details of the board members are set out on pages 24 and 25.
The directors have all occupied, or occupy, senior positions in UK and or non-UK listed companies and have substantial experience in business.
The non-executive directors do not participate in any of the groups pension schemes or in any of the groups bonus, share option or other incentive schemes.
At all times there has been a majority of non-executive independent directors on the board, in compliance with Code provision B.
The companys articles of association provide that all directors will stand for re-election at least every three years but to comply with provision B.
7.1 of the Code, all of the directors submit themselves for re-election at each annual general meeting AGM of the company.
Role of the board The board is collectively responsible for the proper management of the company.
The board normally meets ten times each financial year and has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision making, including responsibility for the overall management and performance of the group and the approval of its long term objectives and commercial strategy, approval of annual and interim results, annual budgets, material acquisitions and disposals, material agreements and major capital commitments, approval of treasury policies, and assessment of its going concern position.
Board members are given appropriate documentation in advance of each board or committee meeting.
This normally includes a detailed report on current trading and comprehensive brieng papers on matters where the board will be required to reach a decision.
Senior executives below board level attend board meetings where appropriate to present business updates.
There is an established procedure for the preparation and review, at least annually, by the board of medium-term plans and the annual budget.
The business reports monthly on its performance against its agreed budget.
The board receives a monthly update on performance and reviews any significant variances at each of its meetings.
All major investment decisions are subject to post-completion reviews.
At least one of the boards regular meetings every year is devoted to reviewing and agreeing the companys long-term strategy.
The company secretary maintains a record of attendance at board meetings and committee meetings, further details of which are set out on page 32.
During the year the chairman met with the non-executive directors without the executive directors present and the non-executive directors met without the chairman present, to evaluate his performance.
Directors and ofcers insurance cover is provided by the company in line with normal market practice, for the benefit of directors in respect of claims arising in the performance of their duties.
