overview business review gove governance rnance financial statements shareholder information Annual general meeting In the light of the recommended merger between the company and A. G. Barr p. l. c. announced on 14 November 2012 the board has agreed to defer for the time being the next AGM which ordinarily would have been held in January 2013.
Therefore no separate circular providing details of the AGM have been sent to shareholders with this annual report.
Employee involvement The group uses a number of ways to engage employees on matters that impact them and the performance of the group.
These include annual road shows at key sites by members of the executive committee, regular team meetings, the publication of a bi-monthly internal newsletter, Britvic Life, together with the b. link intranet site providing easy access to the latest company information as well as company policies and vacancies.
The company organises quarterly formal business performance updates for employees, which are cascaded by line managers.
An Employee Involvement Forum was established in 2004 through which nominated representatives ensure that employees views are taken into account regarding issues that are likely to affect them.
In addition, where the group has entered into a recognition agreement with a trade union, it fulls its obligations to consult and negotiate accordingly.
The group approaches these relationships from a partnership perspective.
A robust employee opinion survey process is also in place to ensure that employees are given a voice in the organisation and that the group can take action based on employee feedback.
This covers a variety of topics including leadership & line management, employee wellbeing, career development, training, communications and corporate responsibility commitments.
All eligible employees are able to participate in the Britvic Share Incentive Plan which gives them the opportunity to purchase ordinary shares in the company using money deducted from their pre-tax salary, and to receive matching shares from the company, up to a maximum of 50 per four week pay period.
Equal opportunities The group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all employees without discrimination and applies fair and equitable employment policies which ensure entry into and progression within the group.
Appointments are determined solely by application of job criteria and competency.
Disabled persons Disabled persons, whether registered or not, are accorded equal opportunities when applying for vacancies, with due regard to their aptitudes and abilities.
In addition to complying with legislative requirements, procedures ensure that disabled employees are fairly treated in respect of training and career development.
For those employees who become disabled during the course of their employment, the group is supportive, whether through retraining or redeployment, so as to provide an opportunity for them to remain with the group, wherever reasonably practicable.
In the opinion of the directors, all employee policies are deemed to be effective and in accordance with their intended aims.
Supplier payment policy It is group policy to agree terms and conditions for its business transactions with all suppliers.
Payment is made in accordance with these terms provided the supplier meets its obligations.
The average number of days of payments outstanding for the group at 30 September 2012 was 51 2011: 48.
Political contributions During the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2012, the group and its subsidiaries made no political contributions 2011: Nil.
Charitable donations During the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2012, the group and its subsidiaries donated 1.6 million for charitable purposes 2011: 581,297.
This included cash and product donations directly to charitable organisations and other investment in support of community programmes and, in particular, increased charitable donations and employee volunteering as a result of the core brands support in GB of Transform Your Patch.
Major shareholders At 26 November 2012 the company has been notied, pursuant to DTR5 of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following notiable voting rights in its ordinary share capital: Number of Percentage Nature of ordinary shares of voting rights holding Route One Investment Company LLP 14,059,440 5.80% Direct FMR LLC 12,958,007 5.35% Indirect PepsiCo, Inc. 11,813,032 4.88% Direct APG Algemene Pensioen Groep N. V. 7,461,817 3.09% Direct Prudential plc 7,347,468 3.03% Direct Britvic plc Annual Report 2012 27
