governance directors report continued Share capital As at 30 September 2012, the companys issued share capital comprised a single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares.
700,000 ordinary shares were allotted and issued to the trustee of the Britvic Share Incentive Plan at par value during the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2012 to enable the trustee to meet its obligations under the Britvic Share Incentive Plan the Plan.
Full details of the ordinary share capital can be found in note 13 to the financial statements which should be treated as forming part of this report.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company every holder of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
Any notice of general meeting issued by the company will specify deadlines for exercising voting rights and in appointing a proxy of proxies in relation to resolutions to be passed at the general meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the general meeting and published on the companys website after the meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the company other than: s #ERTAIN RESTRICTIONS MAY FROM TIME TO TIME BE IMPOSED BY LAWS AND REGULATIONS FOR EXAMPLE INSIDER TRADING LAWS s 0URSUANT TO THE, ISTING 2ULES OF THE &INANCIAL 3ERVICES !UTHORITY WHEREBY CERTAIN EMPLOYEES OF THE COMPANY REQUIRE THE APPROVAL of the company to deal in its ordinary shares.
IFG Trust Jersey Limited, as trustee of the Britvic Employee benefit Trust the Trustee, holds 0% of the issued share capital of the company, as at 26 November 2012, on trust for the benefit of the executive directors, senior executives and managers of the group.
A dividend waiver is in place in the event the trustees holding increased.
The Trustee is not permitted to vote on any unvested shares held in the trust unless expressly directed to do so by the company.
Under the rules of the Plan eligible employees are entitled to acquire shares in the company.
Plan shares are held in trust for participants by Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited the Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the Trustees no vote is registered.
In addition, the Trustees do not vote on any unawarded shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
As at 26 November 2012, the Trustees held 0.051% of the issued share capital of the company.
The company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
There are no agreements between the company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of ofce or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The companys banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of the company.
Certain other indebtedness becomes repayable if a change of control leads to a downgrade in the credit rating of the company.
The companys agreements with PepsiCo are terminable upon a change of control, details of which are included on page 20.
Conditional on the recommended merger with A. G. Barr p. l. c. becoming effective, Pepsi and Britvic have agreed certain variations to the contractual terms of Pepsis exclusive bottling and distribution agreements with the company to reect the operations of the combined group following the merger and, on the basis of these revised terms, Pepsi has agreed not to exercise any rights of termination it may have as a consequence of the merger under these agreements.
Similarly, change of control waivers have been sought and received from the companys bankers in relation to the companys banking arrangements.
The companys articles of association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Financial risk management It is the groups objective to manage its financial risk so as to minimise the adverse uctuations in the financial markets on the groups reported profitability and cash ows.
The specic policies for managing each of the groups main financial risk areas are detailed in the Treasury Management section of the Business Review on page 15.
