governance directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy and components of remuneration The remuneration policy has been designed to provide market competitive remuneration relative to appropriate peer groups for base salary and incentive opportunity.
The table below outlines the purpose for and performance measures attaching to each element of the package.
Purpose Measures of performance for 2012 3 Changes in year Base salary s Positions the role and the s NDIVIDUAL CONTRIBUTION s %XECUTIVES SALARIES INCREASED individual fairly within a by 2% effective January 2012. s 3USTAINED VALUE IN THE BUSINESS competitive market range derived from a peer group of similar-sized UK-listed companies.
Pension and s Long-term retention of employees s N a. s No change.
"benets Short-term s Provides focus on the delivery s 0ROlT ""EFORE 4AX 0""4 s The weighting for the measure incentive plan of the financial targets set out of Net Revenue and Free s. ET REVENUE in the annual budget."
Cash Flow have been s &REE CASH mOW changed for 2012 13.
Executive share s Provides focus on longer-term s %03 GRO WTH DURING THE THREE s No change.
option plan year performance period.
s 2EmECTS SUSTAINED DELIVERY of earnings growth.
s !LIGNMENT TO SHAREHOLDER INTERESTS Performance s Provides focus on sustained s 2ELATIVE 432 POSITIONING AGAINST s No change.
share plan a peer group of similar sector growth and long-term returns companies 50%.
s !VERAGE 2ETURN ON NVESTED #APITAL ROIC during the three year performance period 50%.
The committee believes that the remuneration of executive directors should be appropriately balanced between base salary and performance-related pay elements with the predominant proportion of potential reward being linked to performance.
The table below shows the current pay mix in place for executive directors under both target and maximum performance scenarios.
Executive director reward elements Chief Maximum executive Target Group Maximum finance director Target 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Base Bonus ESOP PSP The committee regularly reviews the remuneration policy to ensure that it is sufciently exible to take account of future changes in the companys business operations and environment, provides alignment to shareholder interests and that it recognises key developments in remuneration practice.
The committee believes the remuneration policy described above remains appropriate and that the incentive structure does not raise environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
36 Britvic plc Annual Report 2012 Percentage of total
