o ov verview erview business review governance financial statements shareholder information our people Employees Employee wellbeing Our people are critical to Britvics success and we are Throughout the past year, we have focused in GB on fully committed to making Britvic a great place to work, making improvements to work-life balance, improving with our vision to be a top 5 Great Place to Work.
Our our safety record and supporting a healthier workforce.
emphasis is increasingly on developing our own talent, We have continued to invest in tools and systems that combined with proactive external recruitment when give our employees the tools they need to do their we need to introduce new skills or create positions that roles and provided technology that supports more support our growth plans.
To maximise the potential mobile ways of working.
This enables us to improve of our employees we continue to strengthen our focus communication and engagement and gives employees on performance management and provide multiple the opportunity and control to work exibly in terms learning and development programmes in GB and of both location and hours.
To support the health Ireland that cover leadership, management skills and of employees and their families we also provide a functional excellence.
We are early in the integration benets package which includes the provision of private process of Britvic France, but we retain the same high healthcare and an employee assistance programme.
level of commitment to keeping our new colleagues Other wellbeing benets include discounted gym well informed and engaged about Britvics future vision membership and a cycle to work scheme, which was and current group performance as this is fundamental requested by employees and has seen a good level of to our joint success.
We continue to run our annual success so far.
Our employee wellbeing programme has engagement survey and are committed to improving been successfully launched and we have run successful these scores year on year.
initiatives about healthy eating, exercise and general health education.
strategy for growth Britvics strategy is to seek to deliver strong revenue and profit growth and realise attractive cash returns.
s #APITALISING ON ITS PORTFOLIO BREADTH DEPTH The business aims to be both an international brand owner and PepsiCos preferred partner.
"To achieve s ""UILDING THE STRENGTH OF ITS UNIQUE BRANDS these aims, Britvic has built a strategy around growth, underpinned by innovation, driving distribution and s #ONTINUALLY INNOVATING IN ALL THAT IT DOES average realised prices."
"The key building blocks to this s, EVERAGING INSIGHT strategy are: s !CCELERATING CONTRIBUTION FROM THE INTERNATIONAL GROWTH OF ITS BRANDS s ""UILDING BUSINESS SCALE THROUGH ACQUISITIONS Britvic plc Annual Report 2012 3 business review chairmans statement The last twelve months have been disappointing for Britvic as the company dealt with the product recall of Fruit Shoot, continued economic challenges in Ireland and the consumer focus on value, which restricted growth in the impulse sector in GB."
On the positive side, the GB business took market share, More positively the Pressade brand, which focuses on its led by carbonates and Pepsi in particular.
Robinsons takeorganic, local origin, grew ahead of the market.
The Fruit home value market share returned to its high of two years Shoot recall also impacted the Teisseire Fruit Shoot range ago.
The formation of the GB business unit saw Simon and as a consequence of this we postponed the Litherland join us from Diageo as GB Managing Director.
implementation of SAP until 2014 to allow the management In France our syrups brands took further market share team to focus on the re-entry plan for Fruit Shoot.
This and in the US we extended the footprint of Fruit Shoot, will delay the timing of the synergies plan as both SAP a significant development for the future of the business.
and the introduction of Fruit Shoot were key elements of the synergies case.
Unfortunately, the positive financial impact of these successes was offset by the Fruit Shoot recall.
The recall Britvic Ireland continued to struggle against a backdrop constrained revenue growth by around 2%, leading to of poor consumer confidence as a result of the countrys a 0.8% fall in group revenue to 1,256.4m.
The soft drinks market continued also down at 115.6m, including costs associated with the to decline, with the impulse and pub and club channels recall of 16.9m.
A strong focus on cash generation across performing substantially worse than grocery, all of which the business generated underlying free cash ow broadly adversely impacted our margins.
Despite the cost reduction in line with last year, despite the negative impact of the initiatives that we have implemented the declining top recall.
line has led to a reduction in profits.
Inevitably there will be a continued focus on reducing the cost base as we While the stills performance was materially impacted look to improve profitability.
In the market place we by the unavailability of Fruit Shoot following the recall, continued to hold our own and in spite of the challenges Robinsons showed encouraging progress in the last six gained market share.
months, increasing take-home market volume and value share.
Carbonates also continued to perform strongly, Our final business division, Britvic International, continued with revenues up by 3.1%, volume growth of 2.1% and to show revenue growth, up 0.7%.
However, it was also ARP growth of 0.9%.
Pepsi had a particularly good year, materially impacted by the recall of Fruit Shoot, which crucially gaining market share in a year of major sporting affected exports to the Netherlands and Belgium.
activity with the European football championships, the Importantly 2012 saw continued strong progress in the Olympics and Paralympics.
During the second half of the financial year, we successfully moved the US business to a concentrate With revenue up 8% and ARP up 10.9%, Britvic France in-market manufacturing model, and are no longer exporting had a solid year, mostly due to a combination of price nished goods from the UK.
We also confirmed Virginia increases and the pack size changes we made in response as the ninth state where we will be distributing Fruit Shoot to the high raw material ination, which impacted juices through Pepsi-Cola Bottling of Central Virginia.
The performance of our syrups brands, Teisseire and Moulin fide Valdonne, helped grow our overall market share of the syrups category in both volume and value terms.
The juice business, where we have a large private-label presence, had to make some difficult commercial decisions in response to the raw material ination leading to some contract losses.
4 Britvic plc Annual Report 2012 overview business r business re eview view governance financial statements shareholder information Despite the challenges weve faced this year, we faced in the last two years, the company has grown are confident we now have a strong plan in place to substantially over the course of Pauls tenure and we help us deliver growth.
Our immediate priorities will have created significant shareholder value.
Having be to re-establish Fruit Shoot in the market as soon acquired operations in Ireland and France and entered as possible, which is already well underway: build and into the lucrative US market, our international aspirations realise the value of our emerging US Fruit Shoot business: have become a reality.
On behalf of the board, I would strongly emphasise cash generation, maintain rigorous like to take the opportunity to thank Paul for the passion, cost management, and invest behind our strong brands dedication and professionalism he has shown and wish across the group.
him all the best for the future.
We have also recently announced our intention to enter We would also like to thank all of Britvics management into an all-share merger with A. G. Barr, the result of which and employees for their continued commitment to the would transform the combined business into one of the business, and we look forward to the year ahead and largest soft drinks businesses in Europe, with annual the exciting opportunities it will bring.
sales of over 1.5 billion, a portfolio of leading brands and significant prospects for future growth.
The proposed merger is currently seeking approval from shareholders and the relevant bodies and we are hopeful that we will Gerald Corbett complete early in 2013.
Non-executive chairman The board has proposed a second interim dividend in lieu of the final dividend of 12.4 pence per share that maintains the full year dividend in-line with last year.
The annual report and financial statements This is in recognition of our confidence in the underlying were approved by the directors on 26 November business and its future prospects.
Subsequent to this, and as a consequence on the 14 November, the board has proposed a special of the merger with A. G. Barr p. l. c. the board interim dividend of 10.0 pence per share, conditional on has agreed to defer, for the time being, the the merger with A. G. Barr p. l. c. becoming effective.
next AGM which, ordinarily, would have been If the merger goes ahead, Paul Moody will be stepping held in January 2013.
Therefore no separate down from his role as chief executive.
I have had the circular providing details of an AGM has been pleasure of working with Paul since Britvic oated seven sent to shareholders with this annual report.
Despite the difficulties that the business has 5 business review chief executives review 2012 was a challenging year for Britvic.
We achieved some notable successes: in the UK we increased our share of the soft drinks market, with Pepsi performing particularly well, in France our syrups business took share, and we signicantly increased Fruit Shoots presence in the US.
However, the recall of Fruit Shoot in July in GB, This led us to re-set our financial expectations for the full France and some European export markets, impacted year and also to review our near term business priorities, signicantly on our overall group performance.
"as follows: Economic conditions in our core markets of Great Britain, s 2E ESTABLISH &RUIT 3HOOT IN THE MARKET AS SOON France and Ireland remained difficult throughout 2012 as AS POSSIBLE consumers were faced with austerity measures, rising s ""UILD AND REALISE THE VALUE OF OUR EMERGING domestic bills and a fragile economic environment, all 53 &RUIT 3HOOT BUSINESS of which adversely impacted their disposable income."
s 3TRONG EMPHASIS ON CASH GENERATION In this context, soft drinks continued to be resilient, but they were not immune to these challenges.
As a result, sAINTAIN RIGOROUS COST MANAGEMENT the GB take-home market, as measured by Nielsen, s $RIVE IMPROVED PERFORMANCE FROM THE STRONG saw volume growth of just 0.3%, below the historical BRANDS ACROSS THE GROUP 2-3% growth rate that we have seen over the last 20 years.
The recent trend of carbonates growing ahead Re-establish Fruit Shoot in the market as of stills continued.
soon as possible In France the take-home market also saw volume growth At the time of the Fruit Shoot recall, we communicated limited to 1.8%, whilst in Ireland the continued economic that we would be unable to supply Fruit Shoot for six pressures resulted in take-home market volumes weeks and that it would be up to six months before we declining by 2.2%.
could achieve historical supply levels.
In GB and Ireland the pubs and clubs sector and the stills We recommenced initial supply within the targeted six category remained under pressure, areas where Britvic week period and remain on track to achieve production has a leading presence.
levels in line with historical demand by January 2013.
Our marketing teams have delivered marketing and Against this economic backdrop, GB in particular, enjoyed communication programmes in each business unit, a summer of celebration, with the Diamond Jubilee, underpinned by strong execution activity, to ensure Olympics and Paralympics.
Any hopes of the weather that we return the Fruit Shoot brand back to its previous providing a backdrop of warm, sunny days to these market scale as soon as possible.
The early indicators celebrations were soon dashed with some of the are positive, with brand health measures back towards coldest, wettest summer weather ever recorded.
Overall, our business performed well across the first half of the year with some tangible successes.
In July Build and realise the value of our emerging however we identied an issue with Fruit Shoots newly US Fruit Shoot business launched sports cap, which fundamentally changed the During 2012 we made substantial progress in building the performance of the business.
As consumer safety is Fruit Shoot brand in the US.
We announced earlier in the paramount to Britvic, we took the decision to recall the year that we had agreements in eight US states Alabama, Fruit Shoot and Hydro brands from GB, France and Kentucky, Ohio, North and South Carolina, Florida, Georgia European export markets.
The financial impact of the and Texas with four partners Buffalo Rock, Gross & recall is expected to be between 15m and 25m.
Jarson, Pepsi Bottling Ventures, PepsiCo Beverages America previously Pepsi Beverage Company.
We also commenced production in the US during the second half of the financial year with Pepsi Bottling Ventures.
6 Britvic plc Annual Report 2012 overview business r business re eview view governance financial statements shareholder information We have secured a further distribution agreement for Britvic was the first UK soft drink manufacturer to Fruit Shoot with the Pepsi-Cola Bottling Company of introduce Stevia extract as a natural alternative sweetener Central Virginia, which holds the longest established to sugar this year.
Both SoBe V Water and Juicy drench franchise for Pepsi in the US.
They are our fifth partner introduced Stevia-based variants, broadening their appeal in the US and this agreement increases our presence to a wider consumer base.
We remain on track to achieve our target Despite the challenges of the Fruit Shoot recall and the of 20,000 distribution points by the end of 2012. decline of the stills category by the end of the year, we In addition, we have established a US-based Britvic team succeeded in growing our overall share of the GB to deliver our ambitious growth plans and to support our take-home market.
Fruit Shoot partners in the brands development.
France The French business faced high raw material ination Strong emphasis on cash generation in 2012, particularly in relation to sugar and fruit juice, Our results provide evidence of our strong focus on which are key ingredients across its brand portfolio.
cash generation, although the Fruit Shoot recall has Against the backdrop of an uncertain outlook for had an adverse impact on both our profitability and consumers, the primary objective was to offset the cash generation.
However, we have still generated impact of the rising costs.
In the juice business we free cash-ow ahead of last year and have been able therefore took the decision to exit contracts where we to pay down net debt.
were unable to agree commercially acceptable terms.
At the same time, we have continued to invest in our A combination of price increases and pack size changes brands with advertising and promotions A&P spend in the syrups range led to material growth in the average inline with last year.
realised price ARP of the French business with minimal impact on volumes.
The performance of syrups benefitted Maintain rigorous cost management from a period of warm weather during the late summer Our strong focus on cost control has led to a reduction months balancing the very poor weather during spring.
of 5.6m in xed costs, compared to last year.
This Our syrups portfolio continued to take share, supported included costs associated with the Fruit Shoot recall, by the marketing campaigns for both Teisseire and Moulin the underlying costs were down 3.9%.
We continued to sponsor the Tour fide France decline in the top line performance of the Irish business as well as sponsoring the popular television show Plus necessitated a further review of the cost base, leading Belle La Vie.
Our Pressade brand, which is positioned as to a reduction in headcount this year.
an organic juice sourced from France appeared on television for the first time and delivered double-digit Drive improved performance from market growth, taking market share as a result.
the strong brands across the group Ireland Great Britain The difficult economic conditions in Ireland are well Our carbonates portfolio had an exceptional year with all documented and continued to be a challenge in 2012. of our core brands taking share.
Pepsi took substantial The pubs and clubs sector continued to contract and we volume and value share and for the first time joined the were signicantly impacted by the performance of the list of top ten grocery brands.
Our year round marketing third party brands that we distribute through the licensed programme commenced in October 2011 with a cross wholesale business.
category initiative linking Pepsi with Doritos.
Pepsis We continued to invest in and support our key brands, association with football personalities continued this summer, with major on-pack activity supported by with MiWadi, Club and 7UP retaining their number one positions.
This year saw a refresh of the Ballygowan excellent in-store execution.
Both 7UP and Tango took share this year, both brands benefitting, alongside Pepsi, brand, as we looked to cement its clear number one position.
Trading conditions remained difficult in Ireland from the introduction of the new 250ml cans.
and we had to take action to reduce costs, including In the GB stills portfolio, Robinsons performance a material reduction in headcount and the outsourcing benefitted from the in-market execution and consumer of secondary distribution.
Heavyweight marketing investment behind the brand included TV, print, in-store sampling, an on-pack promotion and Wimbledon-themed activity.
Consequently Robinsons enjoyed six months of share gain and in the last twelve weeks of the financial year matched the brands historical market share high of two years ago.
Launched in February, we ran our first cross-portfolio campaign with PepsiCo, Transform your Patch, which offered consumers the chance to support local regeneration projects across the country.
With each brand linked to a particular theme, such as football pitches, playgrounds and skate parks, we supported more than 165 projects throughout the year.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2012 7 business review financial review The following discussion is based on Britvics results for the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2012, with all numbers and comparisons quoted on a 52 week basis, before exceptional and other items and on a constant exchange rate basis.
Volumes and ARP are adjusted for the impact of double concentrate on Robinsons and MiWadi to provide meaningful comparisons.
Key performance indicators Overview The principal key performance indicators that management In the period, total group volume excluding factored use to assess the performance of the group are as follows: products in Ireland was 2.1bn litres, down 1.6% on the previous year, and revenue was 0.8% down to 1,256.4m, s 6OLUME GROWTH n INCREASE IN NUMBER OF LITRES SOLD BY on a constant currency exchange rate.
This reduction in the group relative to prior period.
revenue was primarily due to the Fruit Shoot recall which s !VERAGE 2EALISED 0RICE !20 n AVERAGE REVENUE materially impacted GB stills performance, International per litre sold.
The product recall constrained revenue growth by approximately 2%, with an even greater impact on s 2EVENUE GROWTH n INCREASE IN SALES ACHIEVED BY profit and margin.
the group relative to prior period.
"profit after tax was s ""RAND CONTRIBUTION MARGIN n REVENUE LESS MATERIAL COSTS 62.9m: with adjusted EPS declining by 17.8% to 27.2p."
and all other marginal costs that management considers profit after tax after exceptional and other items was to be directly attributable to the sale of a given product, divided by revenue.
Such costs include brand specic 57.4m, down 0.2% on 2011. advertising and promotion costs, raw material, and A strong focus on cash generation across the business marginal production and distribution costs.
Management generated underlying free cash ow broadly in line with uses the brand contribution margin to analyse Britvics last year, despite the negative impact of the Fruit Shoot financial performance, because it provides a measure recall.
Consequently the business continued to pay down of contribution at brand level.
"debt during the period, resulting in an adjusted net debt s PERATING PROlT MARGIN n THE GROUP FOCUSES ON %"" 4!"
earnings before interest, tax and acquisition related amortisation before exceptional and other items as the key operating profit measure.
Margin is calculated by dividing this number by revenue.
Each business units performance is reported down to the brand contribution level.
s 5NDERLYING FREE CASH mOW n IS DElNED AS NET CASH mOW excluding movements in borrowings, dividend payments, exceptional and other items.
s 2ETURN ON INVESTED CAPITAL 2 # n 2 # IS DElNED as operating profit after applying the tax rate for the period, stated before exceptional and other items, as a percentage of invested capital.
Invested capital is dened as non-current assets plus current assets less current liabilities, excluding all balances relating to interest bearing liabilities and all other assets or liabilities associated with the nancing and capital structure of the group and excluding any deferred tax balances and effective hedges relating to interestbearing liabilities.
The ROIC has been re-stated for prior year as it now includes the reduction in the asset base taken in Ireland in 2010 and the results and assets of Britvic France, both of which were previously excluded from the measure to ensure a like for like comparison.
"8 Britvic plc Annual Report 2012 overview business r business re eview view governance financial statements shareholder information 9 9 business review financial review continued 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended % change GB stills 30 Sep 2012 2 Oct 2011 actual m m exchange rate 6OLUME MILLION LITRES 449.2 493.5 9.0 !20 PER LITRE 71.6p 71.2p 0.6 2EVENUE 321.7 351.2 8.4 ""RAND CONTRIBUTION 141.2 150.1 5.9 ""RAND CONTRIBUTION MARGIN 43.9% 42.7% 120bps GB stills performance was materially impacted in the Robinsons showed encouraging progress in the last six second half of the financial year by the limited availability months, increasing take-home market volume and value of Fruit Shoot, as a result of the product recall."
Revenue share, as measured by Nielsen.
In the last 12 weeks of declined by 8.4% and volumes were down 9.0%.
The the financial year, the brand achieved its highest market impact of consumer down trading to cheaper dispensed share for two years.
offerings in the on-premise channel and the continued shift from impulse to grocery negatively impacted the benefit of the underlying price increase that we achieved.
Brand contribution margin benefited by almost 50bps, due to lower A&P investment this year.
"52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended % change GB carbonates 30 Sep 2012 2 Oct 2011 actual m m exchange rate 6OLUME MILLION LITRES 1,154.1 1,130.5 2.1 !20 PER LITRE 44.9p 44.5p 0.9 2EVENUE 517.9 502.6 3.1 ""RAND CONTRIBUTION 188.7 189.1 0.2 ""RAND CONTRIBUTION MARGIN 36.4% 37.6% 120 bps Full year revenue growth was 3.1%, with volume growth of 2.1% and ARP growth of 0.9%."
The volume mix has moved towards larger value-orientated packs within grocery which are more promotionally driven, at the expense OF SMALLER SINGLE SERVE PACKS n PARTICULARLY IN THE IMPULSE channel.
This mix impact has negatively affected the level of reported ARP growth and margins leading the brand contribution margin to fall year on year, but represents a substantial improvement on the margin decline of 320bps at the half year.
"10 Britvic plc Annual Report 2012 overview business r business re eview view governance financial statements shareholder information 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended % change International 30 Sep 2012 2 Oct 2011 actual m m exchange rate 6OLUME MILLION LITRES 38.4 37.8 1.6 !20 PER LITRE 76.3p 77.0p 0.9 2EVENUE 29.3 29.1 0.7 ""RAND CONTRIBUTION 8.3 10.9 23.9 ""RAND CONTRIBUTION MARGIN 28.3% 37.5% 920 bps The performance of the international business unit was 2012 saw continued strong progress in the US and we materially impacted by the Fruit Shoot recall in the scale have confirmed Virginia as the ninth state where we will export markets of the Netherlands and Belgium."
Brand be distributing Fruit Shoot through Pepsi-Cola Bottling contribution margin has been further impacted by our of Central Virginia.
As a consequence we remain on track up-weighting of marketing investment supporting the to achieve twenty thousands points of distribution by emerging Fruit Shoot business in the US.
During the second half of the financial year we have successfully moved the US to a concentrate in-market manufacturing model and are no longer exporting nished goods from the UK.
"52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended % change % change Ireland 30 Sep 2012 30 Sep 2011 actual constant m m exchange rate exchange rate 6OLUME MILLION LITRES 205.1 210.8 2.7 2.7 !20 PER LITRE 53.3p 58.7p 9.2 3.6 2EVENUE 138.7 162.8 14.8 9.6 ""RAND CONTRIBUTION 44.6 57.8 22.8 18.2 ""RAND CONTRIBUTION MARGIN 32.2% 35.5% 330 bps 330 bps Note: Volumes and ARP include own-brand soft drinks sales and do not include third party drink sales included within total revenue and brand contribution."
Britvic Ireland continued to face very challenging macro In addition, the performance of the third party brands economic conditions with unemployment rising, consumer that we distribute only in the licensed wholesale business spending falling and private label growing.
The soft drinks has negatively impacted overall performance and market, as measured by Nielsen, continued to decline accounted for half of the total revenue decline in the with both take-home market volume and value down business unit this year.
Overall volume and value market in excess of 2%.
Both the impulse and pub and club share of our own brands has grown slightly during the channels continued to perform substantially worse than year in both carbonates and stills.
grocery, with value down by 4.0% in both.
These unfavourable conditions continued to adversely impact margins, with brand contribution margin down by 330 basis points versus the prior year but showed improvement from the interims.
The business continues to focus on cost reduction to mitigate the declining top line and in 2012 the savings we made were in the majority below brand contribution in xed cost.
"Britvic plc Annual Report 2012 11 business review financial review continued 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended % change % change France 30 Sep 2012 30 Sep 2011 actual constant m m exchange rate exchange rate 6OLUME MILLION LITRES 278.3 286.0 2.7 2.7 !20 PER LITRE 89.4p 85.6p 4.4 10.9 2EVENUE 248.8 244.7 1.7 8.0 ""RAND CONTRIBUTION 59.2 62.0 4.5 1.4 ""RAND CONTRIBUTION MARGIN 23.8% 25.3% 150 bps 150 bps Note: France revenue and cost of sales both include the value for the sugar tax and therefore at brand contribution this has a nil impact."
Britvic France delivered a strong year on year ARP During the year, we took the decision to withdraw the performance.
This was achieved through a combination Fruit juice brand from some retailers, where we were of price increases and pack size changes.
These were unable to agree acceptable commercial terms.
This implemented to offset the impact of substantial raw impacted our volume delivery, but had a minimal impact material ination, which was higher in France than on profit.
across the rest of the group, due to the nature of the Our syrups business has driven category growth, with product base.
Brand contribution margin was down as Teisseire and Moulin fide Valdonne growing our overall the benefit of the increase in ARP was fully absorbed by market share of the syrups category in both volume and raw material ination along with the timing lag of the value terms.
Within juice we made good progress on price increase.
Furthermore the marketing investment growing the Pressade brand, capitalising on its organic behind Teisseire Fruit Shoot did not result in the and local origins.
The Pressade brand continues to grow expected revenue and profit growth, due to the recall.
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended % change Fixed costs 30 Sep 2012 2 October 2011 actual m m exchange rate.
0 AS A OF NET REVENUE 5.1% 5.0% 10 bps rd excludes 3 party revenue Reported xed costs decreased by 1.7% which includes the cost of the Fruit Shoot recall.
The underlying xed cost base was a 3.9% reduction as a result of the strong and effective management of the cost base.
Group A&P as a percentage of sales has increased by 10bps, and the absolute spend was in line with last year.
12 Britvic plc Annual Report 2012 overview business r business re eview view governance financial statements shareholder information 13 business review financial review continued Exceptional and other items Interest In the period Britvic accounted for a net cost of 6.9m of The net finance charge before exceptional and other pre-tax 5.5m post tax exceptional and other costs.
items for the 52 week period for the group was 28.3m compared with 29.9m in the same period in the prior These include: year.
"The lower interest charge reects the full year benefit s %XCEPTIONAL ITEMS RELATING TO '"" OF a M NET COST of the renanced bank facility, secured in March 2011. n #OSTS ASSOCIATED WITH THE RELOCATION OF THE GROUP head ofce and the separation of functional support Taxation structures between group and the GB business unit."
The 52 week tax charge of 21.5m before exceptional and other items represents an effective tax rate of s %XCEPTIONAL ITEMS RELATING TO RELAND OF a M NET GAIN 25.5%, a decrease on last year 52 week actual of 0.4% n RELAND PENSION GAIN ARISING AS A RESULT OF THE primarily due to the lower current tax rate in the UK, agreement to address the funding deficit of the offset by a temporary increase in the French tax rate.
Ireland dened benets pension plan and lower future pension provisions.
The past service gain Earnings per share recognised under IAS International Accounting Basic earnings per share after exceptional and other items Standards 19 Employee Benets arises from the as dened by IFRS for the period is 23.8p compared with removal of the guaranteed pension indexation.
the basic EPS of 24.3p for 2011. n MPAIRMENT OF 3!0 IMPLEMENTATION COSTS IN RELAND Adjusted earnings per share for the period, before Given the material market decline in Ireland and exceptional and other items and adding back acquisition resulting scale reduction in our business, the original related amortisation, was 27.2p, down 17.8% on a benets have equally reduced and the economic constant currency basis.
value of the SAP asset is no longer consistent with the future value to be generated.
Consequently in line Dividends with IAS 36 Impairment of assets we have written As previously announced on the 14 November, the off the remaining value of the programme.
Board has proposed a second interim dividend of 12.4p n RELAND RESTRUCTURING COST LARGELY RELATING TO pence, in lieu of the final dividend, making a full year redundancy costs.
The second interim dividend will be paid on 18 January 2013 to shareholders on the register s #ORPORATE EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS OF a M NET COST on 7 December 2012. n !DVISORY FEES RELATING TO A POTENTIAL ACQUISITION THAT was ultimately not progressed.
In addition, as disclosed on the 14 November, the Board has proposed a special interim dividend of 10.0p per share, n !DVISORY FEES RELATING TO THE POTENTIAL MERGER OF conditional upon the merger with A. G. Barr p. l. c. becoming Britvic plc and A. G. Barr plc effective, in lieu of the dividend in relation to the period s &AIR VALUE AND OTHER MOVEMENTS a M NET COST from 1 October 2012 until the effective date completion n 7ITHIN EXCEPTIONAL AND OTHER ITEMS WE INCLUDE THE of the merger - see page 104, and in recognition of the fair value movement of financial instruments where combined groups dividend policy.
This will be paid after hedge accounting cannot be applied.
This is made up the effective date to shareholders on the register at the of two items, a number of share swaps to satisfy our scheme record time being the date and time specified employee incentive share schemes and an interestin the scheme of arrangement document, expected to rate swap.
be 6.00 p. m. on the business day prior to the date of completion of the merger - see page 104.
Cash ow and net debt Underlying free cash ow, dened above, was 62.1m in 2012 and 59.3m in 2011.
At 30 September 2012, the groups non-adjusted net debt was 511.7m compared to 530.2m at 2 October 2011.
The adjusted net debt taking into account the foreign exchange movements on the derivatives hedging our US Private Placement debt at 30 September 2012 is 446.7m compared to 452.0m last year.
14 Britvic plc Annual Report 2012 overview business r business re eview view governance financial statements shareholder information Capital employed Pensions Non-current assets were down in the period, 645.0m The group principal pension scheme for GB employees, compared to 680.3m in the prior period, primarily due the BPP BPP, has both a dened benefit and a dened to a decrease in intangibles.
The dened benefit section of the BPP was closed to new members on 1 August 2002, Depreciation decreased in the period by 1.2m to 34.4m.
and following consultation with GB employees was Current assets also decreased from 384.4m to 380.8m closed to future accrual for active members with effect primarily as a result of a decrease in inventory.
Current from 10 April 2011, with members moving into the liabilities have decreased from 390.0m to 371.9m dened contribution section for future service benets.
driven principally by a decrease in trade and other payable.
Contributions are paid into the Plan as determined by the ROIC has decreased to 16.4% from 18.5%, reecting Trustee, agreed by the Company and certied by an the impact on profits of the Fruit Shoot recall.
The ROIC independent actuary in the Schedule of Contributions.
has been re-stated for prior year as it now includes the The latest formal actuarial valuation for contribution reduction in the asset base taken in Ireland in 2010 and purposes was carried out as at 31 March 2010.
As a the results and assets of Britvic France, both of which result of this valuation, a proposal was set out under were previously excluded from the measure to ensure which a monetary contribution or contributions will be a like for like comparison.
made to enable the Trustee of the BPP to acquire an interest in a limited partnership.
This partnership interest Treasury management is intended to provide the Trustee with an income of at The financial risks faced by the group are identied and least 5.0m per annum in each year over a 15 year period managed by a central treasury department.
The activities together with a final payment of up to a maximum of of the treasury department are carried out in accordance 105.0m to the extent required under funding conditions with board approved policies and are subject to regular to be agreed to the satisfaction of the Trustee and the Audit and Treasury Committee reviews.
The department company, at the end of the 15 year period.
does not operate as a profit centre.
As a result of the first tranche of the agreement, Britvic Key financial risks faced by the group that are managed Scottish Limited Partnership Britvic SLP and Britvic by treasury include exposures to movements in interest Property Partnership Britvic Property were established rates and foreign exchange.
The treasury department by the group and properties were then transferred to is responsible for the management of the groups Britvic Property at a value of 28.6m and leased back to debt and liquidity, currency risk, interest rate risk and Britvic Soft Drinks Limited.
Britvic SLP holds an cash management.
The group uses financial instruments to hedge against During the year, BPP entered into a second tranche of the interest rate and foreign currency exposures in line with pension funding partnership structure.
This tranche involved policies set by the treasury department and approved by the sale and leaseback of certain group brands which were the board of directors.
No derivative is entered into for transferred to Britvic Brands LLP Britvic Brands at a trading or speculative purposes.
The group has a number value of 72.4m and licensed back to Britvic Soft Drinks of derivatives which are economically effective, but do Limited.
Britvic SLP holds an investment in Britvic Brands.
not meet the requirements of IAS39 for hedge accounting.
Movements in the fair value of these derivatives are The BPP is a partner in Britvic SLP and is entitled to a share of the profits of the partnership over the next 15 years.
therefore recorded in the profit and loss account.
At the end of this period, the partnership capital allocated At 30 September 2012, the groups non-adjusted net to the BPP will be changed to an amount equal to any debt of 511.7m excluding derivative hedges consisted funding deficit of the BPP at that time, up to a maximum of 560.8m of private placement notes, 0.8m of finance value of 105.0m.
At that point the group may be leases and 2.3m of loans and unamortised issue costs.
required to transfer this amount in cash to the BPP.
This was netted off with 47.6m of surplus cash.
Britvic SLP, Britvic Brands and Britvic Property are consolidated by the group.
The investment held by the BPP in Britvic SLP does not represent a plan asset for accounting purposes and is therefore not included in the fair value of plan assets.
The share of profits of Britvic SLP received by the BPP is accounted for by the group as contributions when paid.
The properties transferred to Britvic Property continue to be included within the groups property, plant and equipment on the balance sheet.
The group retains operational exibility over the transferred properties and brands, including the ability to substitute the properties and brands held by Britvic Property and Britvic Brands respectively.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2012 15 business review financial review continued In addition to the expected partnership income of at least until 31 December 2010, and 125,000 per month from 1 5m per annum, the group will make payments to the BPP January 2011 to 31 December 2019 are being paid in of 7.5m by 31 December 2012 and 15m per annum by accordance with the Recovery Plan dated December 2009.
31 December of each year from 2013 to 2017.
In relation to the Britvic Ireland Pension Plan BIPP, During the year 10.0m of additional contributions were during the year, the Trustee received approval from the paid to the BPP, of which 5.0m was paid by the group Irish Pension Board for two significant changes to the and 5.0m relates to income received from the pension BIPP, being the removal of the guaranteed annual 3% funding partnership structure.
pension increase for pensions in payment and the introduction of a salary cap of 50k for future service The amount recognised as an expense in relation to the accrual.
As part of the changes, Britvic agreed to pay the BPP dened contribution scheme in the consolidated cost on pension levy plan assets introduced by the Irish income statement for 2012 was 10.3m 2011: 5.8m.
The removal of the guaranteed Britvics business in GB also has a secured unfunded pension increase has resulted in the recognition of a unregistered retirement benefit scheme called The curtailment gain of 25.2m 21.3m which has been Britvic Executive Top Up Scheme BETUS which recognised as an exceptional item.
The changes provides benets for members who have historically signicantly improve the funding position of the BIPP.
exceeded the Earnings Cap, or the Lifetime Allowance The amount recognised as an expense in relation to the whilst members of the dened benets section of the Irish dened contribution schemes in the consolidated BPP.
BETUS closed to future accrual on 10 April 2011 income statement for 2012 was 0.3m 2011: 0.6m.
which coincided with the closure of the dened benefit section of the BPP.
All group pension schemes are administered by trustees who are independent of the groups nances.
In Northern Ireland, the Britvic Northern Ireland Pension Plan BNIPP was closed to new members on 28 February The assets and liabilities of the pension schemes were 2006, and since this date new employees have been valued on an IAS 19 basis at 30 September 2012 by Towers eligible to join a Stakeholder plan with Legal & General.
Watson BPP and Invesco BIPP and Buck BNIPP.
Employees of C&C Group transferred out of BNIPP on Included within the pension liability on the consolidated 30 June 2008 with the bulk transfer of assets for the C&C balance sheet is an accrual of 1.8m 2011: 1.4m for employees taking place in December 2009.
The latest retirement indemnities in respect of Britvic France.
This formal actuarial valuation for contribution purposes was liability is considered to be immaterial and no further carried out as at 31 December 2008 and as a result shortfall disclosure is included within this note.
correction additional contributions of 90,000 per month 16 overview business r business re eview view governance financial statements shareholder information corporate responsibility In the past year, Britvic has continued its work to integrate the principles of Corporate Responsibility CR into the business.
To this end, the Corporate Responsibility Committee In GB, the group has continued to support the public further rened its approach and with the agreement health agenda with commitments to the governments of the Executive Committee introduced a Business Responsibility Deal and Change4Life programme, Sustainability strategy.
This focuses on three key pillars while Britvic Ireland supported the governments Live and objectives: Well initiative.
In addition, both juicy drench and SoBe V Water were reformulated with natural Stevia extract People n TO BE TRUSTED AND RESPECTED IN OUR which has reduced calorie levels.
COMMUNITIES Through its brands the group continued to promote healthy Planet n TO ENSURE OUR FUTURE SUPPLY OF RESOURCES and active lifestyles through marketing programmes.
WHILST MINIMISING THE GROUP S IMPACTS Britvic Ireland sponsors rugby through the Ballygowan ON THE ENVIRONMENT range and Britvic France sponsors the Tour fide France through its Teisseire brand.
profit n TO ACHIEVE CONTINUED PROlTABLE BUSINESS GROWTH Within the Planet area, the business continued to The strategy is designed to meet all stakeholder make significant progress on reducing its environmental requirements and ensure that the group always behaves impact, particularly in the areas of water use, energy responsibly with strong governance and a robust risk consumption and waste.
Britvic has implemented management process, whilst maximising shareholder numerous environmental initiatives across sites, such value.
In the past year, the business has made significant as waste prevention reviews, equipment insulation and progress across all three pillars of the strategy.
In the GB Beckton factory site, this system is expected to save 33 million litres Under the People banner, the group is committed to of water annually.
having a positive impact on both its employees and the communities in which it operates.
The group also acknowledges the importance of ensuring the future supply of materials and is actively working Globally, the group supports a clean water project in Ethiopia with suppliers to understand its environmental impacts and UNICEFs emergency relief fund.
Locally the group within the supply chain and address potential related supports a number of charities and actively encourages risks.
An output of this was the sustainable fruit strategy its employees to get involved through volunteering.
which focuses on the sustainable procurement of fruit.
In GB, Britvic has continued to support those young As part of its focus on profit, Britvic successfully people at risk of dropping out of the school system and demonstrated how commercial initiatives can deliver becoming NEETS not in employment, education and a positive social impact.
As part of the Transform training.
For example, in partnership with Barnardos, your Patch campaign, Britvic teamed up with the the group created a training programme to help build environmental regeneration charity, Groundwork, to confidence in young people and encourage them to stay regenerate more than 180 outdoor spaces.
The programme was successfully trialled Your Patch was one of the most ambitious community-led at the Beckton factory site and the intention is to roll this regeneration schemes to take place in the UK.
Promoted out to further sites next year.
across the portfolio, every soft drink purchased of any of Another key element of the focus on People has been the participating brands represented a 1cm piece of land that was transformed.
to encourage employees to live healthier lifestyles through the wellness@work programme.
Activity included Full details of Britvics CR programme will be published organised exercise and healthy eating challenges, the in the groups annual CR Report in early 2013. provision of showers at many sites to encourage active travel, and joint activity through staff canteens to promote healthy options.
Additionally, the group ran free health assessments at a number of sites and is rolling these out across the remainder of sites this year.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2012 17 business review business resources The main resources the group uses to achieve its results are: s !N EXTENSIVE PORTFOLIO OF STILLS AND CARBONATES BRANDS s !
"STRONG CUSTOMER BASE &OR EXAMPLE IN THE '"" including Robinsons, Pepsi, 7UP, Tango, J O and Fruit take-home market, Britvics customers include the Big 4 2 Shoot."
The breadth and depth of Britvics portfolio supermarkets Tesco, J Sainsburys, Asda and Wm enables it to target consumer demand across a wide Morrisons together with a number of other important range of consumption occasions, in all the major soft grocery retailers.
The group has significant supply drinks categories and across all relevant routes to arrangements with a number of key players in the GB market.
Britvic Ireland owns a number of leading pubs and clubs sector and leisure and catering channels.
brands in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, Britvic Ireland operates across all the main sales channels, including Club, Ballygowan and MiWadi as well as the with key customers including Musgraves, Tesco, Dunnes rights to the Pepsi, 7UP and Mountain Dew Energy and BWG.
Britvic France products are distributed by all brands.
In France the portfolio includes the leading take-home grocery customers.
Key customers include syrup brand Teisseire as well as Moulin fide Valdonne, Carrefour, Galec, Auchan and Intermarche.
Through Britvic International, Britvic also has a well-invested and exible group the group has built on the success of the Robinsons production capability and distribution network that and Fruit Shoot brands by introducing these products enables its soft drinks to be made available to into markets outside GB.
consumers across all of its operating territories.
SUCCESSFUL LONG STANDING RELATIONSHIP WITH 0EPSI#O that resulted in the exclusive bottling agreement EBA being renewed in Great Britain in 2003 for a further 15 years, with an extension to 2023 on admission to the London Stock Exchange.
The EBA for Ireland lasts until 2015.
This relationship gives Britvic the exclusive right to distribute the Pepsi and 7UP brands in Great Britain and Ireland, access to all new carbonated drinks developed by PepsiCo for distribution in Great Britain and Ireland and, to support the development of its carbonates offering, access to PepsiCos consumer and customer insight, competitor intelligence, marketing best practice, brand and product development expertise and technological know-how.
Britvic has added to its portfolio with Mountain Dew Energy in GB and Ireland and has also been appointed in recent years as the exclusive GB bottler of Gatorade, Lipton Ice Tea and SoBe.
18 Britvic plc Annual Report 2012 overview business r business re eview view governance financial statements shareholder information 19 business review risks and uncertainties 3.
Risk management process Britvics risk management process has been adapted 2ISK n 0RICES FOR COMMODITIES USED IN THE PRODUCTION to support its growth strategy, focusing on growing the of our products may uctuate widely and have increased business through both acquisition and organic growth signicantly over the last year mainly due to poor crops opportunities.
Risk is an inherent part of doing business.
Therefore, the risk is two-fold, one of not The intention of the risk management process is not to being able to source enough, and one of having to pay avoid all risk as success comes from managing risk through more than expected.
"the assessment of the balance of risk versus reward setITIGATION n ""RITVIC SOURCES MUCH OF ITS PLANNED against Britvics risk appetite."
The system of internal requirements through forward contracts and hedging controls and risk management used to identify and manage arrangements and is developing new sources of supply.
the principal risks the group faces is described in the Through this process it aims to minimise the impact of Corporate Governance Report.
In assessing risk both the price uctuations.
financial and reputational impact are considered, as Britvic is a brand-led business.
Inability to protect the intellectual property rights corresponding mitigation set out below represent the associated with its current and future brands.
principal uncertainties that may impact on our ability to effectively deliver our strategy in the future note - this 2ISK n &AILURE TO MAINTAIN THESE RIGHTS COULD RESULT IN THE is not intended to be a complete list of all of the risks that value of our brands being eroded by copycat products.
could impact Britvic, there may be other risks, that should they materialise, could have a material impact on the group.
-ITIGATION n 4HROUGH OUR LEGAL TEAM WE PROACTIVELY look to protect these rights by registering the relevant A Risks relating to the group trademarks and enforcing these in court when a resolution cannot be reached with other parties.
An over-reliance on any specic customer or brand.
MAJOR RETAILER IN THE TAKE HOME OR PUBS AND 5.
Increase in the groups funding needs or clubs channel, may decide to remove our products from obligations in respect of its pension scheme.
its range and stock alternative products instead.
"2ISK n 4HE REQUIRED REVALUATIONS OF THE PENSION SCHEMESITIGATION n ""RITVIC SELLS ITS PRODUCTS THROUGH A WIDE RANGE may highlight a worsening deficit position that requires of channels and retailers."
This broad mix of customers the company to provide additional cash contributions to reduces our dependency on any one of these relationships.
Likewise our portfolio and innovation launches furtherITIGATION n 4HE GROUP PENSIONS FUNCTION WORKS CLOSELY diversify our range thereby reducing the dependency on with the pension Trustees to ensure an appropriate portfolio any one brand.
is in place to fund pension requirements and spread risk as best as possible.
New employees of the company are 2.
A termination or variation of the bottling and enrolled into a dened contribution scheme that limits distribution arrangements with PepsiCo or an future liabilities.
The largest of Britvics dened benefit adverse development in the PepsiCo relationship.
schemes, for GB employees, was closed to future accrual 2ISK n !T THE END OF THE BOTTLING AGREEMENTS OR EARLIER IN in April 2011 closed to new members in 2002.
This specic circumstances PepsiCo may terminate our right scheme is now partially funded by a Pension Funding to sell their brands.
Partnership and funding requirements have been agreed to 2017.
"-ITIGATION n ""RITVIC REDUCES THIS RISK IN TWO WAYS &IRSTLY the majority of its revenues are generated by its 6."
Inadequate IT disaster recovery plans.
"Its brand marketing focus and innovation pipeline are balanced between its wholly- 2ISK n !S ""RITVIC HAS GROWN BOTH THROUGH ACQUISITION AND owned brands and the PepsiCo franchised brands."
organically, so has its reliance on IT systems to function, Secondly, Britvic places significant emphasis on a failure of which could halt production or the ability to developing its relationship with PepsiCo through both deliver goods.
"extending bottling agreements and maintaining anITIGATION n ""RITVIC HAS OUT SOURCED THE MANAGEMENT OF appropriate level of communication between the two its data centre to a professional provider with both robust businesses to deal with on-going operational issues."
disaster recovery and business continuity plans capable of meeting both its current and future needs.
FAULTY OR CONTAMINATED PRODUCT IS SUPPLIED TO the market.
"-ITIGATION n ""RITVIC HAS ROBUST QUALITY CONTROL MEASURES and processes in place to maintain the high quality of its products supplied at all times."
These have been further strengthened in response to the Fruit Shoot recall required during 2012.
20 Britvic plc Annual Report 2012 overview business r business re eview view governance financial statements shareholder information 3.
Potential impact of regulatory developments.
B Risks relating to the market 2ISK n, EGISLATION MAY IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO MARKET OR 1.
The macro-economic environment sell certain products or engage with specic consumers.
"2ISK n #ONTINUED ECONOMIC DOWNTURN GOVERNMENTITIGATION n ""RITVIC PROACTIVELY ENGAGES WITH THE regulatory changes and uncertainty in the economy relevant authorities through a number of organisations impacts consumer confidence resulting in reduced such as the British Soft Drinks Association BSDA and the spend on soft drinks."
In addition, wider economic factors Food and Drink Federation FDF in the UK, to ensure it can could have an impact on Britvic, in particular increasing fully participate in the future development of legislation.
-ITIGATION n 4HE SOFT DRINKS CATEGORY IS REASONABLY 4.
Potential impact of taxation changes resilient and Britvic offers a range of everyday value 2ISK n 0OTENTIAL LEGISLATION TO INTRODUCE A TAX ON products to meet the consumer need for reduced manufacturers of soft drinks.
"Britvic monitors consumer spending trends and develops products designed to meet the spendingITIGATION n ""RITVIC WILL LOOK TO REMAIN COMMERCIALLY requirements of its consumers."
Britvic closely monitors competitive whilst offsetting as much of the cost as and manages its exposure to counterparty credit risk.
possible through increasing prices to customers.
A change in consumer preferences and spending 5.
2ISK n %NERGY COSTS mUCTUATION RESULTS IN UNFORESEEN 2ISK n #ONSUMERS MAY DECIDE TO SWITCH OR SPEND LESS increases in costs.
"-ITIGATION n ""RITVIC HAS CONTRACTS FOR SOME OF ITS ENERGYITIGATION n ""Y OFFERING A RANGE OF EVERYDAY VALUE TO supply with pre-agreed prices, and price increase premium products across a range of sub-categories, mechanisms in line with market, partially mitigating this Britvic is not dependant on any single brand."
In addition, Britvic has taken steps to improve its has been developed to offer consumers choice in terms energy efficiency to reduce its energy requirements.
of avour, cost and formulation.
Britvic closely monitors consumer trends in order to anticipate changes in preferences and match its offerings to these trends.
21 business review 22 overview business r business re eview view governance financial statements shareholder information 23
