governance directors report For the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2012 The directors are pleased to present their report and the consolidated financial statements of the company and its subsidiaries for the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2012.
Principal activities The group trades principally as a manufacturer and distributor of soft drinks.
Business review A detailed review of the groups activities is contained within the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 5 and the chief executives Review and Business Review on pages 6 to 21.
The information contained in those sections fulls the requirements of the Business Review, as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 and should be treated as forming part of this report.
Results and dividends The groups profit for the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2012 before taxation attributable to the equity shareholders amounted to 77.5 million 2011: 79.9 million and the profit after taxation amounted to 57.4 million 2011: 58.4 million.
An interim dividend of 5.3 pence 2011: 5.1 pence per ordinary share was paid on 13 July 2012.
The directors have proposed a second interim dividend in lieu of a final dividend for the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2012 of 12.4 pence 2011: 12.6 pence per ordinary share.
This will be paid on 18 January 2013 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 7 December 2012.
In addition, the directors have proposed a special interim dividend of 10.0p per share conditional on the recommended merger with A. G. Barr p. l. c announced on 14 November 2012 the merger becoming effective, in lieu of the dividend in relation to the period from 1 October 2012 until the effective date and in recognition of the combined groups dividend policy.
The merger is to be implemented by way of a court-sanctioned scheme of arrangement under the Companies Act 2006 the scheme.
The special interim dividend will be paid to shareholders after the effective date on the register at the scheme record time being the date and time specified in the scheme of arrangement document, expected to be 6.00 p. m. on the business day immediately prior to the date of completion of the merger.
Directors The following were directors of the company during the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2012: Gerald Corbett, Paul Moody, Joanne Averiss, John Gibney, Ben Gordon, Bob Ivell and Michael Shallow.
Subject to company law and the companys articles of association the articles, the directors may exercise all of the powers of the company and may delegate their power and discretion to committees.
The executive committee is responsible for the day-to-day management of the group.
The articles give the directors power to appoint and replace directors.
Under the terms of reference of the nomination committee, any appointment must be recommended by the nomination committee for approval by the board.
The articles also require directors to retire and submit themselves for election to the first annual general meeting following appointment and to retire at the annual general meeting held in the third calendar year after election or last re-election, but to comply with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code all of the directors submit themselves for re-election at the next annual general meeting, if held.
Their biographical details are set out on page 24 of this report.
Directors interests The directors interests in ordinary shares of the company are shown within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 43.
No director has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of any group company.
Other than Joanne Averiss, who is a director of a number of PepsiCos subsidiaries, no director was or is materially interested in any contract other than his service contract, subsisting during or existing at the end of the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2012 which was significant in relation to the groups business.
Further details of Joanne Averiss appointment are set out on page 30 in the Corporate Governance section of the annual report.
Directors liabilities As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the company has agreed, to the extent permitted by law and the companys articles of association, to indemnify: s 4HE DIRECTORS IN RESPECT OF ALL LOSSES ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE EXECUTION OF THEIR POWERS DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES AS directors of the company or any of its subsidiaries: and s $IRECTORS OF COMPANIES WHICH ARE CORPORATE TRUSTEES OF THE GROUP S PENSION SCHEMES AGAINST LIABILITY INCURRED IN CONNECTION WITH THOSE companies activities as trustees of such schemes.
Directors remuneration The remuneration committee, on behalf of the board, has adopted a policy that aims to attract and retain the directors needed to run the group successfully.
The Directors Remuneration Report is shown on pages 35 to 43.
