Specialist Banking What we do High income and high net worth Corporates government institutional clients private clients Corporate Advisory and Investment activities Corporate and Institutional Banking activities Private Banking activities Advisory Treasury and trading services Transactional banking Institutional, research, sales Specialised finance Lending and trading Deposits Principal investments Australia Investments Property activities Canada Advice India Australia Southern Africa Australia Hong Kong UK and Europe Southern Africa India UK and Europe Southern Africa UK and Europe USA Systems and infrastructure Specialist Banking: Corporate, institutional and government activities Footprint of our integrated business with local client delivery and international access Hong Kong UK and Europe Benefiting from a well diversified portfolio Brand well established Acquired Access Capital in Sustainable business on June 2011 creating a link the back of client flow between China, UK and Well positioned in the South Africa.
Canada and USA primary and secondary markets Evolution transaction Distribution platform bolsters our advisory and Growing advisory and fixed income operations.
India Established a presence in 2010 South Africa Facilitates the link between India, UK Strong brand and positioning and South Africa.
Quality investment and property portfolio Capable of leveraging Australia corporate relationships.
Highly experienced local team in place with industry expertise Focus is on growing the treasury and advisory activities.
Specialist Banking: Private Banking activities Value proposition Key focus Provide high touch transactional banking, specialised lending, deposit and investment Back to basics products to two distinct client bases: Growing the client base High income c. 155 000 clients High net worth HNW c. 5 600 clients Ensuring the product offering is delivered to Provide trust and fiduciary services, for wealth preservation and succession planning our global client base.
72 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Divisional review Management structure Global heads of Specialist Banking Stephen Koseff, Bernard Kantor and Glynn Burger Corporate Advisory and Investment activities Global head Andy Leith UK and Europe South Africa Australia Hong Kong Regional head Alex Snow Regional head Andy Leith Corporate finance Regional head David Currie Corporate finance Hugo Steyn Institutional research, Richard Forlee Corporate finance and Institutional research, sales and trading corporate broking James Grace sales and trading Kevin Brady Christian Nicks Chris Baird Principal investments Vincent Langlois Private equity Securities Clive Murray Finance: corporate Jon Brett Operations Leanne Gordonfinance and principal Kagan investments Robert Slater Finance Ray Milner Caroline Thomson Operations: institutional research, sales and trading Joubert Hay Corporate and Institutional Banking activities Global head David van der Walt UK and Europe South Africa Australia Regional head Andy Clapham Regional head Richard Wainwright Regional head Milton Samios Treasury products Project and resource Commodities and and distribution Chris Meyer finance Michael Meeser resource finance Anthony Hawke Central treasury John Barbour Equity derivatives and Project finance Peter Mansfield Commodities and foreign exchange trading Mark Currie Power investment Mark Schneider resource finance George Rogers Financial products Lourens van Social infrastructure Structured equity Rensburg investment Michael Still derivatives Anant Patel Treasury sales and Structured real estate Residential mortgages structuring Ryan Tholet finance Michael Still including Kensington Keith Street Structured and Aviation finance David Phillips Financial markets group Richard Downer asset finance David Kuming Corporate and Credit investments Balance sheet acquisition finance Simon Beissel and trading Henrik Malmer management and Treasury Dean You Lee Specialist corporate interest rate trading Clive Sindelman Asset finance Matt Ingram capital David Beadle Trade finance Fixed income, currencies Jonathan Fourie ReichmansCapital John Wilks and commodities Jeff Duncan-Nagy Structured and asset Regional head: Mauritius Craig McKenzie Operations Carl Dennis finance Alistair Crowther Operations Stuart Spencer Project finance UK and international Maurice Hochschild Debt capital markets Eden Riche Operations Melanie Abromowitz Regional head: Ireland Michael Cullen Treasury products and distribution: Ireland Aisling Dodgson Equity finance: Ireland Loman Gallagher Regional head: Canada John Casola Regional head: India Ajeeth Narayan Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Divisional review 73 Specialist Banking continued Property activities Global head Sam Hackner Deputy chairman Sam Leon UK and Europe South Africa Australia Regional head Sam Hackner Property projects Robin Magid Regional head Graeme Katz Property projects Robin Magid Investec property fund Sam Leon Finance and operations Jason Sandler Finance and operations Dave Donald Private Banking activities Global head Ciaran Whelan UK and Europe South Africa Australia Regional heads Avron Epstein Country head Colin Franks Professional finance Barry Lanesman Paul Stevens Chief operating officer Jodi Joseph Private client Chief operating officer Chris Forsyth Risk management Howard Tradonsky distribution Ivan Katz Structured property Chief financial officer Noorul-ain Khan finance Gary Dobson Credit risk Anthony Church Specialised lending David Drewienka Business architecture Graeme Lockley Growth and acquisition Strategic projects Jodi Joseph finance Ed Cottrell Funding Les Scott Gary Edwards Human resources Nicola Tager Specialised banking Wayne Preston Banking Kobus Burger Linda McBain Regional heads Trust and fiduciary Xavier Isaacs Cape Town Dion Millson Investec Bank Channel Durban Brendan Stewart Islands Stephen Henry Johannesburg Brett Copans Investec Bank Ireland Michael Cullen Port Elizabeth Cumesh Moodliar Marketing Denesse Edgar Pretoria Charl Wild Finance Liza Jacobs IT Douglas Grantham Review of operating environment Corporate Advisory and Investment activities In the UK, it was a challenging and volatile year for equity investors with the FTSE 100 declining by 4.2% over the financial year.
Equity markets were gripped with continuing uncertainty as investors focused on the instability of the Eurozone with potential consequences for economic growth and banking exposures.
This volatility led to aggregate market volumes being the lowest for a decade while M&A and IPO levels remained subdued.
Broking houses have struggled in the difficult conditions and there has been some fallout amongst the smaller players.
However, the environment remains competitive.
For corporate finance in South Africa we expect local and cross-border M&A transactions to continue to drive activity, even though increased regulation and governance affects deal lead time.
Principal Investments in South Africa has seen an uptick in competition over the past year.
This comes mainly from corporates because of cash piles, and also private equity funds available have increased with more focus being brought on emerging markets where potential yields are better.
We have seen improved trading conditions in most of our assets.
The Australian M&A and capital markets remain challenging but are showing signs of improvement.
Corporate and Institutional Banking activities The economic environment in the UK and Europe remains uncertain with ongoing Eurozone sovereign issues.
Interest rates remain low and credit spreads are tightening although volatile.
We have expanded our product and service capability over the last few years and our platform businesses are now all well established.
We believe that these factors have positioned us to grow market share and to take advantage of any increased levels of market activity through the next reporting period.
74 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Divisional review In South Africa, the corporate market continues to remain weak with low levels of activity leading to depressed lending activity.
We have however, seen an increase in pipeline in our lending businesses and are well positioned for a recovery in activity levels.
Activity levels in Australia have picked up, however, we expect conditions to remain tough in 2012.
We do expect activity in areas such as infrastructure, power and resources and we continue to invest in these areas.
Private Banking activities The operating environment in each of our three core geographies has continued to be challenging.
We have however, seen increased deal appetite from our clients and, as a result, have increased specialist lending activity levels across all three geographies.
Competitive pressures have generally fallen, allowing the Investec Private Bank to increase market share in a number of core target markets.
Financial analysis Operating profit of the Specialist Banking division decreased 30.2% to 186.2 million contributing 51.9% to group profit.
Contribution analysis Operating profit Permanent employees Ordinary shareholders equity 100% 100 100% 100% 80 60 40 20 Remainder of Investec group 0% 0 0% 0% Specialist Banking 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Before goodwill, acquired intangibles, non-operating items, taxation and after non-controlling interests.
The numbers prior to 31 March 2005 were reported in terms of UK GAAP.
Amounts from 2008 are shown before goodwill, non-operating items, taxation and after non-controlling interests.
Prior to 2008 amounts have not been adjusted for non-controlling interests.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Divisional review 75 61.4% 38.6% 51.9% 48.1% 71.6% 28.4% 67.8% 32.2% 84.2% 15.8% 81.5% 18.5% Specialist Banking continued Income statement analysis 31 March 31 March % 000 2012 2011 Variance change Net interest income 683801 671199 12602 1.9% Net fee and commission income 330197 300913 29284 9.7% Investment income 174694 253857 79163 31.2% Trading income Arising from customer flow 76958 78379 1421 1.8% Arising from balance sheet management and other trading activities 31727 87824 56097 63.9% Other operating income 62554 61985 569 0.9% Total operating income before impairment losses on loans and advances 1359931 1454157 94226 6.5% Impairment losses on loans and advances 325118 318259 6859 2.2% Operating costs 859970 880552 20582 2.3% Operating profit before goodwill and acquired intangibles, non-operating items, taxation 174843 255346 80503 31.5% Earnings attributable to non-controlling interests 11368 11326 42 0.4% Operating profit before goodwill, acquired intangibles, non-operating items, taxation and after non-controlling interests 186211 266672 80461 30.2% Core business 274 342 341649 67 307 19.7% Property loan portfolio being run-off 88 131 74977 13 154 17.5% UK and Europe 52880 55616 2736 4.9% Southern Africa 199212 210350 11138 5.3% Australia 65881 706 66587 100.0 Operating profit before goodwill, acquired intangibles, non-operating items, taxation and after non-controlling interests 186211 266672 80461 30.2% Ordinary shareholders equity 2 714 259 2 738 439 15 767 0.6% ROE pre-tax 6.1% 9.7% Return on tangible equity pre-tax 6.5% 10.4% Cost to income ratio 62.4% 60.1% Operating profit per employee 000 35.5 52.4 16.9 32.3% As calculated on pages 51 to 53.
Residual property loan portfolios in Ireland and Australia which have been ring-fenced for collection and recovery and are being run-off.
The variance in the operating profit in the UK over the year can be explained as follows: Net interest income increased largely as a result of improved margins and increased lending turnover, partially offset by higher costs on subordinated liabilities Net fee and commission income was largely in line with the prior year with transactional activity levels remaining mixed Investment income decreased as a result of lower returns generated on the investment portfolio Trading income arising from customer flow remained in line with the prior year whilst trading income arising from other trading activities decreased due to profits realised on debt buy-backs in the prior year which were not repeated in the current year Impairments decreased and defaults increased marginally.
Further information is provided on pages 116 and 117 Operating expenses decreased largely as a result of the deconsolidation of two principal investments.
The variance in the operating profit in South Africa over the year can be explained as follows: Net interest income increased largely as a result of improved margins, higher average loans and a sound performance from the fixed income portfolio, partially offset by higher costs on subordinated liabilities Net fee and commission income increased largely due to a good performance by the corporate banking and advisory businesses 76 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Divisional review Investment income decreased largely due to a weaker performance from the listed principal investments portfolio and income earned on the sale of investment properties in the prior year which were not repeated in the current year Trading income decreased largely due to a lower return generated on the balance sheet management desk Impairments decreased and defaults improved.
Further information is provided on pages 116 and 117 Operating expenses decreased largely as a result of the depreciation of the Rand costs as reported in Rands remained in line with the prior year.
The variance in the operating profit in Australia over the year can be explained as follows: Net interest income was negatively impacted by the underperformance of the default non-core property loan book Net fee and commission income was marginally lower than the prior year Investment income decreased as a result of negative write-downs on mortgage properties in possession Trading income arising from customer flow increased as a result of further development and growth in the business operations Impairments increased substantially on the disposal of the non-core property loan book.
The residual default loan portfolio has largely been sold with the balance ring-fenced for collection and recovery.
Further information is provided on pages 116 and 117 Operating expenses increased largely as a result of costs associated with restructuring of the business.
The most notable transaction was the sale of Forth Ports for 760 million We completed 11 fundraisings, raising in aggregate 406 million 2011: eight fundraisings raising in aggregate 472 million.
This included a 112 million fundraising for Chemring Group Plc and UK IPOs for Circle Holdings plc and Enteq Upstream plc With the integration of Evolution Securities we strengthened our offering within the oil, mining and property sectors and increased our number of quoted clients to 113 with an average market cap of 301 million.
Southern Africa We have maintained our strong positioning Our focus was on local and cross-border M&A, capital raisings and restructuring transactions We retained our major clients and gained several new mandates during the period Numerous new mandates were entered into, however, it remains difficult to close deals given current market and regulatory conditions The total value of corporate finance transactions decreased to R60.4 billion 2011: R76.9 billion during the period and the number of transactions increased to 61 2011: 60 Sponsor broker deals completed during the period increased to 97 2011: 74 with the value decreasing to R61.2 billion 2011: R91.5 billion The Corporate Finance division was ranked first in volume of listed M&A transactions and first in general corporate finance in Dealmakers Magazine Survey for Corporate Finance 2011 calendar year.
This is the ninth year that we have been ranked first in volume of listed M&A transactions in the last 11 years The Sponsor division was ranked first in volume of M&A transactions and first in general corporate finance in the Dealmakers Magazine Survey for Sponsors 2011 calendar year.
The Sponsor division has been ranked in the top two in M&A transactions and general corporate finance by volume for the past nine years.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Divisional review 79 Specialist Banking continued Australia We have executed a number of advisory transactions and the pipeline is encouraging We have a highly experienced team well positioned to drive the business going forward The outlook for M&A is improving with transaction volume increasing and lending markets reopening We have executed a number of equity raisings over the last 12 months and have secured first rights of refusal over several upcoming raisings.
Institutional, research, sales and trading UK and Europe Against a backdrop of weak volumes and continuing pressure on brokerage rates we have managed to grow secondary commissions and increase market share significantly The challenging and volatile market conditions have led to higher loss ratios and reduced profitability across the trading books The integration of Evolution Securities has strengthened our research offering in oil and mining and added property as a new sector, while enhancing our sales trading and market making capability.
We also gained new teams, namely Special Situations Sales and RSP, who provide broking services to retail brokers During the year we employed a closed end funds team, comprising some nine individuals who specialise in the broking of listed closed end funds.
Southern Africa The Institutional Securities business underwent a strategic review in the middle of last year and a number of action steps were subsequently implemented Core to this action was a cost reduction programme which resulted in the closure of all non-core activities and a narrowing of focus in our research coverage Although some of the cost benefits of this action flowed through in the second half of the financial year, the full benefit will only be captured in the 2013 financial year The business is in a financially healthier position as a result.
Australia The australian institutional securities business focuses on resources and is currently implementing strategies to build out and integrate corporate finance, securities and capital markets offerings in this sector.
Principal investments Southern Africa The direct investments portfolio was R2 160 million at 31 March 2012 March 2011: R2 511 million.
The decrease in value was primarily due to realisations The private equity portfolio was R4 223 million at 31 March 2012 March 2011: R3 838 million.
We continued to expand the capacity of our private equity investments through the acquisition of four new private equity assets as well as large capital projects and expenditure within the portfolio.
The benefits of these activities will only be felt in future financial years.
The increase in value in the current year was driven primarily by new acquisitions.
Australia Private Equity is focused on managing and maximising the value of the existing investments in the private equity funds.
As markets improve, subject to achieving appropriate value, Private Equity will look to progressively realise the remaining investments and return funds to investors The Direct Investments business is active in sourcing private equity investments for the bank and, where appropriate, to selected private clients on a syndication basis.
Property activities UK and Europe The indirect property investment business has been transferred to Investec Asset Management We continue to be joint managers with GLL for the Investec GLL Global Special Opportunities Real Estate Fund and search for suitable acquisition opportunities.
80 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Divisional review Southern Africa We are active in a number of office, industrial and retail developments and have successfully completed a number of major developments The Investec Property Fund was listed on the JSE in April 2011 with a market capitalisation of R1.7 billion The listing was very well received in the market and the asset value at 31 March 2012 was R2.07 billion.
The unit was listed at R9.50 and at 31 March 2012 was R11.70, having paid an interim distribution of 42 cents: a return in excess of 27% in one year The fund creates opportunities for us to develop as it has a strategy to grow aggressively over the next five years.
Australia The Investec Property Funds have continued to perform well with strategies in place for their future realisation as we are in the process of returning capital and profits to our investors The portfolio of distressed loans that we acquired is performing in line with expectations, with assets being realised at a profit and for the remainder of the portfolio strong returns are anticipated.
Corporate and Institutional Banking activities Treasury and trading services UK and Europe The treasury products and distribution desks have shown increased growth and profitability as the client base has grown and product offerings have broadened The Structured Finance business remains very active, especially in aircraft finance.
Southern Africa Significant surplus liquidity levels were maintained during the period and we continue to be a provider of liquidity to the South African interbank market.
Our surplus liquidity has had a negative effect on our margin for the period We successfully launched the Credit Derivatives Trading business We successfully rolled out our E Commerce offering for online Corporate trading We successfully launched CFDs Our commodities investment business was implemented successfully to allow for investment products and corporate hedging We successfully established our clearing business.
Australia The central treasury was separated from the derivative sales and trading business which is now called fixed income, currencies and commodities FIC Our operational areas have been amalgamated and streamlined so there is now one support team for all treasury and markets business.
Specialised finance UK and Europe The Credit Investments and Trading business has continued to take advantage of the condition of the credit markets through its fixed income investments and trading operations The project finance team continues to be a leader in the UK PFI Advisory business, and the office in Canada, set up to service the North American PFI market, is performing very well We successfully established a Debt Capital Markets business which has been integrated with the Evolution Group, with recent successes in the retail bond market, our combined offering makes us number one in this market We have recently successfully closed our first securitisation of our own originated prime residential mortgages.
We continue to cautiously originate mortgages in this prime market space and are looking to selectively extend our product range The Asset Finance business continues to grow.
Outstanding performance from the Masterlease book purchase was demonstrated during the period We successfully built an efficient corporate and financial institutional distribution capability in the setting up of the Financial Markets Group The structured equity retail distribution platforms are well established and we have recently marketed launch 33 in the UK market.
We are currently one of the top two retail structured product issuers in the UK market and have recently won a number of awards for our efforts in this area.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Divisional review 81 Specialist Banking continued Southern Africa The corporate market continues to remain weak with low levels of activity leading to depressed lending activity and consequently, moderate hedging activity.
We have however, seen an increase in the pipeline in our lending businesses We established a supplier asset-based finance business during the year An African coverage unit has been established to increase our footprint in Africa Activity in the renewable energy sector offers encouraging opportunities for the future.
Australia We have started two new business streams, Asset Finance and Social Infrastructure Investment and absorbed two businesses from other parts of the bank, being Structured Real Estate Finance and Growth and Acquisition Finance.
Private Banking activities High net worth and high income banking UK and Europe Private Bank UK and Europe can be viewed in three distinct business categories: the core banking business, Ireland and the Trust business The core banking business has experienced: Improved financial performance due to an increase in operating income and reduced level of impairments Increased activity levels within each of the specialist lending niches Negligible overall lending book growth as redemptions have offset new activity On the overall portfolio, risk has decreased and returns have risen as new deals have replaced pre-2008 transactions Excellent growth in deposits, providing the group with a stable retail funding base and building the Investec franchise with a significant number of new private clients Significant investment in product development and operational infrastructure to support the deposit raising business and the forthcoming launch of transactional banking.
In Ireland, the focus remains on managing the historical loan portfolio to minimise impairments.
No new loans are being written within this geography In the Trust business, the new business initiatives launched over the last year are beginning to have an impact on the revenue line.
The restructuring, which took place at the beginning of the year, has reduced the cost base significantly.
Southern Africa Private banking activities have been separated into two focus areas, namely high income and high net worth, in order to enhance the offering and the commensurate profitability This renewed focus on core banking in the high income space is aimed at improving the client experience, increasing our client acquisition and utilisation of our core products The raising of retail, private client and SME deposits is an important focus for the business.
New products are being developed in an effort to drive growth and duration of our deposit base Lending activity levels have improved significantly compared to the previous year.
Due to growth in repayments, overall asset growth was moderate The economic environment remains subdued: however, the Private Banking division experienced a declining trend in new defaults and impairments during the past 18 months Costs have been well contained during this period through an ongoing process of realignment of structures and processes.
Australia The business aims to deepen client relationships through the development of a transactional range of products The credit card offering under development was brought to pilot in March 2012 with the launch anticipated in June 2012 The transactional account is well into development with phase one to be launched in July 2012 These products will ensure that Investec remains at front of mind with the target clients.
The investment in additional skilled resources made in the prior period is beginning to pay dividends with increased productivity and output.
82 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Divisional review Strategic objectives In the UK, we Corporate Advisory and Investment activities are investing Advisory and agency and principal investment activities in systems and Strong local business with international access processes to Target growth and entrepreneurial corporates place greater Provide a credible offering to clients operating between the developed world and the emphasis on emerging world environmental, Develop key global sector specialisations, e. g. resources social and Capable of leveraging corporate relationships across Investec businesses and geographies governance Select use of capital to take advantage of commercial opportunities.
criteria within our fundamental Property activities equity research Our continuing strategic objective is to make Investec Property a pre-eminent property developer, fund manager and trader over time in all the geographies in which we operate paradigm.
Our longer-term focus is to create revenue supported by annuity income and enhanced by deal income.
Corporate and Institutional Banking activities Strategy remains to originate and distribute and to develop capital light businesses, where we continue to actively manage our asset and capital base by originating high yielding, capital efficient deals and utilise our increased distribution capability Continue to focus on growing our customer flow and structuring businesses across equity, commodity, foreign exchange and interest rate markets Take advantage of opportunities as the market continues to deleverage Focus on Africa and connecting Africa, India and China to our core geography offerings.
Private Banking activities Provide a stable dependable deposit base to the group by broadening and diversifying the private client deposit base Broaden the private client franchise by launching a transactional banking offering in the UK and Australia Reduce the risk profile within the lending portfolio through increased focus on lower risk lending activities Ongoing focus on and management of distressed loans to minimise actual losses.
Sustainability considerations Corporate Advisory and Investment activities Our sustainability philosophy and focus is on balancing environmental, social and economic sustainability issues.
We want to make a valuable contribution to our future, uplifting and empowering people and preserving our natural resources.
We drive this philosophy internally as well as in our investee companies.
In the UK, we are investing in systems and processes to place greater emphasis on environmental, social and governance criteria within our fundamental equity research paradigm.
It is our intention going forward for this to be an increasing part of our analysis and method of evaluating companies.
Our Securities division in South Africa considers environmental impacts when compiling research reports on specific companies.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Divisional review 83 Specialist Banking continued We are acutely aware of the challenging global conditions facing the banking industry, and remain committed to risk management as an integral component of our business.
In our We continue Principal Investments area, we have stringent corporate governance and risk assessment processes in place to vet all new investments.
These processes typically address the following to monitor our key risks: financial, reputation and brand, environmental and skills management.
impact and our People investee company Our people drive our business.
This remains key to achieving sustainable profits and the impacts in creation of shareholder value.
We believe that living the value of open and honest dialogue terms of carbon remains our competitive advantage.
In South Africa, our approach to transformation is to employ young black professionals and grow and nurture them into more senior positions.
This is integral to sustainability as it ensures that these staff members have the confidence and ability to take on more senior roles.
We support group CSI initiatives and also provide small donations in response to certain client requests.
We are particularly supportive of the groups focus on educational projects, especially Maths and Science oriented initiatives, as this contributes to the development of skills required in our sphere of business.
Planet We continue to monitor our impact and our investee company impacts in terms of carbon emissions.
In South Africa, the Investec private equity team invests in companies and works with management teams to help build sustainable businesses and fund new technologies.
For example, we invested in DCD Group in April 2007.
One of the companies within the DCD Group DCD Wind Energy owns the majority stake in Isivunguvungu Wind Energy Converter, the first multi-megawatt wind turbine manufacturer in South Africa.
The company manufactures and assembles most wind turbine components.
As the first in the country, DCD Wind Energy began manufacturing 50m rotor blades at the end of 2011.
Job creation and skills development are key features of DCD Wind Energys philosophy, and production is expected to reach 200 wind turbines a year, creating a total of 400 direct jobs and numerous indirect roles by 2016.
Investec owned 44.4% of the DCD Group as at the end of the reporting period.
At the end of the financial reporting period we concluded a transaction to divest of our stake in JoJo Tanks, the South African market leader in water security and a key enabler in water preservation.
During our time of ownership since December 2008, several strategies were implemented including defining a marketing strategy centred on rain harvesting, water conservation and a greener environment.
Property activities People Our employees are integral to the success of the business.
We encourage the development of entrepreneurial skills in the specialist areas of property trading and development.
Selected staff members have completed the SAPOA Property Development Programme and we support the groups graduate programmes.
In terms of employment equity and transformation in South Africa, staff members have attended the zebra crossing and diversity workshops held by the group.
Investec Property has also implemented a policy of seeking suppliers who demonstrate favourable BEE ratings.
We are a member and sponsor of the Women's Property Network which was established in early 2000 to create a forum for women in a predominantly male industry to join together to exchange information, develop business contacts and enhance professional success.
The network provides a bursary scheme to identify young women who can develop in the industry and provides a mentorship programme to nurture new talent.
In terms of corporate social investment, Investec Property entered into its first year as title sponsor to the Investec JAG Invitational which was held in South Africa and the UK.
Investec was proud to support the JAG Foundation which uses sport and education to support children in underprivileged communities in South Africa.
84 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Divisional review Investec Property has spent over R400 000 on CSI initiatives usually in the form of donations or sponsorships.
The division has also donated the furniture and fittings from refurbished We recognise that buildings to charities supporting the underprivileged.
employees are Planet fundamental to Investec Property continues to encourage clients and tenants to be conscious of the benefits for green building practices over the long term despite the initial economic costs.
our success as an Our sustainability approach focuses on driving energy saving practices when designing and operation and we constructing buildings.
These practices include energy and water saving strategies and waste therefore prioritise management initiatives.
the retention of Investec Property is a silver founding member of the Green Building Council of South Africa.
Employees attend and or participate in activities associated with sustainability and several of key staff and our employees have attended the Green Building certification courses.
the creation of a Post the end of the financial year, we sponsored a non-profit organisation, Project 90, work environment spending about R30 000 on a Youth Day event in South Africa to raise awareness around conducive to World Environment Day.
Children from 30 schools in the Western Cape, KwaZulu Natal and Gauteng were taken to an environmental place of interest to educate them about the performance.
environment, climate change and reducing their carbon footprint.
Corporate and Institutional Banking activities Our sustainability focus is on the financial aspect of triple bottom line by helping to protect Investecs sustainability.
Our specific role is to ensure that current credit exposures are monitored and that Investecs balance sheet remains strong.
We are aware of the need to embrace sustainability issues, with the advent of societal changes and, through them, government policy and legislative changes.
We have to keep abreast of these changes and to finance appropriate transactions, counterparties and industries, as part of our corporate social responsibility.
Sustainability is therefore being increasingly addressed through financing appropriate business transactions.
Non-financial considerations are taken into account in all our business plans.
These are considered from both a risk and opportunity perspective, and must make economic sense.
People We recognise that employees are fundamental to our success as an operation and we therefore prioritise the retention of key staff and the creation of a work environment conducive to performance.
We are aware that the generation entering the job market will align themselves with organisations that have good social conscience.
In South Africa, we strive to meet the requirements of representation within our team, but black representation at top and middle management levels remains difficult.
We are striving to address this through our transformation employment equity strategy focused on various pillars including recruitment, retention and communication.
Planet Pressure to conform to international environmental practice norms and agreements is intense and, where relevant, environmental concerns are taken into account at credit and business forums.
At the same time, however, we are cautious about subscribing to international norms such as the Equator principles.
We support the key provisions of these by: Requiring that all projects comply with applicable environmental, planning, labour and procurement law Not funding or investing in projects which do not have acceptable environmental impact assessments, do not comply with procurement and labour laws, and either do or could reasonably be expected to breach acceptable behavioural, ethical or moral standards.
We are not, however, a signatory to the Equator principles for the following reasons: The principles contain some excessively bureaucratic requirements which we feel are not within the remit of a bank but rather of government Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Divisional review 85 Specialist Banking continued In the case of a number of large infrastructure and energy projects, there is potential conflict between larger, nationwide developmental imperatives e. g. additional power We focus on generation or road transportation to enhance the socio-economic welfare of the region, and locally affected parties whose quality of life stands to be adversely affected by the creation of relocation or job loss, for example.
These trade-offs are a matter for local parties and stability and their representatives.
While we should remain aware of them, it is not our responsibility to retaining growing make the call on such trade-offs.
Key to this, however, is that we deal in countries where rule of law and due process applies more or less effectively and civil rights are not abused talent, as well There is a concern that accession is used to cover the avoidance of exercising fundamental as ensuring moral judgement.
NGOs, for example, are not universally supportive of the principles and transformation have therefore been accused of tokenism.
The principles do not stop business or projects and succession in countries where, notwithstanding written legal code, opponents and critics may be extra-judicially detained or worse.
Investec has concluded a number of transactions in the power, telecoms, PFI and infrastructure sectors in Australia, Europe, North America and South Africa.
Our role has included that of financier, co-developer, arranger and adviser.
The project and infrastructure team in South Africa continues to play an active role in the renewable energy sector and, during the course of the year, they supported a number of transactions as both lender and equity investor in the renewable energy programme currently run by the South African Department of Energy.
The team takes consideration of the environmental impact of these types of transactions and has agreed to partner with BirdLife South Africa to fund research on the environmental impact of renewable energy such as wind energy facilities on the local birdlife in South Africa.
This research will make a valuable contribution to mitigate the potential impacts of renewable energy developments on South Africas birds and will cover energy developments relating to wind, solar and nuclear sites.
Lastly, the Corporate and Institutional Banking division has secured funding from the European Investment Bank which will be applied specifically to fund renewable energy and energy efficiency projects in South Africa.
The initiative targets project sizes below circa R500 million, where a substantial amount of project activity is taking place and which historically would not have been capable of accessing project finance.
Private Banking activities Investec Private Banking has distinguished itself as a sustainable and diversified banking business, with a compliant and risk conscious culture.
Our approach to sustainability is based on: Our clients: client engagement is core to our business and our belief in partnership Our profitability: the basis of our business model, taking into account the economy and how it affects our clients Our people: the talent within our business Our environment: the planet and how we deal with the challenges we face.
We have seen partnerships in our business around green issues and business and we are considering ways that we can empower change in this area.
People and planet Our internal people strategy emphasises the creation of an environment of accountability and responsibility and making emotional connections with staff.
We also focus on the creation of stability and retaining growing talent, as well as ensuring transformation and succession planning in the division.
Core areas of emphasis are: learning and development programmes, addressing identified skills gaps, engagement through performance development programme processes, talent retention and people strategy sessions.
In February 2011, Private Banking in Sandton launched a solar water geyser initiative, where employees were offered the opportunity to finance solar water geysers for their homes through the Private Banking division.
This was rolled out to other South African offices during 2012.
86 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Divisional review Our social investment activity centers around: Supporting staff initiatives in the form of collections and donations to projects and charities of their choice Directing funds to skills development and broad food security projects.
In South Africa we provided significant support to Vukukhanye and its initiative in Chesterville.
Besides financial support, we funded two community garden projects in Chesterville and our staff gave their time to support projects such as the computer room at Chesterville Secondary School and the Childrens Foster Home in Westville.
Looking forward Corporate Advisory and Investment activities Advisory The pipeline is positive in the UK, M&A and fundraising activity is dependent on market conditions The deal pipeline in the South African business remains reasonable The Australian M&A and capital markets remain challenging but are showing signs of improvement.
Continuing economic uncertainty suggests M&A and capital markets will recover slowly.
Institutional, research, sales and trading The outlook in UK and Europe for the next 12 months remains challenging, however the pipeline is positive.
With the strengthening of our research, sales and trading capability and the introduction of new revenue streams we are well placed to grow revenues Post the strategic realignment of the South African platform last year, the Institutional business now stands on a solid foundation to move forward and grow top line revenue in what is a highly competitive operating environment.
Principal investments We remain active in seeking direct investment opportunities, while continuing to unlock further value from the portfolio and building BEE platforms in South Africa All of the companies in our private equity portfolio in South Africa are trading profitably in difficult market conditions and the overall outlook remains positive for the future The Private Equity business in Australia is actively pursuing divestment opportunities for its existing portfolio.
The companies in the direct investments portfolio are trading well and are on target to execute their growth plans.
The outlook remains positive for these investments The team is focusing on sourcing new opportunities for the bank and high net worth clients.
There has been an increase in both the quantity and quality of investment opportunities.
Property activities Notwithstanding the uncertain outlook in the short term, we believe that the prospects for Investec Property remain positive.
We have good pipeline for development and there are opportunities to convert and refurbish existing holdings.
Corporate and Institutional Banking activities UK and Europe The economic outlook remains uncertain with the year ahead remaining challenging We continue to build a balanced business model, where we can switch easily between primary and secondary markets The regulatory environment is challenging and creates uncertainty The business is well positioned to grow significantly from current levels as market conditions improve.
Southern Africa We continue to build and grow sustainable businesses on the back of client-driven transactional flow in derivatives and financial markets We continue to be a net provider of liquidity to the interbank market We anticipate that trading and structuring opportunities will improve as the markets move into an upward interest rate cycle We look to leverage and grow our African exposure We continue to exploit opportunities in the renewable energy sector.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Divisional review 87 Specialist Banking continued Australia Our treasury team will continue to manage the funding and liquidity of the bank in a conservative manner.
We remain one of the most liquid banks in Australia Our specialised finance team has a solid pipeline of transactions and we continue to grow each of our finance activities.
Private Banking activities UK and Europe The operating environment in the UK will remain challenging with low growth forecast.
The European situation is creating high levels of uncertainty in the broader market.
Within this operating environment, our objectives for the forthcoming period are: Regularly release new deposit products that allow us to provide a stable private client funding base to the group Provide a fresh alternative to our selected private clients with the launch of our transactional banking offering Build a strong franchise within the UK private client market Continue reducing our property concentration in the loan portfolio whilst maintaining the franchise Improve profitability in each of our specialist lending niches with a view to generating a satisfactory return on capital.
Southern Africa Economic growth is expected to remain subdued, with a tight mortgage market continuing to impact residential property prices.
The key objectives for the forthcoming period are: Continue to build profitability as a result of improved activity levels in both lending and funding activities and a further anticipated reduction in impairments Grow our client base within our key target markets Reduce the risk profile through increased focus on lower-risk lending activities Increase annuity income through a focus on banking activities and transactional activities Diversify the deposit base in terms of client and product Balance cost containment with investment for the future Continue to align processes and structures to support client focus and consistency Ongoing focus on distressed and default deals to ensure actual losses are minimised.
Australia The operating environment in Australia is expected to remain difficult.
Despite this, the outlook for this business remains positive with growth in market share and profits anticipated.
The key strategic objectives for the forthcoming period are: Continue to grow and dominate the medical professional market Deepen relationships and enhance profit through distribution of credit card and transactional products Broaden and diversify the deposit base Identify and grow into other niche markets.
88 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Divisional review Risk, governance and additional information 91 Risk management 185 Credit ratings 186 Internal audit 187 Compliance 189 Corporate governance 208 Directorate Investec plc and Investec Limited 211 Directorate Investec plc and Investec Limited subsidiaries 214 Annexure to corporate governance 217 Sustainability report 228 Shareholder analysis Risk, governance and additional information Risk, governance and additional information 91 Risk management 185 Credit ratings 186 Internal audit 187 Compliance 189 Corporate governance 208 Directorate Investec plc and Investec Limited 211 Directorate Investec plc and Investec Limited subsidiaries 214 Annexure to corporate governance 217 Sustainability report 228 Shareholder analysis Risk, governance and additional information
