Internal audit Internal audit activity is governed by an internal audit charter which is approved by the group audit committees and is reviewed annually.
The charter defines the purpose, authority and Internal Audit responsibilities of the function.
provides As a result of the regulatory responsibilities arising from the DLC structure, there are two group objective and internal audit departments located in London and Johannesburg, responsible for Investec plc and Investec Limited respectively.
Investec Bank Australia Limited has its own internal audit independent function reporting into Investec plc Internal Audit.
In combination, the functions cover all the assurance, via geographies in which Investec operates.
These functions use a global risk-based methodology and cooperate technically and operationally.
the group audit committees, to The heads of internal audit report at each audit committee meeting and have a direct reporting line to the chairman of the audit committee.
They operate independently of executive the management management but have access to their local chief executive officer.
The heads of internal and board of audit are responsible for coordinating internal audit efforts to ensure coverage is global and departmental skills are leveraged to maximise efficiency.
For administrative purposes the Investec about heads of internal audit also report to the global head of corporate governance and compliance.
risk management, The functions comply with the international standards for the professional practice of internal control and auditing.
governance Annually, Internal Audit conducts a formal risk assessment of the entire business from which a comprehensive risk-based audit plan is derived.
The assessment and programme processes are validated by executive management and approved by the responsible audit committee.
High risk businesses and processes are audited annually, with other areas covered at regular intervals based on their risk profile.
There is an ongoing focus on identifying fraud risk as well as auditing technology risks given Investecs dependence on IT systems.
Internal Audit also liaises with the external auditors and other assurance providers to enhance efficiencies in terms of combined assurance.
The annual plan is reviewed regularly to ensure it remains relevant and responsive, given changes in the operating environment.
The audit committee approves any changes to the plan.
Significant control weaknesses are reported, in terms of an escalation protocol, to the audit and compliance implementation forums, where remediation procedures and progress are considered and monitored in detail by management.
The audit committee receives a report on significant issues and actions taken by management to enhance related controls.
An update on the status of previously raised issues is provided by Internal Audit to each audit committee, if there are concerns in relation to overdue issues these will be escalated to the executive risk review forum to expedite resolution.
Internal Audit proactively reviews its practices and resources for adequacy and appropriateness, to meet our increasingly demanding corporate governance and regulatory environment including the requirements of King III in South Africa.
The audit teams comprise well-qualified, experienced staff to ensure that the function has the competence to match Investecs diverse requirements.
Where specific specialist skills or additional resources are required, these are obtained from third parties.
Internal audit resources are subject to review by the respective audit committees.
186 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information
