Compliance In keeping with our core values, Investec endeavours to comply with the highest professional standards of integrity and behaviour, always keeping the interests of our customers and shareholders at the forefront of the corporate agenda.
We also seek to bring high standards of compliance good practice to all our jurisdictions in order to build trust and promote the quality of service to our colleagues and clients.
Compliance risk is the risk that Investec fails to comply with the letter and spirit of statutes, regulations, supervisory requirements and industry codes of conduct which apply to our businesses.
At Investec we manage compliance risk through internal policies and processes, which include legal, regulatory and operational requirements relevant to the business.
Those responsible for compliance work closely with the business and operational units to ensure consistent management of compliance risk.
They also provide regular training and advice on emerging policy issues to ensure that all employees are familiar with their regulatory obligations.
As well as monitoring the business units to ensure adherence to policies and procedures, compliance officers are charged with developing and maintaining constructive working relationships with regulators and supervisors in all jurisdictions.
In addition to monitoring compliance with the provisions prescribed by the respective regulatory authorities, key compliance functions include ensuring that the business is not being used for money laundering, terrorist financing or market abuse, that customers are fairly treated and afforded the necessary consumer protections and that conflicts of interests are adequately identified and managed.
Current regulatory themes and developments in these and other areas are covered in the respective jurisdictions year in review below.
The volume of regulatory pressure on the sector to implement reforms has continued to be resource intensive, with little indication that the rate of regulatory intervention is likely to slow down in the near future.
Despite this pressure, Investec has continued to successfully adapt to the changing landscape by dedicating significant resources to monitoring, analysing and implementing regulatory developments as they arise.
UK and Europe year in review We have seen a continued effort by the UK and European supervisory authorities to enhance stability and resilience in the banking sector by focusing on structural reforms and macro-prudential regulation: specifically in relation to capital, resolution, liquidity and market infrastructure.
Independent Commission on Banking One of the key UK developments, in the form of the proposals by the Independent Commission on Banking ICB, follows the emerging trend for a high impact approach to regulation and the tendency for it to drive firms strategy setting.
The ICB has published its final report September 2011 and the key recommendations are as follows: Retail ring-fence: Ring-fence retail banking divisions within separate subsidiaries, making it easier and less costly to wind down those parts of banks that get into financial difficulty Loss absorption: Improving banks ability to absorb losses by requiring large UK retail banks to maintain equity capital of at least 10% of risk-weighted assets and large UK banking groups to maintain primary loss absorbing capacity of 17% 20%.
The UK Government will publish a White Paper in spring 2012 which will set out their detailed proposals on implementation which we will then consider.
FSA Remuneration Code Another key development relates to firms remuneration practices and seeks to address concerns that the financial crisis was partly caused by a bonus culture, which promoted short-termism and resulted in the wrong outcomes for clients.
The FSA have finalised Guidance on the Revised Remuneration Code, which contains the FSAs plans for monitoring the implementation of the Code up to and during the 2011 12 annual remuneration review.
The Guidance defines Remuneration Code Staff and outlines FSA expectations of firms.
Reforms of the UK Regulatory Framework Regulators have also increased their attention on the retail space, focusing largely on fair outcomes for consumers and increased supervisory powers in relation to consumer protection measures.
Some of the most significant changes to this effect will be delivered by major reforms to the UK regulatory system.
The reforms include integration of responsibility for banking supervision into the Bank of England under a new Prudential Regulation Authority and the creation of a consumer champion in the form of the Financial Conduct Authority: a supervisor focused solely on regulating firms conduct.
Retail Distribution Review Mortgage Market Review The FSA have continued with the Retail Distribution Review RDR proposals, which aim to improve the quality of service provided to clients in the advice sector.
By imposing minimum qualification standards for advisers and therefore increasing professionalism in the sector, as well as requiring firms to be more transparent regarding charging practices and the parameters within which advice is provided i. e. independent or restricted, the FSA hope to rebuild trust in the IFA and investment management community as well as improve outcomes for retail clients.
The Mortgage Market Review is the mortgage market equivalent of the RDR, focusing on outcomes for clients in the mortgage space.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 187 Compliance continued South Africa year in review The 2011 budget speech, and National Treasurys publication of the Red Book with the same title, highlighted the need for A safer financial sector to serve South Africa better and the required regulatory response post the global financial crisis.
The Twin Peaks model of regulation was identified as the most appropriate model going forward with separate regulators being responsible for prudential and market conduct regulation across industries.
The Red Book proposes the South African Reserve Bank SARB as the prudential regulator and Financial Services Board FSB as the market conduct regulator.
To give effect to the Twin Peaks model of regulation a variety of South African legislation needs to be amended to ensure each regulator has the appropriate authority and scope to enable adequate regulation.
To initiate this process the FSB has published The Roadmap: Treating Customers Fairly TCF which sets out their programme and intended timelines for market conduct regulation.
The six principles set out by the FSB mirror the equivalent principles published by the FSA in the UK.
Consumer protection Accordingly, consumer protection regulation remains a key focus into 2012 with additional emphasis on aligning existing processes with the TCF Roadmap published by the FSB.
As required by FAIS, the fit and proper status of representatives and key individuals of all licensed Investec financial services providers FSPs is monitored on an ongoing basis and the requisite reports are made to the FSB.
The fit and proper status refers to the qualifications and experience needed to perform a representative or key individual role for an FSP, and includes the requirement to successfully complete designated representative exams.
The majority of representatives and key individuals of Investec FSPs have already successfully completed the required regulatory examinations, despite the extensions granted to June and September 2012, respectively.
We are satisfied that all representatives and key individuals will be fit and proper by the necessary deadlines.
The most recent draft of the Protection of Personal Information Bill POPI was debated at the Technical Working Committee during March 2012.
The next version, incorporating amendments, was presented to the full portfolio committee during the April 2012 parliamentary term.
Promulgation is anticipated during 2012, although implementation time frames have not been agreed yet.
Once enacted POPI will have a material impact on all aspects of Investecs business that concern the processing of personal information in respect of Investecs clients and employees, as well as information relating to the Investec group and subsidiaries.
Australia year in review Reform within the Australian regulatory framework There has been increased activity as a result of our regulators, namely the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority APRA and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission ASIC, introducing reforms to their supervisory and regulatory frameworks.
ASIC has taken over the market supervision of market participants which includes Investec Securities Australia Pty Limited.
In addition to this, ASIC has issued new Market Integrity Rules for Competition in Exchange Markets.
Investec Securities has responded to this by implementing the Best Execution Policy and has become a member of the Chi-X.
From an APRA perspective the key proposals include a credit risk review and the implementation of Basel III requirements Capital and Liquidity Changes.
IBAL has implemented the Basel III Securitisation requirements.
Consumer protection Consumer protection regulation continues to be a key focus for 2011 with ongoing monitoring and reporting of compliance with the prescribed obligations of licensing, fit and proper requirements etc.
The Australian governments Future of Financial Advice Reform is actively exploring ways to improve access to and the quality of advice as well as the ban on conflicted remuneration.
In terms of the Financial Claims Scheme FCS there has been a reduction of the government deposit guarantee arrangement from A$1 million to A$250 000 for all investment accounts.
This has resulted in a communication to our clients as well as an amendment to the PDS to reflect the new bands of investments in terms of the application of the FCS.
The National Credit Code Act NCC has been implemented for the last 12 months and governs the consumer credit code including credit activities.
This means that home loans, personal loans and consumer leases, among other products and services, are now regulated under Commonwealth legislation and administered by ASIC.
With regard to responsible lending, ASIC proposes to ensure that all personal loans are carefully assessed to make sure borrowers can afford them.
Specific proposals include: imposing affordability tests for all personal loans and making lenders ultimately responsible for assessing a consumers ability to pay: requiring verification of borrowers income in every case to prevent over inflation of income.
Investec Australia has been granted its credit licence and has implemented processes to address the requirements contained within the legislation when issuing credit to clients in their personal capacity.
Anti-money laundering and terror financing There is a new anti-money laundering requirement to register the designated business group with AUSTRAC.
This mandatory enrolment will enable AUSTRAC to more accurately identify its regulated population.
AUSTRAC will also capture additional information which is necessary to identify which entities are subject to the annual AUSTRAC supervisory levy and the amount of the levy that will apply to each leviable entity.
188 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information
