40 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance Report of the Audit Committee Jonathan Brooks Chairman of the Audit Committee Summary of the role of the Audit Committee Composition and meetings Committee composition The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board of the Audit Committee from the non-executive directors of the The members of the Audit Committee are Company.
The Audit Committee has written Jonathan Brooks Chairman, Mike Humphrey terms of reference that are considered by and Francis Carpenter.
The external auditor, the Audit Committee before being referred Chief Executive, Chief Financial officer and to the Board for approval annually.
other members of management attend meetings 100% by invitation.
The Audit Committee also meets The Audit Committee is responsible for: with the external auditor in the absence of monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial executive directors and management at least statements and any formal announcement twice per year.
The number of meetings and relating to the Groups financial performance attendance in 2012 were as shown to the left.
Non-executive director and reviewing significant financial reporting The Board has identied Jonathan Brooks, a judgements contained therein: fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management reviewing the Groups internal financial controls Accountants, as having the recent and relevant and the Groups internal control systems: financial experience as required by the Code and the Board considers that collectively the considering the need for an internal audit members have the requisite financial literacy, function on an annual basis: Membership and attendance skills and attributes to enable the Committee reviewing the Companys procedures for to properly discharge its responsibilities.
Number Number handling allegations from whistleblowers of meetings of meetings and for detecting fraud: Overview of the actions taken by the Name of director held attended Audit Committee to discharge its duties making recommendations to the Board for During the year, the Audit Committee discharged Jonathan Brooks the resolutions to be put to shareholders on its responsibilities under its terms of reference Chairman 3 3 the appointment and remuneration of the by undertaking the following actions: external auditor: Francis Carpenter 3 3 reviewed and recommended to the Board the reviewing and monitoring the external auditors Mike Humphrey 3 3 approval and publication of the Half-yearly independence and objectivity and the Report and Annual Report and financial effectiveness of the audit process: and statements of the Group.
This included maintaining and reviewing the policy on the reviewing the significant accounting policies, engagement of the external auditor to supply financial reporting issues and judgements set non-audit services, taking into account relevant out therein and receiving reports from the guidance regarding the provision of non-audit external auditor on their audit of the Annual services by the external audit rm.
Report and financial statements and review of the Half-yearly Report: The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any oversaw the Groups relations with its matters in respect of which it considers that external auditor, including reviewing and action or improvement is needed and making monitoring the scope, effectiveness and recommendations on any steps to be taken.
results of the audit and half-yearly review: Latest news, share price and other investor information can be found at www.
com IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41 reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups To full its responsibilities regarding the A review of the effectiveness of the internal controls, with specic focus on independence of the external auditor, during external audit is undertaken by the Audit investment process and the Groups treasury, the year the Audit Committee reviewed: Committee annually.
The review this year insurance and IT data security policies, and took into consideration: the external auditors plan for the 2012 audit, disclosures made in the Annual Report and noting the role of the senior statutory audit that the auditor met its original audit plan financial statements in this regard: and partner who signs the audit report and has with no significant changes: reviewed the need to establish an internal not held ofce for more than five years: the external auditors procedures for audit function but continued to believe that the external auditors consideration of its safeguarding independence: in a group of this size, where close control own independence, including its policies and over operations is exercised by the executive the robustness and perceptiveness of the processes for maintaining independence, directors, the benets likely to be gained would auditor in handling key accounting and audit managing conicts of interest and the typical be outweighed by the costs of establishing judgements and responses to questions raised use of separate teams for non-audit services: such a function.
It will continue to review the during the Audit Committee meetings: and requirement for such a function on at least the individual items and overall level of feedback from the individuals involved in the an annual basis.
non-audit services provided by the external audit, including the Chief Financial officer auditor: and and Group Financial Controller.
External auditor the length of tenure of the external auditor, The Audit Committee is responsible for the Based on this review, the Audit Committee noting its original appointment in August development, implementation and monitoring recommended to the Board it should propose 2004 and the fact that the audit relationship of the Groups external audit policy.
During a resolution to shareholders to re-appoint moved from the auditors Southampton the year the Audit Committee implemented BDO LLP at the 2013 AGM.
ofce to its London ofce during 2010. the policy, which sets out the categories of I will be available at the AGM to answer any audit and non-audit services that the external The Audit Committee is responsible for questions about the Audit Committees work.
auditor is allowed to undertake and sets out recommending to the Board the appointment an approval process for the provision of any of the external auditor.
Following the release non-audit services.
The policy is available of the updated UK Corporate Governance Jonathan Brooks on the Corporate Governance section of the Code in 2010, the Audit Committee intends Chairman of the Audit Committee Groups website.
The Group uses the external to ordinarily undertake a formal review and 4 March 2013 auditor for audit and related services and for tender process for the external audit at least limited non-audit services provided there are every ten years.
There are no contractual appropriate reasons and it is in the Groups obligations that have acted to restrict the best interests to do so and the nature and Audit Committees choice of external auditor scale of the services is not considered likely during the period.
to impair the external auditors independence.
An analysis of the fees paid to the external auditor during the year is set out in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements About IP Group
