50 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance Directors report Report of the directors Corporate social responsibility on pages 26 rules relating to the appointment and The directors present their report together to 29, which includes information about replacement of directors: and with the audited financial statements for environmental matters, employees and details of the principal operating subsidiaries IP Group plc the Company and its social and community issues: are set out in note 2 to the Companys subsidiaries the Group for the year Corporate Governance report on pages 32 financial statements.
ended 31 December 2012. to 39 including details of the Companys Principal activities Key performance indicators and a description of principal risks and uncertainties facing the The Company acts as a holding company for Group are set out below: the Group and is incorporated by shares in Key performance indicator 2012 2011 England and Wales.
The Companys subsidiary undertakings are detailed in note 2 to the Total equity net assets m 263.1 221.6 Companys financial statements.
The business profit loss attributable to equity holders m 40.7 5.5 of the Group is: i the commercialisation and exploitation of intellectual property via the Change in fair value of equity and debt investments m 38.0 0.9 formation of long-term partnerships with Cash, cash equivalents and deposits m 47.9 60.5 universities: ii the management of venture Proceeds from sale of equity investments m funds focusing on early-stage UK technology 16.7 3.7 companies: and iii the in-licensing of Purchase of equity and debt investments m 26.3 14.3 therapeutic intellectual property from Number of new portfolio companies number 11 5 research intensive institutions.
IP Group plc share price performance % change 53 157 Results and dividends During the period the Group made an overall Principal risks and uncertainties Share capital and related matters profit after taxation for the year ended and financial instruments Details of the structure of the Companys 31 December 2012 of 40.7m 2011: 5.5m The Group through its operations is exposed to share capital and the rights attaching to the loss.
The directors do not recommend the a number of risks.
The Groups risk management Companys shares are set out in note 20 to payment of a dividend 2011: nil.
objectives and policies are described on the consolidated financial statements.
There pages 24 to 25 and in the Corporate Governance are no specic restrictions on the size of a Directors report on pages 32 to 39.
Further information holding or on the transfer of shares, which The names of directors who held ofce on the Groups financial risk management are both governed by the general provisions during 2012 are as follows: objectives and policies, including those in of the Companys Articles of Association Executive directors relation to credit risk, liquidity risk and the Articles and prevailing legislation.
Alan Aubrey market risk, is provided in note 2 to the At the last Annual General Meeting of the Alison Fielding consolidated financial statements, along Company, held on 2 May 2012, authority Mike Townend with further information on the Groups use was given to the directors pursuant to the Greg Smith of financial instruments.
relevant provisions of the Companies Act Charles Winward 2006 to allot unissued relevant securities significant agreements Non-executive directors in the Company up to a maximum amount The Group has entered into various agreements Bruce Smith Chairman equivalent to approximately one-third of to form partnerships with eleven UK universities, Graham Richards the total ordinary share capital in issue on granting Group entities rights to purchase Francis Carpenter 29 March 2012 at any time up to the earlier or receive shares in new companies founded Jonathan Brooks of the conclusion of the next Annual General by academics at these universities.
Further, Mike Humphrey Meeting AGM of the Company and Group entities have entered into agreements 1 August 2013.
Further, the directors were Details of the interests of directors in the to act as general partner and investment given authority effective for the same period share capital of the Company are set out manager to three limited partnerships, as to allot relevant securities in the Company in the Directors Remuneration Report on detailed in note 1, Basis of consolidation iii, up to a maximum of approximately two-thirds page 49. to the consolidated financial statements.
of the total ordinary share capital in issue These agreements generally contain change on 29 March 2012 in connection with an offer Business review of control provisions which, in the event of by way of a fully pre-emptive rights issue.
The information that fulls the requirements a change of ownership of the Group, could No shares have been issued pursuant to of the Business review, as required by the result in renegotiation or termination of either authority during the year.
The directors Companies Act 2006 and which should be the agreements.
propose to renew these authorities at the treated as forming part of this report by There are a number of other agreements that Companys next AGM to be held on 14 May 2013. reference, is included in the following may alter or terminate upon a change of control The authorities being sought are in accordance sections of the Annual Report: of the Group following a takeover bid, such as with guidance issued by the Association of Chairmans statement on pages 8 to 9: commercial contracts.
None is considered to British Insurers.
be significant in terms of their potential impact Business review on pages 10 to 23, which on the business of the Group as a whole.
includes a review of the Groups external environment, key strategic aims, main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Groups business: Risk management on pages 24 to 25: Latest news, share price and other investor information can be found at www.
com IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51 A further special resolution passed at the Substantial shareholders Regulation 2012 AGM granted authority to the directors As at 4 March 2013, the Company had been Top Technology Ventures Limited, a to allot equity securities in the Company advised of the following shareholders with 100%-owned subsidiary of the Company, is for cash, without regard to the pre-emption interests of 3% or more in its ordinary share authorised and regulated by the FSA under provisions of the Companies Act 2006, capital.
Other than as shown, so far as the the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. both: i up to a maximum of approximately Company and its directors are aware, no two-thirds of the total ordinary share capital other person holds or is beneficially interested Post-balance sheet events in issue on 29 March 2012 in connection with in a disclosable interest in the Company.
A new agship intellectual property a fully pre-emptive rights issue: and ii up commercialisation agreement was signed Shareholder % to a maximum of approximately 5% of the with the University of Manchester in aggregate nominal value of the shares in Invesco Limited 29.5 February 2013. issue on 29 March 2012, each authority Lansdowne Partners 16.1 There has been a net unrealised fair value exercisable at any time up to the earlier of Bailie Gifford & Co 12.6 increase in the Groups holdings in quoted the conclusion of the next AGM of the portfolio companies of 16.0m between Sand Aire Limited 8.5 Company and 1 August 2013.
Neither of these 31 December 2012 and 1 March 2013.
Oppenheimer Funds Inc. Massachusetts authorities have been used during the year.
Mutual Life Insurance Company 6.2 The directors will seek to renew these Financial statements authorities for a similar period at the next Information regarding the Group and Company AGM to be held on 14 May 2013.
Payment of trade payables financial statements, including applicable It is the Groups current policy to establish Under the Companies Act 2006, the Company accounting standards and going concern, is payment terms with suppliers when agreeing has the power to purchase its own shares in set out in the Corporate Governance report terms of supply, to ensure that suppliers accordance with Part 18, Chapter 5 of the on page 39. are made aware of the terms of payment Companies Act 2006.
At the 2012 Annual and to adhere to those terms.
The Groups General Meeting, a special resolution was Disclosure of information to auditor average trade payable payment period at passed which granted the directors authority Each of the persons who is a director at 31 December 2012 was 15 days 2011: 17 days.
to make market purchases of the Companys the date of approval of this Annual Report The Company had trade payables of 0.1m shares pursuant to these provisions of the confirms that: at 31 December 2012 2011: 0.2m.
Companies Act 2006 up to a maximum of so far as the director is aware, there is no approximately 10% of the Companys issued relevant audit information of which the Charitable and political donations share capital on 29 March 2012 provided that Companys auditor is unaware: and During 2012, the Group made no charitable the authority granted set a minimum and donations 2011: 18,000.
Further detail on maximum price at which purchases can be the director has taken all steps that he she the Groups policies in connection with charitable made and is exercisable at any time up to ought to have taken as a director in order to donations is included in the Corporate and the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM make himself herself aware of any relevant Social Responsibility section on pages 26 and 1 August 2013.
This authority has not audit information and to establish that the to 29.
The Group did not make any political been used during the year.
The directors will Companys auditor is aware of that information.
seek to renew the authority within similar This conrmation is given and should be parameters and for a similar period at the interpreted in accordance with the provisions Directors indemnity and liability insurance next AGM to be held on 14 May 2013. of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
During the year, the Company has maintained liability insurance in respect of its directors.
Articles of Association Appointment of auditor Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act The Companys Articles may be amended by BDO LLP offers itself for re-appointment as 2006, the Companys Articles of Association a special resolution of the shareholders.
As at auditor and an appropriate resolution will be provide that, to the extent that the proceeds the date of this report the Companys Articles put to the shareholders at the AGM.
of any liability insurance are insufficient to include a qualifying third party indemnity meet any liability in full, every director is provision QTPIP within the meaning of ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD entitled to be indemnified out of the funds of Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. the Company against any liabilities incurred in the execution or discharge of his or her Alan Aubrey powers or duties.
Chief Executive officer 4 March 2013 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements About IP Group
