30 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance Board of Directors Dr Bruce Smith, CBE aged 73 Alan Aubrey, FCA aged 51 Greg Smith, ACA aged 34 Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer Bruce is chairman of the Council of Smith Institute Alan co-founded Techtran Group Limited in 2002 Greg joined IP Group in January 2008 and was for Industrial Mathematics and System Engineering.
and was its CEO when the business was acquired appointed Chief Financial officer in June 2011.
He was the chairman and majority shareholder by IP Group in January 2005.
Previously he was a Previously Greg spent three years at Tarchon of Smith System Engineering Limited until partner in KPMG where he specialised in corporate Capital Management, a multi-billion dollar fund 1997.
Bruce is a fellow of the Royal Academy finance advice to technology-based fast growth of hedge funds business where he had day-to-day of Engineering, the Institute of Engineering businesses and has significant experience in helping responsibility for building and managing the and Technology IET and the Institute of them raise money and prepare for sale or otation.
operations and accounting team as well as external Physics.
Bruce became a director of IP Group Alan joined the Board of IP Group in January 2005, operational due diligence on investee hedge funds.
in September 2002. becoming Chief Executive on 1 January 2006 and Prior to Tarchon, Greg spent four years in KPMGs has overall responsibility for the operational London Financial Services practice working with management of the Group.
Alan is also chairman asset management, insurance and banking clients.
of the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills Greg is a Chartered Accountant and holds a degree BIS audit and risk committee.
in mathematics from the University of Warwick.
Dr Alison Fielding aged 48 Mike Townend aged 50 Charles Winward aged 43 Chief Operating officer Chief Investment officer Managing Director, Top Technology Alison co-founded Techtran Group Limited and was Mike was formerly managing director within the Charles joined IP Group in April 2007 to the chief operating officer of Techtran when it was European Equities business of Lehman Brothers manage investments in Top Technology acquired by IP Group in January 2005.
Previously, with responsibility for equity sales to hedge Ventures, the Groups venture capital fund she spent five years at McKinsey & Co where she funds.
Mike has over 17 years of experience in management subsidiary.
Previously Charles consulted primarily to the pharmaceutical and all aspects of equity capital markets.
Mike was was vice president technology infrastructure healthcare sectors.
Prior to McKinsey, Alison appointed a director of IP Group in March 2007. at JPMorgan Chase & Co, where he worked spent four years as a development chemist for in a variety of roles in London, New York and Zeneca, performing technical roles in the speciality Brussels, and investment manager at Axiomlab, chemicals and agrochemicals divisions.
Alison an AIM-listed early-stage investment specialist.
holds an MBA from Manchester Business School, Charles is a CFA charterholder, has an MBA a PhD in organic chemistry and a first-class degree from the University of California at Berkeley and in chemistry from the University of Glasgow.
a bachelors degree in mechanical engineering from the University of Bristol.
Charles was appointed to the IP Group Board in 2011.
Latest news, share price and other investor information can be found at www.
com IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31 Key Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Mike Humphrey aged 61 Professor Graham Richards, CBE aged 73 Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Mike Humphrey is the former CEO of Croda Graham was the scientific founder of Oxford International plc.
He was appointed to the board Molecular Group plc and was for 20 years a director of Croda in 1995 and became group chief executive of the University of Oxford technology transfer at the beginning of 1999.
He joined Croda in 1969 company, Isis Innovation Limited.
Graham was as a management trainee and was appointed chairman of chemistry in the University of managing director of Croda Singapore in 1988, Oxford until 30 June 2006.
Graham became a Croda Application Chemicals in 1990 and Croda non-executive director of IP Group in December Chemicals in 1991.
He retired from Croda at the 2001 and has previously held the positions of end of 2011.
Mike joined IP Groups Board in 2011.
Chairman and Senior Non-executive Director.
Francis Carpenter aged 70 Jonathan Brooks, FCMA aged 57 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Francis was chief executive officer of the European Jonathan was the chief financial officer of ARM Investment Fund, holding that role for nearly Holdings plc from 1995 until 2002 where he was six years until he stepped down at the end of responsible for finance, investor relations, legal February 2008.
Francis joined the European and IT, and where he managed the dual-listed IPO Investment Bank in 1975 and held a variety of process of ARM on the London Stock Exchange roles including secretary general, director of and Nasdaq in 1998.
He is a non-executive director credit risk management and director of lending of Aveva Group plc, a provider of engineering in the UK, Ireland, North Sea and Portugal.
Francis data and design IT systems, and chairman of became a director of IP Group in April 2008 and Nasdaq-listed Xyratex Ltd, a provider of data is also Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He joined IP Groups Board in 2011 and is also Chairman of the Groups Audit Committee.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements About IP Group
