02 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 About IP Group How we work Our business model: turning innovation into successful businesses Our business model is to form high-quality companies based on disruptive intellectual property, much of which is developed at the UKs leading universities.
We aim to take a significant minority equity stake in these companies and then grow the value of our equity by taking an active role in business building.
Our methodology consists of three core components: deal ow, business building and capital.
Deal ow One of the key differentiators of the IP Group business model is its access to proprietary deal ow.
Over the last twelve years the Group has established long-term partnerships with a number of the UKs leading research intensive universities.
Business Deal ow The Groups specialist in-house sourcing team building works with our partners, as well as academics from other universities, to identify promising University business research and to create and build businesses partnerships around this research.
Operating segments Therapeutic development The Groups operating segments reect what are Fund considered to be distinct but interrelated management elements of the Group operations and reect areas separately managed by the Group.
Further information is provided in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
p. 66 Capital IP Group plc partnerships 1 Glasgow 2 York 1 3 Leeds Capital 4 Manchester IP Group provides long-term capital for the 5 Bristol development of its portfolio companies from its 6 Bath own balance sheet and also manages a number of 2 7 Oxford venture capital funds including the IP Venture Fund 8 Kings College London 3 9 Queen Mary, London and the Finance for Business North East Technology 4 1 10 Surrey Fund which, subject to investment guidelines, 11 Southampton can provide further additional sources of capital.
In addition, the Group works with a wide network Fusion IP plc partnerships of co-investors that can provide further capital 2 9 5 8 1 Shefeld 7 alongside the Group.
6 10 2 Cardiff 11 Latest news, share price and other investor information can be found at www.
com IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 03 Our strategy IP Group portfolio View our KPIs and strategy Read about our developing and maturing portfolio p. 04 p. 12 Portfolio analysis by fair value % Business building During the early stages of an opportunitys development, members of the 2012 Groups team work closely with its founders to shape its strategic direction and frequently take an interim commercial management role until the 6 business reaches a sufficient stage of maturity and has the resources 5 to widen the leadership team.
6 5 IP Group uses its specialist early-stage in-house executive search 2011 12 17 consultancy, IP Exec, to recruit experienced and high-calibre individuals to lead its developing businesses alongside founders and IP Group team 42 59 members, who continue to provide strategic guidance in a non-executive capacity.
Through the Groups proprietary IP Impact programme, focusing 14 on maximising the performance of CEOs and company boards, the Group 10 seeks to accelerate later-stage company growth.
21 3 The Group also provides operational, legal and business support, including company secretarial, to its companies with a view to minimising the most common administrative factors that can contribute to early-stage company failure.
Portfolio analysis by number 2012 2 12 2 Diversied by company stage 17 11 14 2011 8 13 Post-seed Post-seed 14 Incubation Seed 8 private quoted projects businesses 16 businesses businesses 14 Diversied by sector Key: Medical Equipment & Supplies Pharma & Biotech Chemicals & Materials Energy & Renewables IT & Communications Medical Pharma & Biotech Chemicals Energy IT & Equipment & Materials & Renewables Communications Multiple sectors & Supplies Business review Corporate governance Financial statements About IP Group
