CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors Profiles G M T Howe, Chairman D J Burke, Chief Executive Lord Leach of Fairford, Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Dominic Burke joined Jardine Lloyd Thompson Non-Executive in 2000, when the Burke Ford Group of Geoffrey Howe was appointed a Non-Executive companies, of which he was Chief Executive Director in January 2002 and became Joint Lord Leach was Chairman of Jardine Insurance and co-founder, became part of JLT.
Brokers, latterly JIB Group plc, between 1988 He was appointed Chief Executive of the UK & and 1997.
He was appointed Deputy Chairman He was appointed Chairman in April 2006 and Ireland Insurance Broking and the Group's of the Company in February 1997. is a member of the Nominations Committee.
Employee Benefits businesses in 2000 and was He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee He is Chairman of the Nationwide Building appointed a Director and Chief Operating Officer and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Society and a non-executive director of Close of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc in Brothers Group Plc.
He was formerly Chairman His other directorships include Jardine January 2005. of Railtrack Group plc, a director of Investec plc, Matheson Holdings, Rothschild Continuation AG He was appointed Group Chief Executive in group general counsel of Robert Fleming and other Jardine Matheson Group companies.
Holdings and managing partner of Clifford Chance.
He was appointed a Non-executive Director and Deputy Chairman of Newbury Racecourse plc in November 2010 and became Chairman in June 2011.
A E Court J D S Dawson M F G Drummond Brady Non-Executive Non-Executive Mark Drummond Brady has been with the JLT Annette Court was appointed a Non-Executive Jonathan Dawson was appointed a NonGroup since 1987 and has held a number of Director in August 2012.
She is a member of the Executive Director in August 2012.
He is a senior posts in the Group.
member of the Nominations and Remuneration Audit & Risk, Nominations and Remuneration He is currently the Groups International Committees.
Committees and, with effect from 5th March Chairman of Risk & Insurance.
He was 2013, was appointed Chairman of the Audit & Annette has extensive insurance experience.
appointed a Director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Risk Committee.
Between 2007 and 2010 Annette was Chief Group plc in March 2011 and is a member of Executive Officer for Europe General Insurance Jonathan is senior independent non-executive the Group Executive Committee.
for Zurich Financial Services and a member of director of Next plc, a non-executive director of the Group Executive Committee.
She is a former National Grid plc and a partner in Penfida Chief Executive Officer of RBS Insurance, the Partners LLP.
His career experience includes insurance division of RBS Group which owned eight years in the UK Ministry of Defence and the Direct Line and Churchill brands.
In this role over 20 years in investment banking with she was also a member of the RBS Group Lazard.
In recent years he has served as a Executive management Committee.
Annette is a non-executive director of GallifordTry plc, Non-Executive Director of Admiral Group plc National Australia Group Europe Ltd and and previously served as a member on the Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited.
board of the Association of British Insurers ABI.
36 Annual Report 2012 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS PROFILES DIRECTORS REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT R J Harvey S L Keswick N R MacAndrew Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Richard Harvey was appointed a NonSimon Keswick was a non-executive director of Nick MacAndrew was appointed a NonExecutive Director in December 2009.
JIB Group plc between 1988 and 1997 and Executive Director in July 2005. was appointed a Director of the Company in He is Chairman of the Remuneration He is a member of the Audit & Risk, January 2001.
He is a member of the Audit & Committee and is a member of the Audit & Remuneration and Nominations Committees Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Risk and Nominations Committees.
and is Senior Independent Director.
Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee from He enjoyed a long and successful career in the His other directorships include Jardine July 2005 to March 2013. insurance industry principally with Norwich Matheson Holdings Limited and other Jardine Union where he was Chief Executive from 1998 A chartered accountant, he was previously Matheson Group companies.
to 2000 and subsequently with Aviva plc where Finance Director of Schroders plc, Chairman of he was Group Chief Executive from 2001 to F&C Asset Management plc and of Save the 2007.
Children and a Non-Executive Director of Fuller He was also Chair of the Association of British Smith & Turner plc and of Wates Group Insurers from 2003 to 2005.
Executive Chairman of PZ Cussons plc and is a fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
M T Reynolds, Finance Director J D R Twining V Y A C Wade Mike Reynolds, a Chartered Certified James Twining joined JLT from McKinsey & Co Vyvienne Wade was appointed a Director in Accountant, was appointed Finance Director of as Group Strategy Director and was appointed 2002 and is a member of the Group Executive the Group in November 2012. to the GEC in January 2011.
She is Chairman of JLT Europe, President of JLT Latin America, Chairman of JLT He was appointed to the Board as Group He is a member of the Group Executive Insurance Management and Group General Commercial Director in August 2012.
He has worked in a number of Chairman of Thistle Insurance Services Limited Counsel.
She is also a Non-Executive Director of senior finance roles in the insurance industry and and sits on the Board of our UK & Ireland Lloyd & Partners Limited.
he joined JLT from ACE European Group Limited Employee Benefits business.
where he was Chief Financial Officer from 2009.
A barrister and member of the Inner Temple, He was previously CFO of Aon Benfield.
Vyvienne joined JLT in 1987 and became Group Legal Director in 1995.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2012 37
