CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors Report Principal activities and business review Share capital and shareholder rights An introduction to JLTs business and details of the A detailed explanation of all shareholder matters, business review contents.
including voting and transferring shares.
Dividends and distributions Results and dividends Voting rights A summary of the financial statements for the year, Restrictions on voting including details of dividends and payments to Deadlines for exercising voting rights shareholders.
Variation of rights Transfer of shares The Board Corporate responsibility An in-depth look at the Board, its members, A look at the Groups approach to the environment, responsibilities, powers and relationships.
Appointments and retirements Board performance Employment policies Board diversity Environmental policy Directors interests and potential conflicts Suppliers Relationships with shareholders Donations Relationship with Jardine Matheson Group Annual General Meeting Committees of the Board Details of the AGM and the ordinary and special An overview of membership, activities and responsibilities business to be covered.
of the Audit & Risk, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Corporate Governance Reporting on the Groups compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Accountability and audit Statement of Directors responsibilities Risk management Going concern 38 Annual Report 2012 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS PROFILES DIRECTORS REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT The Directors present their report and the The non-executive directors, led by the The Board audited consolidated financial statements of the senior independent director, also carried out At JLT we believe that high standards of Group for the year ended 31st December 2012. a performance evaluation of the Chairman corporate governance are important, not during this period.
just at the Board and its Committees, but Principal activities and business right across the Group, because this will Board diversity review help us deliver a better quality of decision The Board supports the Codes making and improved long-term Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc JLT is a recommendation that diversity and gender performance.
In this area, the Board sets UK domiciled holding company Registration should be considered when making Board the tone for the whole of JLT.
We aim to achieve a balance of skills, experience, independence and Our principal subsidiary businesses are The Board met seven times in 2012. knowledge that allows each Board member, engaged in risk management advice, insurance Its key responsibilities are to approve the and the Board as a whole, to discharge and reinsurance broking, underwriting services strategy of the Group and oversee its their duties and responsibilities effectively.
and the provision of employee benefit services.
implementation, to review the performance However we believe the issue of diversity of management, to ensure there are The Overview and Business Review on pages 2 incorporates more than gender and cannot appropriate systems of internal controls and to 35 reports on the Groups development be addressed by establishing quotas or risk management and to ensure that we during the year and our outlook for the future.
Selecting the best candidate, have the right resources in place throughout This includes an overview, a statement from the irrespective of background, is paramount.
JLT to ensure the delivery of long-term value Chairman, reviews from the Chief Executive and to our shareholders.
In addition, the Board Directors interests and potential the Finance Director, a review of operations, approves significant transactions entered conflicts and reports on risk management and corporate into by the Group.
These are referenced throughout Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 this report.
Certain matters are delegated to Board states that the Directors must declare Committees and to management with certain material interests.
The Board has clearly defined terms of reference or written formal conflict management procedures Results and dividends limits.
The terms of reference of the which have been in place for the year and, The financial statements set out the Groups principal Board Committees can be found following a review, no conflicts of interest consolidated results for the year ended 31st on the Groups website.
These are shown on pages 57 to 108.
The total profit attributed to Relationship with shareholders Appointments and retirements shareholders was 106,447,000 compared to The Board communicates regularly with 88,746,000 in 2011.
The Articles of Association outline how the shareholders through meetings and Directors are appointed and replaced.
These are held after the The financial statements for the Company to Directors appointed by the Board during the publication of interim and final results, as 31st December 2012 are detailed on pages year must stand for election at the next well as at other appropriate times.
These are prepared in accordance Annual General Meeting AGM and in line Chairman, Senior Independent Director and with Generally Accepted Accounting Practice in with the UK Corporate Governance Code members of the Board are also available to the UK, also known as UK GAAP.
2010 The Code all Directors will retire at answer questions at the AGM.
The Directors recommend that a final dividend the forthcoming AGM and stand for election Relationship with Jardine Matheson of 15.9 pence per share is payable to or re-election.
Group shareholders on the register at 5th April 2013.
This brings the total dividend for the year to The Group continued to have a number of Board performance 25.5 pence per share compared to 24.0 pence arms length trading links with the Jardine Both the Boards and the Directors in 2011, an increase of 6.3%.
Matheson Group of companies during the performance are reviewed annually.
The financial year, which are set out in note 32 2012 Board and committee evaluations on page 106.
At 14th March 2013, being were carried out using individual the latest practicable date prior to the date questionnaires shared and discussed with of this report Jardine Matheson Holdings the Board and relevant committees.
Limited Jardine Matheson has an interest Following the review, the Board is satisfied in 40.17% of JLTs issued capital.
This that it continues to operate effectively and interest is held through JMH Investments constructively, with the right balance of Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of expertise, experience, independence and Jardine Matheson.
knowledge to deliver long-term shareholder value.
An external facilitator will assist with this exercise for 2013.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2012 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors Report continued The Board Directors during the year The Directors in position at the date of this report are Changes to the composition of the Board during the year are noted below profiled on pages 36 and 37.
At the date of this report, the Board is comprised of five executive directors and Annette Court, Jonathan Dawson and James Twining appointed 1st Aug 2012 seven non-executive directors, including the Chairman.
Mike Reynolds appointed 26th Nov 2012 Mr S L Keswick will retire at the forthcoming Annual John Paynter resigned 30th Jun 2012 General Meeting and Lord Sassoon will join the Board Simon Mawson resigned 31st Jul 2012 at the conclusion of the meeting in place of Mr Keswick as one of the two representatives of Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited on the Board.
Committees of the Board The chart below shows the composition of the Board and its committees at 15th March 2013.
Audit & Risk Committee page 41 Jonathan Dawson Chairman from 5th March 2013 Nick MacAndrew Chairman to 5th March 2013 JLT Group Board Annette Court Geoffrey Howe Non-Executive Chairman Richard Harvey Simon Keswick Non-Executive Directors Lord Leach of Fairford Deputy Chairman Annette Court Remuneration Committee page 42 Jonathan Dawson Richard Harvey Chairman Richard Harvey Annette Court Jonathan Dawson Simon Keswick Lord Leach of Fairford Nick MacAndrew Senior Independent Director Simon Keswick Nick MacAndrew Executive Directors Dominic Burke Chief Executive Mark Drummond Brady Mike Reynolds Nominations Committee page 42 James Twining Lord Leach of Fairford Chairman Vyvienne Wade Annette Court Jonathan Dawson Richard Harvey Geoffrey Howe Simon Keswick Nick MacAndrew Group Executive Committee The GEC acts as an advisory group to the Chief Executive on the day-to-day management of the Groups operations.
Profiles of GEC members are set out on page 20.
40 Annual Report 2012 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS PROFILES DIRECTORS REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT Substantial shareholders At 31st December 2012 and at 14th March 2013 the latest practicable date prior to the date of this report the Company had been notified of the following substantial shareholdings.
31st December 2012 14th March 2013 No of % interest in No of % interest in Shareholder Shares voting rights Shares voting rights JMH Investments Limited 87,811,541 40.13% 87,916,541 40.17% Silchester International Investors LLP 11,627,651 5.31% 11,473,407 5.24% Massachusetts Financial Services Company 10,945,202 5.00% 10,945,202 5.00% Royal Bank of Canada 9,353,092 4.27% 9,314,446 4.26% JMH Investments Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited.
Jardine Strategic Holdings Limited is interested in the shares of Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited under S. 823 1 b of the Companies Act 2006.
The highest percentage held by JMH Investments Limited in JLT in the 12 months preceeding the date of this report was 40.20% the Group's risk management framework, the drafting of the interim report, Committees of the Board risk appetite and risk strategy to ensure preliminary announcement and the annual The Audit & Risk Committee that these are appropriate to the activities report and accounts before their The Board considers that the members of the of the Group: submission to the Board: committee collectively possess the requisite the effectiveness of the Group's system of regular reports from the Group Finance skills and experience to enable it to properly internal controls, including financial, Director, including currency exposures, discharge its responsibilities.
operational and compliance controls and bank exposures, the treatment of The Committee holds four formal annual risk management: the effectiveness of the exceptional items and updates on the meetings per annum and ad hoc meetings as Group's internal audit function: internal audit function: and when necessary.
Those normally the effectiveness of the external audit regular reports from the Group Chief attending by invitation are the Chairman and process, taking into consideration relevant Operating Officer, including updates on the Group Chief Executive, external auditors, the UK professional and regulatory Groups existing and planned information Group Head of Internal Audit, the Group Head requirements, the external auditors' technology resource, human resources, of Risk, the Group Finance Director, the Group independence and objectivity: and the risk management function and General Counsel and the Group Chief structure, the Business Transformation Operating Officer.
Meetings are also held with the policy on the engagement of the Programmes and updates on dealings the internal and external auditors without external auditors to supply non-audit with the UK and other regulators: management present.
Attendance is detailed services, taking into account relevant in the table on page 43. guidance regarding the provision of nonareas where control weaknesses had audit services by the external auditors.
been identified by the internal or external Mike Reynolds was appointed as Group auditors and mitigation remediation plans Finance Director on 26th November 2012.
The Committee, through its Chairman, is of management: He has extensive insurance industry required to report its findings to the Board experience and his profile is shown on after each meeting, identifying any matters in progress in respect of enhancements to page 37. respect of which it considers that action or the Groups control framework and its improvement is needed, and to make ongoing implementation: Responsibilities recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
the regular reports of the external auditors, The responsibilities of the Committee include The Committees terms of reference, which including internal control issues: monitoring and reviewing the following key cover all matters required under the UK reports from the business risk and internal areas in the ordinary course: Corporate Governance Code 2010 are audit functions on a regular basis: the integrity of the financial statements of available from the Company Secretary or on Group errors and omissions provisions: the Group, any formal announcements the Groups website at www.
and relating to the Group's financial Activities performance and significant financial the effectiveness of the Committee.
reporting judgements contained therein: During 2012 and to the date of this Report the Specifically during 2012 and to the date of this Committee reviewed in the ordinary course: report, the Committee focused on: Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2012 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors Report continued an extensive review of the control timetable as a matter of course and the of the Company and to consider succession framework of the UK regulated entities, its Chairman of the Committee met privately plans for senior management positions in the applicability across the Group and the with the external auditors at other times.
The terms of reference of the recommendations arising therefrom: Committee are available on the Companys The external auditors also report regularly on website.
an increase in the resources dedicated to the actions that they have taken to comply the Group Internal Audit and Group Risk with professional and regulatory requirements Corporate Governance Management functions, the recruitment of and current best practice in order to maintain a new head of each function and the Code Compliance their independence.
future plans and budgets of each function: During the year the Company has complied Internal audit function entities which were new to the Group, with the provisions of the UK Corporate The Committee is accountable to the Board in especially those resulting from acquisition, Governance Code 2010 the Code, except for which were subject to management relation to the adequacy of the resourcing and the following: change or which were growing particularly plans of the Internal Audit function.
During Lord Leach Deputy Chairman and Simon fast: 2012, the Committee reviewed: Keswick both served as non-executive matters raised by regulators in the UK as the annual internal audit plan: directors.
Both are directors of Jardine requiring particular focus: and Matheson Holdings Limited, which has a summaries of internal auditors reports on 40.17% interest in the Company.
The areas where the committee considered it the Group: relationship with Jardine Matheson is appropriate to strengthen controls.
co-ordination between the internal and maintained at arms length as detailed in In view of the growth of the business in recent external auditors: note 32 on page 106, but neither director years, the Committee has decided to increase can be defined as independent under the management's responsiveness to the the number of its regular meetings from four to Code.
findings and recommendations of the six per annum.
In addition, audit committees of internal auditors and the monitoring of the experience, expertise and the all major subsidiary companies have been, or follow up actions relating thereto: and knowledge held by Lord Leach and Simon are being, established.
Keswick acquired during the long standing the adequacy of the resources of the relationship between Jardine Matheson internal audit function including plans for External auditors and JLT continues to be of particular value increasing and enhancing that resource to The Committee is accountable to the Board in to the Company.
meet the increasing demands of the relation to the appointment of the external business.
the majority of the Audit & Risk and auditors and for overseeing the relationship Remuneration Committee members were with the external auditors.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee independent.
However Simon Keswick Committee: Activities served on both committees and Lord approved their remuneration for both audit Leach served on the Remuneration In addition to a number of ad hoc meetings, and non-audit services, including satisfying Committee.
the Remuneration Committee met formally itself that the level of audit fee was three times during the year.
It is responsible, The Board considers the presence of Lord appropriate to enable an adequate audit inter alia, for setting the remuneration and Leach and Simon Keswick or his successor, to be conducted: terms and conditions of the executive Lord Sassoon on the Board and its approved the external audit plan and directors and setting overall remuneration committees, subject to annual re-election, ensured that it was consistent with the policy for senior management of the Group.
continue to be appropriate and in the interests scope of the audit engagement: It also approves the allocations under all long of shareholders.
It also believes their presence approved the terms of engagement, term incentive plans and share option does not detract from their independence and including the engagement letter issued at schemes.
judgement on any relevant issue.
the start of each audit, and the scope of Assistance was provided to the Committee by Other Matters the audit: the Chairman, Chief Executive and HR The Directors are able to consult the assessed their independence, including in Strategy Director, but not in relation to their Companys legal, financial and other relation to non-audit services provided: own remuneration, and by Deloitte LLP.
professional advisers on any matter relating to the Companys affairs.
reviewed the findings of the audit, Deloitte LLP has been appointed by the including discussion of any major issues Remuneration Committee to act as Any Director may make use of this facility arising, and any accounting and audit independent advisers to the Committee during subject to notifying the Chairman or Finance judgements: the year.
evaluated the effectiveness of the external Nominations Committee If independent advice is sought, this is subject auditors by way of a questionnaire to prior consultation with the Chairman or a Activities distributed to senior finance staff: and Non-Executive Director as appropriate.
The Committee met three times during the held meetings with the external auditors All Directors also have access to the advice year.
Its purpose is to make recommendations without management present.
The and services of the Company Secretary.
to the Board on the appointment of directors Committee scheduled this into its 42 Annual Report 2012 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS PROFILES DIRECTORS REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT Board attendance The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by Board or appropriate Committee members in the year is shown below.
Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Board meeting Committee Committee Committee G M T Howe - - D J Burke - -- A E Court appointed to the Board on 1st Aug 2012 J D S Dawson appointed to the Board on 1st Aug 2012 M F G Drummond Brady - -- R J Harvey S L Keswick Lord Leach - N R MacAndrew S J Mawson resigned from the Board on 31st July 2012 -- - M T Reynolds appointed to the Board on 26th Nov 2012 - -- J G H Paynter resigned from the Board on 30th June 2012 J D R Twining appointed to the Board on 1st Aug 2012 -- - V Y A C Wade -- - Number of meetings during year The Company maintains appropriate directors Practice UK GAAP and applicable law.
Under safeguarding the assets of the company and and officers liability insurance in respect of company law the Directors must not approve the Group and hence for taking reasonable legal actions against its directors.
the financial statements unless they are steps for the prevention and detection of fraud satisfied that they give a true and fair view of and other irregularities.
Accountability and audit the state of affairs of the Group and the So far as the Directors are aware, there is no The Board has overall responsibility for the Company and of the profit or loss of the relevant audit information of which the Groups systems of internal control and for Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the The Directors have taken all the steps that The implementation and maintenance of the Directors are required to: they ought to have taken as Directors in order risk management and internal control systems select suitable accounting policies and to make themselves aware of any relevant are the responsibility of the Executive Directors then apply them consistently: audit information and to establish that the and senior management.
The systems are make judgements and accounting Companys auditors are aware of that designed to mitigate, rather than eliminate, the estimates that are reasonable and information.
risk of failure to achieve business objectives prudent: and and can provide only reasonable assurance, The Directors are responsible for the but not absolute assurance, against material state whether IFRSs as adopted by the maintenance and integrity of the Companys mis-statement or loss.
European Union and applicable UK website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been governing the preparation and dissemination Statement of Directors responsibilities followed, subject to any material of financial statements may differ from The Directors are responsible for preparing the departures disclosed and explained in the legislation in other jurisdictions.
Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration group and parent company financial Each of the Directors, whose names and Report and the financial statements in statements respectively.
functions are listed on pages 36 and 37 accordance with applicable law and The Directors are responsible for keeping confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: regulations.
adequate accounting records that are the Group financial statements, which Company law requires the Directors to prepare sufficient to show and explain the Companys have been prepared in accordance with financial statements for each financial year.
transactions and disclose with reasonable IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true Under that law the Directors have prepared accuracy at any time the financial position of and fair view of the assets, liabilities, the Group financial statements in accordance the Company and the Group and enable them financial position and profit of the Group: with International Financial Reporting to ensure that the financial statements and the and Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Directors Remuneration Report comply with European Union, and the parent company the Directors Report, including by the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the financial statements in accordance with United reference the Overview: Chairmans group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Statement: Chief Executives Review: Regulation.
They are also responsible for Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2012 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors Report continued Review of Operations: Finance Directors in accordance with the power granted at the in relation to Treasury shares are suspended Review and Risk Management Report AGM each year, and will be seeking renewal and the voting rights are not normally contained on pages 2 to 35, includes a of that power at the forthcoming AGM within exercised in respect of the shares held in the fair review of the development and the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
performance of the business and the All the Companys share schemes contain Restrictions on voting position of the Group, together with a provisions relating to a change of control.
No member, unless the Directors otherwise description of the principal risks and Outstanding options and awards would determine, is entitled to vote either in person uncertainties that it faces.
normally vest and become exercisable on a or by proxy at any general meeting in respect change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any shares held by him if any call or other Risk management of any performance conditions as may be sum then payable by him in respect of that appropriate at that time.
The Groups approach to Risk Management is share remains unpaid.
In addition, no member discussed in the Finance Directors Review is entitled to vote if he has been served with a At 31st December 2012, the Jardine Lloyd and the Risk Management Report on pages notice after failure to provide the Company Thompson Employee Share Trusts the 30 to 35. with information concerning interests in those trusts held 9,004,070 shares in the shares required to be provided under the The Group takes a holistic approach to risk Company representing 4.1% of the issued Companies Act.
management and the control environment.
At 14th March Responsibility and accountability are shared 2013, being the latest practicable date prior Deadlines for exercising voting rights across all Group companies, with ultimate to the posting of this report the trusts held Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, responsibility resting with the Board.
or in relation to corporate members, by Each operating company maintains controls corporate representative.
The Articles provide Shareholders rights and procedures appropriate to its own a deadline for submission of proxy forms of business and regulatory environment while not less than 48 hours before the time Dividends and distributions conforming to Group standards and appointed for the holding of the meeting or Shareholders can declare final dividends by guidelines.
adjourned meeting and the notice of Annual passing an ordinary resolution but the amount General Meeting will specify the deadline for of the dividend cannot exceed the amount The identification and mitigation of major exercising voting rights.
business risks is the responsibility of operational management and the Board.
Variation of rights The Board can pay interim dividends whenever the financial position of the If at any time the capital of the Company is Going concern Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies divided into different classes of shares then, such payment.
The Board can withhold subject to statute, the Articles specify that The Directors consider that the Group and the payment of all or any part of any dividend or rights attached to any class of shares may be Company have adequate resources to other monies payable in respect of the varied with the written consent of the holders continue in operational existence for the Companys shares from any person with a of at least 75% nominal value of the issued foreseeable future.
Consequently, the financial 0.25 per cent interest as set out in the shares of that class, or with the sanction of a statements have been prepared on a goingArticles if that person has been served with a special resolution passed at a separate concern basis.
notice after failure to provide the Company general meeting of the holders of those with information concerning interest in those shares.
At every such separate general Share capital and Shareholder shares required to be provided under the meeting the quorum is two persons holding or rights Companies Act.
The Directors may also retain representing by proxy at least one third in Movements in the share capital of the any dividends payable on shares on which the nominal value of the issued shares of the Company during the year ended 31st Company has a lien, and may apply the same class calculated excluding any shares held as December 2012 are set out in note 24 on in or towards satisfaction of the debts, treasury shares.
page 93. liabilities or engagements in respect of which A member that is a corporation may appoint the lien exists.
At 31st December 2012 the issued share an individual to act on its behalf at a general capital consisted of 218,817,675 ordinary meeting or class meetings as a corporate Voting rights shares of 5 pence each with voting rights and representative.
The person so authorised shall On a show of hands at a general meeting, 1,143,131 shares are held as treasury shares be entitled to exercise the same powers on every member present in person has one vote for which voting rights would not be behalf of such corporation as the corporation and on a poll every member who is present in exercised.
could exercise if it were an individual member person or by proxy has one vote for each of the Company.
The Company has one class of share capital share held.
In the case of joint holders of a being ordinary shares of 5 pence each and all share the vote of the senior who tenders a Transfer of shares the shares rank pari passu.
vote whether in person or by proxy will be All transfers of shares which are in certificated accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the There are no special control rights in respect form may be effected by transfer in writing in other joint holders and, for this purpose, of the Companys shares.
any usual or common form or in any other seniority will be determined by the order in form acceptable to the Directors.
The The Board has the power to implement the which the names stand in the Register of instrument of transfer must be signed by or purchase by the Company of its own shares Members in respect of the share.
Voting rights 44 Annual Report 2012 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS PROFILES DIRECTORS REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT on behalf of the transferor and except in the The Group is an equal opportunities employer Annual General Meeting case of fully-paid shares by or on behalf of and encourages diversity.
Applications from The AGM notice is included in the Circular the transferee.
The transferor shall remain the disabled people will always be fully that accompanies this report.
The meeting holder of the shares concerned until the considered having proper regard to their will be held at 12 noon on 30th April 2013 at name of the transferee is entered in the aptitudes and abilities.
If existing employees 6 Crutched Friars, London EC3N 2PH.
Register of Members of the Company.
become disabled, every effort is made to The special business includes the renewal, Transfers of shares which are in uncertificated make sure their employment with the Group within prescribed limits, of: form are effected by means of the CREST continues.
If such employees are unable to system.
continue work, every effort is made to the directors authority to allot Company safeguard their financial interests.
The Group securities within Association of British The Directors may refuse to register a aims to provide training, development and Insurers guidelines: transfer of certificated shares that are not fully promotion opportunities that are identical, as paid provided that partly paid shares must be the disapplication of statutory prefar as possible, for disabled and non-disabled transferable free from restrictions and emption rights: employees.
investors must be provided with sufficient the authority of the Company to information to allow dealing on an open and Environmental policy purchase its own shares by way of proper basis.
The Directors may also refuse The Group is committed to minimising the market purchases: and to register an allotment or transfer of shares adverse environmental impacts of its the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan whether fully-paid or not in favour of more business.
Group guidelines outline best LTIP which expires in April 2014.
The than four persons jointly.
If the directors practice for the following: details of the new LTIP are set out in the refuse to register an allotment or transfer they managing and minimising the production Remuneration Report and accompanying must give the transferee notice of the refusal of waste and using recycling schemes: shareholder circular.
as soon as is practicable and in any event within two months after the date on which controlling and restricting pollution and The directors would only consider making the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged emissions where possible: purchases of the Companys shares if they with the Company.
believe it would be in the best interests of ensuring appropriate regulatory shareholders and would result in an increase The Directors may decline to recognise any compliance: in earnings per share.
instrument of transfer unless the instrument designing and operating energy efficient of transfer is in respect of only one class of and sustainable facilities: and share and when submitted for registration is Independent Auditors encouraging contractors to adopt these accompanied by the relevant share Following review, the Board proposes that guidelines.
certificates and such other evidence as the  LLP are Directors may reasonably require.
Suppliers reappointed as the Company auditors.
Subject to statutes and applicable CREST The Group agrees payment terms with A resolution proposing this will be put to the rules, the Directors may determine that any suppliers when it enters into contracts for the AGM.
class of shares may be held in uncertificated purchase of goods or services and seeks to By order of the Board form and that title to such shares may be abide by these terms when it is satisfied the transferred by means of the CREST system supplier has provided goods and services in or that shares of any class should cease to line with agreed terms and conditions.
be so held and transferred.
The Group does not have a standard or code that deals specifically with the payment of A shareholder does not need to obtain the suppliers.
At 31st December 2012 the approval of the Company, or of other Company did not have any direct external shareholders of shares in the Company, for a supplier creditors.
transfer of shares to take place.
David Hickman Donations Company Secretary Corporate responsibility During this year the Group made charitable 15th March 2013 donations totalling 480,000 2011: Employment policies 408,000.
The Group did not make any The Group aims to provide an environment political donations.
Wide share ownership and share option schemes More information is given in the Corporate encourage employee engagement.
Regular Responsibility statement on page 19. briefings and consultation, using the JLT intranet where possible, keep employees informed about the Groups performance and matters that affect them as employees.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2012 45
