BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OUR MARKETS DELIVERING ON OUR STRATEGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GEC REVIEW OF OPERATIONS FINANCE DIRECTORS REVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT Our Markets The insurance Economic growth Competition Regulation JLT is one of the worlds largest rating environment providers of insurance and employee benefits related advice, brokerage and services.
As such our business is influenced by four major factors: levels and capital starts to flow back to other The insurance rating environment Economic growth asset classes.
The exception may again be The insurance industry is We believe that JLTs the US, where there are continued signs of inherently cyclical, with the performance and prospects are modest firming, as well as some parts of the price of insurance much more tied to the GDP of energy market mainly on-shore,  depending on the countries where it operates exposed areas e. g. Thai property and some demand for insurance cover than the insurance rating technically rated classes e. g. employers and the supply of capital environment.
At its simplest level, higher economic growth Impact on JLT A lack of capital, typically caused by one or is both cause and effect of greater levels of more large losses such as 9 11 or by corporate activity and investment which in turn The insurance rating environment affects JLT investors choosing to invest in alternative drives greater demand for our services, be it because parts of our business earn revenue asset classes, is known as a hard market, placing the insurance for a new Metro project, based on a percentage commission.
This is when the cost of insurance increases.
An or helping arrange health cover for an particularly true of our operations in faster over-supply of capital is known as a soft expanding company workforce.
growing economies such as Asia and Latin market which results in insurance premiums America, Thistle and our International Current trends reducing.
The past five years have, from a macroRecognising the potential volatility that this Current trends economic perspective, been extremely represents, we have taken action over the The last few years have been characterised by challenging, particularly in JLTs more mature past few years to change the mix of our some of the softest market conditions in UK and European markets.
This has been triggered by a 2012 saw a continuation of these trends, with In addition, it should be noted that many more generally benign loss environment, improved weak Western consumer demand and sophisticated corporate insurance buyers have underwriting discipline, and an extended faltering business confidence compounded by a set budget that they look to spend on period of historically very low interest rates in signs of slowing growth in emerging markets insurance.
If rates increase, they therefore the developed world that have made such as China, Brazil and India, although their simply buy less cover and retain more risk.
insurance a relatively more attractive place to growth still remains far stronger than that seen If rates decrease on the other hand, they invest.
2012 continued this general trend, with 2013 is currently forecast to be another year Taken together, this means that we benefit insurance rates flat or declining in most of low overall GDP growth.
from less volatility in our broking income.
classes, apart from in selected areas such as Thailand or New Zealand in the wake of the In any case, the successful execution of our GDP growth % natural disasters there.
The other exception strategy see page 17 has allowed us to was the USA, where there has been a gradual continue winning market share and grow our Emerging Markets firming of rates, particularly in the first half of Global revenues despite the adverse rating Developed Markets 2012.
This provided some modest benefit to 6 environment.
For example, rates in the Lloyd & Partners, our specialist wholesale aviation industry have come down by some broker, as it made the international insurance 17% over the past four years while over the markets, that they provide independent US 4 same period we have grown our revenues in brokers and their clients with access to, that sector by more than 90% and are now relatively more attractive.
one of the leading brokers of commercial 2 aircraft in the world.
Looking forward to 2013, absent some sort of catastrophic event, it is hard to see insurance rates firming in the immediate future until 2011 2012 2013 interest rates, particularly in developed markets, begin to recover to more normal Source: JPMorgan 7th Feb 2013 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2012 15 BUSINESS REVIEW Our Markets continued Competition Regulation Impact on JLT With owned insurance broking The regulatory regimes under Although these factors have made the and employee benefits operations which we operate around the operating and competitive environment much spanning 35 territories, JLT faces world are generally becoming tougher, we have mitigated their impact by a very large number and range of more sophisticated and more pursuing a speciality-led strategy see page local, regional and international demanding.
While this places 17 and increasing our exposure to the faster competitors.
additional strain and cost on the business, growing economies of the world.
This is strong regulation also creates a more level underpinned by two important macroGiven this, it is impossible to comment on the playing field and helps stimulate greater client economic trends: relative individual strengths and weaknesses demand, so is something we encourage and of our competitors, although we have a track The shifting balance of economic power welcome as being positive for our clients, our record of delivering industry leading organic to the emerging markets.
people and the industry at large.
Population growth - particularly in the Our key regulatory relationship has been with emerging markets.
the Financial Services Authority in the UK, Organic growth 2008-12 The combination of population growth and although from 1st April 2013 we will fall under increasing wealth is expected to unleash a the remit of the newly constituted Financial JLT Average for wave of middle-class consumption and Conduct Authority.
US quoted brokers urbanisation, which in turn will create 8% As JLT grows, we can expect a greater level 7% 7% 7% significant demand and growth in the 6% of regulatory scrutiny on our business in line 6% construction, telecommunications, 5% with our increased size, particularly for those transportation, mining and agri-food industries 3.8% 4% 3.4% of our businesses that carry consumer to name but a few.
2% 1.3% We have deliberately aligned our business to Over the last twelve months we have these long-term trends by expanding our 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 increased considerably our investment in our international reach and focusing on risk management framework and personnel to developing further our areas of specialisation, -1.5% adjust to the changing circumstances.
because it is precisely those areas that are set We are committed to working constructively to both drive and benefit the most from the Aon, Marsh, Willis, Gallagher Organic growth is on fees and commissions excluding the impact of with all of our regulators to ensure that we growth of these markets and where we can acquisitions, disposals, investment income and currency meet our regulatory commitments and protect best compete and win market share.
Source: Published company filings and JLT analysis our clients interests.
As a result, JLT has been able to consistently deliver strong levels of organic revenue JLT continues to distinguish itself through its growth during the period, as well as growth in specialty-led focus and its distinctive culture earnings and dividends.
that places clients first and values advocacy, Looking forward to 2013, we feel confident expertise, tailored solutions and service that our specialty-led strategy and exposure excellence over commoditisation, bureaucracy to the faster growing economies of the world, and a focus on price to the exclusion of all balanced by our strong operations in more other factors.
mature markets, will allow us to continue to make financial progress in the year.
16 Annual Report 2012 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc
