OVERVIEW What we do Risk & Insurance Our Risk & Insurance group encompasses our global specialty insurance and reinsurance broking operations and our wholesale insurance broking business.
In the UK, we also distribute insurance products to consumers and small businesses through our Thistle operation.
Our specialist teams focus on those sectors where we have a distinctive level of knowledge and expertise.
Working in partnership with clients to manage the key risks they face, we act as their intermediary with insurers and reinsurers as well as providing related risk management, analytical, advisory and other administrative services.
Our global Risk & Insurance businesses provide services including: place insurance cover on our clients Advice and consultancy behalf on the best terms available.
Advising our clients on their insurance and reinsurance requirements, ensuring Access to specialist insurance that they understand the likelihood and products potential severity of the risks they face, Providing our clients with access to the options available to mitigate them and certain facilities and insurance products the potential cost.
This then allows our through bespoke agreements that we clients to make an informed decision that have struck with insurers without taking balances price, coverage and risk any balance sheet underwriting risk.
We also provide capital raising and corporate finance advice to Other services insurance market clients and investors.
Providing a range of related services to our clients and insurance market Brokerage and placement counterparties in areas such as captive Acting as intermediaries with insurers and and claims management and reinsurers all over the world, using our administration.
specialist knowledge to negotiate and 2012 Industry Awards 2013 Industry Awards to date Broking Team of Model Insurer Asia UK Broker Innovation Insurance Broking Best Political Risk Captive Management Broker of the Year the Year of the Year Team of the Year Insurance Broker Best Service Provider JLT Re Asia South Australia JLT Specialty JLT Specialty - Aviation JLT Specialty - JLT Asia - Innovation in Captive Marine, Aviation NewBuy Scheme Capital Risks Management Reinsurance Broking JLT Insurance Team of the Year Management JLT Re - Marine & - Guernsey Energy 4 Annual Report 2012 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS WHAT WE DO JLT INTERNATIONAL NETWORK MISSION, STRATEGY & VALUES KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Employee Benefits Through our presence in key international markets, JLT offers a comprehensive range of employee benefits advice and services from pensions consultancy and administration to employee healthcare, wellness and protection and from investment consultancy and discretionary fund management to individual wealth management.
programmes are increasingly managed Pension and retirement using JLTs own integrated online services benefit platform, BenPal.
Providing a range of services, primarily focused on the UK market, designed to Investment services meet the requirements of both pension Advising on all aspects of investment trustees and corporate sponsors, and discretionary management of including pension scheme assets for both high-net-worth administration, actuarial consultancy, individuals and pension schemes.
scheme design and risk transfer Wealth management consultancy, governance, independent Offering advice and support to hightrustee services and member net-worth individuals in respect of communications.
holistic financial planning, at retirement Health, risk and benefits support and life protection planning.
Providing advice on and implementing employee health and benefit programmes, medical claims administration, occupational health services and placement of health and risk protection policies for corporate workforces.
Health and benefit 2012 Industry Awards 2013 Industry Awards to date Best Group Private Corporate Adviser of Pension Adviser of the Year Medical Insurance the Year Best Use of Technology by a Corporate Adviser Intermediary JLT Benefit Solutions Best International Benefits Adviser JLT Benefit Solutions JLT Benefit Solutions Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2012 5
