BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS WHAT WE DO JLT INTERNATIONAL NETWORK MISSION, STRATEGY & VALUES KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Our Mission, Strategy & Values Mission Client First.
We act in our clients best interests and We advise our clients without influence We expect to be judged and rewarded bring the best of JLT to all of our clients.
or bias and value innovation and based on our performance.
Strategy The five elements of our strategy balance the interests of our clients, our employees, our trading partners and our shareholders.
Focusing and Building our Improving our Providing a Operating growing in international efficiency and distinctive collaboratively specialist areas reach and effectiveness working as One JLT relevance environment Focusing and Building our Improving the way Providing a Operating growing in international reach we work and serve distinctive, collaboratively as specialist areas and relevance, clients through entrepreneurial and One JLT to bring within our existing especially in the innovation and by results-based work the best of JLT to operations where worlds high investing in the environment that our clients and we can offer growth economies, efficiency and attracts, develops trading partners distinctive to better meet the effectiveness of our and retains the anywhere in the products, services needs of local and people, systems best individuals.
and independent multi-national and processes.
We recognise that our people drive our We think fast, move swiftly and act We work with integrity and discipline success.
and stand up for what we believe in.
Our people work together as One JLT Our entrepreneurial drive gives us the Our work is thorough and our solutions to share knowledge, solve problems freedom to take on new challenges, robust, because it really matters to us to and deliver the best solutions for our think creatively and capture do what is right - for our clients, our clients.
opportunities that others cannot.
people, our trading partners and our investors.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2012 7
