OVERVIEW JLT International Network The JLT International Network is JLTs global retail and distribution platform.
Comprised of fully owned, partly owned and partner operations, it provides on the ground service and support to JLTs international Risk & Insurance and Employee Benefits clients in 135 countries, making it the second largest such network in the world.
JLT International Network has representation in 135 countries All brokers in the Network are selected Overall responsibility for the Network sits for their specialist knowledge, local with the JLT International Network market reputation and quality of service.
Management team, whose role is to We therefore expect them to have the ensure common service standards by JLT has one of the leading capability not only to service JLTs multisharing expertise and best practices national clients, but to compete for and across the Network, whilst offering a international broker win the largest accounts in their own clear channel through which to escalate territories, in collaboration with JLTs and resolve issues with speed and networks in the world with specialty, wholesale and reinsurance efficiency.
A further area of differentiation is the countries.
Unlike other broker networks, the JLT Global Service Team, a multilingual team International Network is run almost as an that is able to provide clients with a extension of JLT itself, with a similar single point to access and regulate their focus on knowledge, expertise, service global programme and help resolve any quality and compliance.
This central JLT function acts as the focal point for JLTs The majority of our non-owned partners international account co-ordination and is have been long-standing members of the used as a centre of excellence, providing Network, with a demonstrable track information and insight on local record of meeting each of our clients compliance, regulation and market needs.
practices to clients and colleagues Service and compliance standards have globally.
been codified through a set of clear operating procedures that have been designed to ensure that each client, regardless of their size, consistently receives the highest level of care and attention in the delivery of risk management, insurance broking, and advisory services.
All Network members are subject to rigorous checks on their adherence to these standards.
6 Annual Report 2012 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc
