BUSINESS REVIEW Group Executive Committee Vyvienne Wade James Twining Mark joined the GEC in 2006 and was Front row, left to right Chairman of JLT Europe, President of Group Commercial Director and appointed a Director of the Group in Jonathan Palmer-Brown JLT Latin America, Chairman of JLT International Chairman of Thistle March 2011.
Chairman of International Specialty Insurance Management and Group James joined JLT from McKinsey & Co. Mike Methley Jonathan joined JLT and became a General Counsel as Group Strategy Director and was Group COO and CEO of Latin America member of the GEC in 2010 and is Vyvienne joined JLT in 1987 and became appointed to the GEC in January 2011.
Mike was Chairman of International Specialty.
She joined He was appointed to the Board as appointed Chief Operating Officer for the He is a former Chairman of the London the GEC in 1999 and was appointed to Group Commercial Director in August Group and a member of the GEC in and International Insurance Brokers' the Board of JLT Group in 2002.
He is also Chairman of Thistle January 2010.
He became CEO of Latin Association and sits on the London She is also a Non-Executive Director of Insurance Services Ltd and sits on the America on 1st March 2013 and Market Group.
Lloyd & Partners Ltd. Board of our UK & Ireland Employee continues as Group COO.
Alan Griffin John Lloyd previous roles have included Managing Chairman, JLT Reinsurance Brokers Chairman and CEO, Lloyd & Partners Ltd Mike Reynolds Director of JLT Asia.
Alan joined JLT in 2005 to build the Group Finance Director John was a founding partner of Lloyd Martin Hiller Group's capabilities in reinsurance and Thompson in 1981 and served as its Mike was appointed Finance Director of CEO, JLT Specialty Limited aviation.
He joined the GEC in April Chairman from 1993 until its merger with the Group and joined the GEC in Martin joined JLT in 1988 and was a 2006.
He was a Director of November 2012. founding member of the JLT Alan entered the insurance broking the JLT Group until the creation of Lloyd He has worked in a number of senior Construction team.
industry in 1969 and has held various & Partners in 2005. finance roles in the insurance industry He became Managing Director of the senior management positions within both He has been a member of the GEC and he joined JLT from ACE European Construction team in 1995.
Martin reinsurance and aviation insurance.
Group Limited where he was Chief joined the GEC in 2006 and was Duncan Howorth Financial Officer from 2009.
He was Leo Demer appointed CEO of JLT Specialty in 2007.
CEO, JLT Asia and International previously CFO of Aon Benfield.
CEO, Australia and New Zealand Adrian Girling Chairman of Employee Benefits Mark Wood Leo joined JLT Australia in 1985 and was Chairman of JLT Specialty Limited Duncan joined JLT in 2000 when Abbey CEO, JLT UK Employee Benefits Group appointed Managing Director of the Risk Adrian has been with JLT for over 30 National Benefit Consultants was Services Division in 2000.
Leo became Mark joined JLT in 2010 as the Nonyears, he was CEO of Jardine Lloyd acquired by JLT to expand its Employee Managing Director of JLT's Australian Executive Chairman of the UK & Ireland Thompson UK Limited before being Benefits offering.
Duncan was CEO of and New Zealand businesses in January Employee Benefits business, and on 1st appointed Chairman of JLT Specialty on JLT Benefit Solutions Ltd until the end of 2008 and was then appointed CEO and January 2013 he became the CEO of 7th February 2012.
He joined the GEC 2012 when he transferred to the role of joined the GEC in January 2010. that business and joined the GEC.
He joined the GEC in Prior to joining JLT he had been the UK September 2008.
Back row, left to right CEO for both Prudential and AXA.
Dominic Burke Alastair Speare-Cole Mark Drummond Brady Group Chief Executive CEO, JLT Reinsurance Brokers International Chairman Risk & Insurance Dominic joined the Group in 2000 when Alastair Speare-Cole joined JLT Re in Mark joined JLT in 1987 and built JLT's his business Burke Ford was acquired by January 2012, as Chief Executive Officer, Financial Solutions operation.
After joining he became CEO of having begun his career as a graduate Mark plays a key role in developing JLT's UK Retail and Employee Benefits trainee at Jardine Matheson.
Alastair held JLT's Risk & Insurance business business.
He was appointed Group COO positions as COO for Aon Benfield UK internationally and leading the continued in January 2005 and subsequently and Chairman of Aon Benfield Securities expansion of the JLT International appointed Group CEO in December Ltd. Network.
Executive Director more details on He was appointed to the GEC in April pages 36-37 2012.
20 Annual Report 2012 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc
