JLIF invests in assets that have predominantly 22. availability based revenue streams and are located in fiscally strong countries Investment Policy JLIF invests in projects where revenue streams are: Public sector sourced or government-backed: and Predominantly availability-based where payments received by the Project Company do not generally depend on the level of use of the project asset : other projects being demand-based where the payments received depend on the level of use made of the project asset.
A project is availability-based for these purposes if the Investment Adviser deems that 75% or more of payments from the relevant project entity do not generally depend on the level of use of the project asset.
While it is envisaged that further acquisitions will be of operational PPP projects with availability-based revenues, it is possible that a limited number of projects still in their construction phase or with demandbased payment mechanisms may be acquired.
Investment Capital in projects whose revenue streams are predominantly demand-based will be limited to 15% of the Total Assets of the Company, calculated at the time of investment.
For the purposes of this investment restriction the shadow toll mechanisms for the investments in both the M40 motorway and M6 motorway projects are not regarded as carrying demand risk due to their relative insensitivity to traffic volumes.
Geographic focus The Directors believe that attractive opportunities for JLIF to enhance returns for shareholders are likely to arise in areas of the world where PPP is a practiced route for delivering infrastructure investments.
The Company may, therefore, make investments in the European Union, other European countries, Canada, the United States of America and the Asia Pacific region.
The Company will seek to mitigate country risk by concentrating on investment opportunities in jurisdictions where JLCM advises that contract structures and their enforceability are reliable, where to the extent applicable JLCM advises that public sector obligations carry a satisfactory credit rating and where financial markets are relatively mature.
JLIF seeks to ensure that over 50% of the Companys Total Assets, measured by value, will be in respect of projects that are based in the UK although this will not require JLIF to dispose of Investment Capital in respect of non-UK projects if this limit is breached as a result of changes in value of the Investment Portfolio.
JLIF Limited Annual Report 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW 23.
Glasgow Schools Forth Valley Royal Hospital Single investment limit and diversity of clients and suppliers JLIF will seek to acquire further investments going forward both from John Laing and from the wider market.
In selecting the assets to When any new acquisition is made, JLIF will ensure that the acquire, JLCM will ensure that these projects have similar investment or, in the event of an acquisition of a Portfolio of characteristics to the projects in the Portfolio and meet JLIFs investments, each investment in the Portfolio acquired does not have investment criteria.
an acquisition value or, if it is an additional stake in an existing investment, the combined value of both the existing stake and the Any proposed acquisition of assets by JLIF from the John Laing Group additional stake acquired is not greater than 25% of JLIFs Total companies that fall within the overall investment parameters set by Assets immediately post acquisition.
In selecting new investments to JLIF, including in relation to funding, will be subject to approval by the acquire, JLIF will seek to ensure that the Portfolio of projects in which Directors, who other than as disclosed in paragraph 7.8 of Part 7 of JLIF invests has a range of public sector clients and supply chain the October 2010 Prospectus are independent of John Laing.
contractors, in order to avoid over-reliance on any single client or The relationship between JLIF and John Laing is governed by the contractor.
Rules, as defined in the Prospectus.
These require that any arrangements between a Relevant Person as defined in the Rules Gearing and JLIF are at least as favourable to JLIF as would be any JLIF intends to make prudent use of leverage leverage in the context comparable arrangement effected on normal commercial terms of JLIF excluding senior debt in place at project entity level for negotiated at arms length between the Relevant Person and an financing acquisitions of investments and working capital purposes.
Under the company articles, and in accordance with JLIFs Investment JLIF has a contractual right of first offer for relevant Investment Policy, JLIFs outstanding borrowings, excluding intra-group borrowings and the debts of underlying Assets but including any Capital in UK, European and Canadian accommodation and roads financial guarantees to support subscription obligations, will be and UK waste projects of which the John Laing Group companies wish to dispose and that are consistent with the Companys Investment limited to 25% of JLIFs Total Assets.
JLIF may borrow in currencies other than Sterling as part of its currency hedging strategy.
It is envisaged that the John Laing Group will periodically make available for sale further Portfolios of Investment Capital in infrastructure PPP projects that have completed construction Origination of investments although there is no guarantee that this will be the case.
Subject All of the investments in the Portfolio have similar characteristics to to due diligence and agreement on price, the Company will seek to those set out above and further investment opportunities will only be acquire those projects that fit JLIFs Investment Policy.
pursued if they generally satisfy these criteria.
It is expected that further investments will include investments that have been JLIF will also seek out and review acquisition opportunities from originated and developed by members of the John Laing Group and outside the John Laing Group that arise and will, where appropriate, may be acquired from them.
carry out the necessary due diligence.
If, in the opinion of JLCM, as Operator of JLIF Limited Partnership the Partnership, the risk JLIF has established procedures to deal with any potential conflicts of characteristics, valuation and price of the Investment Capital in the interest that may arise from individuals at John Laing who may act for project or portfolio of projects for sale is acceptable and is consistent the sell-side for any member of the John Laing Group in relation with JLIFs Investment Policy, then subject to JILF having funds an to any acquisition of assets from the John Laing Group.
These offer will be made without seeking the prior approval of the Board procedures include: and, if successful, the Investment Capital in the relevant project or Complete segregation of JLCM, acting on behalf of JLIF, and the portfolio of projects will be acquired by JLIF, following approval by John Laing sell side team.
A requirement to conduct asset due diligence through third party suppliers acting for JLIF, and for a report on the Fair Market Value of the Investment Capital to be obtained from an independent expert.
JLIF Limited board approval prior to submitting an offer to John Laing and prior to execution of the Sale and Purchase Agreement.
Potential disposals of investments Relationship with John Laing Whilst the Directors may elect to retain Investment Capital in the John Laing is a leading sponsor of privately financed investment in Portfolio projects which JLIF acquires and any other further infrastructure.
Its business is based primarily on long term investments made by JLIF over the long term, JLCM will regularly concessions to design, build, operate and finance infrastructure monitor the valuations of such projects and any secondary market projects.
Further details in relation to John Laing are set out in Part 5 opportunities to dispose of Investment Capital and report to the of the September 2012 Prospectus.
The Directors only intend to dispose of JLIF and John Laing have entered into a First Offer Agreement giving Investments where upon the advice of JLCM they consider that the Company right of first offer in relation to John Laings investments appropriate value can be realised for JLIF or where they otherwise in UK, European and Canadian accommodation and roads and UK believe that it is appropriate to do so.
Proceeds from the disposal of waste projects until October 2015. investments may be reinvested or distributed at the discretion of the Directors.
Day-to-day management services are provided to the projects in the Portfolio through management service agreements.
Across the Currency and hedging policy Portfolio there are 42 separate management service agreements 27 of which are with John Laing, 13 are with co-shareholders and two A portion of JLIFs underlying investments may be denominated in are with third party service providers.
For all current Portfolio projects currencies other than Sterling.
For example, currently some of the purchased from the John Laing Group, JLCM, as Operator, has Portfolio is denominated in Canadian Dollars and Euros.
However, any retained the services of John Laing for the provision of project dividends or distributions in respect of the Ordinary Shares will be directors, who have continued to take an active role in managing and made in Sterling and the market prices and Net Asset Value of the reviewing the projects.
Ordinary Shares will be reported in Sterling.
Currency hedging will only be carried out to seek to provide protection to the level of Sterling As at 31 December 2012, John Laing owned 6.7% of the Ordinary dividends and other distributions that JLIF aims to pay on the shares in JLIF and is not subject to a lock-up agreement with respect Ordinary Shares, and in order to reduce the risk of currency to holding shares.
fluctuations and the volatility of returns that may result from such currency exposure.
This may involve the use of foreign currency Company structure borrowings to finance foreign currency assets, or forward foreign JLIF has invested in its current Portfolio and will continue to invest in exchange contracts for up to three years to hedge the income from further infrastructure investments indirectly via a series of holding assets that are exposed to exchange rate risk against Sterling.
entities, as follows: Interest rate hedging may also be carried out to seek to provide The Company invests in equity and profit participation instruments protection against increasing costs of servicing any debt drawn down of JLIF Luxco 1 Srl Luxco 1, a socit responsabilit limite by the Company to finance investments.
This may involve the use of Srl established in Luxembourg, which in turn invests in equity interest rate derivatives and similar derivative instruments.
and debt of a similar entity, JLIF Luxco 2 Srl Luxco 2.
Both Currency and interest rate hedging transactions will only be Luxco 1 and Luxco 2 together the Luxcos are wholly owned undertaken for the purpose of efficient Portfolio management and subsidiaries of the Company direct and indirect respectively, with these transactions will not be undertaken for speculative purposes.
Luxco 2 being wholly owned by Luxco 1.
Luxco 2 is the sole limited partner in the Partnership, an English Amendments to and compliance with the Investment Policy limited partnership which has a special purpose vehicle as its Material changes to JLIFs Investment Policy may only be made in general partner the General Partner.
The General Partner is a accordance with the approval of the shareholders by way of ordinary wholly owned indirect subsidiary of John Laing plc.
The General resolution and for so long as the Ordinary Shares are listed on the Partner, on behalf of the Partnership, has appointed JLCM as Official List in accordance with the Listing Rules.
The investment restrictions detailed above apply at the time of the Luxco 2 primarily invests the contributions it receives from Luxco 1 acquisition of Investment Capital.
In the ordinary course of business, in capital contributions and partner loans to the Partnership, JLIF will not be required to dispose of Investment Capital and to which acquired and holds infrastructure investments directly or rebalance its investment Portfolio as a result of a change in the indirectly through intermediate wholly owned companies and or respective valuations of Investment Capital.
Minor changes to the other entities.
Investment Policy must be approved by the JLIF Board, taking into The Companys infrastructure investments are registered in the name account advice from the Investment Adviser where appropriate.
of the General Partner, the Partnership, subsidiaries of the Partnership or their respective nominees.
Investment Adviser and Operator Under the Investment Advisory Agreement, JLCM, an investment A representative diagram of the Company structure is set out on manager authorised and regulated in the UK by the FSA, has been page 83. appointed by JLIF as its Investment Adviser.
JLCM has also been appointed as Operator of the Partnership through which JLIF conducts its investment activities and in its capacity as Operator of the Partnership acts as discretionary investment manager of the Companys investments within the strategic guidelines set out in the Partnership Agreement.
David Marshall and Andrew Charlesworth, both of whom are Directors of JLCM and lead its management team, are dedicated to advising JLIF and operating the Partnership.
