The Fund Managers have contributed 2.2% of Portfolio Value 8. growth through enhancing the assets The Investment Adviser David Marshall JLIF was able to create David Marshall is one of the two Fund Managers of JLIF and has over 12 years substantial value for its of infrastructure investment experience with John Laing.
Since launch in November 2010 David has co-led the development of JLIF, growing rapidly to a shareholders during a market cap of over 560 million, and raising new equity of around 520 million.
turbulent year in the capital JLIF is a member of the FTSE 250 and now owns 37 social infrastructure assets diversified across sectors and countries.
Prior to his current role he markets.
JLIFs growing was Chairman of the Investment Committee of John Laing that reviews all primary bidding activity, and sat on their project review committee for ten years.
dividend and high yield is David was group treasurer of the John Laing Group for seven years and was indicative of the Groups instrumental in the major corporate transactions that transformed the Group from a construction company to a leading PPP player.
He has substantial M&A strong overall performance.
experience that includes, over his career with John Laing, the buying and selling of PPP assets both on an individual basis and also within portfolios.
Prior to joining John Laing, David was group treasurer of two FTSE 100 companies.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales, a Fellow of the Association of Corporate Treasurers and a member of the Association of Investment Companies Infrastructure and Property Forum.
Andrew Charlesworth The secondary market continues Andrew Charlesworth is one of the two Fund Managers of JLIF and has over 17 to provide attractive acquisition years of experience in infrastructure development and finance.
Most recently Andrew has co-led the development of JLIF from IPO in November 2010 through opportunities, and with a new to becoming a FTSE 250 business with a market cap of over 560m.
This was financing facility in place, we achieved through the acquisition of 37 investment projects and raising around 520m in new equity in just two years.
He has directed the equity investment of a expect to continue to grow number of PPP projects across most sectors, delivering over 800 million of shareholder contributions into projects and raising over 1.5 billion of funding in the Portfolio prudently the last ten years.
Andrew has a multi-faceted understanding of the PPP market, throughout 2013. having acted as Adviser to authorities in the procurement of PPP projects and to the senior lenders funding them prior to becoming an equity sponsor.
Before moving into JLCM he led significant parts of the primary investment business within John Laing, initially as CEO of Regenter John Laings Social Housing PPP JV, then as Local Authority PPP Director and subsequently as Financial and Commercial Director for John Laing's global Investment business.
Andrew holds CFA UKs Investment Management Certificate.
JLIF Limited Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW 9.
JLIF increased the Portfolio Value Joanne Gibbins Joanne Gibbins is the Senior Analyst to JLCM primarily by in excess of 150m through responsible for managing acquisitions, reporting, research, and finance on behalf of JLIF.
In addition to providing fund acquisitions.
Over 40% of the management services to JLIF to deliver value to investors, investment in the year was Joanne has over nine years of experience in infrastructure investments, contributing to 31 projects and 2 billion of derived from third party vendors, funding.
Joanne holds a directorship on one of JLIFs assets.
Prior to August 2010, Joanne led the finance and commercial demonstrating JLIF's elements of multiple PPP projects across most sectors of competitiveness and presence the infrastructure market, both in the UK and internationally, and raised and invested project finance of approximately in the secondary market.
Previously, Joanne worked at Carillion, a  company, and gained significant experience in financial modelling for bidding and advising consortia on their investments.
Joanne holds the ACSI designation and is currently a CFA candidate, having passed both level 1 and level 2 exams.
Jamie Pritchard Through good management Jamie Pritchard is Investment Manager to JLCM, primarily focusing and leverage of our on the delivery of secure returns for client assets and the identification of value enhancing opportunities.
He serves as a operational expertise director on a number of project companies within the JLIF portfolio.
we have identified value Jamie has over 10 years of experience in infrastructure investments gained across both primary and secondary markets and has led a enhancement opportunities large number of secondary market PPP transactions.
His extensive portfolio management experience includes the successful delivery which have contributed of enhanced value to investors from PPP equity assets.
Jamie has to the strong underlying led the bidding and project financing of multiple projects across most sectors of the social infrastructure market, including transport, growth in the Portfolio healthcare and education.
He has raised and invested project finance in excess of 1bn.
Prior to joining John Laing, Jamie worked at Serco, a major outsourcing organisation, leading the commercial and financial structuring of bids across a range of sectors.
Jamie is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
