Investment Managers Report Market Review With the chances of another round of credit defaults seemingly receding especially in Europe 2012 rewarded investors who stayed with equities, and the US equity market was no exception.
The S&P 500 returned 10.5% in sterling terms for the year.
Reduced uncertainty within markets was a major theme: there were of course some uncomfortable moments but equity investors experienced much less drama than in the previous five years, and by the end of 2012 market measures of volatility had fallen to the lowest levels since the beginning of the financial crisis in 2007.
The US equity market has returned only 6% over the past five years with 17% volatility, so last years strong returns and realised volatility of only 6% well below long run averages were especially welcome.
The market improved considerably as the year progressed, helped by better returns from smaller stocks, better returns from value investing, and a sharp drop in intra-stock correlations.
The markets focus on high dividend paying names faded considerably in the last few months and for the year, the financial sector provided many of the best returns as the S&P financials gained 29%.
Unmistakable signs of a better housing market homebuilder stocks gained a spectacular 54% on average were one key factor for the financial stocks, and investors now appear to believe that the worst of the impact from the 2008 credit crisis has passed.
Unimpressive returns came from those sectors most exposed to the weakness in the global economy that was still very much a concern late in the year: energy and basic industry names underperformed the broader market and a few groups steel and gold miners actually fell sharply.
Many of the more defensive sectors also lagged the broader market, with utility stocks and consumer staples returning 3.5% and 5% respectively.
It was not always clear that this would be the case, but in the end the winning ingredients for stock selection in 2012 were stocks with more volatile characteristics, less predictable earnings and higher price earnings valuations.
The Companys net asset value total return in sterling terms rose by 8.6%, which was 1.9% less than our benchmark, the S&P 500 Index.
Overall Asset Allocation and Performance The investment management team is responsible for managing the allocation between the large and the small cap portfolios, together with the levels of cash and gearing.
In 2012, the Companys gearing net cash ranged between 4.4 % and 0.5 % of shareholders funds, with the level at the year end being 0.6 %.
The level of gearing has been adjusted at regular intervals within the overall gearing guidelines laid down by the Board to reflect the outlook on risk and return for both equities and bonds.
We remained ungeared throughout 2012 due to our concerns over the challenging economic and political backdrop.
Our cautious stance was, however, a negative factor in that the Company held a relatively high cash weighting and this resulted in a drag on performance of 1.1% as the market rallied for the period under review.
The weighting in the small cap portfolio ranged between 3.0% and 5.4% of the Companys total assets less current liabilities and ended the year at 5.4%.
We believe that our ability to move between the two segments enhances returns to shareholders and helps to balance our overall risk.
8 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Attribution data for 2012 shows that our larger companies portfolio was flat for the period and our smaller companies portfolio was a marginal detractor.
Large Companies Portfolio Our investment methodology continues to focus on investing in high quality, reasonably valued companies.
This style leads us to invest in companies that exhibit good growth characteristics with growing earnings, strong cash flows and reasonable valuations.
The large companies portfolio performed in line in terms of contribution for the period under review.
In terms of sectors where we added value, the portfolios consumer staples, utilities and technology positioning proved beneficial.
Our consumer staples performance was aided by both the stocks we owned such as Constellation Brands, as well as the stocks we did not own including soft drinks producers, Coca-Cola and PepsiCo.
When we state that not owning particular stocks has aided performance, this means that we did not hold certain stocks that are in our benchmark index, that lost value over the period: not holding these stocks allowed us to add value against the benchmark.
Within utilities, a lack of exposure to Exelon, Southern Company and Duke Energy added value.
In the technology sector, an overweight position in Apple and a new position in Hewlett Packard assisted performance.
Despite some recent softness, Apple has a leading footprint in the growing smartphone tablet markets and should be able to grow its earnings base over the next few years.
Sector Weightings of the Large Cap Portfolio versus S&P 500 as at 31st December 2012 Large Company Overweight Portfolio S&P 500 Underweight Sector % % % Technology 21.4 16.7 4.7 Health Care 16.3 11.9 4.4 Consumer Discretionary 14.7 13.4 1.3 Financial Services 14.2 17.0 2.8 Energy 12.5 11.0 1.5 Consumer Staples 7.1 9.2 2.1 Producer Durables 7.8 10.5 2.7 Utilities 5.0 6.3 1.3 Materials & Processing 1.0 4.0 3.0 Does not include small cap stocks and net current assets.
Based on the Russell Global Sector Classification.
The largest detractor from performance was weak stock selection in the financial services and consumer discretionary sectors.
Within financial services, a lack of 1 exposure to JPMorgan Chase and Visa impeded performance the most.
We have been increasing the portfolios exposure in this segment by adding to higher beta names such as Citigroup and Bank of America.
Regarding our performance in the consumer discretionary sector, our exposure to retailers Best Buy and Staples proved disappointing.
Best Buys share price slipped as the electronics retailer reported a second-quarter profit plunge of 90% and not only suspended its current 1 We are unable to hold JPMorgan Chase for regulatory reasons as it is our parent company.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 9 Investment Managers Report continued forecast but said that it would not provide a new outlook.
We continue to believe Performance attribution for the that the structural issues are overhyped, and that product cycle weakness is the year ended 31st December 2012 primary culprit of this ongoing concern.
The shares of Staples came under pressure Year ended Year ended after the office-supplies chain announced that fiscal second-quarter earnings fell 31st December 31st December 2012 2011 32%, prompting the company to trim its full-year outlook.
The company has since %% announced a restructuring plan that includes cutting its North American retail Contributions to total returns square footage by approximately 15% by the end of fiscal year 2015.
Net asset value total return The table below shows the largest positive and negative stock contributors to the in sterling terms 8.6 0.5 Companys portfolio performance in 2012: Benchmark total return in sterling terms 10.5 2.6 Relative Stock Return Weighting at in 2012 Contribution Excess return 1.9 2.1 Stock year end % % Contributions to total returns Large cap portfolio 0.2 0.2 Positive Contributors Allocationeffect 0.1 0.5 Apple Overweight 32.80.4 Selectioneffect 0.1 0.3 1 Hewlett Packard Overweight 43.1 0.3 Small cap portfolio 0.1 0.3 2 Intel 12.0 0.3 Allocationeffect 0.1 0.3 Gearing net cash 1.1 2.1 News Corp Overweight 44.3 0.3 Currency hedge 0.2 0.8 Time Warner Cable Overweight 57.0 0.2 Management fee expenses 0.7 0.7 Negative Contributors Total 1.9 2.1 Best Buy Overweight 47.3 0.4 Occidental Petroleum Overweight 16.1 0.3 Source: JPMAM and Morningstar.
All figures are on a total return basis.
Sandisk Overweight 11.50.3 Staples Overweight 15.10.3 Performance attribution analyses how 2 Comcast 60.8 0.3 the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark 1 Only held partly through the year and at year end.
2 Not held in the portfolio at year end.
A glossary of terms and definitions is Source: Wilshire.
Contribution figures are based on stock selection relative to the total contribution return, in US$.
Smaller Companies Portfolio US smaller companies marginally outperformed their large cap brethren in 2012.
However, our holding of the US smaller companies portfolio marginally detracted from performance for the year.
Stock selection in technology, our largest sector allocation, was the biggest contributor to performance: and stock selection in health care was the largest detractor.
The year presented a challenging environment for our investment style.
Stocks with higher growth expectations generally underperformed while those with lower valuations worked well, particularly during the difficult second quarter when multiples compressed.
Additionally, a rally in biotechnology during the second quarter, specifically from take-outs and speculative names which we did not own, further added to the difficult environment.
10 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 While performance improved during the third quarter due to the continued strength of the technology sector and better performance from our health care positions, the portfolio ended the year with a weak fourth quarter as the market began to sell off some of our outperforming stocks, particularly within technology.
Our base case remains that companies continue to look fundamentally attractive highlighted by strong earnings and balance sheets within the small cap space.
The small cap portfolio remains positioned for modest economic growth as secular growth drivers remain in place along with the added potential of a cyclical recovery, particularly in the still very depressed auto and housing sectors.
In relation to positioning, the small cap portfolio continues to be overweight in technology, as well as modestly overweight in health care and financial services.
The portfolio is underweight the materials and processing, producer durables and both of the consumer discretionary and staples sectors as we are finding less attractive investment ideas.
Outlook Investors were faced with three looming concerns going into 2012: the European debt crisis, an economic slowdown in China and US fiscal policy.
During the year, the European debt crisis worries receded while the economic data has turned more positive in China.
In the US, the fiscal cliff legislation was passed on New Years Day 2013 and the market has responded very positively to this news in the short term.
However, as tough as the tax debate was, more contentious negotiations lie ahead as Republicans are likely to demand spending cuts and entitlement reform before agreeing to raise the debt ceiling.
As the US approaches the absolute limits of the debt ceiling with no agreement imminent, we expect markets to be more volatile.
While investors may continue to concentrate largely on the events occurring in Washington, it is important to focus on what we believe remains a modestly favourable environment for equities.
Central banks across the globe remain accommodative.
The US economy continues to rebound from the disruptions caused by Hurricane Sandy and the improvement in the housing market remains solid.
Despite posting double digit returns for 2012, equity valuations remain reasonably attractive.
All but the more defensive utilities and telecom sectors trade at forward P E multiples of at least 15% below their 15-year averages.
Reaching an agreement on the debt ceiling and fostering credible long term deficit reduction could be what we see as the last of the significant macro hurdles.
It would be a welcome relief for markets to focus on the robust fundamentals of corporate America and not on the growing fiscal problems of the US government.
Garrett Fish Investment Manager 18th March 2013 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
