Board of Directors Sarah Bates Chairman of the Board and Nomination & Remuneration Committee A Director since 2005.
Last reappointed to the Board: 2012.
Director of the Association of Investment Companies, St. Jamess Place plc, New India Investment Trust plc, Witan Pacific Investment Trust plc, Polar Capital Technology Trust plc and Development Securities plc.
Mrs Bates is also Chairman of the Stena Line UK Pension Scheme, of Rutley Russia Property Fund and the Kings Corner Project and sits on or is advisor to various pension fund and charitable investment committees.
She publishes a guide to investment jargon and was formerly CEO of Invescos UK Institutional including investment trusts business.
Shared directorships with other Directors: None.
Until June 2005 Director of Corporate Communications at Cazenove & Co. Mrs Bolsover was previously Managing Director of Signature Financial Group.
She is Deputy Chairman of Tomorrows People Trust Limited and a Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Fidelity Asian Values plc.
Last reappointed to the Board: Seeking initial appointment by shareholders at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Chairman of corporate finance at Oriel Securities Limited, a UK corporate and institutional broker which he co-founded in 2002.
Having qualified as a Chartered Accountant at KPMG, Mr Bragg previously worked at Hoare Govett, Cargill and HSBC.
22 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Sir Alan S Collins A Director since 2012.
Sir Alan Collins has recently retired from the British Diplomatic Service, during which he held a number of Ambassador appointments and was until August 2011, Director General Trade and Investment USA in New York.
He was Managing Director of Olympics Legacy in United Kingdom Trade and Investment.
He is non-executive Chairman of Nair & Co Limited and Powertec Energy Limited and a non-executive Director of Amlin plc, Prudential Assurance Singapore Limited and ICICI Bank UK plc.
James G Fox Chairman of the Audit Committee A Director since 2003.
A Director of Miton Worldwide Growth Investment Trust plc.
Mr Fox has more than forty years experience of investment management and is a former Deputy Chairman of the Association of Investment Companies.
Mr Williams has been professionally involved in the investment management industry for over 35 years.
He retired from Baring Asset Management in 2002, where he was Chief Investment Officer and head of global investment strategy.
He is a Director of Investors Capital Trust plc and Prosperity Russia Domestic Fund plc.
Member of the Audit Committee.
All Directors are considered independent by the Board and are members of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
