Investment Managers Report Results Your Companys financial year has been a challenging period for investment markets and this is reflected in a decline both in share prices generally and in the value of the Companys assets.
While emerging markets fell by 14%, as measured by the MSCI index, the net asset value of the Companys portfolio declined by 11.6% on an undiluted basis, and by 10.4% when dilution which is itself reduced by declining markets is taken into account.
It is of course disappointing to report negative results, but the Companys history so far has shown that patience and a focus on longer term outcomes can bring satisfactory results and there is no reason to expect that the future will be any different.
Further analysis of these results is given in the table on page 5, which shows a positive contribution both from stock selection within markets and from asset allocation.
Although we appear to have made most of the excess performance by being in the right countries, our decisions were always made by finding stocks that we liked and this in turn led us to have more money invested in some places than in others.
The past year The financial year began with a sharp fall in markets during the late summer of 2011 as the crisis in the Euro zone rumbled onwards and the US government nearly failed to approve its own borrowing requirement.
The Euro crisis was to provide something of a refrain through the year and acted as the main determinant of market direction an effect that extended into emerging markets as well: when policy measures seemed to be addressing Europes problems, equities rose: when delay or political differences surfaced, they fell.
Briefly, in September 2011, there was a whiff of real fear to be detected in financial markets and we found share prices offering significant value.
Emerging markets subsequently rallied strongly, rising by more than a quarter, before slipping back again in February.
Since then, there has been little clear direction in markets, though volatility has continued through the summer and into September.
There has also been plenty of divergence within the asset class: Thailand and the Philippines were among the few markets to rise in value during the 12 months to June, while larger countries like India and Brazil had poor years, both seeing declines of more than a quarter in sterling terms.
In addition to economic factors, politics has played a prominent part this year.
In Russia a predictable election result saw Vladimir Putin returned for his third term as President, though with more popular opposition than was perhaps expected.
India had a dreadful year: the economy was already experiencing an inflationary hangover after the boom of 2005-2007, but the last couple of years have added corruption scandals and political paralysis to the mix: one consequence has been a steep slide in the value of the rupee.
As I write, the biggest emerging market of all, China, is about to embark on a transition to new leadership.
In all cases, political change increases uncertainty, and at best defers or stalls decision-making: some element of recent market returns is probably attributable to these moments of hiatus.
4 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Activity is the enemy of investment Performance attribution for the year As readers of previous reports will know, we tend to alter the portfolio relatively little.
ended 30th June 2012 During this last year, we changed just under 15% of the investments by value, adding %% 11 new companies and selling out completely from four others.
Contributions to total returns The companies we added varied widely, but included Discovery Holdings, an Benchmark 14.0 innovative insurance company from South Africa, and Mahindra & Mahindra Asset allocation 2.7 Financial Services, a consumer lending business serving rural India.
We also bought Stock selection 1.3 Delta Electronics, a Taiwanese manufacturer, and Tiger Brands, the leading food Gearing cash 0.2 company in Africa.
There is no common thread in their activity or location, but these Currency 0.3 companies do share characteristics that we look for: good economics, a strong Investment Manager market position that is likely to last and management focused on building value for contribution 3.9 the benefit of all shareholders, all available at valuations that promise good returns in Portfolio return 10.1 the future.
The net effect of these changes was to change the distribution of the Management fee portfolio as explained by the table on page 11.
Of note are an increase in your Other expenses 1.2 Companys South African investments and a decrease in exposure to Russia.
Performance fee 0.2 Portfolio return net of fees Future opportunities and expenses 11.5 Fundamental returns from equity markets are driven by dividends and by growth in Exercise of Subscription dividends, which must stem from higher profits to be sustainable.
On top of this, shares during the year 0.1 valuations can of course rise and fall and when investing in another country, Undiluted return on net currencies can also affect returns for investors.
assets 11.6 As I write, emerging markets are well below long term averages as far as valuation is Dilution effect of potential exercise concerned: accordingly, this is one thing that we do not worry about.
In fact a general of remaining improvement in investor confidence should allow valuations to rise from current Subscription levels.
shares 1.2 Diluted return on Growth, on the other hand, is a more complex area.
While revenue growth in net assets 10.4 emerging markets has comfortably exceeded that of the developed world in the last Impact of change in couple of years, profit growth has not.
Corporate margins in emerging markets have discount 0.1 been squeezed by a number of factors, some of which are cyclical exchange rates, Return to Ordinary input costs, other less so.
In some areas, company profitability has been very high shareholders 10.5 and these cost increases are simply correcting it to more normal levels: in other Source: Xamin Datastream Morningstar.
places, government policy has been to push wage growth up.
Finally, competition is All figures are on a total return basis.
This latter factor has been provoked both by the increased opening of markets and by greater interest from multinational Performance attribution analyses how corporations.
The dismantling of protectionism has led to lower import tariffs and the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark.
less restriction of ownership in key industries.
While this has made it possible for international companies to grow into emerging markets, the dull economic outlook in A glossary of terms and definitions is the developed world has made them all the more keen to do so: accordingly they provided on page 60. have become a much more significant factor in local competition than was the case a decade ago.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 5 Investment Managers Report continued We expect that corporate revenues in emerging markets will continue to grow, reflecting the underlying growth in economies which will continue to exceed that of the developed world.
But to translate that revenue growth into higher earnings per share and higher dividends per share, companies will need to increase productivity, withstand competition, invest their cash flow competently and avoid the dilution of shareholders interests.
It is therefore more important than ever to judge companies capabilities accurately, since their capacity to cope with future trends varies widely.
Some companies in emerging markets are simply outstanding businesses, run to the highest standards and managed with skill and prudence to deliver long term returns to their owners.
These companies stand comparison with any business from the developed world and we will own them unless their valuations are wholly unpalatable: Taiwan Semiconductor, the worlds leading producer of semiconductor chips, and AIA, a life insurance business with a leading franchise across much of Asia, are just a couple of examples of large businesses which feature prominently in your Companys portfolio today.
It also holds some smaller companies like Cafe fide Coral, which opened its first restaurant in 1969 and over four decades has become the largest Chinese fast food restaurant chain in Hong Kong: and Top Glove, a Malaysian company which is the worlds leading producer of latex gloves.
In addition to businesses which have grown independently from emerging market roots, the portfolio contains several companies which are subsidiaries of multinational companies, listed locally within their area of operation: Unilever Indonesia and BAT Malaysia are two of the more obvious ones: Ambuja Cements and ACC are part of the Swiss Holcim group, while United Breweries, also in India, has Heineken as a large minority shareholder.
All these businesses have just the kind of staying power that we are looking for.
But not all companies are like this: there are many others which do not stand out from the crowd and in some the risks borne by shareholders can become all too apparent: the competence and motives of owners and managers can vary enormously: not all owners understand that life is different as a listed company and not all managers have long experience, or good judgement.
As long term investors in the asset class, it is vital for us to make judgements about which companies fall into which categories and this is the reason why our team of specialists puts such an emphasis on meeting the decision-makers and on visiting companies in person and conducts hundreds of such discussions with company managers every year.
In the best cases, economics, staying power and governance all come into alignment: and then we need to be patient until valuations also do the same.
If we can exercise our judgement consistently and invest in a well diversified portfolio of good businesses, then we should be confident that shareholders will capture the opportunity of emerging markets in the years ahead.. Austin Forey Investment Manager 5th October 2012 6 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
