Directors and governance Board of directors 36 Board of directors 38 Directors report 43 Corporate governance 54 Audit Committee report 59 Nomination Committee report 61 Remuneration Committee report 76 Statement of directors responsibilities 77 Independent auditors report to the members of BTG plc Garry Watts Louise Makin 1 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Garry Watts, FCA, MBE, joined the Board of Louise Makin, MA, PhD Cantab, MBA, joined BTG as non-executive Chairman in January BTG as Chief Executive Officer in October 2012.
2004 and she is a non-executive director of Premier Foods plc.
Garry is Chairman of Spire Healthcare and of The GADAGroup.
He is the senior From 2001, she was President, independent director of Stagecoach Biopharmaceuticals Europe of Baxter Group plc and a non-executive director of Healthcare, where she was responsible for Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. Until December Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
Louise 2010, he was for seven years CEO of joined Baxter Healthcare in 2000 as Vice SSL International plc and before that CFO.
President, Strategy & Business Development Garry is a former partner at KPMG.
Before joining Baxter, she was previously an executive director of Celltech Director of Global Ceramics at English China plc and of Medeva plc and a non-executive Clay and prior to that she held a variety of director of Protherics PLC.
Other roles have roles at ICI between 1985 and 1998. included 17 years as a member of the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency Supervisory Board.
Rolf Soderstrom Peter Chambr Chief Financial Officer Non-executive director Rolf Soderstrom, BA, ACA, joined BTG as Peter Chambr joined BTG as a non-executive Chief Financial Officer in December 2008 director in September 2006.
Peter is from Protherics PLC, where he was Finance Chairman of Xellia Pharmaceuticals AS, Director from August 2007.
OneMed AB, Cancer Research Technology Ltd and 7TM Pharma A S. He is also a From 2004, he was a Divisional Finance non-executive director of Spectris plc, the Director of Cobham plc, managing a portfolio precision instrumentation and controls of businesses across Europe and the USA.
From 2000 he was a Director of Corporate Finance at Cable & Wireless plc.
Prior to Peter was Chief Executive Officer of this, he worked in the Corporate Recovery Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc and Corporate Finance Department of from 2002 until its acquisition by  after qualifying AstraZeneca plc in 2006.
Previously he was as a Chartered Accountant.
Chief Operating Officer of Celera Genomics Group and Chief Executive of Bespak plc.
36 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors and governance Key to Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee 1 Committee chairman 1 Giles Kerr Melanie Lee Non-executive director Non-executive director Giles Kerr, FCA, joined BTG as a non-executive Melanie Lee, PhD, CBE, FMedSci, DSc Hons, director in October 2007 and is the joined BTG as a non-executive director in Companys Senior Independent Director.
Giles is currently the Director of Finance with Melanie is the Chief Executive Officer of the University of Oxford, UK.
He is also a Syntaxin Limited, a Founder and director of non-executive director of Victrex plc, Elan the pharmaceutical consultancy Think10, and Corporation plc and Isis Innovation Ltd. a non-executive director of H Lundbeck A S. Previously Giles was the Group Finance Melanie was previously the Chair of Cancer Director and Chief Financial Officer of Research Technology and a Trustee and Amersham plc, acquired by GE Healthcare Deputy-Chair of Cancer Research UK.
Prior to his role at Amersham, he her career Melanie has held a number of was a partner with Arthur Andersen in the UK.
positions at Glaxo, GlaxoWellcome, Celltech He is a graduate of the University of York.
In 2008, Melanie was honoured with a CBE for her services to Medical Science.
1 Ian Much Jim OShea Non-executive director Non-executive director Ian Much joined BTG as a non-executive Jim OShea joined BTG as a non-executive director in August 2010. director in April 2009.
He is a director of Zalicus Inc. Trevi Therapeutics, Inc. and MAP Ian is currently a non-executive director and Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and a former Chairman the senior independent director of Chemring of the US National Pharmaceuticals Council.
Ian was Chief Executive of fide La Rue plc between 1998 From 2007 to 2008, he was Vice Chairman and 2004 and Chief Executive of T&N plc of Sepracor, Inc. where he was also between 1996 and 1998.
Previous nonPresident and Chief Operating Officer from executive director appointments include 1999 to 2007.
Previously Jim was Senior Manchester United plc, Camelot plc and Vice President of Sales & Marketing and Admiral plc.
Medical Affairs for Zeneca Pharmaceuticals US, a business unit of Zeneca Inc.
While at Zeneca, he held several management positions of increasing responsibility in international sales and marketing in the US and the UK.
37 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors and governance
