Market Overview Although demand for thermal coal continues to grow, increases in supply led to a weakening of price in 2012.
Demand for thermal coal Demand for seaborne thermal coal continued to grow in 2012, driven particularly by China, Japan and India.
Global market demand increased by around 2% to an estimated 820 mt, a growth that was reflected in the Companys key Asian markets.
Demand was primarily linked to power consumption: worldwide, coal provides around 40% of all electricity generation: in China this figure stands at 77% and in India at 68%.
During the year power consumption increased on aggregate 9.4% across China and India as a whole, reflecting strong GDP growth rates in both countries.
Significant increase in supply 2012 also saw significant increases in supply, particularly from Australia and Indonesia.
There was also an increase in supply from the US, with coal companies seeking export markets in Asia as lower cost domestic shale gas impacted US domestic thermal coal demand.
This combination resulted in a weakening of global coal prices in 2012 as supply outstripped demand.
On average the Newcastle Index fell 21% between 2011 and 2012.
In the third quarter the Newcastle benchmark dropped to below $83 tonne, leading some higher cost producers to close mines and reduce production.
Higher cost Australian producers and smaller, less efficient mines were particularly badly hit.
As a consequence of the sharp decline in thermal coal prices, certain trades with other producers were not honoured and shipments were sold into the market at very low spot rates, exacerbating the impact.
Pricing Prices started to recover towards the end of the year as demand particularly for sub-bituminous coals increased in China and India.
The impact of US coal exports is likely to be less significant in 2013, as US gas prices have increased and coal is now more competitive domestically.
However, rail infrastructure improvements in China have made domestically sourced coal more competitive with the import market in key coastal towns.
Global economic summary and outlook During 2012, the Eurozone continued to experience flat or negative growth, whereas the US began showing signs of recovery.
Thermal coal prices are forecast to increase in the medium term, albeit more slowly than in recent years as growth begins to normalise in most regions.
As a result of market conditions, we are deferring a number of capital expenditures and undertaking a comprehensive review of future spending plans.
We are also pursuing a number of short and long term cost reduction initiatives across the business.
India and China: Key drivers for thermal coal growth In India and China, coal fuelled power generation provides the majority of electricity to the grid.
Over the medium term, although the rate of growth reduced during 2012 both India and China are expected to increase coal demand as new power stations are completed.
Demand for sub-bituminous coal has remained buoyant especially in India, which is a particularly price sensitive market.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 10
