Board of Directors Samin Tan Chairman Samin Tan was appointed to the Board on 26 March 2012 and became Chairman of the Company replacing Indra Bakrie.
He is the President Director of Renaissance Capital.
Between 2007 and 2011 Samin headed PT Borneo Lumbung Energi & Metal Tbk PT Borneo as its President Director.
Prior to this, he was Deputy Managing Partner of the Indonesian consulting practice of Deloitte Touche and Head of the Indonesian tax practice of Deloitte Touche.
Nick von Schirnding Chief Executive Officer Nick von Schirnding was appointed as Chief Executive Officer CEO on 31st December 2012.
Prior to joining Bumi plc in May 2011, Nick was a senior executive at Anglo American plc, where he played a key role in the listing of the Group in London.
Prior to this Nick worked for fide Beers in the Indian diamond industry and also spent time heading up a venture capital company for Anglo American in South Africa.
Scott Merrillees Chief Financial Officer Scott Merrillees was appointed to the Board on 26 March 2012 and became Chief Financial Officer CFO, replacing Andrew Beckham.
Prior to that he served as Director of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations at PT Borneo.
He previously served as South East Asia Head of Natural Resources for ANZ Bank and President Director for BNP Paribas Securities Indonesia.
Other roles have included Research Director for UBS Securities Ltd in Indonesia and Research Director for Morgan Grenfell in Indonesia.
On 16 April 2013, the Company announced that it has commenced the search for a new unaffiliated CFO as Scott will not be seeking re-election at the Companys AGM on 26 June 2013 at which time he will stand down as CFO of the Company.
Alexander Ramlie Non-Executive Director Alexander Ramlie is currently the President Director and Chief Executive Officer of PT Borneo, having previously been Chief Operating Officer.
Prior to this he was Managing Director of Ancora Capital Management Pte Ltd, a private equity fund management firm.
Alexander began his career as an investment banker at Lazard Frres & Co.
Independent Non-Executive Directors Sir Julian Horn-Smith Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Sir Julian Horn-Smith is the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director of the Company.
Sir Julian has spent more than 25 years in the telecommunications sector, after joining Vodafone Group at its foundation.
He held a number of senior and general management posts with Vodafone from 1984 to 2006, including as Group Chief Operating Officer from 2001 and then as deputy CEO from 2005.
Prior to his time at Vodafone, Sir Julian previously held positions in Philips from 1978 to 1982 and Mars GB from 1982 to 1984.
Sir Julian is currently a member of the board of directors of Acer Inc and Digicel Ltd.
He was also previously a director on the board of Lloyds Banking Group plc and fide La Rue plc.
Sir Julian is also the Pro Chancellor of the University of Bath.
Lord Robin Renwick Non-Executive Director Lord Robin Renwick had a diplomatic career spanning over 30 years, including serving as British Ambassador to South Africa from 1987 to 1991 and to the US from 1991 to 1995.
Lord Renwick is currently Vice-Chairman of Investment Banking at JP Morgan Europe and Vice Chairman of JP Morgan Cazenove.
He is also a director of Compagnie Financiere Richemont AG and Kazakhmys plc and deputy Chairman of Fleming Family & Partners.
Lord Renwick has also previously served as a director of, amongst others, BHP Billiton plc, Harmony Gold Mining Company Limited, British Airways plc, Fluor Corporation and SABMiller plc.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 28 Board of Directors continued Steven Shapiro Non-Executive Director Steve Shapiro served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Burlington Resources Inc. from October 2000 to April 2006.
During his tenure at Burlington Resources, Inc. Steve also served as a member of the board of directors and a member of the office of Chairman.
He is a member of the board of directors of Barrick Gold Corporation.
During his career Steve has served as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and a director at Vastar Resources, Inc. and spent 16 years in various roles of increasing responsibility with Atlantic Richfield Company ARCO.
He is also trustee of the Houston Museum of Natural Science.
Sir Graham Hearne Non-Executive Director Sir Graham Hearne retired in 2002 as Chairman of Enterprise Oil plc, a London Stock Exchange and NYSE listed oil and gas exploration and production company, where he had held that position since 1991, previously serving as Chief Executive from 1984 to 1991.
Sir Graham currently serves as Chairman of Braemar Shipping Services Group plc.
Sir Graham is a non-executive director at Rowan Companies Inc. a drilling company and Genel Energy plc, an oil and gas company.
Sir Graham qualified as a solicitor in England and Wales in 1959 and practised law in England and the US from 1959 to 1967, following which he joined as an executive of the Industrial Reorganisation Corporation and then as an executive director of NM Rothschild & Sons Limited.
He was subsequently appointed Finance Director of Courtaulds plc and then as Chief Executive of two publicly listed oil and gas companies.
He has variously served as a director of a number of public and private companies including Gallaher Group plc, Wellcome plc, Reckitt & Colman plc, Novar plc and Catlin Group Limited.
Sir Graham was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1990 and a Knight Bachelor in 1998 for services to the oil industry.
Amir Sambodo Non-Executive Director Amir Sambodo is currently President Commissioner of PT Teknopreneur Indonesia, publisher of a business technology magazine and President Commissioner of PT Techno Venture, business incubator and venture capital provider for start-up technology companies.
He was formerly President Director of PT Tuban Petrochemicals Industries.
Prior to this, Amir was President Commissioner of PT Krakatau Steel and has held several posts within the Indonesian Government.
From 1999-2000 Amir was an Adviser to the Chairman of IBRA Indonesian Bank Restructuring Agency.
In 2001 he was Acting Deputy Minister for Corporate Restructuring and from 2002-2004 Amir was an Adviser to the Minister of Research and Technology.
He is currently Special Adviser to the Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs and a member of the National Innovation Committee.
Graham Holdaway Non-Executive Director Graham Holdaway is an accountant with experience in the electricity, oil and gas, and mining sectors.
Graham has commercial and public policy advisory experience in Australia, Indonesia, and Papua New Guinea.
Graham was previously with KPMG where he was responsible for various practice areas including infrastructure energy policy and access regulation.
He joined KPMG in 1984 and was a Partner in the Australian or Indonesian practices from 1988 to 2010.
Graham is currently a Commissioner of PT Apexindo Pratama Duta Tbk.
Graham is a Chartered Accountant and has a Bachelor of Commerce and Administration and a Diploma in Accounting from Victoria University of Wellington.
Sir Richard Gozney Non-Executive Director Sir Richard Gozney was appointed as an independent non-executive director of the Company on 21 February 2013.
Richard was a British diplomat for 39 years, starting his overseas assignments with four years in Indonesia in the mid-1970s, later serving in Buenos Aires and Madrid, before four years as Private Secretary to the British Foreign Secretaries Geoffrey Howe, John Major and Douglas Hurd.
He served as Ambassador or High Commissioner three times, to Swaziland in the 1990s, to Indonesia from 2000 to 2004 and to Nigeria from 2004 to 2007.
Richard finished his public service career as Governor of Bermuda, retiring in 2012.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 29
