Board Committees Audit Committee Members Meetings attended in 2012 Lord Renwick Chairman 5 5 Steven Shapiro 5 5 Sir Graham Hearne 5 5 Sony Harsono resigned 15 March 2013 3 5 Amir Sambodo 5 5 Graham Holdaway joined the Committee on 14 June 2012 3 3 All members of the Audit Committee in 2012 were INEDs and Messrs. Holdaway, Shapiro and Harsono had recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Governance Code.
Mr Harsono resigned from the Board and the Audit Committee on 15 March 2013.
The meetings of this Committee are normally attended by the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the external auditors who have direct access to the Chairman of the Committee and the Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk.
At the end of every meeting the Committee has the opportunity to meet alone with the Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk and the external auditors.
The secretary to the Committee is the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
The Chairman of the Committee reports to subsequent meetings of the Board and the Board receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting once these have been approved by the Committee.
The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Companys website, www.
com, or can be obtained from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
 LLP PwC has been the Companys external auditor since 11 April 2011.
Role of the Committee The Audit Committees remit includes the following: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, including reviewing significant financial reporting judgments contained in them: reviewing the effectiveness of the procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risk: monitoring the role and effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function including approving the annual programme of internal audit work and the appointment or removal of the Head of Internal Audit: reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls and taking timely action to address matters arising from the work of Internal Audit: reviewing arrangements by which staff may in confidence raise concerns about possible improprieties regarding financial reporting and other matters: considering and making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the external auditors, including approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors: reviewing the scope of the external auditors annual audit programme and the results from their work: monitoring and reviewing the external auditors independence and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into account the planning of, and results from, their work: and developing, implementing and monitoring compliance with a policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non audit services.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 36 Board Committees continued Activities during the year The Audit Committee met five times during 2012.
The annual work programme includes meeting prior to the publication of the Companys full and half year results as well as other regular scheduled items, areas considered to require particular focus and matters arising.
Since the beginning of 2012, the Audit Committee: reviewed the December 2012 annual report and financial statements and June 2012 half year results: reviewed and requested the reinforcement of the need for compliance with the matters reserved to the Board: delegated authorities and related party transactions policies: monitored the Groups exposure to litigation through reports at each Committee meeting: oversaw the recruitment of a Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk who commenced in October 2012: oversaw the review of the accounting treatment of PT Bumi and recommended to the Board that PT Bumi should be accounted for as an investment as it was no longer appropriate for the Company to account for its shareholding in PT Bumi as an associate: monitored the Groups financial reporting and risk management processes: reviewed the Group accounting policies: recommended for approval the Groups budget and five year plan: conducted regular reviews of balance sheet items, including the carrying value of assets and the status of related party balances and, in particular, oversaw an investigation into PT Beraus investment in Chateau and the impairment of PT Berau goodwill: reviewed managements reporting of reserves and resources: reviewed the process designed to ensure the external auditors are aware of all relevant information as required under Sections 418 and 419 of the Companies Act: reviewed the work undertaken to support the going concern statement: reviewed the management representation letter to the external auditors: oversaw the development of Anti-Bribery and Corruption procedures: oversaw the implementation of Anti-Bribery and Corruption procedures and a whistleblowing hotline for Bumi plc in London: oversaw the review of the disclosure of related party balances, including a specific exercise conducted by Internal Audit: required the cancellation of certain contracts and transactions entered into by PT Berau which were not considered to be in the best interests of the Group: and commissioned an extensive review of the financial position of PT Berau which resulted in the identification of other exceptional costs and other reclassifications and restatements noted in these financial statements.
During the period, the Audit Committee received regular reports, including internal audit reports, regarding the Companys risk management and internal control systems which allowed it to monitor key matters, performance against objectives and follow up on actions to be taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from such reports.
The Committee is also responsible for managing the relationship with the Companys external auditors, PwC, on behalf of the Board.
The Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and carries out an annual assessment taking into consideration their qualifications and expertise, regulatory requirements and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Following their assessment in respect of 2012, the Committee has concluded that the external auditors have demonstrated appropriate qualifications and expertise, have remained independent of the Group and that the audit process was effective.
Accordingly, the Committee recommended to the Board that PwC be reappointed as the Groups auditors for a further year.
The Board has accepted this recommendation and a resolution to shareholders proposing the reappointment of PwC will be set out in the AGM Notice which will be sent separately to shareholders.
The Committee also reviewed PwCs engagement letter and determined its remuneration in accordance with the authority given to it by shareholders, such remuneration being considered appropriate by the Committee.
The Committee has approved a policy which provides clear guidance regarding non-audit work that may be undertaken by the external auditors.
Whilst the Committee believes that in certain circumstances it is appropriate for non-audit work to be undertaken by the external auditors these are limited and, in a normal year, total non-audit fees paid to the external auditors would be expected to be lower than total audit fees.
At each meeting, the Committee reviews the nature and amount of non-audit work performed by the auditors, as well as the fees charged, with a particular focus on ensuring that their engagement for such services does not undermine the auditors independence and objectivity.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 37 Board Committees continued An analysis of fees paid in respect of audit and non-audit services provided by PwC for 2012 is set out in Note 7 to the Financial Statements.
Having reviewed such non-audit services the Committee is satisfied that they were provided efficiently by the external auditors and did not compromise their independence or objectivity.
Nomination Committee Members Meetings attended in 2012 Sir Julian-Horn Smith, Chairman 3 3 Philip Yeo resigned 15 March 2013 1 3 Lord Renwick 3 3 Amir Sambodo 3 3 Graham Holdaway joined the Committee on 25 March 2013 N A Role of the Committee The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the structure and composition of the Board: identifying, evaluating and recommending candidates to join the Board: and making recommendations regarding their election and re-election by shareholders.
The Committee also oversees succession planning for the Directors and other senior executives and, with the SID, the annual evaluation of the Board and its Committees.
The Nomination Committee reviews the background and profiles of new proposed Board members using independent external consultants and search firms when appropriate and interviews are also carried out before candidates are recommended to the Board.
The Committee recognises the importance of diversity and when recruiting ensures that there are no obstacles to the Committee having visibility of suitable candidates for possible appointment to the Board, in particular regardless of gender.
Under the terms of the Bakrie Groups relationship agreement, the Bakrie Group can nominate for appointment up to three Directors for the positions of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, subject to the Bakrie Group retaining control of 15% of the votes able to be cast at general meetings of the Company.
This relationship agreement was entered into as part of the original transaction in November 2010.
Notwithstanding the existence of this relationship agreement, the Board appointed a CEO with no affiliation with any shareholder on 31 December 2012 and has appointed The Inzito Partnership and Russell Reynolds Associates to conduct searches for an independent chairman and unaffiliated CFO.
The members of the Committee are all INEDs and free of any relationship that would affect their impartiality in carrying out their responsibilities.
Activities during the year During the year under review, the Nomination Committee met three times.
Its activities during the year covered the following: In February 2012 the Company received a request for a General Meeting from Borneo Bumi Energi & Metal Pte.
Ltd. to change the members of the Board.
Following discussions between the Board and Borneo Bumi Energi & Metal Pte.
Ltd. the notice was withdrawn and Messrs. Tan, Rathod and Merrillees were nominated under the Bakrie Group Relationship Agreement and appointed as Chairman, CEO and CFO, respectively.
At the 2012 AGM Messrs. Holdaway and Mizrahi were appointed as INEDs and Mr Ramlie was appointed a non-executive director, all of which were the subject of detailed background checks by an independent consultant followed by meetings with, at a minimum, the SID and one other member of the Nomination Committee before being recommended to the Board.
Following Mr Rathods decision to resign from the position as CEO at the end of 2012 and the Bakrie Groups decision not to exercise its right to nominate the CEO under their relationship agreement, the Committee considered the options available to the Company and recommended the appointment of Nick von Schirnding to the Board as CEO.
Nick von Schirnding joined the Company in 2011 as the Group Head of Communications and Investor Relations and was appointed as CEO on the basis of his 20 years experience with Anglo American and his performance since he joined the Company, during which he has demonstrated that he has the commercial skills and experience to deal with the complex Indonesian stakeholder issues necessary to negotiate a separation from the Bakrie Group and take the Company forwards.
The recommendation to appoint Nick von Schirnding to the Board as CEO was unanimously adopted by the Board.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 38 Board Committees continued In 2013, the Committee appointed independent search firms to conduct searches for an independent chairman and unaffiliated CFO to replace Messrs. Tan and Merrillees respectively.
The Nomination Committee has reviewed the performance of Directors in connection with the AGM Notice.
The performance of the Chairman has not been formally evaluated as he will be stepping down following completion of the Proposed Separation.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committees principal responsibility is for setting, reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval Bumi plcs overall remuneration policy and strategy, and the setting of remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors and management.
Full details of the Committees responsibilities, and a report of its activities during the year, are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 51.
Conflicts Committee Members Meetings attended in 2012 Steven Shapiro Chairman 2 2 Sony Harsono resigned 15 March 2013 2 2 Lord Renwick 2 2 Philip Yeo resigned 15 March 2013 2 2 Graham Holdaway appointed 25 March 2013 N A Role of the Committee The Conflicts Committee assists the Board to oversee any conflicts of interest concerning Directors including, but not limited to, potential conflicts arising from personal investment activities and other professional activities such as directorships with third parties and related party transactions involving the Company, its shareholders or any Director.
Activities during the year The Conflicts Committee met twice during the year under review.
As referred to in the report on Governance, notwithstanding that an appropriate governance framework was in place throughout the year, the Boards review of the effectiveness of its system of internal controls revealed that former PT Berau management had not fully complied with Group policies relating to the disclosure and approval of related party transactions.
As mentioned in the report on Governance, the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board oversaw a review of the disclosure of related party balances and the results of this exercise were shared with the Conflicts Committee.
The actions that have been taken or are planned to address the issues identified in the Boards review are set out on page 35.
Health, Safety, Environment and Communities Committee Members Meetings attended in 2012 Amir Sambodo Chairman 3 3 Philip Yeo resigned 15 March 2013 2 3 Sony Harsono resigned 15 March 2013 3 3 Tony Redman Technical Advisor 3 3 Sir Richard Gozney appointed 25 March 2013 N A Bumi plc Annual Report Page 39 Board Committees continued Role of Committee The Committee assists the Board in overseeing management processes, standards and strategies designed to manage risks regarding health, safety, the environment and relationships with communities together referred to as HSEC.
To enhance its effectiveness and ensure objectivity in the delivery of its key responsibilities, one of the members of the HSEC Committee, Tony Redman, is a technical advisor with extensive mining experience having worked in the mining industry for nearly 40 years with Anglo American plc latterly as Group Technical Director before his retirement.
In addition, the HSEC Committee has also appointed PwC to support the HSEC Committee.
The members of the HSEC Committee are all independent and free of any relationship that would affect their impartiality in carrying out their responsibilities.
Activities during the year The HSEC Committee met three times during the year under review.
A report on HSEC in 2012 is set out on pages 19 to 24.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 40
