Other Statutory Information This section contains additional information which the Directors are required by law and regulation to include within the Annual Report.
This section along with the Operating Review on pages 11 to 12, Financial Review on pages 13 to 16, and Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 25 to 27 contains the information required for a management report as set out in the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs and takes account of the best practice guidance contained in the Accounting Standards Boards Reporting Statement Operating and Financial Review.
Company registration Bumi plc is domiciled in England and incorporated and registered in England and Wales with the registered number 7460129.
Its registered office is 2nd Floor, 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7HJ.
Principal activities Bumi plc is a leading FTSE listed thermal coal group with interests in the largest coal producing assets in Indonesia through its 85% holding in PT Berau and 29% holding in PT Bumi.
Business review The Company is required by the Companies Act to include a business review in this report.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be found on pages 1 to 27, which are incorporated in this report by reference.
Share Capital The Company has two classes of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income: Voting Ordinary Shares, and Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares.
At the date of this Annual Report, the issued share capital of the Company comprised 180,514,285 Voting Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each representing approximately 74.90% of the total issued share capital and 60,442,782 Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each representing approximately 25.08% of the total issued share capital On 28 February 2011, 50,000 Redeemable Deferred Shares were allotted and issued fully paid up for cash to enable the Company to satisfy the minimum share capital requirement for it to be reregistered as a public company under the Companies Act.
These Redeemable Deferred Shares were redeemed on 31 October 2012.
Share rights The rights and obligations attached to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, and without prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares or class of shares, any share may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution determine or, subject to and in default of such determination, as the Board may determine.
The Board may issue shares which are to be redeemed or are liable to be redeemed at the option of the Company or the holder.
Subject to the Companys Articles of Association and to the Companies Act, the unissued shares of the Company whether forming part of the original or any increased capital are at the disposal of the Board.
Voting Ordinary Shares Holders of Voting Ordinary Shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company, and to appoint proxies to exercise their rights.
Holders of Voting Ordinary Shares may receive a dividend and on a winding up may share in the assets of the Company.
Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares For the purposes of the rights and restrictions attaching to the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares: acting in concert shall have the meaning given in the City Code as applied by the UK Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, and references to acting in concert shall be construed as acting in concert in relation to the Company, but references to acting in concert with the Sellers or either of them or any Affiliate shall not include any member of the Issuer Concert Party Group: Affiliate shall mean, in relation to the Sellers, i any person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with either Seller but excluding the Company and any person or entity controlled by the Company, ii any person holding shares as nominee for either Seller or any of their Affiliates but only in relation to the shares so held and iii any person holding shares which represent an identifiable, distinct partnership interest of either Seller or any of their Affiliates but only in relation to the shares so held, and, for the purposes of this definition, control, when used with respect to any person, means the power to direct the management and policies of such person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise and controlled shall be construed accordingly : Group means the Company and its subsidiary undertakings and parent undertakings and any subsidiary undertakings of any such parent undertakings for the time being and Group member shall be construed accordingly for these purposes, subsidiary undertaking and parent undertaking shall have the meanings given to them in section 1162 of the Companies Act : Issuer Concert Party Group means each Non Seller Director, the Company and each other Group member and any person acting in concert with a Non-Seller Director or a Group member other than the Sellers, any Seller Nominated Director and any Affiliate: Bumi plc Annual Report Page 52 Other Statutory Information continued Maximum Voting Percentage shall mean such percentage as would, in the event of either Seller or any Affiliate subsequently acquiring one additional Voting Ordinary Share, resulting in one of the Sellers or any Affiliate being required to make a mandatory offer for the Company under Rule 9 of the City Code: Non-Seller Director means a Director of the Company who is not a Seller Nominated Director: Seller Nominated Director means any director of the Company appointed at the request of the Sellers, or either of them: Sellers Voting Shareholding shall mean the Voting Rights for the time being of the Sellers and any Affiliates in the aggregate being expressed as a percentage of the total Voting Rights at such time: and Voting Rights shall mean, in relation to the Company, rights attaching to shares in the Company to vote at general meetings of the Company on all, or substantially all, matters.
Except as set out below, the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares shall rank pari passu with the Voting Ordinary Shares in all respects and no action shall be taken by the Company in relation to, or offer made by the Company to the holders of, the Voting Ordinary Shares unless the same action is taken in respect of, or the same offer is made to the holders of, the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares.
Subject to this, the rights and restrictions attaching to the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares are set out below.
On a distribution of profits whether by cash dividend, dividend in specie, scrip dividend, capitalisation issue or otherwise, the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares shall rank pari passu with the rights to distributions of profits attaching to the Voting Ordinary Shares.
On a return of capital, whether on a winding up or otherwise, the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares shall rank pari passu with the rights to the assets of the Company attaching to the Voting Ordinary Shares.
A holder of Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares shall be entitled to receive notice of, and to attend and speak at, any general meeting of the Company, but shall not be entitled to vote in respect of any Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares held, except on any resolution: a proposed by any person other than PT Bakrie & Brothers Tbk and Long Haul Holdings Ltd Sellers or either of them or any Affiliate or any person acting in concert with either Seller or any Affiliate, to wind up the Company or to present a petition to wind up the Company, other than for the purposes of a reconstruction or amalgamation whilst solvent, b proposed by any person other than the Sellers or either of them or any Affiliate or any person acting in concert with either Seller or any Affiliate, to appoint an administrator or to present a petition for the appointment of an administrator in relation to the Company, or to approve any arrangement with the Companys creditors, c proposed by the Board of Directors of the Company, to sell all or substantially all of the undertaking of the Company provided that such resolution is not in connection with a transaction to which the UK City Code on Takeovers and Mergers City Code applies, d proposed by the Board of Directors of the Company for the purposes of, or in connection with, any scheme of arrangement of the Company under the Act under which a body corporate Newco will acquire the Company and the holdings of the members of Newco following the scheme becoming effective will be substantially the same as the holdings of the members of the Company immediately before the scheme becoming effective: or e proposed by any person other than the Sellers or either of them or any Affiliate or any person acting in concert with either Seller or any Affiliate, in accordance with the articles of association of the Company, to vary, modify or abrogate any of the class rights attaching to the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares, in any which case each holder of Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares on a show of hands shall have one vote, and on a poll shall be entitled to vote on the resolution on the basis of one vote for each Suspended Voting Ordinary Share held.
For the purposes of any resolution of a type referred to in paragraphs a to d above, the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares shall be treated for all purposes as being of the same class as the Voting Ordinary Shares and any other suspended voting ordinary shares issued on substantially equivalent terms to the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares and no separate meeting or resolution of the holders of the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares shall be required to be convened or passed.
The rights attaching to the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares shall not be, and shall not be deemed to be, varied or abrogated in any way by the creation, allotment or issue of any Voting Ordinary Shares.
Upon a transfer of Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares by either Seller or an Affiliate to a person who is not an Affiliate or a Seller, such Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares shall convert into Voting Ordinary Shares on a one for one basis automatically upon, and contemporaneously with, registration by the Company or its registrar of the transfer in the register of members of the Company following receipt of a duly executed stock transfer form and the share certificates in respect of such Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares.
Upon: a a transfer of Voting Ordinary Shares by either Seller or an Affiliate to a person who is not an Affiliate or a Seller: or b any issue of further shares by the Company as a result of which the Sellers Voting Shareholding is reduced below the Maximum Voting Percentage, such number of Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares as, immediately following conversion, will result in the Sellers Voting Shareholding being equal to the Maximum Voting Percentage, shall convert into Voting Ordinary Shares on a one for one basis automatically upon, and contemporaneously with, registration by the Company or its registrar of the transfer in Bumi plc Annual Report Page 53 Other Statutory Information continued the register of members of the Company following receipt of a duly executed transfer form and the share certificates in respect of such Voting Ordinary Shares or the issue of such further shares.
In any such case, a proportionate number of each holders holding of Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares, also taking into account the conversion into Voting Ordinary Shares of any other suspended voting ordinary shares issued on terms substantially equivalent to the terms of the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares, shall be so converted in each case rounded up or down to the nearest whole number as determined by any Director in his absolute discretion.
At any time, either Seller or any Affiliate shall be entitled but shall not be bound to require the Company to convert Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares into Voting Ordinary Shares, on a one for one basis, so long as such conversion does not result in the Sellers Voting Shareholding being more than the Maximum Voting Percentage.
Within 21 days after the conversion of any Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares into Voting Ordinary Shares, the Company shall forward to the relevant Seller or Affiliate as the case may be, at its own risk, free of charge, a definitive certificate for the appropriate number of fully paid up Voting Ordinary Shares and a new certificate for any unconverted Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares comprised in the certificate surrendered by it.
Pending the despatch of definitive certificates, transfers shall be certified against the register of members of the Company.
The Company shall use best endeavours to procure that the Voting Ordinary Shares arising on conversion of the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares are admitted to the Official List and to trading on London Stock Exchange plcs main market for listed securities.
No admission to listing or admission to trading shall be sought for the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares whilst they remain Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares.
Redeemable Deferred Shares The rights and restrictions attaching to the Redeemable Deferred Shares were as set out below.
The Redeemable Deferred Shares shall not be transferable.
The holders of the Redeemable Deferred Shares are not entitled to receive notice of, or to attend or vote at, any general meeting of the Company.
Subject to the Companies Act, any Redeemable Deferred Share shall be redeemed on the next business day following written notice requesting such redemption being given by either the Company or the relevant holder of the Redeemable Deferred Share to the other.
On redemption of any Redeemable Deferred Share, the Company shall pay to the holder in full the amount paid up or credited as paid up on such Redeemable Deferred Share.
On a return of capital, holders of Redeemable Deferred Shares shall be entitled only to the payment of the nominal amounts of those shares, after repayment to the holders of any and all Voting Ordinary Shares and Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares then in issue of the amount paid up or credited as paid up on those Voting Ordinary Shares and Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares held by them respectively.
The holders of the Redeemable Deferred Shares have no right to receive any dividend or other distribution whether of capital or income other than as set out in 5. above.
The Redeemable Deferred Shares were redeemed on 31 October 2012.
Voting rights Subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a show of hands every member who is present in person shall have one vote and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting, either in person or by proxy, unless all moneys presently payable by him in respect of shares in the Company have been paid.
If at any time the Board is satisfied that any member, or any other person appearing to be interested in shares held by such member, has been duly served with a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and is in default for the prescribed period in supplying to the Company the information thereby required, or, in purported compliance with such a notice, has made a statement which is false or inadequate in a material particular, then the Board may, in its absolute discretion at any time thereafter by notice to such member direct that in respect of the shares in relation to which the default occurred, the member shall not be entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or at a separate meeting of the holders of that class of shares or on a poll.
Restrictions on transfer of shares There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company other than: i the right of the Board to refuse to register the transfer of a certificated share that is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Board may also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer a is lodged, duly stamped if applicable, at the office or at another place appointed Bumi plc Annual Report Page 54 Other Statutory Information continued by the Board accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: b is in respect of only one class of shares: and c is in favour of not more than four transferees: ii pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby the Directors of the Company require, and employees require, approval to deal in Bumi plcs shares: iii certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations: and iv where a person whose shares represent at least a 0.25% interest in Bumi plcs shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares, except as provided in the Articles.
On 19 December 2012, the UK Panel on Takeovers and Mergers announced that Bakrie Group and Bukit Mutiara should be regarded as concert parties.
The Panel further ruled that the aggregate voting interests of the Bakrie Group and Bukit Mutiara, and any persons acting in concert with them which, in relation to the Bakrie Group, included PT Borneo Lumbung Energi & Metal Tbk Borneo due to the joint venture structure through which Borneo and the Bakrie Group hold their shares in Bumi plc, must be reduced to less than 30% of the voting rights in Bumi plc by way of disposal.
Accordingly, until a disposal of its shares was effected by Bukit Mutiara on 18 February 2013, all of the shares held by Bukit Mutiara and some of the shares held by the Bakrie Group were disenfranchised and the voting rights attaching to such shares could not be exercised.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Appointment and replacement of Directors The rules for the replacement and appointment of Directors are set out in the Articles of Association.
Under the terms of a relationship agreement entered into by the Company and the Bakrie Group on 16 June 2011 and a relationship agreement entered into by the Company and Bukit Mutiara on 16 June 2011, the Bakrie Group can nominate up to three Directors, to hold the positions of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer respectively, and Bukit Mutiara could nominate one Non-Executive Director, subject to each of the Bakrie Group and Bukit Mutiara retaining control of 15% of the votes able to be cast at general meetings of the Company.
The relationship agreement with Bukit Mutiara terminated on 18 February 2013.
Articles of Association The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Companys Articles of Association and to any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Directors The Directors of the Company are listed on pages 28 and 29.
On 26 March 2012, Messrs Tan, Rathod and Merrillees were appointed as Directors of the Company and Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer respectively.
Andrew Beckham resigned as a Director of the Company: Indra Bakrie became Co-Chairman of the Company: and Nathaniel Rothschild and Ari Hudaya became non independent Non-Executive Directors.
At the 2012 AGM on 14 June 2012 Alexander Ramlie, Graham Holdaway and Jean Mizrahi were appointed as Directors of the Company and James Campbell and Badung Tariono retired as Directors of the Company.
On 24 September 2012, Ari Hudaya resigned as a Director of the Company.
On 15 October 2012, Nathaniel Rothschild resigned as a Director of the Company.
On 7 December 2012, Indra Bakrie resigned as a Director of the Company.
On 19 December 2012, Rosan Roeslani resigned as a Director of the Company.
On 31 December 2012 Nalin Rathod resigned as CEO and Nick von Schirnding became CEO with effect from that date.
At the general meeting held on 21 February 2013, Sir Richard Gozney was appointed a Director of the Company and Jean Mizrahi and Nalin Rathod were removed as Directors of the Company.
On 15 March 2013, Philip Yeo and Sony Harsono resigned as Directors of the Company.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 55 Other Statutory Information continued Directors interests The Board of Directors interests in shares in the Company are detailed on page 49.
Directors indemnities The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with each of its Directors which are qualifying indemnity provisions for the purpose of the Companies Act 2006.
Directors insurance Directors and officers liability insurance is provided for all Directors of the Company.
Directors share options Details of Directors share options are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 51.
Employment policies The Group is an equal opportunities employer and bases all decisions on individual ability regardless of race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, age or disability.
Applications for employment by disabled persons will always be fully considered, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Should any employee become disabled, every practical effort is made to provide continued employment.
Depending on their skills and abilities, they will enjoy the same career prospects and scope for realising their potential as other employees.
Appropriate training will be arranged for disabled employees, including retraining for alternative work for those who become disabled, to promote their career development within the organisation.
Supplier payment policy The Group does not follow any specified code or standard on payment practice across its businesses.
Businesses aim to adopt fair practises, which reflect local and industry norms.
The Group values its suppliers and recognises the benefits of maintaining good relations including the maintenance of payment terms.
It is the Groups policy to agree the payment terms with each supplier at the start of business and to ensure that they are aware of the terms of payment.
The Group had 20 days purchases outstanding at 31 December 2012 2011: 44 days based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Significant Agreements The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to disclose the following significant agreements that contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: Relationship Agreements The Company i has entered into a relationship agreement with members of the Bakrie Group dated 16 June 2011 the Bakrie Relationship Agreement and ii was also a party to a relationship agreement with Bukit Mutiara dated 16 June 2011 the Mutiara Relationship Agreement.
The Bakrie Relationship Agreement and the Mutiara Relationship Agreement are together referred to herein as the Relationship Agreements.
The principal purpose of the Bakrie Relationship Agreement is and the purpose of the Mutiara Relationship Agreement was to ensure that the Company is capable at all times of carrying on its business independently of the Bakrie Group and of Bukit Mutiara and their respective associates and that all transactions and relationships between the Company and either members of the Bakrie Group or Bukit Mutiara are at arms length and on a normal commercial basis.
The Bakrie Relationship Agreement will terminate on the earlier of: a the Company ceasing to have any of its ordinary shares listed on the Official List and traded on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities: and b the Bakrie Group together with its associates ceasing to be entitled to exercise or control the exercise of 10% of more of the votes available to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of the Company.
The Mutiara Relationship Agreement contained equivalent termination provisions, in relation to Bukit Mutiara rather than the Bakrie Group.
Pursuant to the terms of the Relationship Agreements, it has been agreed or, in the case of the Mutiara Relationship Agreement, was agreed, among other things, that: the Bakrie Group and Bukit Mutiara in respect of the applicable Relationship Agreement, the Relationship Party will, and will procure so far as it is reasonably able to do so that each of its associates will: a conduct all transactions and relationships with any member of the Group, and ensure that all arrangements and agreements between the Relationship Party or any of its associates and the Company or any other member of the Group are entered into, on arms length terms and on a normal commercial basis: b not take any action which precludes or inhibits any member of the Group from carrying on its business independently of the Relationship Party and its associates: Bumi plc Annual Report Page 56 Other Statutory Information continued c not exercise any of its voting rights or other rights and powers to procure any amendment to the Articles of Association of the Company which would be inconsistent with or breach any provision of the applicable Relationship Agreement or the ability of any member of the Group to carry on its business independently of the Relationship Party and its associates: d when paragraph 11.1.
7R 3 of the Listing Rules applies to the Company, abstain from voting on any resolution required by paragraph 11.1.
7R 3 of the Listing Rules to approve a related party transaction as defined in paragraph 11.1.
5R of the Listing Rules involving the Relationship Party or any of its associates as the related party: e comply with all provisions of the Listing Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the requirements of the London Stock Exchange and the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, that apply to it in connection with the Company: and f not to do anything within their power to cause or authorise to be done anything which would prejudice either the Companys status as a listed company or its suitability for listing, or listing on the premium listing segment of the Official List: provided that the Relationship Party and its associates are entitled to exercise or control the exercise of 15% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of the Company, the Relationship Party shall be entitled to nominate for appointment to the Board of Directors of the Company: in the case of Bukit Mutiara, one Director to hold the position of Non-Executive Director and, in the case of the Bakrie Group, three Directors one to hold the position of Chairman, one to hold the position of Chief Executive Office and one to holder the position of Chief Financial Officer, in each case by giving notice to the Company: pursuant to the Bakrie Relationship Agreement, provided that the Bakrie Group and its associates are entitled to exercise or control the exercise of 15% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of the Company, the Bakrie Group shall be entitled to nominate for appointment the President Commissioner and the President Director and a majority of the Board of Commissioners and directors of PT Bumi and the Company shall take all such steps as are available to it under Indonesian law to seek to appoint the President Commissioner and or President Director of PT Bumi, as the case may be, in accordance with the nomination of the Bakrie Group: and the Relationship Party will be restricted from voting on transactions where there is a conflict of interest between it and the Group.
12.5% Guaranteed Senior Secured Notes On 8 July 2010, Berau Capital Resources Pte.
Ltd. Berau Capital, a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of PT Berau, issued $350m aggregate principal amount of 12.5% guaranteed senior secured notes.
Berau Capital also issued an additional $100m aggregate principal amount of 12.5% guaranteed senior secured notes on 29 July 2010 together with the $350m aggregate principal amount of 12.5% guaranteed senior secured notes, the 12.5% Guaranteed Senior Secured Notes.
PT Berau Capitals obligations under the 12.5% Guaranteed Senior Secured Notes are guaranteed by PT Berau and certain of its subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings collectively known as the PT Berau Group.
The maturity date of the notes is 8 July 2015.
The notes bear interest from 8 July 2010 at the rate of 12.5% per annum, payable semi-annually every 8 January and 8 July commencing on 8 January 2011.
Berau Capital must make an offer to repurchase all of the 12.5% Guaranteed Senior Secured Notes outstanding at a purchase price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, no later than 30 days after a change of control.
For these purposes, a change of control is the occurrence of any of the following events: i the merger, amalgamation or consolidation of PT Berau with or into another entity or the merger or amalgamation of another entity with or into PT Berau, or the sale of all or substantially all the assets of PT Berau to another entity, other than Bumi plc and its affiliates: ii PT Recapital Advisors and its affiliates are the beneficial owners of less than 50.1% of the total voting power of the voting stock of PT Berau: iii individuals who on 8 July 2010 constituted the Board of Directors of PT Berau, together with any new Directors whose election was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the Directors then still in office who were either Directors or whose election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors then in office: or iv the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of PT Berau.
The acquisition by the Bumi Group of its interest in PT Berau the Berau Transaction constituted a change of control under the indentures governing the 12.5% Guaranteed Senior Secured Notes.
Berau Capital made a change of control offer for all of such notes at 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest within the requisite 30 day period.
At the end of the acceptance period for that offer, no noteholder had accepted the offer.
7.25% Guaranteed Senior Secured Notes On 13 March 2012, PT Berau issued $500m aggregate principal amount of 7.25% guaranteed senior secured notes the 7.25% Guaranteed Senior Secured Notes.
PT Beraus obligations under the 7.25% Guaranteed Senior Secured Notes are guaranteed by certain other members of the PT Berau Group.
The maturity date of the notes is 13 March 2017.
The notes bear interest from 13 March 2012 at the rate of 7.25% per annum, payable semi-annually every 13 March and 13 September commencing on 13 September 2012.
PT Berau must make an offer to repurchase all of the 7.25% Guaranteed Senior Secured Notes outstanding at a purchase price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, no later than 30 days after a change of control.
For these purposes, a change of control is the occurrence of any of the following events: Bumi plc Annual Report Page 57 Other Statutory Information continued i the merger, amalgamation or consolidation of PT Berau with or into another entity or the merger or amalgamation of another entity with or into PT Berau, or the sale of all or substantially all the assets of PT Berau to another entity, other than Bumi plc and its affiliates: ii Bumi plc and its associates are the beneficial owners of less than 50.1% of the total voting power of the voting stock of PT Berau: iii individuals who on 13 March 2012 constituted the Board of Directors of PT Berau, together with any new Directors whose election was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the Directors then still in office who were either Directors or whose election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors then in office: or iv the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of PT Berau.
Charitable and political donations During the year the Group made charitable donations of $0.7m 2011: $0.4m restated to local charities in Indonesia for community purposes.
The Group made no political donations during the year.
Substantial shareholdings The table below shows those shareholders who have been notified to the Company as holding substantial shareholdings amounting to more than 3% of the issued share capital of the Company, as at the date of this report.
Substantial shareholdings Number of Percentage of Voting Ordinary Voting Rights Name of holder shares % Borneo Bumi Energi & Metal Pte Ltd 54,154,285 29.90 Nathaniel Rothschild 26,714,584 14.79 Avenue Asia Capital Management LP 13,667,250 7.57 Rivermede Limited 10,200,000 5.65 Schroder Investment Management Ltd 7,882,814 4.37 Argyle Street Management Limited 7,536,202 4.17 Abu Dhabi Investment Council 7,500,000 4.15 Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held on 26 June 2013.
Full details about the AGM, including the venue and explanatory notes, will be contained in the AGM Notice which will be sent to shareholders in a separate document.
The AGM Notice will set out the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM and an explanation of each resolution.
All documents relating to the AGM will be available on the Companys website at www.
Independent Auditors The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office, and a resolution that they be re-appointed will be proposed at the AGM.
Statement of disclosure of information to the auditors Each of the Directors who held office at the date of the approval of this Annual Report confirms that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the Board Scott Merrillees Paul Vickers Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary 31 May 2013 Bumi plc Annual Report Page 58
