Directors report Principal activities, business review and results In addition to any powers under the Act to remove Directors from The principal activity of the Company is to act as a holding company ofce, the Company may, by passing an ordinary resolution, remove for a group of investment management companies.
"The Company any Director from the Board before the expiration of his or her and its subsidiaries together the ""Group"" offer a range of asset period in ofce."
The Company may, subject to the Articles of management products.
Through its subsidiaries, the Group acts as Association, by ordinary resolution appoint another person who is investment manager to authorised unit trusts, SICAVs, investment willing to be a Director in his or her place.
The Companys Articles trust companies, pension funds, private clients and other specialist of Association may be amended by special resolution of the funds.
The Group has ofces in the United Kingdom, Germany, Jersey, shareholders.
The Company is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales and is the holding company Substantial share interests of the Group.
As shown in the table below, the Company had received notications from the following substantial shareholders The information contained in the Business review and Governance 3 per cent.
or more of their indirect and or direct interests in section of this Annual Report and Accounts, together with the the ordinary share capital of the Company, in accordance with the financial risk management note of the financial statements, form Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
part of this Directors report.
Directors interests Company Number 6150195 The interests of the Directors in shares of the Company are set out in the Remuneration report.
Share capital and voting rights As at 31 December 2012 and 18 February 2013 there were 457,699,916 CREST fully paid ordinary shares of 2p each in issue and listed on the The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement system Ofcial List maintained by the FSA in its capacity as the UK Listing for stocks and shares traded on the London Stock Exchange.
There have been no changes to the share capital during the year.
Restrictions on transfer of shares At the time of the Company's Listing in 2010, certain employees The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry the right undertook, through lock-in agreements, not to sell or transfer any to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company.
In ordinary shares to which they were beneficially entitled during the addition, the holders of ordinary shares have the right to participate 12 months following Listing.
These undertakings expired on 21 June in dividends and other distributions according to their respective 2011.
In addition, certain employees beneficially owning rights and interests in the profits of the Company and to the return approximately 35 per cent.
of the Companys issued ordinary shares of capital on a winding-up of the Company.
Full details regarding at that time agreed to restrictions on the sale and transfer of their the exercise of voting rights in respect of the resolutions to be ordinary shares during the three years following Listing.
The overall considered at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 18 April effect of these arrangements is that: 2013 are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
To be valid, the appointment of a proxy to vote at a general meeting must following the first anniversary of Listing 21 June 2011, be received not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for approximately 15 per cent.
of the ordinary shares in issue became holding the meeting.
capable of being sold by such persons: following the second anniversary of Listing 21 June 2012, Appointment and replacement of Directors approximately a further 10 per cent.
of the ordinary shares in issue The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary became capable of being sold: and shares, as well as the powers of the Companys Directors, are set out following the third anniversary of Listing 21 June 2013, in detail in the Companys Articles of Association.
of the ordinary shares will be capable of being sold.
The Company's Articles of Association provide that Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Following the third anniversary of Listing in 2013, a small number Board.
If appointed by the Board, a Director holds ofce only until of shares less than 0.5 per cent.
will continue to be subject to the next Annual General Meeting.
The Articles of Association have the lock-ins described above.
detailed provisions regarding the retirement of Directors by rotation.
However, in accordance with the requirements of the Code, all Directors will offer themselves for election or re-election at the Annual General Meeting in April 2013.
Substantial share interests Number of Number of shares held as at Percentage shares as at Percentage Name 31 December 2012 interest 18 February 2013 interest TA Funds 87,079,760 19.03 87,079,760 19.03 BlackRock Inc 41,476,692 9.06 44,023,712 9.62 Jupiter Employee benefit Trust 35,395,106 7.73 35,250,584 7.70 Edward Bonham Carter 13,750,000 3.00 13,750,000 3.00 held by Royal Bank of Canada 58 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Governance No member is entitled to vote at any general meeting or class Authority to allot shares meeting in respect of any shares held by him or her if any call or An ordinary resolution was passed at the Annual General Meeting other sum then payable by him or her in respect of that share in 2012 authorising the Directors to allot new ordinary shares.
The remains unpaid, or if he or she has failed to give the Company the Directors intend to seek shareholders approval for the renewal of information required in a notice under section 793 of the Act unless this authority at the Annual General Meeting to allot and grant rights the Board has determined that the sanctions under the Company's to subscribe for ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount Articles of Association as to voting should not apply.
Currently, all of 6,102,664, representing approximately two-thirds of the shares are fully paid.
Save as described above, there are no Companys issued share capital as at 18 February 2013, of which an restrictions on the voting rights attached to the Companys ordinary aggregate nominal value of 3,051,332 representing approximately shares or any other restrictions on the transfer of the securities in one-third of the Companys issued share capital may only be the Company.
allotted pursuant to a fully pre-emptive rights issue.
If approved, this authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General TA relationship agreement Meeting in 2014 or, if earlier, on 30 June 2014.
"The Company and TA Associates, L. P. have entered into an agreement which regulates the ongoing relationship between the Company and Subject to the terms of the authority noted above, a special TA Associates, L. P. the ""Relationship Agreement""."
TA Associates, L. P. resolution will also be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to and the Company have agreed, inter alia, that TA Associates, L. P. is empower the Directors to allot equity securities for cash other than entitled to nominate for appointment: i two non-executive pro rata to existing shareholders, until the Annual General Meeting Directors to the Board whilst it and or any of its associates owns, to be held in 2014 or, if earlier, until 30 June 2014.
This authority will on an aggregated basis, 15 per cent.
or more of the ordinary shares in be limited to the allotment of equity securities, up to an aggregate issue from time to time: and ii one non-executive Director to the nominal amount of 457,699, being 5 per cent.
of the Company's Board whilst it and or any of its associates owns, on an aggregated issued share capital issued at the date of this report.
The Directors basis, 10 per cent.
or more of the ordinary shares in issue from time currently have no intention to issue ordinary shares, other than to time.
pursuant to the Companys employee share schemes and any share dividend alternatives.
In addition, TA Associates, L. P. was entitled to nominate one such non-executive Director to each of the Nomination Committee and Authority to purchase shares Remuneration Committee until 21 June 2012 24 months after Listing.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2012, shareholders approved a Mike Wilson stepped down as a member of the Nomination and resolution authorising the Company to make purchases of its own Remuneration Committee on 24 April 2012. shares up to a maximum of 45,769,991 ordinary shares.
As at 18 February 2013, the Directors have not used this authority.
A special The Relationship Agreement will terminate once the aggregate resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to renew interest of TA Associates, L. P. and its associates in ordinary shares the Companys limited authority to purchase its own ordinary shares.
The authority will be limited to a maximum of 45,769,991 ordinary shares approximately 10 per cent.
of the Companys issued share Employees capital at the date of this report and will set out the minimum and Details of the Companys employment practices can be found in the maximum prices which may be paid for any such purchase by the corporate responsibility section of the Business review.
If approved, this authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2014 or, if earlier, on 30 June 2014.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the requirements of the Independent auditors and audit information job can be adequately fullled by a disabled person.
 LLP are willing to continue as the Groups auditors and resolutions concerning their re-appointment and the Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Group's policy, determination of their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual wherever practicable, to provide continuing employment under General Meeting.
normal terms and conditions and to provide training, career development and promotion to disabled employees wherever In accordance with section 418 2 of the Act, the Directors who held possible.
ofce at the time of approval of the Directors report confirm that, so far as each of them is aware, there is no relevant audit information Dividends as dened by section 418 3 of the Act of which the Groups The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 6.3p per auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all steps that he ordinary share amounting to 28.8m in total.
This payment is subject or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and, if herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that approved, will be paid on 23 April 2013 to shareholders on the the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
register at the close of business on 8 March 2013.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 59 Going concern Directors indemnities The Business review discusses the Groups business activities, The Companys Articles of Association permit the provision of together with the factors likely to affect its future development, indemnities to the Directors.
In accordance with the Articles of performance and position.
In addition, it sets out the Groups Association, the Company has entered into a deed of indemnity in financial position, cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing favour of each Director which is a qualifying third party indemnity facilities.
The financial risk management note of the financial provision under the Act pursuant to which the Director has been statements sets out the Groups objectives, policies and processes granted the right to indemnification as permitted under the Act.
for managing capital and its financial risk management objectives, These arrangements were in place throughout the year and up to together with details of financial instruments and exposure to credit the date of approval of this report.
In addition, during the year the and liquidity risk.
Company has maintained liability insurance for Directors.
The Group has access to the financial resources required to run the Charitable and other donations business efficiently and has a strong gross cash position.
The Groups The Group made contributions of approximately 96,000 during the forecasts and projections, which are subject to rigorous sensitivity year 2011: 86,000 for charitable purposes.
The principal charitable analysis, show that the Group will be able to operate within its donation was to the Charities Aid Foundation in respect of matched available resources.
As a consequence, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational Annual General Meeting existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to The Annual General Meeting will take place on 18 April 2013.
All adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual shareholders are invited to attend and will have the opportunity financial statements.
to put questions to the Board.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting will be circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working Change of control days before the meeting and the details of the resolutions to be The Company does not have agreements with any Director or proposed will be set out in that Notice.
This document will be employee that would provide compensation for loss of ofce or available on the Companys website at www.
employment resulting from a change of control following a takeover bid, except that provisions of the Companys share schemes may cause options and awards granted under such schemes to vest in those circumstances.
Creditor payment policy For and on behalf of the Board It is the Companys payment policy to obtain the best terms for all Adrian Creedy business and, therefore, there is no consistent policy as to the terms Company Secretary used.
In general, the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is the Companys policy to 27 February 2013 abide by these terms.
Unit trust creditors are settled within four working days.
The average number of trade creditor days for the Company was 24.0 2011: 28.2.
60 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial statements Financial statements Group 62 Section 1: Results for the year Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 72 Section 2: Consolidated statement of cash ows Consolidated statement of cash ows 74 Section 3: Assets and liabilities Consolidated balance sheet 83 Section 4: Equity Consolidated statement of changes in equity 85 Section 5: Other notes 102 Independent auditors' report on the financial statements of the Group and Company Jupit Jupiter F er Fund Manag und Management plc ement plc Annual Repor Annual Report & Ac t & Acc counts 2012 ounts 2012 61 61
