Directors proles Jamie Edward John Philip Maarten Dundas Bonham Carter Chatfeild-Roberts Johnson Slendebroek Non-executive Group Chief Chief Investment Chief Financial Distribution & Chairman Executive officer officer Strategy Director Term of ofce Jamie Dundas was Edward Bonham Carter was John Chatfeild-Roberts Philip Johnson joined Maarten Slendebroek appointed as non-executive appointed Group Chief was appointed Chief Jupiter as Chief Financial joined Jupiter in Chairman of the Group in Executive in June 2007.
Investment officer in officer in October 2009.
Biography Jamie is a non-executive Edward Bonham Carter John Chatfeild-Roberts Philip started his career at Prior to joining Jupiter, Director of Standard joined Jupiter in 1994 as a joined Jupiter in March Coopers & Lybrand, where Maarten had an 18 year Chartered PLC and is UK fund manager after 2001 to establish and lead he qualied as a chartered career at Blackrock, Chairman of its Board Risk working at both Schroders the team running the accountant.
He left in 1996 latterly as Head of Committee.
He was a 19821986 and Electra Jupiter Merlin portfolios.
to work in Prudential Plcs International Retail.
He has non-executive Director of Investment Trust His earlier career in fund group head ofce before extensive experience of J Sainsbury plc between 19861994.
Edward was management was at Lazard transferring to M&G in running cross-border asset 2000 and 2007 and of Drax appointed Chief Brothers Asset 2000.
He spent eight years management operations.
Group plc between 2005 Investment officer in 1999 Management 1995-2001 at M&G, with the last five Earlier in his career he and 2010.
After being called and Joint Group Chief and Henderson as Group Finance Director, worked as an investment to the Bar, Jamies early Executive of Jupiter Administration 1990-1995. after which he joined analyst as Enskilda career was in banking at Investment Management He held a Short Service Marshall Wace LLP as Securities, Morgan Morgan Grenfell, where he Group Limited in May Commission in the British Finance Director in 2008.
Edward relinquished Army in the 1980's.
Philip is responsible for and International Banking.
his role as Chief Investment finance, treasury, He was subsequently officer in February 2010. information technology, Finance Director of the compliance, risk and Hong Kong Airport investor relations.
Authority and Chief Executive of UK-based property company, MEPC.
He is deputy President formerly Chairman of Macmillan Cancer Support.
Committee membership Member of the Nomination Committee Chairman Member of the Remuneration Committee 32 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Governance Liz Matteo Lorraine Jon Michael Richard I. Airey Dante Perruccio Trainer Little Wilson Morris, Jr. Senior Independent Independent Independent Independent Non-executive Non-executive non-executive non-executive non-executive non-executive Director Director Director Director Director Director Liz Airey was appointed as Matteo Dante Perruccio Lorraine Trainer was Jon Little was appointed Michael Wilson was Richard Morris, Jr. was the non-executive Senior was appointed a appointed as a a non-executive Director appointed a non-executive appointed a nonIndependent Director of non-executive Director of non-executive Director of of the Company in Director of the Company executive Director of the the Company in May 2010. the Company in October the Company in May 2010.
September 2011. in 2007 having been Company in 2007 having 2008. nominated by TA been nominated by TA Associates, L. P. Associates, L. P. Liz served as Finance Matteo started his career in In her executive career Jon is a Partner in Northill After serving as a managing Richard was previously Director of Monument Oil financial services in 1986, Lorraine held a number of Capital - a private director from 2005-2012, Chief Operating officer, and Gas plc from 1990 to spending six years at San human resource leadership investment business backed Michael reduced his time President, and nally Vice 1999, when it was sold to Paolo IMI before moving to roles in international by one of Europes commitment in 2013 and Chairman of Putnam Lasmo plc.
She is currently American Express Bank in organisations, focusing on wealthiest families.
From became an advisor of TA Lovell Securities Inc. now a non-executive Director 1992 as Executive Director, performance and 2000 until 2010 he was Vice Associates, L. P. He formerly part of Jefferies and Chairman of the audit Head of EMEA.
These Chairman of BNY Mellon served on the Boards of International which he committee of Tate & Lyle moved to Pioneer include Citibank NA, the Asset Management and, as Advisory Research, joined in 1997.
Prior to PLC and Dunedin Enterprise Investment Management to London Stock Exchange part of that role, he held a Chartered Marketing joining Putnam Lovell, Investment Trust PLC and head up the rms and Coutts, then part of number of positions Services, EYP Mission Richard served as Chairman of the Unilever international business the NatWest Group.
In including Chairman of Critical Facilities, K2 President and Chief UK Pension Fund.
before moving to work in addition to her board work Dreyfus - one of the USs Advisors and United Pet Executive officer of Milan, a posting that she works in the area of oldest mutual fund Group.
Prior to joining TA Cursitor Alliance LLC, a culminated in his director development at companies, Chairman of Associates, L. P. in 1992, unit of Alliance Capital appointment in 2005 as and around board level for Insight Investments and Michael worked in Morgan Management LP now CEO International CEO a variety of international of West LB Mellon Asset Stanleys AllianceBernstein LP.
In addition, Telecommunications Richard is currently a Management SGR, Milan.
non-executive Director of he was also a director of Group.
In 1994, he joined non-executive director Matteo left Pioneer in 2006 the Board of Aegis Group other asset managers in the Afliated Managers Group, of Arrowstreet Capital LP, to take up the role of plc since August 2005. group including Newton, a TA-backed asset DNCA Finance SA and Co-Chief Executive at Walter Scott, Alcentra and management platform serving as an adviser to Olympia Capital Pareto Partners.
From company, as Vice President TA Associates, L. P. Management in Paris and 1997-2000, Jon was at JP and a member of the left in 2008 to found Morgan Investment founding management Hermes BPK Partners LLP.
Management where he was team.
Michael currently He is now Chief Executive Vice President and Head of also serves on the Board of officer of Rebacapital, a Distribution responsible for Numeric Investors, LLC.
renewable energy fund International Funds and investment management from 1991-1997 he was at company based in London.
Fidelity Investments latterly as Director of UK Business Development.
Jon is also a director of Alpha Strategic PLC, an AIM listed investor in hedge fund managers.
Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Audit Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman Chairman Member of the Member of the Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Member of the Member of the Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 33
