Market review A better year than many had expected Financial markets Anticipation that his words would be followed by ECB action in 2012 was a much better year for financial markets than many September kept investors in a state of optimism over the summer investors had expected given continued instability in the Eurozone.
and, despite bouts of volatility as global growth prospects weakened, markets crept upwards.
In early September, these Much of the credit for this positive outcome is due to action taken expectations were rewarded after the ECB announced it would by the head of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi, to support institute a bond-buying programme for the debt of troubled Europes banks and weaker economies, as well as improving economic Eurozone nations.
Bond yields of countries such as Spain and data from the US and political change in several major markets.
Italy fell back from crisis levels.
"The introduction of the Long Term Renancing Operation ""LTRO"" Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernankes unveiling of a further by Mario Draghi in December 2011 was the first step to restoring the $40bn of quantitative easing each month until the American markets confidence in the ECB, helping thaw the lending freeze economy recovered and his comment that interest rates would in the interbank lending market, which had previously made banks remain at historically low levels until 2015 also buoyed markets."
unwilling to lend to each other in case one of them collapsed.
The Bank of Japan reacted to the US announcement with its own quantitative easing programme to reduce the pressure on the yen Thanks to LTRO, banks were able to borrow again and markets and Japanese exporters that was likely to result from a weaker responded by staging a sharp rally, especially in bank shares and US dollar.
other sectors that typically benefit from cyclical upturns in the market.
Positive economic data from the US, particularly better than While equity markets took a pause for breath on the back of mixed expected employment gures, also boosted confidence.
However, company results and growing concerns about global growth in tensions in the Middle East pushed up the oil price any rise acts as October, the ECBs bond buying programme and the US Federal a tax on consumption and evidence emerged that growth in Reserves quantitative easing programme soon restored confidence.
developing economies such as China and India had started to slow.
The US economy continued to grow, but fears that the looming In response, the authorities in these areas swiftly cut interest rates.
scal cliff could plunge the country back into recession in early Japan took the unusual step of setting an ination target for the first 2013 weighed on sentiment.
Following President Obamas election time, offering investors hope that it would one day emerge from its to a second term, negotiations to avert this crisis got underway.
significant political change also took place in the Far East.
In However, strains in financial markets re-emerged in the second November, Xi Jinping was revealed as Chinas new leader.
He will quarter amid intense political uncertainty and speculation that formally replace Hu Jintao, under whose leadership China Greece would leave the euro, together with growing concerns over experienced a decade of strong growth, in March 2013.
Japan too, Spains financial sector.
The rescue of Bankia did little to quell the found itself under new leadership after its Prime Minister dissolved nervousness as France voted in Francois Hollande, its first socialist Parliament in November.
Shinzo Abe was elected as the new leader since the 1980s, and the Greek elections resulted in a strong president in December with a landslide victory.
This was received boost for anti-austerity parties.
Despite some post-EU summit positively by the markets, thanks chiey to his support for euphoria and further action by the central banks at the start of July, introducing an ination target.
Japan has been caught in a it took a speech by Mario Draghi at the end of the month, stating deationary trap for a long time and many believe that a return to that he would do whatever it takes to protect the Eurozone from ination is essential to unlocking the potential in its equity markets.
FTSE 100 and MSCI World Indices during 2012 Source: Bloomberg FTSE 100 MSCI World 6000 5000 4000 3000 2000 1000 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July August Sep Oct Nov Dec 14 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Business review While the ECBs strong show of support during the year steadied UK: net retail sales by asset class bn investors nerves, conrmation during the fourth quarter that the Equities Balanced Absolute return Bonds Property Other Eurozone had returned to recession reminded us all that Europes crisis is far from over.
The UK, however, managed to claw its way 12 out of recession in time for the Chancellors Autumn Statement.
This revealed that more borrowing would be required for longer than had been anticipated to cope with the weakness of the economy 9 and ratings agencies such as Fitch confirmed the UKs triple A rating was under threat as a result not welcome news for Bank of Canada 6 governor Mark Carney, who was appointed as the replacement for outgoing Bank of England governor Mervyn King at the end of November.
3 Despite sharp falls during the period, major equity markets rose over 0 the year as a whole with the MSCI World Index recording a US dollar gain of 13.2 per cent.
The FTSE 100 was one of the weaker performers, climbing 5.8 per cent.
local currency posted by the Nikkei 225 and a gain of 13.4 per cent.
Savings environment With the nances of many mature economies remaining in a parlous state, austerity measures imposed by many governments remain in Europe: net UCITS sales by asset class bn place, economic growth is low, or negative, and wage growth remains constrained.
At the same time, interest rates remain at Equities Balanced Bonds Money market Other historically low levels and ination continues to eat away at the purchasing power of peoples take home pay.
120 These factors are impacting on individuals propensity to save.
In the 90 UK, the savings ratio rose during the recession as consumers have become more risk averse and banks have reined in lending.
However, 60 the savings ratio 7.7 per cent.
in Q3 2012 has not risen to the same 30 levels as in the 1990-1992 recession because of the longer term squeeze on real incomes and low interest rates, which act as a 0 disincentive to save.
-30 The savings rate in Europe is higher, currently 13.0 per cent.
The savings rate has remained consistently around this level for a -60 year, down from the peak of 15.7 per cent.
As -90 Q1 2010 Q4 Q1 2011 Q4 Q1 2012 Q4 usual, retail ow patterns lagged improving confidence in financial markets.
The early months of 2012 saw ows concentrated in bond Source: IMA UK : EFAMA Europe products in both the UK and Europe, before equity product appetite picked up in the last four months of the year.
Over the full year, the UK industry saw its worst net ow performance since 2008.
European ows did however improve and, in contrast, saw their best excluding money market ows into UCITS funds for five years, albeit this was almost entirely into bonds.
"Looking at the UK in more detail, the Investment Management Association ""IMA"" recorded positive net retail sales for every month of the year."
However, sales were markedly below those recorded in 2011 with ows directed mainly towards xed interest assets, highlighting the cautious stance being adopted by investors.
Sales of equity funds were at low levels for most of the year and, in addition, ows into tax efficient Individual Savings Accounts ISAs were particularly weak, reaching just 553m between 1 March 2012 and 5 April 2012, down from 974m in the previous year.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 15 Market review continued However, having reached a nadir of just 37.5m in August, net retail sales recovered markedly in the third quarter, encouraged no doubt by the rally that followed ECB president Mario Draghis statement of support for weaker European nations.
Overall, net retail sales for the calendar year totalled 13.7bn compared with 18.1bn for the 2011 calendar year.
"A key focus for the UKs investment industry in 2012 was gearing up for the introduction of the first stage of the Retail Distribution Review ""RDR"" on 31 December 2012, which bans independent financial advisers from receiving commission from fund managers."
With some aspects of the new rules still to be nalised, their long term impact on asset managers remains uncertain.
However, we believe the impact on distributor and platform business models will be significant.
The IFA sector will consolidate, platforms and execution only channels will increase their market share and low-value investors may not be able to access advice at a reasonable cost.
The direct impact on manufacturers such as Jupiter is expected to be more limited.
Asset management fees will be unbundled and paying intermediaries will become more complex.
Wealth managers will be particularly well placed in the new regime and branding will become increasingly important with the challenge from passive ETF providers rising while demand for active alpha is there to continue.
Flows into UCITS funds across Europe were positive in 2012, reversing the net outows experienced in the second half of 2011 although they were highly concentrated in bonds.
European investment funds trade association EFAMA reported net sales for the industry of 234bn of long-term UCITS funds.
This compares with net outows of 57bn for 2011 overall.
Outows were recorded for two months in 2012 and while sales of bond funds totalled 201bn in 2012, sales of equity funds only reached 2bn despite their recovery towards the end of the year.
16 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
