Delivery against objectives Our focus on delivering value to clients and shareholders over the long term translates into our four strategic objectives Value creation for clients Our business is centred on the strength of our investment team and Investment is reliant on the quality and reputation of our fund managers and their ability to deliver long-term outperformance after fees.
Our outperformance approach to maximising performance is focused on preserving a culture of investment freedom, individual responsibility and accountability.
The key metric in this area is investment performance over a three year period.
Delivering our expertise to clients Our investment expertise is provided to clients under a single brand Effective through a range of products and a variety of distribution channels.
We seek to offer and develop products that are suited to the distribution channels and markets in which we have, or can establish, distribution a strong presence.
Our goal is to generate net inows by building out our market position in the UK investment market and developing our international distribution capabilities.
Capturing the rewards of growth Our business model benets from economies of scale, resulting in efficient attractive EBITDA margins.
Our existing platform is capable of supporting signicantly higher levels of AUM at proportionately lower levels of incremental cost.
To grow the business substantially operations over the long term, we target selective investments in developing our people, brand and operations according to market conditions and income levels at the time.
The key metric in this area is EBITDA margin.
Returns to shareholders Our dividend policy is progressive.
We look to balance the requirements of delivering a long term return to shareholders Value alongside deleveraging our balance sheet and investing in the business for future growth.
"The level of dividend paid per share creation ""DPS"" measures the immediate return of value to shareholders for the year under review."
10 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
