OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING time the share capital of the Company is divided into different classes of The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Park Suite, The shares, the rights attached to any class may be varied or abrogated by Dorchester, Park Lane, London W1K 1QA on Wednesday 17 April 2013 special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of such holders.
The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting is set Subject to the rights attached to any existing shares, rights attached out in a separate letter from the Chairman to shareholders which explains toshares will be deemed to be varied by the reduction of capital paid the items of business which are not of a routine nature.
upon the shares and by the allotment of further shares ranking in priorityin respect of dividend or capital or which confer on the holders DIVIDENDS more favourable voting rights than the first-mentioned shares, but will An interim dividend of 8.8p was paid on 2 January 2013 in respect of nototherwise be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of 2012 and the directors recommend a final dividend of 19.4p, making a furthershares.
total for the year of 28.2p per share 2011: 26.35p.
Dividend details are given in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
Subject to POWER TO ISSUE AND ALLOT SHARES approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 17 April The directors are generally and unconditionally authorised under the 2013, the final dividend will be paid on 1 July 2013 to those shareholders authorities granted at the 2012 Annual General Meeting to allot shares on the register at the close of business on 10 May 2013. orgrant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares oftheCompany up to i a maximum nominal amount of 35.4 million: andii to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert SHARE CAPITAL any securities into shares in connection with a rights issue to existing The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into 1 shareholders in proportion or as nearly as may be practicable up to an ordinary shares of 32 7p each which rank pari passu in respect of aggregate nominal amount equal to 70.9 million or as reduced by the participation and voting rights.
The shares are in registered form, are fully nominal value of any ordinary shares allotted under i above.
At the same paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
In addition, the meeting authority was also granted to the directors to allot the Companys Company operates a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt programme shares for cash, up to a maximum nominal amount of approximately with the Bank of New York Mellon under which the Companys shares 5.7million, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the aretraded on the over the counter market in the form of American Depositary Receipts.
No such shares were issued or allotted under theseauthorities in 2012, nor is there any current intention to do so, other Details of changes to the issued share capital during the year are set out than to satisfy share options under the Companys share option schemes inNote 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
and, if necessary, to satisfy the consideration payable for businesses to be acquired.
Ifthe directors do exercise the authority under ii above the BUNZL GROUP GENERAL EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST directors intend to follow ABI recommendations concerning its use.
Bunzl Employee Trustees Limited is trustee of the Bunzl Group General Employee benefit Trust the EBT which holds shares in respect of These authorities are valid until the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual employee share options and awards that have not been exercised or General Meeting.
The directors propose to seek similar authorities at such vested.
The current position is that the EBT abstains from voting in Annual General Meeting, save that in respect of the authority to allot shares respectof these shares.
The trustee has agreed to waive the right to or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares of the dividend payments on shares held within the EBT.
Details of the shares Company the directors intend to limit such authority to i above and the soheld are set out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
authority to allot the Companys shares for cash referred to above.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SHARES As at 31 December 2012 the directors had been notied by the following Dealings in the Companys ordinary shares by its directors, persons shareholders that they were each interested in 3% or more of the issued discharging managerial responsibilities, certain employees of the share capital of the Company.
Company and, in each case, their connected persons, are subject to Date of Number % of issued the Companys dealing code which adopts the Model Code of the Listing Shareholder notification of shares share capital Rules published by the Financial Services Authority.
INVESCO plc 20.05.10 32,571,686 9.9 BlackRock, Inc. 23.03.11 16,491,628 5.0 Certain restrictions, which are customary for a listed company, apply Lloyds Banking Group plc 27.05.10 16,425,039 5.0 to transfers of shares in the Company.
The Board may refuse to register Newton Investment an instrument of transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share and Management Ltd 07.03.11 13,864,410 4.2 of acerticated share at its discretion unless it is: Cascade Investment, LLC 20.04.12 16,593,248 5.0 Legal & General Group Plc 12.11.09 13,069,891 4.0 t lodged, duly stamped or duly certied, at the ofces of the Companys registrar or such other place as the Board may specify and is As at 25 February 2013 no further notications have been received since accompanied by the certicate for the shares to which it relates and the year end.
such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS ATTACHING TO SHARES Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and without t in respect of only one class of shares: and prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares, the Company mayresolve by ordinary resolution to issue shares with such rights and t in favour of not more than four transferees.
restrictions as set out in such resolution or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specic provision as the Board may decide.
Registration of a transfer of an uncerticated share may be refused in Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and of any resolution the circumstances set out in the uncerticated securities rules, and of the Company passed pursuant thereto and without prejudice to any where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders rights attached to existing shares, the Board is duly authorised to issue to whom the uncerticated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
and allot, grant options over or otherwise dispose of the Companys shares on such terms and conditions and at such times as it thinks t. If at any BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 51 OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED In addition, no instrument of transfer for certicated shares shall be The ofce of a director shall also be vacated pursuant to the Articles registered if the transferor has been served with a restriction notice if thedirector: asdened in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles afterfailure to provide the Company with information concerning certain t resigns by giving notice to the Company or is asked to resign by all interests in the Companys shares required to be provided under the ofthe other directors who are not less than three in number: or Companies Act 2006, unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms length sale.
The Board has the power to procure t is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill health and the Board thatuncertifcated shares are converted into certicated shares and kept resolves that his or her ofce be vacated: or in certicated form for as long as the Board requires.
t is absent without permission from Board meetings for six consecutive The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders months and the Board resolves that his or her ofce be vacated: or that may result in any restriction of the transfer of shares or voting rights.
t becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors generally: or RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING RIGHTS A member shall not be entitled to vote, unless the Board otherwise t is prohibited by law from being a director: or decides, at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held by them if any call or other sums payable remain unpaid.
Currently, t ceases to be a director by virtue of any provisions of company law or is all issued shares are fully paid.
In addition, no member shall be entitled removed from ofce pursuant to the Articles.
tovote if he has been served with a restriction notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning certain interests in Jean-Charles Pauze and Meinie Oldersma were appointed to the Board theCompanys shares required to be provided under the Companies with effect from 1 January 2013 and 1 April 2013 respectively.
Votes may be exercised in person or by proxy.
The Articles Biographical details of the directors are set out on page 32.
All of the currently provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of 48 hours directors with the exception of Jean-Charles Pauze and Meinie Oldersma before the relevant meeting, 24 hours before a poll is taken if such poll served throughout the year.
Notwithstanding the retirement by rotation istaken more than 48 hours after it was demanded or during the meeting provisions in the Articles, each of the directors will retire and offer at which the poll was demanded if the poll is not taken straight away but themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in istaken not more than 48 hours after it was demanded.
accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code apart from Ulrich Wolters who retires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES At the 2012 Annual General Meeting, shareholders gave the Company Directors interests in ordinary shares are shown in Note 19 to the authority to purchase a maximum of 33,080,000 ordinary shares.
None of the directors was materially the year ended 31 December 2012 the Company did not purchase any interested in any contract of signicance with the Company or any of its ofits own shares pursuant to this authority or the authority granted at subsidiary undertakings during or at the end of 2012.
Information relating the2011 Annual General Meeting and no shares have been purchased to the directors service agreements and their remuneration for the year between 31 December 2012 and 25 February 2013.
The total number and details of the directors share options under the Companys share ofordinary shares currently held in treasury is 23,325,000.
The Company option schemes and awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan and is therefore currently authorised to buy back 33,080,000 of its own Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme are set out in the Directors sharespursuant to the existing shareholders authority which is due to remuneration report on pages 38 to 50. expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Thedirectors again propose to seek the equivalent authority at such POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS Annual General Meeting.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company is DIRECTORS managed by the Board who may exercise all powers of the Company.
Directors may be elected by ordinary resolution at a duly convened TheBoard may, by power of attorney or otherwise, appoint any person general meeting or appointed by the Board.
Under the Articles, the orpersons to be the agent or agents of the Company for such purposes minimum number of directors shall be two and the maximum shall be 15. and on such conditions as the Board determines.
In accordance with the Articles, each director is required to retire at the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year in which he or she DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES was appointed or last appointed and any director who has held ofce with As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the the Company, other than employment or executive ofce, for a continuous Company has agreed to indemnify the directors and the Company period of nine years or more at the date of the Annual General Meeting Secretary, in addition to other senior executives who are directors of issubject to annual re-appointment.
The Board may also appoint a person subsidiaries of the Company, to the extent permitted by law and the willing to act as a director during the year either to ll a vacancy or as an Articles in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, additional director but so that the total number of directors shall not at any the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as a director time exceed 15.
However such appointee shall only hold ofce until the or officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
AMENDMENT OF ARTICLES In addition to any power to remove a director from ofce conferred by Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with the company law, the Company may also by special resolution remove a provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution of director from ofce before the expiration of his or her period of ofce the Companys shareholders.
52 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EXTERNAL AUDITOR The directors recognise that the Company is part of a wider community Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: and that it has a responsibility to act in a way that respects the environment and social and community issues.
Further information t so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information relating to the Companys approach to these matters is set out in the ofwhich the Companys auditor is unaware: and Corporate responsibility report on pages 27 to 31. t the director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken EMPLOYMENT POLICIES as adirector in order to make the director aware of any relevant audit The employment policies of the Group have been developed to meet the information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of needs of its different business areas and the locations in which they thatinformation.
operate worldwide, embodying the principles of equal opportunity.
The Group has standards of business conduct with which it expects all its This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with employees to comply.
Bunzl encourages involvement of its employees in the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. the performance of the business in which they are employed and aims to achieve a sense of shared commitment.
In addition to a regular magazine Resolutions are to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General and the Companys intranet, which provide a variety of information on Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the activities and developments within the Group and incorporate half year Company at a rate of remuneration to be determined by the directors.
and annual financial reports, announcements are periodically circulated togive details of corporate and staff matters together with a number of DIRECTORS REPORT subsidiary or business area publications dealing with activities in specic Pages 1 to 53 inclusive consist of a directors report that has been drawn parts of the Group.
up and presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon, applicable English company law and any liability of the directors in connection with It is the Groups policy that disabled applicants should be considered for this report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by employment and career development on the basis of their aptitudes and such law.
Employees who become disabled during their working life will beretained in employment wherever possible and given help with Under the Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits the liability of rehabilitation and training.
directors in respect of statements in and omissions from the directors report.
Under English law, the directors would be liable to the Company, SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS but not to any third party, if the directors report contains errors as a result The Companys wholly owned subsidiary, Bunzl Finance plc, has a of recklessness or knowing misstatement ordishonest concealment of a number of bilateral loan facilities with a range of different counterparties, material fact, but would not otherwise beliable.
all of which are guaranteed by the Company, are in substantially the same form and are prepayable at the option of the lender in the event of a On behalf of the Board change of control of the Company.
Similar change of control provisions in relation to the Company are included in the US dollar and sterling bonds Paul Hussey which have been entered into by Bunzl Finance plc and the Company Secretary and are also guaranteed by the Company.
25 February 2013 CONTRACTUAL ARRANGEMENTS The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third parties in support of its business activities, none of which are considered individually to be essential to its business and, accordingly, it has not been considered necessary for an understanding of the development, performance or position of the Groups business to disclose information about any of those third parties.
CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY Group operating companies do not follow any specic published code or standard on payment practice but are instead responsible for agreeing the payment terms when agreeing all other terms and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
It is Group policy that suppliers are made aware of these terms and that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with them provided that suppliers also comply with all other relevant terms and conditions.
The number of days billings from the Companys suppliers outstanding at the end of the year was 30 2011: 30.
DONATIONS During 2012, amongst other worldwide charitable donations, the Group contributed 225,000 to UK charities 2011: 220,000.
No contributions were made for political purposes.
