our strategy an iconic british luxury brand established in 1856, Burberry leverages its proven strategies and talented team to assure sustainable, profitable growth strategic themes Invest in AcceleratE PursuE LeveragE Intensify underretail-LED operational the franchise non-apparel penetrated growth excellence markets The following pages outline the companys five key strategic themes and selected highlights during the year.
These themes underpin the connected culture, brand momentum and consistent performance.
30 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 our strategy Continued LeveragE The Franchise Through more coordinated use of brand assets Brand integration and greater integration of its global organisation, Discussions continued with Interparfums, the companys Burberry has the opportunity to enhance consumer fragrance and beauty partner, regarding a potential new responsiveness and operate more efficiently operating structure for the business to unlock the brands and effectively.
This potential lies in both the potential in these introductory categories.
Saudia Arabia became the latest business to transition from a franchise model with the formation of a new In 2011 12, Burberry was named the fourth-fastest growing subsidiary with a local partner.
brand globally by both Interbrand and WPP BrandZ, behind Apple, Google and Amazon.
It was included in Interbrands Marketing innovation Top 100 Global Brands for the third consecutive year, Burberry continued to extend its reach and impact through received the Luxury Brieng Inspiring Luxury Loyalty award innovative marketing, leveraging its brand content to engage and was recognised as one of six best practice advertising and connect consumers globally.
case studies by Asias largest search engine, Baidu.
Burberry World Brand momentum, marketing innovation and product Burberry World hosted an increasingly immersive suite excellence underpin this performance.
ofcontent-rich experiences, attracting millions of visitors during the year.
Brand momentum The momentum of the Burberry brand lies in pure and Burberry Bespoke, the most luxurious expression of consistent global articulation.
Initiatives underpinning this thebrands iconic outerwear product launched digitally, momentum include: enabling customers to design, share and purchase customised trench coats, for delivery within eight weeks.
Digital synchronisation The runway show experience evolved on Burberry World, Burberry.
com or Burberry World enabled more with live Twitter and Instagram social feeds connecting consistent brand projection across all customer thebrands virtual communities and motion-reactive touchpoints.
360-degree technology enhancing customers ability Monthly coordination of design, marketing and retail toexplore the collection online.
activities resulted in seamless brand communication.
Recognising the increasingly central role that technology Retail Theatre technology was rolled out to 87 stores, plays in the success of its marketing activities, investment enabling distribution of brand content and events, in the integrity and efficiency of IT systems continued.
whilethe roll out of iPads to all mainline stores globally was completed.
Burberry World supported retail sales as a global inventorypool.
32 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 our strategy Continued Social media Product excellence Burberry continued to advance its leading position At Burberry everything begins and ends with great on social media in the luxury sector, more than doubling product, combining a focus on core categories with Facebook fans and YouTube views, while tripling its continuous innovation.
Visits to the Art of The Trench socialmedia site increased by more than 60%.
Outerwear core Leveraging the brands unique heritage, together with Brand content was further leveraged across Chinese design innovation and excellence, outerwear continued social media platforms Sina Weibo, Kaixin001, Douban as the companys predominant apparel category and and YouKu, and through 10 regional Twitter accounts.
Tweetwalk, launched in partnership with Twitter, Outerwear represented more than half of mainline enabled followers to see images of the menswear retail apparel sales, underpinned by a robust and womenswear collections first, before they went replenishment programme.
Menswear focus Events Burberry made significant progress towards reclaiming Burberry leveraged digital technology to increase reach thebrands menswear foundation by leveraging its core and engagement around key brand events.
New initiatives strategies across the high-potential mens apparel and included the streaming of the AW12 womenswear show non-apparel categories.
toiconic outdoor sites at Londons Liverpool Street station and Heathrow Terminal 5, and a collaboration with The division relaunched with a tailoring test, diversied Sina Weibo that resulted in nearly 70 million impressions outerwear offer, non-apparel extensions and dedicated for a major brand event in Beijing.
Mens tailoring doubled in the year from a low base and mens non-apparel increased by 50% in mainline retail.
Large leather goods Innovation in design, materials and shapes drove continued strength in large leather goods, particularly in the brands iconic check, luxury leather and Prorsum handbags.
2011 12 saw the continuation of efforts to correct the diminishing number of legacy issues that are inconsistent withthe global luxury positioning of the Burberry brand.
There was significant investment during the year in upgrading the brands wholesale presence, through Total revenue growth Year to 31 March measures the appeal of the brand to consumers, be it through Burberry the addition of shop-in-shops, the closure of accounts stores or those of its department store orspecialty retail customers.
and exiting from outerwear departments.
In Japan, where the majority of theBurberry business is still under licence, 1,857m 2011 12 23% the company continued to terminate various non-apparel 12 1,857 23% licences while implementing merchandising and marketing 11 1,501 24% activities focusedon the global collection.
10 1,185 10 1,280 1% 09 1,202 7% 08 995 18% Retail Wholesale Licensing Growth rate is year-on-year underlying change i. e. at constant exchange rates.
2008, 2009 and 2010 include the result of the discontinued Spanish operations.
2010 has been represented to exclude the discontinued Spanish operations.
In 2011 12, Burberrys revenue was 1,857m a 23% underlying increase on the previousyear.
34 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 our strategy Continued INTENSIFY NON-APPAREl Intensify and focus on under-penetrated non-apparel Global licences categories to leverage Burberry design and Burberry has three global licensing agreements: fragrance merchandising expertise and iconic branding further and beauty Interparfums, watches Fossil and eyewear through investment in product development, marketing Luxottica.
The company continued to work closely with and supply chain.
these partners on product development, marketing and distribution activities, and conducted regular reviews to In 2011 12, non-apparel was the companys largest product ensure compliance with the terms of its licence agreements.
division, contributing 39% of retail wholesale revenue and recording growth of 22%.
At around half of non-apparel By more closely aligning these products to the Burberry mainline retail sales, large leather goods remain the backbone brand image, the company continued to unlock their potential of this category, underpinned by a robust replenishment in 2011 12. programme.
Fragrance and beauty Mens accessories The new Burberry Body womens fragrance launched, Mens accessories was the largest growth driver in supported by a synchronised global marketing campaign non-apparel, accounting for over a third of growth.
across all platforms and regions, including iconic outdoor Investment in product development and focused marketing advertising, high-impact store presentations, television initiatives resulted in revenues increasing by over 50%.
advertising and sampling activity launched through apartnership with Facebook.
Body was the brands Soft accessories mostsuccessful fragrance launch to date, enabling the Continued growth in iconic cashmere and innovation in Burberryfragrance portfolio to move from 19th to 9th fabrications and prints drove strong double-digit growth inthe United States.
inboth ladies and mens scarves.
The distribution for Burberry Beauty, launched in 2010 11, was extended following an encouraging early performance.
Now available in over 70 wholesale doors worldwide and through burberry.
com, the range was introduced to the first Burberry store with the opening of Taipei.
Eyewear A heightened focus on eyewear development and distribution resulted in good sales growth over the year and a stronger platform for future growth.
Watches Growth in non-apparel revenue Year to 31 March Further progress was made towards aligning product and measures the success of Burberrys initiatives to expand in this distribution activities with the brands luxury positioning, category, which includes large and small leather goods, scarves, shoes, belts and jewellery.
with a strong consumer response to the enhanced product offer.
Growth rate is year-on-year underlying change i. e. atconstant exchange rates.
In 2011 12, non-apparel revenue increased by 22% underlying and accounted for 39% of retail wholesale revenue.
Large leather goods are core to non-apparel, representing about half of non-apparel revenue, while mens accessories contributed the largest part of the growth in this category.
36 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 our strategy Continued ACCELERATE RETAIL-LED GROWTH Shift company culture and processes from a static The Customer Service team grew considerably with the wholesale model to a dynamic retail model.
Retail-led opening of a new centre in Hong Kong to complement the growth refers not only to the operation of Burberrys existing centres in London and New York.
Together these own stores, but also to a fundamental shift in the specialist facilities support the needs of luxury customers Groups operating structure.
24 7 by phone, email and live chat in 14 languages.
The extension of a specialised sales and service Burberry was honoured to receive three prestigious retail programme to China was completed, alongside training awards when it was named International Retailer of the todeliver exceptional service to Chinese customers Year at both the National Retail Federation of America and internationally.
the Oracle World Retail Awards, and Retailer of the Year at theUKs Retail Week Oracle Awards.
Burberry was Client Services, dedicated to the most loyal Burberry also recognised for the industrys best in-store and online customers, grew to a team of 50 worldwide, with customer experience by the Luxury Institute.
customised sales programmes across all regions.
There was further investment in elevating the in-store experience Highlights from 2011 12 include: for these customers through the increased provision ofprivate areas tailored to their elevated service needs.
Driving productivity Burberry continued to invest in all aspects of the retail Real estate investment experience during the year, substantially increasing The Burberry retail footprint was further expanded, productivity in its mainline stores.
withaheightened focus on agship cluster investment.
Flagship cities are characterised by high net worth local Further integration of physical and digital real estate, populations, above average GDP and strong tourism including through monthly oorsets, drove consistent ows.
Together, these characteristics provide some brand messaging across all mediums.
insulation against global macroeconomic volatility.
Retail disciplines were improved, including in A 19% increase in average selling space included the replenishment execution and inventory management.
opening of new larger format stores in Hong Kongs Canton Road, the Rue Faubourg St-Honor in Paris, Customer centricity andGeorge Street in Sydney.
23 mainline stores were Burberry continued to focus on customer service, driving opened and there was a continued focus on upgrading consistency and productivity by better connecting with the Burberry retail presence in key locations, including customers and cultivating personalised relationships.
Growth in retail revenue Year to 31 March Number of stores As at 31 March includes comparable store sales growth measuring growth in productivity measures the reach of Burberry directly-operated stores around the world.
of existing stores, plus revenue from new space.
Mainline Concessions Outlets Comparable store sales growth is dened as the annual percentage increase in sales 2008, 2009 and 2010 include the stores of the discontinued Spanish operations.
from stores that have been opened for more than 12 months, adjusted for closures 2010 has been represented to exclude the discontinued Spanish operations.
The number of stores directly operated by Burberry increased by 27 in 2011 12.
Total retail sales increased by 31% underlying in the year.
Comparable store revenue growth Theseincluded 28 new mainline stores and 10 closures, with a net two new stores increased by 14% H1: 16%: H2: 12%.
Average selling prices increased again in mainline in theAmericas, one in Europe, six in Asia Pacic and nine in Rest of the World stores driven by an increased penetration of London in womens and mens apparel.
The including vestores in Saudi Arabia that were converted from franchise to retail acquired stores in China contributed 6% of the 31% underlying growth, up to the anniversary through a subsidiary with a local partner in June 2011. of the acquisition from September 2010.
The balance of growth of 11% came from new space.
38 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 our strategy Continued INVEST IN UNDER-PENETRATED MARKETS Focus on and invest in under-penetrated markets.
Developing India and the Middle East For Burberry, these consist of both developed markets This sub-region was developed further during the like the United States and Emerging Markets including year, with the opening of two new stores in India and China, India and the Middle East.
All distribution the formation of a new subsidiary with a local partner channels and a variety of business models are used in SaudiArabia.
Building Central and Latin America Two new stores opened in Central and Latin America Highlights from 2011 12 include: asBurberry continued to build its presence in this high-potential region.
The stores, in the key luxury Engaging China hubs ofSo Paulo and Guadalajara, brought the total The integration of the companys China operation number in the region toeight.
was nalised and enhanced merchandising, marketing and store service initiatives were leveraged to increase Entering new markets comparable store sales by well over 20%.
Recognising the potentially more volatile conditions An intensied marketing focus extended reach and inemerging markets, Burberry continued to work with relevance.
Burberry achieved a leading luxury position franchisees and partners in countries where it has onChinese social media platforms, launched a simplied morelimited experience, benefiting from local expertise.
com and was named the Burberry signed new franchise agreements, including brand with the second-highest digital IQ in China by to take the brand into the emerging luxury markets theinuential L2 think tank.
The capabilities of the team were further developed, cultivating full regional functions and expertise.
In stores, Elevating wholesale presence assortments were further elevated and rened to cater Burberry made significant investment in its luxury brand tothe needs of the countrys emerging luxury consumer, presence through the wholesale channel, with an intense while the service proposition benefited from focus to improve real estate and upgrade assortments.
In the United States, over 30 new womens, mens, accessories and childrens shop-in-shops were opened inkey department stores.
Upgrading of specialty store distribution in Europe continued.
Burberry continued to build its presence in the high growth travel retail channel, particularly with its travel retail partner in the Asia region.
New Burberry stores opened in Macaus City of Dreams and in the East and West terminals at Taiwans Kaohsiung airport.
Number of stores in Emerging Markets As at 31 March measures the reach of the Burberry brand in these high potential countries.
154 31 March 2012 12 154 11 136 10 111 09 91 08 79 Emerging Markets include: China, the Middle East, Eastern Europe, Russia, Brazil, India and other parts of South East Asia, South Africa and Central and Latin America.
Burberry added net 18 stores in Emerging Markets, of which ten stores were in China and two each in Thailand, the Middle East, India and Central and Latin America.
Of the 154 stores, 97 are directly operated, of which 63 are in China, five in Central and Latin America, 22 in the Middle East and seven in India.
The balance are franchise stores.
40 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 our strategy Continued PURSUE OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Burberry continues to pursue its goal to be recognised Additional investment was made at Castleford to as much for operational excellence as for product and support the production of Burberry Bespoke trench marketing excellence.
coats, the majority of which are made in Britain.
Progressing logistics Burberry drove further operational improvements during Logistics execution and capabilities were further 2011 12, with a particular emphasis on merchandising, enhanced.
European logistics activities were recongured supply chain and information technology.
with a new regional distribution hub in Piacenza, Italy designed to bring significant speed, cost and energy Merchandising efficiency benets.
Technology investment Burberry continued to prioritise and leverage technology Information technology investments across the business.
A centralised business Social enterprise intelligence team was established with global responsibility Burberry partnered with Salesforce.
com to implement for data management and reporting, resulting in enhanced tools and processes to enable the development of a social visibility of metrics including sales, margins and inventory.
enterprise, better connecting all constituencies around the Replenishment and planning brand.
This included the launch of Burberry Chat, a global An ongoing focus on replenishment capability and digital platform dynamically linking associates and partners.
practices saw the penetration of replenishment styles remain at about half of mainline revenue.
Assortment Completing SAP planning and execution was further improved.
A more The global implementation of SAP was largely consistent global buy provided increased supply chain completed with the installation of China and the Middle efficiency and a cohesive brand statement across the East.
This major multi-year project forms the foundation store base, whilst allowing regional exibility to respond for the companys global IT infrastructure.
The Group continues to monitor closely all key supplier Supply chain relationships across its global operations.
Governance Investing in UK manufacturing processes are in place for all major strategic initiatives, Apprenticeship schemes were established at Castleford, supplemented by regular reviews of operational progress which produces the brands heritage trench coats, and andperformance by senior management.
These structures Woodrow, which weaves the gabardine fabric used in are regularly reviewed to ensure they can effectively support theirconstruction.
Together with a new training school Burberrys global growth.
atCastleford, this will develop the future skill base in bothlocations.
Retail wholesale gross margin Year to 31 March Adjusted retail wholesale operating profit margin Year to 31 March measures, among other things, how efficiently Burberry measures how Burberrys initiatives and its investment to improve its business sources its products.
processes, including sourcing, IT and logistics are impacting its profit margin.
Adjusted operating profit margin is stated before exceptional items.
Gross margin in retail wholesale increased by 320 basis points to 68.1% in 2011 12 compared to the 64.9% margin in the prior year due to the shift from wholesale to retail Burberrys adjusted retail wholesale operating profit margin increased from 15.6% coupled with the benets of sourcing, pricing and the geographic shift to Asia Pacic.
Modest operating margin expansion was achieved after investment in additional space, new markets and central functions.
42 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12
