Directors report The directors present their Annual Report and Directors the audited consolidated financial statements The names and biographical details of the directors holding of the Company for the year to 31 March 2012. ofce at the date of this report are set out on page 68 and areincorporated by reference into this report.
Business review Burberry Group plc is required to set out in this report At the 2012 Annual General Meeting all of the directors will a fairreview of the business of the Group during the year retire and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
to 31March 2012 and of the position of the Group at the end ofthe financial year and a description of the principal The Notice of this years Annual General Meeting sets out risks and uncertainties facing the Group known as a why the Board believes the directors should be re-elected.
The purpose of the business review Details of the directors service agreements and letters of appointment are given in the Directors Remuneration is to enable shareholders to assess how the directors have performed their duty under section 172 of the Companies Report on pages 83 to 92.
Act 2006 duty to promote the success of the company.
The Chairmans letter on page 8, the Chief Executive Ofcers Directors share interests letter onpages 12 to 15, the Group overview and Strategy Interests of the directors holding ofce at 31 March 2012 sections onpages 26 to 42 and the Financial review on in the shares of the Company are shown within the Directors pages 46 to 52 report on the activities and results for the year Remuneration Report on page 92.
There were no changes and give an indication of the Groups future developments.
tothe beneficial interests of the directors between the period The corporate responsibility and people report is set out in 31 March 2012 and 22 May 2012. the Great Brand, Great Company section on pages 61 to 65.
A description ofthe principal risks and uncertainties facing Directors insurance and indemnities the Group is included on pages 56 to 59.
The Corporate The Company maintains directors and ofcers liability Governance report is set out on pages 74 to 82 and the insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action Directors Remuneration Report is on pages 83 to 92. brought against its directors.
In accordance with section 236 The sections ofthe annual report referred to above full the of the Companies Act 2006, qualifying third-party indemnity provisions are in place for the directors in respect of liabilities requirements of the business review and are incorporated by reference andshall be deemed to form part of this report.
incurred as a result of their ofce, to the extent permitted by law.
Both the insurance and indemnities applied throughout Principal activities the financial year ended 31 March 2012 and through to the date of this report.
Burberry Group plc is a holding company.
The Group designs, sources, and markets luxury mens, womens and childrens clothing and non-apparel accessories globally Share capital through a diversied network of retail including digital, Details of the issued share capital, together with details of wholesale and franchise channels worldwide.
Burberry also movements in the issued share capital of Burberry Group plc licenses third parties to manufacture and distribute products during the year are shown in note 21 which is incorporated using the Burberry trademarks.
by reference and deemed to be part of this report.
Revenue and profit The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries Revenue from the continuing business during the period no right to xed income.
Each share carries the right to amounted to 1,857.2m 2011: 1,501.3m.
The profit for one vote at general meetings of the Company.
The ordinary theyear attributable to equity holders of the Company was shares are listed on the Ofcial List and traded on the London 263.3m 2011: 208.4m.
As at 31 March 2012, the Company had 438,768,108 ordinary shares in issue, of which 30,027 were Dividends held as treasury shares.
The directors recommend that a final dividend of 18.0p perordinary share 2011: 15.0p in respect of the year to In order to retain maximum exibility, the Company proposes 31March 2012 be paid on 2 August 2012 to those persons to renew the authority granted by ordinary shareholders at on the Register of Members as at 6 July 2012. the Annual General Meeting in 2011, to repurchase up to justunder 10% of its issued share capital.
Further details are An interim dividend of 7.0p per ordinary share was provided in the Notice of this years Annual General Meeting.
paid to shareholders on 27 January 2012 2011: 5.0p.
This will make a total dividend of 25.0p per ordinary At the Annual General Meeting in 2011, shareholders approved resolutions to allot shares up to an aggregate share in respect of the financial year to 31 March 2012.
The aggregate dividends paid and recommended in respect nominal value of 72,000 and to allot shares for cash other of the year to31 March 2012 total 109.5m 2011: 87.1m.
than pro rata to existing shareholders.
Resolutions will be proposed at this years Annual General Meeting to renew these authorities.
70 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 No person has any special rights of control over the Charitable donations Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
During the year to 31 March 2012, the Group donated There are no specic restrictions on the size of holding nor 3.7m 2011: 3m for the benefit of charitable causes.
onthe transfer of shares which are both governed by the These donations principally comprised cash.
Further general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing information regarding the charitable donations made legislation.
The directors are not aware of any agreements during the year are contained in the Great Brand, Great between holders of the Companys shares that may result Company section on pages 61 to 65. inrestrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
The directors have no current plans to issue shares other Political donations than in connection with employee share schemes.
The Company made no political donations during the year in line with its policy.
In keeping with the Companys approach Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 25. in prior years, shareholder approval is being sought at the The Burberry Group plc ESOP Trust has waived all dividends forthcoming Annual General Meeting, as a precautionary payable by the Company in respect of the ordinary shares measure, for the Company and its subsidiaries to make held by it.
In addition, the Burberry Group plc SIP Trust has donations and or incur expenditure which may be construed waived all dividends payable by the Company in respect as political by the wide denition of that term included in of the unappropriated ordinary shares held by it.
Further details are provided in the Notice of this years Annual General Meeting.
The total dividends waived in the year to 31 March 2012 were in aggregate 0.2m 2011: 0.05m.
Employment policies Diversity and inclusion With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, The Group takes a very inclusive approach to diversity.
the Company follows the UK Corporate Governance Code As a global business, we value people of all cultures, and is governed by its Articles of Association, the Companies nationalities, races, religions, and ethnicities, regardless Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles of Association of characteristics such as gender, gender identity and or may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
expression, age, disability, or sexual orientation.
Burberry is passionate about attracting, developing and rewarding Substantial shareholdings the most talented and skilled individuals, regardless of As at 31 March 2012, the Company had been notied under background.
The Group encourages its employees to Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the work across functions, geographies and cultures to enhance following major interests in its issued ordinary share capital: understanding and create a connected global community.
As the Group continues to grow globally, it is building on Number of % of total its long-term commitment to diversity and inclusion ordinary shares voting rights embracing the cultures of all the countries where we do Blackrock Inc. 43,198,349 9.92 business.
Burberry is committed to making the necessary Capital Research and 22,016,085 5.05 adjustments to support the employment of people with Management Company disabilities and provide training and development to Schroders plc 21,666,352 4.99 ensure they have the opportunity to achieve their potential.
JP Morgan Chase & Co 21,578,580 4.99 In a situation where anemployee becomes disabled during FMR LLC 21,867,513 4.98 their employment, theGroup will endeavour to assist the Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 21,664,800 4.97 employee by offering additional training, adapting the job Massachusetts Financial 20,073,645 4.61 if appropriate or by offering a transfer to another position.
ServicesCompany Legal and General Group plc 17,483,873 3.98 Health and safety The Group has a health and safety policy approved by the Board and a Global Health and Safety Committee which As at 22 May 2012, the Company had not received any ischaired by the Executive Vice President, Chief Financial further notications under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and officer.
Each region has a local Committee which reports Transparency Rules of major interests in its issued ordinary intothe Global Committee.
There have been a number of share capital.
internal and external audits carried out to provide assurance.
There has been no enforcement action following a routine Interests in own shares visit by inspectors.
Details of the Companys interests in its own shares are set out in note 21 to the financial statements.
Further information regarding the Groups employment policies are provided in the Great Brand, Great Company section on pages 61 to 65.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 71 Directors report continued Employee involvement Creditor payment policy Employee communication For all trade creditors, it is the Companys policy to: The Group believes that employee communication is important in building strong relationships with, and in agree and confirm the terms of payment at the motivating and retaining, employees.
The Group makes commencement of business with that supplier: useof various methods and channels, all of which are pay in accordance with contractual and other legal implemented globally, including, face-to-face briengs, obligations: and opendiscussion forums with senior management, email anda corporate intranet as well as a new internal social continually review the payment procedures and liaise media platform, Burberry Chat.
These enable all employees withsuppliers as a means of eliminating difficulties to connect, consult and collaborate globally, to ensure and maintaining a good working relationship.
thatmatters of interest and importance are conveyed to employees quickly and effectively.
In addition, quarterly The Company had no trade creditors at 31 March 2012 updates which highlight the Groups performance and 2011: nil.
itsongoing strategic initiatives are webcast globally.
Furthermore, development of content such as videos significant contracts change of control anddigital webpages to communicate key initiatives, Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the directors disclose eventsand other brand messages has further enhanced that in the event of a change of control in the Company, the internal communication and the Burberry culture.
Groups 300m Revolving Credit Facility dated 28 March 2011 could become repayable.
Employee share ownership The Group recognises the importance of good relationships In circumstances of change of control of the Company, with employees of all levels and runs incentive schemes Angela Ahrendts may terminate her employment.
Her andshare ownership schemes for the benefit of employees.
entitlement in respect of remuneration in such circumstances Further details of these schemes are set out in the Directors is set out on pages 87 to 88 of the Directors Remuneration Remuneration Report on pages 83 to 92.
Report and is the same as it would be if her service agreement is terminated where the Remuneration Committee determines The Group again intends to grant during 2012 13 free that Angela Ahrendts performance does not meet the share awards or cash-based awards to all eligible financial expectations of the Board or shareholders.
TheGroup also intends, where possible, to invite employees to take part in the Sharesave Scheme.
In circumstances where the Companys shares cease to be listed, Stacey Cartwright may terminate her employment on Further details on the Groups approach to employee three months notice and would be entitled to her base salary involvement and communications are provided in the for a period of nine months following termination.
GreatBrand, Great Company section on pages 61 to 65.
Details of the service agreements of the executive Financial instruments directors are set out on pages 87 to 88 of the Directors The Groups financial risk management objectives and Remuneration Report.
policies are set out within note 24 to the financial statements.
Note 24 also details the Groups exposure to foreign The provisions of the Companys employee share plans may exchange, share price, interest, credit and liquidity risks.
cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest These notes are incorporated by reference andare deemed upon a change of control.
to form part of this report.
72 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 Essential contracts The directors have reviewed the Groups forecasts and The Group has a number of contractual arrangements with projections.
These include the assumptions around the suppliers both of goods and services, wholesale customers, Groups products and markets, expenditure commitments, licensees who manufacture and distribute products using expected cash ows and borrowing facilities.
Taking into theBurberry trademarks, subsidiary partners and franchisees.
account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, In addition, the Group occupies leasehold premises for and after making enquiries, the directors havea reasonable the purpose of conducting its business.
Whilst these expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate arrangements are important to the business of the Group, resources to continue in operational existence for the individually none of them are essential to the business foreseeable future.
Accordingly the directors consider of the Group and do not require disclosure under section itappropriate to continue to adopt the going concern 417 5 c of the Companies Act 2006. basisin preparing the financial statements.
Independent Auditors Annual General Meeting In accordance with section 418 2 of the Companies Act The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 2006, each of the Companys directors in ofce as at the the ofces of Slaughter and May, One Bunhill Row, London, date of this report confirms that: EC1Y 8YY commencing at 9.30am on Thursday, 12 July 2012.
The Notice of this years Annual General Meeting so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant willbe available to view on the Companys website at auditinformation of which the Companys auditors burberryplc.
are unaware: and The directors consider that each of the proposed resolutions he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to to be considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole aware of any relevant audit information and to establish and are most likely to promote the success of the Company that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
The directors unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour The Groups auditors are  LLP.
of each of the proposed resolutions, as the directors intend Aresolution to re-appoint  LLP as to do in respect of their own shareholdings.
auditors to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Note 5 in the financial statements states the auditors Catherine Sukmonowski fees both for audit and non-audit work.
Company Secretary Going concern 22 May 2012 The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and Registered Ofce: position are set out in the Financial review on pages 46 Horseferry House to 52, along with details of the Groups cash ows, liquidity Horseferry Road positionand borrowing facilities.
Financial risk management London objectives, details of financial instruments and hedging SW1P 2AW activities, and exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk are described in note 24.
Registered Number: 03458224 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 73
