Great Brand, Great Company Burberry believes that to be a great brand, it must also be a great company Commitment to, and investment in, its extended Burberry is leveraging the energy of its creative global community is at the heart of the Burberry thinking culture to influence positive outcomes core values to Protect, Explore and Inspire, and the at all levels from its own organisation, to its business global team is constantly working to evolve business partnerships, wider community engagement and global practices in line with these principles.
1% 750 32% 70% 1% of Group profit before tax Over 750 audits, visits and trainings 32% points increase in primary Over 70% increase in uptake donated to charitable causes, the conducted in the global supply chain transport shipped by sea of global Sharesave Scheme majority to the Burberry Foundation 148 3,000 1,500 70% 148 tonnes of sample and 3,000 Burberry coats 1,500 Burberry employees Over 70% of Burberry Foundation raw material waste recycled donated to disadvantaged volunteered over 5,500 hours employability programme for use in the automotive and young people worldwide graduates obtained employment construction industries or re-entered education Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 61 Great Brand, Great Company Continued People The companys innovative wellbeing programme was Burberry recognises that its people are its greatest asset extended, with associates receiving benets ranging from andconstantly strives to attract the best talent worldwide, additional annual leave, to free lunch, daily fruit bowls and toprovide meaningful development opportunities at all levels health and sporting activities.
Additional initiatives were and to reward and recognise high performance.
designed and implemented by local teams, ensuring theprogramme offering was sensitively tailored to t the Recruit various cultural needs and expectations of nearly 9,500 Mid-year, Burberry established a new Resourcing Centre associates in 31 countries.
of Expertise, with a clear set of immediate and long-term As part of its commitment to promoting health, safety targets.
By evolving recruitment through a world-class and wellbeing, Burberry continued using a third party resourcing team and leveraging digital across its to undertake audits at its locations throughout the world.
recruitment activities, Burberry now has the potential to This was supplemented by the global deployment llpositions faster and to reduce agency fees signicantly.
of an incident reporting system during the year that Burberry maintained its commitment to diversity and incorporated accident and near miss reporting, equalopportunities in recruitment.
Nationals of over and a series of control processes.
100countries are now employed across all continents, with an age span from 16 to 76.
The diversity within Reward theBurberry community underpins its energy, vibrancy Burberry continued to strengthen the link between and connectedness.
reward and performance across the organisation.
All associates are now in a bonus or incentive plan Burberry continued to help talented young people and share ownership was expanded through the global from allbackgrounds onto the career ladder, with a new Free Share Plan, through which all associates are eligible policyfor work experience and internships supporting to become shareholders in the company.
Global take theprofessional development of young people in and up of the Sharesave Scheme increased by 70%.
The Icon Awards programme, which recognises Retain exceptional performance at all levels of the company, Initiatives launched to enhance the development of reached its fifth anniversary, with over 7,500 nominations thecompanys highest potential associates through received and 81 awards made globally, across categories international networking opportunities, global strategy inspired by the Burberry brand, heritage and core values.
offsites, access to senior executives and leadership The Long Service Awards programme recognised training workshops, all with the ultimate objective 481associates celebrating milestone five-year of creating next generation leaders for the business.
Eleven associates AnewRetail Exchange Programme enabled high  of 30 years service or more.
achieving sales associates from different countries to temporarily swap roles and work locations, enhancing Reinvent cultural understanding and service standards The company launched a full transformation of the global in Burberrystores, whilst providing unparalleled Human Resources organisational structure, centralising career development opportunities.
the operations team and creating global Centres of Expertise to move the value proposition from the purely functional to the strategic and transformational.
This more integrated structure is enabling the company to develop consistent, scalable ways of working across functions andregions.
62 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 Ethical trading Ethical trading was further integrated into Burberry teams Burberry expects all its suppliers to comply with local labour daily decision making, with the Ethical Trading Initiative and environmental laws and the Burberry Ethical Trading delivering training across the global sourcing and product Code of Conduct: to provide their workers with safe working development functions on ethical trading awareness and conditions and fair pay: and to allow them to exercise their purchasing practices.
right to freedom of association and collective bargaining.
Burberry is working with its suppliers to make meaningful Connect improvements to workers employment and workplace Burberry extended its rollout of NGO-run condential conditions globally.
Further information about Burberrys worker hotlines to select suppliers, complementing its commitment to good labour practices can be found at ongoing support of functioning and mature industrial burberryplc.
relations as a sustainable way to protect rights in the workplace.
Currently, around 18,000 workers globally Engage have access to condential hotlines.
Burberry continued to engage with suppliers through In partnership with International Resources for Fairer itsethical trading programme, including announced Tradeand the Centre for Child Rights and Corporate andunannounced audits: continuous improvement Social Responsibility, Burberry introduced new programmes: and training and condential worker hotline programmes to improve working conditions for migrant services.
Burberry once again recognised suppliers workers, including training in living and communication demonstrating leadership in ethical trading through skills and local labour law.
awardsat its annual Vendor Conference.
Burberry continued to connect and collaborate with peers Over 750 audits, supplier visits and training sessions and stakeholders, including through its membership of were conducted globally.
thetri-partite Ethical Trading Initiative, Business for Social Responsibility and the UN Global Compact.
Develop Burberry continued to provide suppliers with practical and classroom-based training on the Burberry Ethical Trading Code of Conduct and related activities, supported by human resource and management system improvement programmes.
A new approach of Supplier Ownership further supported suppliers in building their own capacity to take greater responsibility for ethical standards in their supply chains.
Number of audits, supplier visits, training sessions, improvement programme and hotline training visits 756 5% 12 756 11 721 10 634 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 63 Great Brand, Great Company Continued Community Engage Investing and engaging in the communities where Burberry Burberry continued to encourage its associates to dedicate employees live and work, while leveraging core business up to four hours of paid leave per month in support of competences and values, remains a key objective.
Approximately 40% of employees based in locations with active volunteering Invest programmes lent their personal talents, business skills Burberry donated 1% of Group profits before tax to andexperience to inspire young people through more charitable causes, the majority to the Burberry Foundation than5,500 hours of volunteering support.
The Foundation helps young people develop their skills, confidence Employability programmes were established in Hong and connections, and since its establishment in 2008 Kong, New York and London, as well as in Yorkshire in has supported 21 charity partners in 12 cities globally.
In theUK, where Burberry manufactures its heritage rainwear addition to financial support, the Foundation made in-kind and weaves its traditional gabardine fabric.
Delivered donations ranging from one-off gifts of non-trademark fabric andsupported by Burberry associates, the programmes and materials to assist young people enrolled in art and heighten the creative confidence, skills and aspirations design courses, to the annual Christmas Coat Donation of unemployed young people through an intensive training programme, benefiting 3,000 disadvantaged young curriculum followed by up to 6 weeks of practical work people around the world.
Already 70% of programme graduates have achieved positive outcomes, nding employment, enrolling To support the next generation of creative talent, two in training or re-entering education.
multi-year scholarship funds were launched with the Royal College of Art in the UK and Ball State University Burberry associates in 27 locations participated in the in the United States.
companys first Global Volunteer Day, dedicating over 2,000 hours to improving the lives of disadvantaged Following the severe drought affecting East Africa in 2011, young people in their communities.
Projects ranged from Burberry and its employees contributed to the Disasters career workshops to community revitalisation activities.
Emergency Committee to support the provision of life-saving aid.
Burberry also continued to support Japan in the wake Inspire of the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami through a The company continued to leverage its associates talents, donation to the Burberry Foundation to be used specifically passions, skills and experience to help young people to assist young people in the most impacted areas.
More than 200 young students globally were mentored by a Burberry associate over the last year, in programmes ranging from three months to three years.
Through these mainly one-on-one mentoring relationships, young people broadened their horizons, raised their aspirations and were inspired to realise theirdreams.
Community donations Volunteering hours Direct contributions made by Burberry Time volunteered by Burberry associates 3.7m 24% 5,500 49% 12 3.7m 12 5,500 11 3.0m 11 3,700 10 1.4m 10 3,500 64 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 Sustainability Property Burberry is committed to driving more sustainable Burberry continues to increase its purchase of renewable outcomesthroughout its global operations and engages electricity.
All of its UK sites and 20% of those in the withthe FTSE4Good Index, Carbon Disclosure Project, Americas are now powered in this way.
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Elevating the sustainability expertise of the Burberry Forest Footprint Disclosure and Forum for the Future.
Construction Team is crucial to the continued pursuit of more sustainable construction practices and more energy Product efficient buildings.
More than 40% of this team now holds Burberry extended its efforts to safeguard high welfare a sustainable building certication.
standards by taking an active role in wider industry efforts to improve visibility in the exotics supply chain: Governance site visits tobetter understand traceability in the fur A global governance system enables connection and industry: andcommunication of its Animal Sourcing integration across Burberrys global community on people, Principles toalltanneries.
ethical trading, community investment and sustainability A tannery assessment project was launched in Italy policies and initiatives.
usingthe Leather Working Group protocol, reecting the companys increased focus on monitoring and improving The Chief Corporate Affairs officer is responsible for the environmental management and traceability in its all ethical trading, community and sustainability matters leather supply chain.
and reports on these to the Group Risk Committee and the Board.
He also chairs the Global Sustainability Committee Burberry continues to follow a policy of not knowingly andsits on the Supply Chain Risk Committee.
using sandblasting for any of its denim products.
148 tonnes of European sample and raw material The Chief People officer supports the continued evolution of waste was shredded and reused in the automotive Burberrys unique corporate culture in line with its core values.
Occupational health and safety compliance is reviewed Process tri-annually in stores and annually in ofces and supply chain A dedicated Sea Shipping Task Force worked with sites.
All improvement plans are monitored by the Global the Burberry supply chain to divert stock from air to sea, Health and Safety Committee, which is chaired by the resulting in a 32% points increase in stock shipped by sea.
Executive Vice President, ChiefFinancial officer.
Burberry reduced further the environmental impact of itssupply chain activities.
At the Castleford facility in Yorkshire, the energy used to produce each trench coat was reduced by 30%, while the newly-created European distribution hub will save an estimated 400 tonnes of carbon per year on key outbound lanes.
Global buildings energy CO Primary transport shipped by sea % 2 CO kgs per 1,000 of turnover Based on sea vs. air freight comparison: road data has been excluded 2 18 -14% 44% 32% points 12 18 12 44 11 21 11 12 10 20 10 20 DEFRA 2011 conversion factors used throughout Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 65
