Our PrOgress What We are DoinG.
PuttinG custoMers Enhancing our digital atthe heart of investmentplatforms to ourBusiness helpcustomers manage their assets throughout life.
we recognise that ourcustomers are at the heart of ourbusiness and that we want to provide our customers we must work hard to build long with products and services that term positive relationships with them.
have a real relevance to their lives, helping them to achieve financial Our customer engagement strategy security.
In return, we want our is based upon putting customers at customers to engage with us, theheart of everything we do.
This staywith us throughout life and strategy, which we outlined last year, recommend us to others.
enabled us to achieve some notable successes in 2012: iMProvinG custoMer reLationshiPs Improving our customer Because weoften touch our satisfaction scores.
customers lives attimes when Making it easier for customers theyare under severe emotional todeal with us, by simplifying difficulties, we understand the application procedures.
Improving the quality of our customer communications, In 2012, our life protection, annuities whether digital or traditional.
and general insurance service teams Maintaining a broad choice of improved their customer satisfaction ways to buy our products, such scores from 77% in 2011 to 85% at the asreceiving advice through end of 2012. we also increased our independent advisers, banks, customer ease score measurement building societies or estate ofhow easy customers find us agentsor direct via digital todealwith from 71% in January to onlineapplications.
76%in December against a stretching Ensuring that we provide an target of 75%.
efficient and compassionate claims service.
helping our customers to talk about us using social media and access our products through digital applications.
indd 14 16 03 2013 02:56 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn how we made it easier for everY DaY Matters customers todeal with us BeinGthere for PeoPLe When theY neeD us we introduced a coaching programme for our managers to build improved skills when dealing with customers.
we re-wrote 18 regularly used letters for new customers and eliminated 1.5 million duplicate letters.
we made our online quotation and application processes quicker and less stressful.
We have delivered a better claimsservice Weconduct our business through the lens of every Day Our underlying purpose is to provide Matters.
this includes our broader social purpose, customers with peace of mind, while building on our corporate social responsibility agenda being thereto help them if they need and driving our business results.
to make aclaim by ensuring that all validclaims are paid efficiently This purpose focuses our attention and gives us direction.
Ithelps us design products people actually want and need andmotivates employees with a purpose they can believe in.
we substantially reduced the 87% of our staff now believe that they work for an ethical average life claims turnaround time company 2011: 84%.
from 32 days in January 2012 to 23 days at the end of December 2012.
Our One Day initiative, an innovative and successful For critical illness claims, which campaign, helped drive employee engagement and embedded are more complex, we improved Every Day Matters into employees lives.
This day celebrated average claims turnaround times everything that happens in oneworking day all over the from 49 days inJanuary 2012 to organisation.
One of the benefits was employees, invery 42 days by theend of the year.
different areas, could sharetheir experiences of making areal difference to customers lives.
whether it was dealing how we did this compassionately with customers suffering bereavement or Issuing claims forms within simply buying food for a colleague who hadto work through 24 hours of being told about lunch on an especially complex customer enquiry.
These a claim and aiming to complete experiences are featured throughout this report.
all claims work within 48 hours.
Using text messages to update customers on the progress of their claim.
transforming our savings iMProvinG our ProDucts phoning customers and medical customer communications anD services specialists to check that they we have used the guiding principles 2012 proved to be an exceptionally havereceived our documents.
of Every Day Matters to ensure busy year for delivering new or we improved our general thatour communications are easy enhanced products and services.
insurance fraud processes, tounderstand, using simple jargon-free Regulatory changes drove many focused our effort on resolving language explaining clearly how the developments such as the FsAs our oldest claims, reduced our plan works and its value.
we have RetailDistribution Review, auto open claims by around 36% now significantly improved annual enrolment of workplace pensions and released 5m of reserves.
statements throughout for our and gender-neutral pricing.
For workplace savings, 89% of customers agreed that our new statements are simple and easy to understand.
indd 15 16 03 2013 02:56 Our PrOgress What We are DoinG continueD Delivering changes for introducing gender-neutral pricing This was supported by the Time auto enrolment and the we introduced gender-neutral waits for no woman campaign retail Distribution review pricing on 21 November 2012 for that received positive feedback In 2012, much of the effort of our annuities and on 21 December 2012 from advisers.
savings division was dedicated to for individual protection, becoming ensuring that these two massive the first provider to do so in the UK Diversifying our general projects were delivered on time.
insurance business the RDR and auto enrolment required Over the year weintroduced three fundamental changes to the way A Gender Response Team was product enhancements to support customers buy our products.
we introduced to manage and process our vision to be an outstanding, changed the pricing structures for the pipeline effectively, supported by innovative andresponsible provider most of our savings products and a new in-house pipeline management of personal insurance solutions: delivered projects to upgrade our tool called pipetrack.
Over 93,000 administration systems and processes.
home Insurance Enhanced, ourpremium offering, was launched in september 2012.
Favourites Rewards club for existing customers, launched inOctober 2012. hoW We WiLL continue to ProviDe pet Insurance was launched access to aDvice for custoMers in November 2012.
In 2013, we aim to introduce additional major general insurance products, giving us a product range that is comparable with many of our main competitors.
hoW We have resPonDeD tochanGinG DistriBution Patterns RDR involved changing existing new business policy, administration and accounting systems, building a completely new point of advice system for banks and building societies and our own salesforce, developing and launching new RDR-friendly products, upgrading We have established relationships with the majority our investment platforms and of uK building societies.
eighty seven per cent of uK re-training our own salesforce building society customers now have exclusive access and back-office teams.
to our products and investment platforms.
this covers over 20 million members, with total assets of 270bn.
while we have seen many high-street We are very well placed to help building society banks only continuing to offer advice customers protect their mortgages and families to those customers with high levels and to help them build savings assets.
of savings, we remain committed to continuing to give advice to less customers can receive advice on their financial needs from affluent customers.
our specialist salesforce in high-street branches of a number of building societies.
we can also help customers through our direct business processes.
we are already seeing increased sales of retail protection and general insurance from direct customers.
indd 16 16 03 2013 02:56 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn helping customers who prefer TheUKs largest 350 companies paid acceLerateD to deal directly with us 20bn into their pension schemes evoLution In 2012, we expanded our direct in the year to 31 March 2012, with Our scale and expertise in our annuity service for a growing number 40% of companies giving up more majormarkets gives us the potential of customers who feel comfortable than a months earnings to meet to accelerate our growth further, making their own decisions.
drivenin part by social and economic customers now use the internet for conditions.
Austerity remains the annuity information and have the innovative solutions to ensure watchword in Europe, the Us and confidence to buy direct.
we routinely uK pension schemes can meet Japan and continues to influence health-screen every annuity customer their liabilities thespending decisions of both and offer them the best rate from the we believe we are the market leader retailconsumers and corporates.
while this in retirement solutions, which helps service is non-advised we can offer DB pension schemes and their Our focus in 2012 has been on: advice to those customers who need it.
corporate sponsors increase the Retirement solutions: we also ensure that our own maturing likelihood of meeting current and corporate customer solutions: pension customers have access to our future liabilities.
we are well placed to provide we also developed new direct solutions to help pension trustees In addition, we are focusing on our facilities in Group protection and paycurrent and future pensioners.
digital capabilities in order to enable Liability Driven Investments LDI.
Because of our diverse range of us to accelerate our evolution, giving businesses and expertise, we can us advantages in customer servicing our mortgage network offer solutions to pension trustees and customer engagement and to help we continue to attract good quality that are specifically designed for us build a more efficient organisation.
advisers to our mortgage network.
Our businesses work together In2012, we successfully won a major to ensure that pension scheme risk is retireMent soLutions Appointed Representative deal in the managed in the most appropriate way.
Greater longevity and ageing sector, by recruiting the spicer haart populations in most western Group, which sells mortgages and using insurance solutions economies enables us to offer related financial services through the to manage longevity risk competitive and flexible solutions largest independent chain of estate As well as managing investment to employers and individual agents in the UK.
In addition, 65 risk, we help DB schemes guarantee consumers to protect them from former co-operative Financial pension payments through buyouts, the consequences of death, disability services advisers have joined firms buy-ins and longevity insurance.
Our expertise in our network, spread across a annuity and investment management and market-leading positions in the number of firms, and some new firms teams work together to evaluate UK also mean that we can export have been established from groups whether certain schemes can benefit these skills and experience of advisers.
from transferring to us the liability tointernational markets.
we successfully delivered RDR There is an unprecedented crisis training to our active wealth advisers.
In 2012, we took over the responsibility facing traditional UK pension One hundred per cent of our advisers of paying the pensions for a number schemes.
Not only are we living passed the residential course of UK pension schemes for a total longer, but the fact that recent assessments, enabling the network value of over 1bn, including a 347m giltyields have fallen below 2%, to go live in December ahead of the buy-in for the Tate & Lyle pension meansthat many UK companies are 1 January 2013 deadline.
we estimate that there struggling to fund pension payments offers a strong proposition to Appointed are still 1.7tn of pension liabilities from their defined benefit DB Representative firms, and against that could potentially benefit from schemes.
The pensions protection a backdrop of other networks raising a transfer.
similar funding problems Fund reported that the aggregate their fees for advisory firms, we for DB schemes exist in North deficit for UK schemes covering announced a fee freeze, promising to American and European countries nearly 12million members was keep our mortgage and protection fees and we have been active in seeking 245bn at the end of 2012.
Thats an unchanged, until at least January 2014. opportunities in these regions.
indd 17 16 03 2013 02:56 Our PrOgress What We are DoinG continueD we also help schemes remove the trustees wind uptheir DB scheme, riskof their members living longer wehave been able to help them set than expected through longevity up a new Dc scheme.
Earlier this year, we agreed a 3.2bn transaction with we attribute our success here to our BAE systems to remove the longevity expertise in providing competitive risk associated with 31,000 pensioners.
charging structures, our experience inadministering workplace schemes Moving to defined together with our flexible range contribution Dc ofworkplace investment funds, As part of an overall pensions including many diverse index tracker restructuring solution, we are also and fixed interest funds.
In 2012, able to help UK companies set up wehelped a number of DB schemes newDc schemes.
where scheme reduce risk as well as setting upnew Dc schemes.
hoW We eXPanDeD our retireMent soLutions corPorate custoMer soLutions Our aim as an employee benefits market leader is to help all types ofemployers develop flexible and affordable solutions that simplify thetask of protecting and enhancing the financial wellbeing of their staff, both in work and after retirement.
Over the last year we have also developed a number of innovative solutions that help both large andsmall UK companies manage Legal & General investment Management LGiM is at the theconsequences of long term staff forefront in providing Liability Driven investment LDi solutions sickness and help an employees for pension schemes, both in the uK and the us.
the business dependants overcome the financial has grown rapidly, with LDi auM more than doubling over the consequences of death.
MarK ZinKuLa, chief eXecutive officer LGiM Workplace savings solutions with the launch of the Governments since establishing our first LDI mandate in 2001, we have built up auto enrolment AE programme in a significant level of expertise in helping schemes match their October 2012, our strength as a liabilities totheir scheme assets.
Initially, we worked mainly with provider of workplace schemes large-scheme trustees and advisers, using hedging instruments means that we are expecting over varying from traditional interest rate swaps and inflation swaps 500,000 employees to have joined to more complex non-traditional hedging instruments.
In the last year, we have developed a similar approach for our smaller since the roll-out of AE began in and generally more governance constrained pension schemes and we October 2012, wehave been chosen will be rolling this out more widely over 2013.
In the past these schemes by many well-known organisations have relied heavily on the results of their actuarial valuation every such as Ladbrokes, the co-op, Boots, three years and have used the results of this to drive their investment Asda, Barclays, Thales, the National strategy decisions.
we can use our digital expertise to provide these Trust, Marks & spencer and the schemes with more frequent online modelling which help them to University ofNottingham.
understand the risk inherent in their assets and liabilities, thereby facilitating more timely reviews of their investment strategy.
we are now leveraging our UK reputation and skills in the Us market, winning both the UK and Us LDI manager of the year awards.
indd 18 16 03 2013 02:56 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn The unique service we offer employers Our proposition for these companies isat the forefront of the market, withcompetitive charging structures and ahighly efficient managed service.
Employers and their employees benefit from a complete end-to-end proposition, encompassing payroll integration, customer communications and flexible investment solutions, which use many of our low-cost fundsdeveloped by LGIM.
Our innovative Mastertrust proposition is also an attractive option for employers seeking to reduce the burdens of complexity and governance overheads in their pension arrangements.
we are able to offer a unique integrated service foremployers that no otheruK financial services group We have enhanced the facilities can match.
we have solutions for corporate schemes available on WorkSave, our digital that cover pension saving, life assurance, income corporate platform, to drive customer protection, investment management, annuities and engagement, increase retention pension scheme fide-risking.
The digital corporate platform enables The scale of our corporate businesses and the synergies access to educational resources between them create benefits for employers, their staff and and the opportunities that are our businesses.
Recent examples ofour integrated approach available tothem through the use are our desire to offer preferential rates on individual life of the online Manage you account insurance to members of group protection schemes and service.
Account valuations, range the simplified protection application processes for corporate of funds and planning tools are customers who are already workplace pension customers, available to assist in planning their where life cover is linked to pensions.
extending the reach of Group protection Weve now developed a range of health We also use technology to make life We see helping employers keep their and wellbeing initiatives, including: easier for our corporate customers.
staff healthy as a key goal, which not The Healthy Living online health Our recently launched new online only contributes to the growth of our tool to encourage employers and Quote and buy portal enables own and our corporate customers their staff to assess, monitor small and medium-sized businesses businesses, but helps UK employees andimprove their health.
This is to benefit from our group protection and UK society.
We have developed available to over two million products, helping them to manage areputation for success in early Group Protection customers.
staff who are off sick, and giving intervention and rehabilitation An enhanced employee access to a free employee assistance treatments, which help long-term assistance programme, with free programme as well as our Healthy absentees return to work more quickly.
face-to-face counselling for Group Living online application.
In addition, Our aim is to help all types of Income Protection customers we use online technology to make companies to fide-risk, by simplifying andbereavement counselling death claims quicker and easier.
for employees covered by our We are now also working on the Group Life insurance policies technology to integrate this into The role of our Group Protection and their dependants.
business is to build solutions for our Our stress in the City campaign corporate customers, whether its aims to reduce stigma in specialist support for the complex theworkplace related to mental requirements of a UK FTSE 100 health.
Weve partnered with company or a simplified solution Rethink Mental Illness to support forasmall firm with as few as companies and individuals tenworkers.
indd 19 25 03 2013 12:39 Our PrOgress What We are DoinG continueD internationaL GroWth isbecoming a more significant At the same time, we changed In 2012, one of our strategic contributor to Group profits.
secondly, themanagement structure of our objectiveswas to increase the pace we managed to export the success international businesses in France, with which we diversify our business ofourinvestment management the Netherlands and India to take internationally.
we had notable business into a number of important advantage of the huge expertise and successes in meeting this objective.
international markets, most notably scale that exists in our UK savings Firstly, our Us protection business inthe Us and Middle East, but also andinsurance teams.
achieved 28% growth in sales and inEurope and Asia.
In the Us, we have built a reputation for high quality servicing and innovative solutions, by building eXtenDinG our us Presence superior insight into the needs of ourcustomers and distributors.
Ourdisciplined underwriting approach means that we can give very competitive products to those customers who pose the lowest mortality risks.
structurinG anD DeveLoPinG our orGanisation The success of our company depends upon the quality of our staff and our Leadership Team to drive growth.
Our focus in 2012 has been on: developing our digital capabilities: increasing employee engagement: training and developing our people: and ensuring that talented the success of our growth into new markets comes in individuals are developed part from leveraging the strengths we already possess to be our future leaders.
in the uK into international markets.
in 2012, we gained regulatory approval to extend our existing Our aim is to provide our capability inindex funds into the us.
and because customerswith easily accessible we had amarket-leading strength in pension fide-risking online information about us and our in theuK, wewere able to establish a position in the products, regardless of whether us asan industry leader in liability-driven investment theygo on to make a direct online strategy LDi.
our long-established credibility and application or seek advice.
As well ability to drive thought leadership meant that we asdeveloping online application werethe 2012 winner of the asset international cio processes, we intend to build two-way innovation award.
communications processes, delivered in a variety of digital formats.
Our Us insurance business has been transformed, becomingavital part of the Group, sharing the same brand we recognise that in the 21st century, andcommitment to the needs of customers.
It has now as well as developing lifetime become a major player in the Us life insurance market, with relationships with our customers we ahigher level of coverage than many well-known Us brands.
need to go one step further and foster In2012, we saw 28% growth in sales, in a relatively flat market their potential forpromoting our and at a time when Us middle class incomes were continuing products to their friends and family.
Legal & General America now has the fifth largest market share out of term providers, with over 900,000 policies in force and total coverage of$500bn.
indd 20 16 03 2013 02:56 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn Using technologY to BUild oUr Platform Platforms and other digital develoPments The recent development of investment platforms has enabled customers touse flexible, digital applications, helping them to manageall their financial assets in one place, access a wide range ofinvestment funds and ultimately, bebetter placed to achieve their financial goals.
Once the preserve of affluent consumers, we have differentiated ourselves from many of our investment in technology is crucial to the success, competitors by opening up the efficiency and scalability of our business model.
our investor platform market to mass-affluent Portfolio service platform iPs provides a convenient means high-street customers.
Our investors for over 400,000 of our customers to manage 8.6 billion of might start off using ourIPS platform their savings.
our Workplace savings platform Worksave to manage a single ISA investment, gives us the flexibility to welcome and engage with but eventually can choose to have employers and their employees.
We have also launched a permanent home for a full range technology solutions to enable our financial advisers to of investment plans.
provide high quality financial advice to customers in an efficient way in a post rdr world.
One of the benefits of RDR is that marK gregorY, chief eXecUtive officer savings itisnow much easier for customers tounderstand separately what Some of our customers choose tomanage their investments online charges they pay for advice, fund in their own homes.
Those who register with our platform to help management and platform facilities.
manage their savings tend to have greater engagement with us and We implemented a completely greater connection with their money.
This is likely to make them transparent unbundled charging return to us for repeat business.
Indeed, 79% of last years ISA structure for our customerswell business came from customers already registered with IPS.
Our before it was required by legislation.
platform success is helping us to transform and modernise our savings business and has the following benefits: digital aPPlications andsocial media We have built a number of smaller greater cUstomer engagement applications for individual customers: In 2012, we launched Deadline tothe Breadline on Facebook Better cUstomer loYaltY and retention andother digital media.
This promotion highlighted that on average people in Britain could beon the breadline in just 19 days.
We put videos and digital increased assets held on oUr Platforms content onto Facebook to helppeople understand their ownfamilys protection gap.
We ran a number of campaigns highlighting to women the Our Healthy Living application We built a digital game that was consequences of price rises was launched in April 2012. launched in March 2013, which undergender-neutral pricing.
We are continuing to build highlights the need for protection Theresults we received through quotation apps for IFAs in a fun way.
The game is available digital media for the Time waits and ourtied advisers.
for mobile devices via iTunes and for no Woman campaign were Google play.
sixtimes higher than we hadexpected.
indd 21 25 03 2013 12:07 Our PrOgress What We are DoinG continueD GroWth throuGh investinG in infrastructure engagement levels continue to rise.
To do this he has held sessions with alarge number of our 8,000 plus global employees in a series of interactive staff presentations.
Thesesessions were based around thethemes of talent, teamwork and technology, with the customer firmly at the heart of discussions.
taLent anD PeoPLe DeveLoPMent using talent to accelerate ourevolution shrinking bank balance sheets and increasing Our Leadership Academy was regulatory pressure on banks capital requirements launched in the second quarter of means that insurance companies and pension funds 2012, offering a range of programmes can fill the gap in capital lending for infrastructure.
to support all levels of leaders in the organisation.
As part of this academy we are well placed to accelerate our growth through investing we established a new programme in UK infrastructure.
This helps stimulate local economies by toaccelerate the development providing employment in the building industries and ofpeople with future leadership encouraging local businesses to expand.
Thisfurther strengthens our leadership capacity and succession In addition, we have helped contribute to our communities at plans for the future.
In 2012, we provided development funding for a sale and leaseback scheme to finance the In late 2012, are-structuring exercise building of the new National Football centre at st Georges took place where theroles of many of park in Burton-on-Trent.
we also established a joint venture our business managing directors were with Imperial college to build student accommodation with rotated tobroaden experience and a 45-year lease, in clapham, south London.
we have provided extend synergies across the business.
a 121m commercial loan to the Unite Group, who are also responsible for building new student accommodation.
Learning and development we have also refreshed our range oflearning and development activities to align with our business priorities eMPLoYee enGaGeMent in a market where some of our and have established a more At the heart of Every Day Matters is competitors are undergoing the sophisticated learning intranet site, a promise to our customers.
we will disruption of restructuring.
The called Every Day Learning.
This help them achieve financial security.
increased commitment that our learning site enables allemployees, Itis this promise that drives our people feel towards the company is irrespective of location and role, to employees dedication to delivering also demonstrated by Legal & General access learning.
It has been designed positive and socially useful outcomes.
entering the Sunday Times Top 25 to enhance personal performance Over the last few years, we have Best Big companies to work For list.
accelerated our commitment to Joining this prestigious group means EveryDay Matters and, despite a that we are even better placed to next steps verydifficult economic backdrop, we recruit and develop the type of During 2013, we want to make a have seen a significant improvement futureleaders who will help us stronger connection between our inemployee engagement.
performance management approach and talent development activities, This improvement is vitally important Like other successful FTsE 100 which are now well established.
for our ambition to accelerate the companies, we embrace change Inaddition, a key initiative will be growth of our business.
In 2012, Nigel launched to look at how we might committed and motivated workforce.
wilson was appointed as our new broaden the involvement of our This gives us a competitive advantage cEO.
Nigel is committed to ensuring diverse workforce so that we make the best use of all our talent.
indd 22 16 03 2013 02:57 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn ManaGinG our caPitaL managing our risk profile within and has helped to more than double risk appetite limits and ensuring our newbusiness margins over the The efficient management of our good returns relative to the risk-based last three years.
capital creates a solid base for us capital employed.
In January 2012, standard & poors Furthermore, it enables us to deliver caPitaL restructurinG raised the financial strength rating on the promises we make to our The major activity in 2012 focused forLGA from A to AA-, reflecting customers and allows us to invest in oncapital restructuring in our Us itsstrong competitive position, the future growth of our businesses.
On 31 December 2012 conservative investment portfolio we remain one of the strongest UK wecompleted a further phase of andstrong liquidity position, coupled insurance groups based on financial ourcapital efficiency programme.
with the stable outlook of the strength ratings, with a robust Through the use of a capital-efficient parent company.
capital surplus above minimum reinsurance solution, this phase regulatory requirements.
improved the capital position of our BaLance sheet strenGth Legal& General America LGA and Our capital management policies and we aim to manage our capital in a replaced the need for temporary our strong risk controls have enabled way that delivers strong returns for financing, resulting in a total benefit us to keep our balance sheet robust.
customers and shareholders whilst of$345m.
As a result, our Group IGD Under a pillar 1 capital basis the operating within the risk appetite surplus capital increased by 172m.
Group has a surplus over the capital ofthe Group.
we balance the need resources requirement of 4.1bn toinvest in future growth, with In total, the programme, which started compared to 3.8bn at the end rigorous cost management.
in 2010, has delivered $735m of capital of 2011.
This gives us an improved benefit for LGA and a total benefit coverage ratio of 234% compared soLvencY ii toL&G Group IGD surplus capital with 220% at the end of 2011. we have been successful in working of402m.
we are pleased to have with other insurers in the UK and delivered these two phases in 2012, This capital buffer is in addition Europe to ensure that the European ahead of the schedule indicated at tothe1.7bn of LGpL the Groups Unions solvency II regime represents the2012 half year results.
main annuity subsidiary credit default an appropriate approach to prudential provision.
During the year we have regulation from the perspective of The capital programme has demonstrated that we remain customers, shareholders and the contributed to increased sales in the committed to optimising the Groups wider economy.
Usof our term life insurance products worldwide capital structure for the benefit of our shareholders.
Good progress has been made in developing solvency II rules, enGaGinG our eMPLoYees includingthe Matching Adjustment that will reduce the impact of shortterm market volatility on insurers balancesheets.
some uncertainty remains, however, and we continue tobe heavily engaged in the debate, including the response to EIOpAs theEuropean insurance regulator Long TermGuarantees Assessment.
Implementation of the rules before 2017 is unlikely.
in 2012, our annual employee survey illustrated how Given this delay, we welcome the engagement is advancing rapidly.
initiative known as IcA taken by the we had the highest ever participation score, with 7,000people FsA to permit firms to use capability worldwide responding to the survey.
developed for solvency II to meet Our employee engagement score improved from73% to 78%.
Our leadership index, which measures how our employees value their management, increased from 68% to 72%.
During 2013, we expect to further Legal & General America had some of the highest ever engagement embed the use of our Economic scores: despite hurricane sandy hitting the East coast during the capital results in business decisionsurvey period.
making, helping us to continue annual report and accounts 2012 23 68906 L&G p004-023.
indd 23 16 03 2013 02:57 Its about dealing withdifficult situations where customersare having a tough timeandarent in the best of circumstances.
In this job you have to be empathetic to the people who are calling in, putting yourself in the customers shoes, be it someone who has been bereaved or someone who is critically ill, someone whos lost their job... there are all sorts of situations that we help people with.
Kate, kIngswood For more information please visit legalandgeneralgroup.
indd 24 25 03 2013 12:20 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn In thIs sectIon Financial Review 26 how to navIgate thIs revIew In this section we have included our kPIs and explicitly outlined the measurements that are used in deciding executive remuneration, and other financial results, which we believe are integral to our performance.
we have amended the way we present this information to better reflect the measurements used by management to improve the transparency of our financial performance with detailed financial disclosures.
Measure used by explanation of why management themeasure is used by management accounting policy gUIDe to sYMBoLs: key performance indicator kPI key measure in the remuneration of executives annual report and accounts 2012 25 68906 L&G p024-033.
