Governance OTHER STATUTORY AND REGULATORY INFORMATION.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Other than the above, the directors have no current The Companys Articles of Association may only be intention of issuing further share capital and no issue amended by a special resolution at a general meeting will be made which would effectively alter control of of shareholders.
The Articles of Association are available the Company without prior approval of shareholders on the Companys website.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST INTERESTS IN VOTING RIGHTS In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Board As at 1 March 2013, the Company had been advised of has adopted a policy and procedure for the disclosure the following significant direct and indirect interests in and authorisation if appropriate of conflicts of interest, the issued share capital of the Company: and these have been followed during 2012.
Total Number interest POWERS OF DIRECTORS of Ordinary % of in issued The directors may exercise all powers of the Company shares of 2.5p capital share capital subject to applicable legislation and regulation and the Schroders Plc 295,651,535 5.0% Indirect Companys Articles of Association.
BlackRock, Inc 291,923,475 4.9% Indirect AXA S. A. and its group 252,247,724 4.3% Direct and of companies indirect SHARE CAPITAL Using the voting rights figure announced to the London Stock Exchange on As at 31 December 2012, the Companys issued share 1 March 2013 of 5,912,959,168. capital comprised 5,912,782,826 Ordinary shares each with a nominal value of 2.5p.
Details of the Ordinary DIVIDEND share capital can be found in Note 45 to the Group The Company may, by ordinary resolution in a general Consolidated Financial Statements.
meeting, declare dividends in accordance with the respective rights of the members, but no dividend At the 2012 AGM, the Company was granted authority can exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
by shareholders to purchase up to 587,289,985 The directors propose a final dividend for the year ended Ordinary shares, being 10% of the issued share 31 December 2012 of 5.69p per Ordinary share which, capital of the Company as at 23 March 2012.
In the together with the interim dividend of 1.96p per Ordinary year to 31 December 2012, no shares were purchased share paid to shareholders on 1 October 2012, will by the Company.
This authority will expire at this make a total dividend for the year of 7.65p 2011: 6.40p.
As such, a special resolution is proposed Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, the final in the Notice of AGM seeking shareholder approval dividend will be paid on 29 May 2013 to shareholders to renew this authority.
on the share register on 26 April 2013.
At the 2012 AGM, the directors were given the power RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS to allot shares up to an amount of 48,940,832, being Details of related party transactions are set out in 33% of the issued share capital of the Company as at Note 49 to the Group Consolidated Financial Statements.
This authority will also expire at this years AGM.
As such, an ordinary resolution is proposed RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS ATTACHING in the Notice of AGM seeking shareholder approval TO SHARES to renew this authority.
The rights and obligations relating to the Companys Ordinary shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
A further resolution is proposed, as set out in the Notice A copy of the Articles of Association can be requested of AGM, that will, if approved by shareholders, authorise from the Company Secretary at the Companys the directors to issue shares up to the equivalent of 5% registered office.
of the Companys issued share capital as at 27 March 2013 for cash without offering the shares first to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
Detailed explanatory notes to these resolutions are set out in the Notice of AGM.
indd 100 16 03 2013 03:24 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn Holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak Employee Share Trust, which is in the process of being and vote at general meetings.
In a vote on a show of wound up.
The voting rights in relation to these shares hands, every member present in person or every proxy are exercised by the trustee.
The trustee may vote or present, who has been duly appointed by a member, abstain from voting, or accept or reject any offer relating willhave one vote and on a poll every member present to shares, in any way it sees fit, without incurring any in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every liability and without being required to give reasons for Ordinary share held.
These rights are subject to any its decision.
special terms as to voting upon which any shares may be issued or may at the relevant time be held and to Under the rules of the Legal & General Group Employee anyother provisions of the Companys Articles of Share Plan Plan, eligible employees are entitled to Association.
Under the Companies Act 2006 and the acquire shares in the Company.
Plan shares are held Articles of Association, directors have the power to in trust for participants by Capita IRG Trustees Limited, suspend voting rights and, in certain circumstances, which holds 0.47% of the issued share capital of the theright to receive dividends in respect of shares where Company as at 1 March 2013.
Voting rights are exercised the holder of those shares fails to comply with a notice by the trustees on receipt of the participants instructions.
issued under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the trustees, no vote is registered.
In addition, the trustees The Board can decline to register a transfer of any share do not vote on any unawarded shares held under the which is not a fully paid share.
In addition, registration Plan as surplus assets.
of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities The Company is not aware of any agreements between rules and where the number of joint holders exceeds shareholders which may result in restrictions on the four.
The Board may also refuse to register the transfer transfer of securities and or voting rights.
of a certificated share unless: CHANGE OF CONTROL a the instrument of transfer is duly stamped and There are no agreements between the Company and is left at the Companys registered office or such its directors or employees for compensation providing other place as the Board may from time to time for loss of office or employment whether through determine accompanied by the certificate for the resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise in share to which it relates and such evidence as the event of a takeover bid, except for those relating the Board may reasonably require to show the to normal notice periods.
The rules of the Companys right of the transferor to make the transfer: share plans contain provisions under which options b the instrument of transfer is in respect of only and awards to participants, including executive directors, one class of share: and may vest on a takeover or change of control of the c the number of joint holders does not exceed four.
Company or transfer of undertakings.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, The Company has a committed 1bn bank syndicated all or any of the rights attaching to an existing class credit facility which is terminable if revised terms cannot of shares may be varied from time to time either with be agreed with the syndicate of banks in a 30 day period the consent in writing of the holders of not less than following a change of control.
As at 1 March 2013, the three-fourths innominal value of the issued shares of Company has no borrowings under this facility.
that class excluding any treasury shares or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate There are no change of control conditions in the terms general meeting of the holders of those shares.
of any of the Companys outstanding debt securities.
The terms of the Companys agreements with its banking Shares acquired through the employee share schemes counterparties, under which derivative transactions rank equally with all other Ordinary shares in issue.
are undertaken, include the provision for termination Barclays Private Bank & Trust Isle of Man Limited, of transactions upon takeover merger if the resulting astrustee of the Legal & General Employees Share merged entity has a credit rating materially weaker than Ownership Trust, holds 0.55% of the issued share the Company.
There are no other committed banking capital of the Company as at 1 March 2013 in trust for arrangements either drawn or undrawn that incorporate the benefit of the executive directors, senior executives any change of control conditions.
and managers of the Group.
This includes shares held as nominee on behalf of Legal & General Share Scheme Trustees Limited, as trustee of the Legal & General annual report and accounts 2012 101 68906 L&G p070-103.
indd 101 16 03 2013 03:24 Governance OTHER STATUTORY AND REGULATORY INFORMATION CONTINUED USE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS DIRECTORS INTERESTS Information on the Groups risk management process The Directors Report on Remuneration on pages 70 is set out on pages 44 to 51.
More details on risk to99 provides details of the interests of each director, management and the financial instruments used are including details of current incentive schemes and longset out in Notes 7 and 15 of the Financial Statements.
term incentive schemes, the interests of directors in the share capital of the Company and details of their share INDEMNITIES options, as at 31 December 2012 and the changes in The Company has agreed to indemnify, to the extent those interests that have occurred between 1 January permitted by law, each of the directors against any 2013 and 5 March 2013 being the date of approval of liability incurred by a director in respect of acts or the Directors Report on Remuneration.
omissions arising in the course of their office.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnities as defined in section GOING CONCERN STATEMENT 235 of the Companies Act 2006 have been granted, The Groups business activities, together with the factors to the extent permitted by law, to certain trustees of likely to affect its future development, performance and the Companys pension schemes.
The indemnities were position in the current economic climate are set out in in force throughout 2012 and remain so.
Copies of the the Directors Report on pages 1 to 100.
The financial deeds of indemnity are available for inspection at the position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position Companys registered office and will also be available and borrowing facilities are described in the Group atthe AGM.
Principal risks are detailed on pages 50-51.
In addition, the financial statements CHARITABLE DONATIONS include, amongst other things, notes on the Groups During the period, the Group made UK charitable objectives, policies and processes for managing donations amounting to 3.8m.
Details of the Companys its capital Note 26, its financial risk management charitable activities are set out on pages 36-43. objectives Notes 7 and 15, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities Notes 10 and POLITICAL DONATIONS 11 and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk No political donations were made during 2012.
FORWARD-LOOkING STATEMENTS The 2013 economic climate remains uncertain.
However, The Directors Report is prepared for the members of based on the available information on the future, the the Company and should not be relied upon by any other directors consider that the Group has the plans and party or for any other purpose.
Where the Directors resources to manage its business risks successfully, Report includes forward-looking statements, these as ithas a diverse range of businesses and remains are made by the directors in good faith based on financially strong.
the information available to them at the time of their approval of this report.
Such statements should be After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties expectation that the Company and the Group have underlying such forward-looking statements.
adequate resources to continue their operations for the foreseeable future.
For that reason, they continue to INSURANCE adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Company has arranged appropriate Directors and Officers Liability insurance for directors.
This is ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING reviewed annually.
The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00am on Wednesday 22 May 2013 at The Honourable INDEPENDENT AUDITORS Artillery Company, Armoury House, City Road, London The Companys auditors have expressed their willingness EC1Y 2BQ.
to continue in office and the Audit Committee has recommended their reappointment to the Board.
Resolutions to re-appoint  LLP as auditors to the Company and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration are proposed for the forthcoming AGM.
indd 102 16 03 2013 03:24 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for The directors are responsible for preparing the Directors safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group Report, the Directors Report on Remuneration and the and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Group and Company financial statements in accordance and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
with applicable law and regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance Company law requires the directors to prepare financial and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation statements for each financial year.
Under that law the in the United Kingdom governing the preparation directors have prepared the Group financial statements and dissemination of financial statements may differ in accordance with International Financial Reporting from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the Company financial statements in accordance RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Each of the directors, whose names and functions are Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards listed in the Board of Directors section confirms that, and applicable law.
In preparing the Group financial to the best of his knowledge: statements, the directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs issued by the International Accounting the financial statements, which have been prepared Standards Board IASB.
in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, Under company law the directors must not approve liabilities, financial position and profit of the the financial statements unless they are satisfied that Company and the Group as a whole: and they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Directors Report includes a fair review of the the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of development and performance of the business and the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial the position of the Company and the Group as a statements, the directors are required to: whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Each of the directors who held office at the date of make judgements and accounting estimates that approval of this Directors Report confirms that, so far are reasonable and prudent: as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European of which the Companys auditors are unaware and Union and IFRSs issued by IASB, and applicable UK he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken Accounting Standards have been followed, subject as a director in order to make himself aware of any to any material departures disclosed and explained relevant audit information and to establish that the in the Group and Company financial statements Companys auditors are aware of such information.
respectively: and This confirmation is given in accordance with section prepare the financial statements on the going 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006. concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
By order of the Board The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Report G J TIMMS on Remuneration comply with the Companies Act 2006 COMPANY SECRETARY and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 5 March 2013 annual report and accounts 2012 103 68906 L&G p070-103.
indd 103 16 03 2013 03:24 Financial statements Its showing that we care about the same stuff you do.
Before we started talking about Every Day Matters and putting ourselves in our customers shoes, we decided to start with us and say OK what is important to us and what matters every day?
If I go back two or three years, I didnt have amortgage, I didnt have a wife and I didnt have afamily so my needs are totally different now.
Forme in my life journey, Every Day Matters ringstrue.
Matthew, HOvE For more information please visit legalandgeneralgroup.
com 10 104 4 An Ann nu uA Al l r re epo por rt t A And nd A Ac cc co ou unts nts 2 20 012 12 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 68906 L&G P104-149.
indd 104 16 03 2013 03:27 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR APPROACH GOVERnAnCE fInAnCIAl StAtEmEntS OtHER InfORmAtIOn GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An Ann nu uA Al l r re epo por rt t A And nd A Ac cc co ou unts nts 2 20 012 12 10 105 5 68906 L&G P104-149.
indd 105 16 03 2013 03:27 Financial statements cHAnGes to oUR FInAncIAL RePoRtInG In this years annual report we have adopted a different approach to presenting our financial information.
We believe that organising the information in this way will enable greater understanding of our business.
The Group financial statements have been divided into three sections: The Primary statements and Performance section includes the Group primary statements and other notes which we believe are integral to understanding our financial performance.
The balance sheet Management section provides further details on our financial position and approach to risk management.
The Additional Financial Information includes disclosures required to be compliant with accounting standards or the Companies Act.
We view this information as important, but less significant in understanding our business and performance.
contents GRoUP consoLIDAteD Additional Financial Information continued FInAncIAL stAteMents 34.
Foreign exchange and exchange rates 196 Independent auditors report 107 35.
Tax 196 Primary Statements and Performance 36.
Disclosure of tax effects relating to each Consolidated Income Statement 109 component of other comprehensive income 198 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 110 37.
Share-based payments 198 Consolidated Balance Sheet 111 38.
Acquisitions of private equity Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 112 investment vehicles 200 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 114 39.
Purchased interest in long term businesses 1.
Basis of preparation 115 PILTB and other intangible assets 201 2.
Other assets 205 Balance Sheet Management 44.
Assets and liabilities of operations classified 6.
Principal products 127 as held for sale 206 7.
Share capital, share premium and employee 8.
Assets analysis 134 scheme treasury shares 206 9.
Net asset value attributable to unit holders 208 12.
Market risk 150 14. Credit risk 154 and indemnities 209 15.
Long term insurance valuation assumptions 159 17.
Insurance contract liabilities 166 sUPPLeMentARy FInAncIAL stAteMents 19.
Unallocated divisible surplus 172 eURoPeAn eMbeDDeD VALUe bAsIs 21.
Value of in-force non-participating contracts 172 Consolidated Income Statement 214 22.
Borrowings 173 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 215 23.
Payables and other financial liabilities 181 Notes to the supplementary financial statements 217 25.
Operational risk 182 Independent auditors report 237 26.
Management of capital resources 183 Additional Financial Information coMPAny FInAncIAL stAteMents 27.
Segmental analysis 189 Independent auditors report 238 28.
Fees from fund management Company Balance Sheet 239 and investment contracts 192 Company Statement of Total Recognised Gains 29.
Net claims and change in insurance liabilities 193 Company reconciliation of movements in total 31.
Other operational income and expense 194 shareholders funds 240 32.
Auditors remuneration 195 Notes to the Company financial statements 241 33.
Employee information 195 106 AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 68906 L&G P104-149.
