Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 52 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 diVisiOnAl REsulTs R ETAil 2012 highlights in 2012, Retail further increased its profits and returns, and made substantial progress towards its goal of being the best bank for customers.
q underlying profit increased by 16 per cent, and core underlying profit by 21 per cent, driven by strong cost control and a significant reduction q in impairment.
R eturn on risk-weighted assets increased to 3.21 per cent from 2.56 per cent in 2011, driven primarily by the increase in profits.
q R etail has made continued progress in improving its customer service scores and saw a reduction in customer complaints excluding PPi q of 28 per cent during 2012, both key indicators of customer advocacy.
This has supported the strengthening of brand consideration to market leading levels.
T he simplification programme has delivered significant improvements in customer experience, process efficiencies and reduced sourcing costs.
q This contributed to the strong cost performance delivered by Retail.
W e continued to support the first time buyer mortgage market, lending to one in four first time buyers.
We also increased our commitment q for lending to first time buyers during 2013. in addition, we continue to deliver strong growth in customer deposit balances attracting funds from almost one in every four savers.
R etail continues to support local communities through its contribution to Group programmes and through direct commitments by Retail colleagues.
q in 2012 over 8,500 colleagues in Retail used their day to Make a difference in local communities, including supporting national school sports Week.
Performance summary 2012 2011 change m m % net interest income 7,195 7,497 4 Other income 1,462 1,660 12 Total underlying income 8,657 9,157 5 Total costs 4,199 4,438 5 impairment 1,270 1,970 36 Underlying profit 3,188 2,749 16 Banking net interest margin 2.08% 2.09% 1 bp impairment charge as a % of average advances 0.36% 0.54% 18 bp Return on risk-weighted assets 3.21% 2.56% 65bp At At 31 Dec 31 dec 2012 2011 change bn bn % Key balance sheet items loans and advances to customers excluding reverse repos 343.3 352.8 3 customer deposits excluding repos 260.8 247.1 6 Total customer balances 604.1 599.9 1 Risk-weighted assets 95.5 103.2 7 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Marketplace trends 19 52 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business model and strategy 22 Delivering our action plan 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 42 Summary of Group results 44 Divisional results 52 Group Operations and Central items 67 Other financial information 68 1 77 115 203 355 Five year financial summary 76 Strategic focus Retails goal is to be the best bank for customers in the uK.
We are working towards this by building deep and enduring relationships with our customers that deliver real value to them, and by continuing to support the uK economy.
We are increasing engagement with our customers by delivering greater choice and flexibility through our multiple brands and channels.
At the same time we are simplifying the business to increase our agility and enable us to respond more quickly to customers needs, and improve customer experience.
We are particularly focused on continuing to improve customer service and actively reduce customer complaints.
in addition, by further developing our customer insight and gaining a deeper understanding of our customers, we are better aligning our products and services to our customers requirements.
This is increasing customer advocacy which ultimately delivers lower customer acquisition costs, greater share of their business and improved customer retention.
Progress against strategic initiatives Retail has continued to make excellent progress towards being the best bank for customers during 2012.
This progress is demonstrated by an increase in customer advocacy, reflected in our customer service scores which have risen by 13 per cent during 2012.
This improvement is being supported by the strong focus within Retail on reducing customer complaints, which have decreased by 28 per cent excluding PPi.
Over 2012, based on performance 1 across Branch, Telephone and internet Banking, lloyds TsB has been the leading High street bank for customer service.
By investing in customers and growth, we are positioning ourselves for an improvement in market conditions.
We have maintained our position as the uKs largest lender to first time buyers and in 2012 helped one in every four buy their first home.
This achievement has been supported by the development of new propositions for first time and new-build property buyers.
We have continued to deliver net inflows from switching current accounts as well as attracting deposits from almost one in every four savers.
This has supported strong growth in customer deposit balances and contributed to our strengthened balance sheet.
in addition, we have supported over half a million customers to buy their cars, improve their homes and manage their finances through unsecured consumer loans.
We are also investing in the channels our customers use to interact with the Group.
in particular we have made significant developments to our digital proposition and branches.
This includes the expansion of services available on smart phones and mobile devices, which has contributed to the continued growth of our online customer base to 9.5 million and our mobile banking services which are now used by 3.3 million customers.
Earlier in 2012 we concluded a review of the implications of the Retail distribution Review.
We will now offer investment advice to customers with over 100,000 of investible assets through our private banking services.
it will allow us to focus on providing market leading savings and protection services to mainstream customers.
We are continuing to successfully simplify the bank.
We have implemented further automation, and improved the functionality of current account and isA savings switching services to improve customer experience.
These processes also require significantly fewer manual interventions, contributing to reduced costs and customer complaints.
We have also continued to develop our telephony services for customers and have introduced say Anything interactive Voice Response technology, which guides customer calls accurately and promptly to the right service.
Finally, Retail has continued to support the uK economy and local communities through its contribution to Group programmes, and through commitments made by Retail colleagues.
in 2012 over 8,500 colleagues volunteered using the Banks day to Make a difference programme.
in addition, Retail played a key role in the Groups Partnership with the london 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games as official sponsors.
Our colleagues were involved in many community activities, including the Olympic and Paralympic Torch Relays, and national school sport Week.
Financial performance in 2012, Retails return on risk weighted assets increased to 3.21 per cent, a significant improvement on 2.56 per cent in 2011.
This improvement was supported by a 16 per cent increase in underlying profit, and a 21 per cent increase in core underlying profit.
The increase in profit in both core and total Retail was the result of strong cost control and continued significant improvements to credit performance.
The core performance was very similar to the total performance given that non-core in Retail covers only 4 per cent of customer balances and 1 per cent of income.
net interest income decreased by 4 per cent in 2012, driven by muted demand for lending, previous fide-risking of the balance sheet and increased funding costs.
While the prior fide-risking of the lending portfolio has suppressed income growth, it also supported an offsetting reduction in impairment charges.
Retail has taken a number of actions to offset the pressure on income which includes making strategic investments and re-pricing selected lending portfolios to reflect current funding costs.
net interest margin was stable at 2.08 per cent in 2012.
The net interest margin in the second half of the year particularly benefited from rate changes we made to the lending portfolio, but continues to be affected by higher funding costs and the impact of portfolio fide-risking.
Other income decreased by 12 per cent largely as a result of lower bancassurance income that reflected the subdued investment and protection market environment.
1 compared to the other major High street Banks defined as Barclays, Halifax, HsBc, natWest and santander, using a composite weighted score of main current account holders satisfaction with branch, telephone and internet services among those using those channels in the last month.
GfK nOP Financial Research survey FRs, 12 months ended december 2012 approximately 45,000 adults surveyed.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 54 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 diVisiOnAl REsulTs Retail Total costs fell by 5 per cent, largely as a result of the simplification programme.
As part of this programme we have delivered end-to-end process enhancements, migration of customers to self-service channels, and implemented further improvements in purchasing arrangements across Retail.
We have also delivered other day-to-day cost benefits, which, when combined with our work on simplification, more than offset on-going cost inflation and increased investment spend.
credit performance across the business continued to be strong considering the subdued economic environment.
This was supported by our sustainable approach to risk, a continued focus on lending to existing customers and low interest rates.
The unsecured impairment charge reduced to 893 million from 1,507 million in 2011, reflecting the impact of our sustainable approach to risk resulting in improved new business quality, effective portfolio management and a reduction in unsecured balances.
The secured impairment charge decreased to 377 million from 463 million in 2011, reflecting further reductions in impaired loans in the secured portfolio.
Balance sheet progress loans and advances to customers decreased by 3 per cent.
This was driven by a number of factors, including reduced customer demand for new credit, existing customers continuing to reduce their personal indebtedness, non-core lending run-off and Retail maintaining a sustainable approach to risk.
The reduction in lending to customers was in part due to the repayment of unsecured debt where balances reduced by 1.7 billion to 22.0 billion, or 7 per cent.
secured balances reduced by 7.8 billion, to 321.3 billion, of which 1.4 billion was a reduction in non-core mortgage balances.
customer deposits increased by 6 per cent in 2012.
This reflects the success of our multi-brand customer propositions and the agile pricing strategy that Retail has developed.
Retail continued to deliver sustained growth in the savings market despite the high levels of competition.
Our strong stable of savings brands continues to provide customers with a market leading range of products to meet their savings needs.
Risk-weighted assets decreased by 7.7 billion during 2012.
This was the result of lower lending balances, effective portfolio management and prior fide-risking of the balance sheet.
