Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 80 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 GROuP EXEcuTiVE cOMMiTTEE The Group benefits from the depth and diversity of experience within the management team.
The dEliVERinG complementary skill sets across the team strengthens the Groups ability to effectively adjust to changing market environments, deliver on our strategic plan and OuR VisiOn become the best bank for customers.
Brief biographies of the management team are outlined below: MAnAGinG A MORE AGilE ORGAnisATiOn Antnio Horta-Osrio George Culmer Group chief Executive Group Finance director Antnio joined the Board in January 2011 as an Executive director and became George joined the Board as Finance director on 16 May 2012.
Group chief Executive in March 2011.
Further details can be found on page 79.
Andrew Bester Alison Brittain chief Executive, Group director, Retail commercial Banking Andrew, cEO commercial Banking, was appointed as a Group director on 1 July 2012.
Alison joined lloyds Banking Group in september 2011 as Group director for the He is also the chairman of lloyds development capital.
Prior to joining lloyds Banking Retail division.
The Retail division consists of lloyds TsB, Bank of scotland and Halifax Group, Andrew worked at standard chartered Bank in a variety of senior roles including community banks as well as Retail Products and intermediaries, Marketing, Telephony Global cOO of consumer Banking, chief Financial Officer of consumer Banking and and digital banking.
co-Head of Wholesale Banking for Greater china and before that the same role for the Her last role was as Executive director for Retail distribution and a Board director Africa region.
Before joining standard chartered, Andrew was the Group Finance at santander uK.
she previously worked at Barclays for 19 years in various roles including director for Xchanging, a leading European outsourcing firm.
Prior to this, he worked director of Barclays and Woolwich Retail networks, and as Managing director of at deutsche Bank in Europe.
Andrew qualified as a chartered Accountant with deloitte & Touche.
He is a member Alison attended university in scotland and the usA and has an MBA from cambridge of the south African institute of chartered Accountants, the chartered institute of universitys Judge institute.
Management Accountants and is a chartered Global Management Accountant.
He is also a member of the Association of corporate Treasurers, Association of Financial Markets in Europe and Global Financial Markets Association.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Board of Directors 78 80 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group Executive Committee 80 Directors report 82 Corporate governance report 86 Directors remuneration report 98 Other remuneration disclosures 114 1 18 115 203 355 Juan Colombs Mark Fisher chief Risk Officer director, Group Operations Juan was appointed as the Groups chief Risk Officer on 24 January 2011.
A member Mark joined lloyds Banking Group as the director of Group Operations in March 2009. of the Group Executive committee, he is responsible for effective risk management in september 2009 his responsibilities expanded to include Group integration director.
His team is represented across all the divisions and the extended Mark became the chairman of lloyds TsB scotland in december 2009 and is also the Risk community includes some 7,000 colleagues.
Groups Executive sponsor for disability.
Juan has over 25 years of experience in banking having completed a range of Risk, Prior to joining Mark was chief Executive Officer of ABn AMRO and was appointed control and Business Management roles across the corporate, investment, Retail and as chairman of the Managing Board in november 2007.
Mark was a director of The Royal Risk divisions of the santander Group.
He has lived in the uK since 2006 when he joined Bank of scotland Group from March 2006, and chief Executive of the Manufacturing the santander uK business as the chief Risk Officer.
Other achievements have included: chairman of the Association for Payment clearing services 2003 2007.
Mark is a career banker having joined natWest in 1981.
He was Retail Finance director and later chief Operating Officer before natWest was bought by RBs.
Antonio Lorenzo David nicholson Group director, Wealth, Group director, Asset Finance & international and Halifax community Bank Group corporate development Antonio joined lloyds Banking Group in March 2011.
He is a Group director with david is Group director of the Halifax community Bank.
He has specific responsibility responsibility for Wealth, Asset Finance, international & Group corporate development.
for the Halifax branch network and its 10,500 colleagues.
Halifax is playing a key role in since joining the Group, Antonios highlight has been leading the Group strategic Review.
the Groups strategy as a challenger brand, with a focus on making customers better off.
His division has since been fundamental in supporting the Groups agenda to both david has over 25 years experience in retail financial services.
He is chairman of reshape its international presence and strengthen the balance sheet through significant the Your Tomorrow pension fund trustees and is a member of the institute of Financial non-core reduction and double-digit deposit growth.
services school of Finance Board of Governors.
He is also community ambassador Antonio has over 20 years of experience in the financial services industry.
He worked for Yorkshire and Humberside.
for Arthur Andersen for over nine years before joining santander in 1998. during his time at santander, he was working in a number of different finance and business roles.
Antonio was part of the management team in 2004 that took over Abbey national whilst also becoming chief Financial Officer of santander uK.
Toby Strauss Matthew young Group director, insurance Group corporate Affairs director Toby joined lloyds Banking Group in October 2011 as Group director for insurance Matt joined lloyds Banking Group in February 2011 as Group corporate Affairs director.
and cEO of scottish Widows.
Before joining the Group, Toby was uK life cEO at Aviva He has responsibility for internal and External communications, Public Affairs, Regulatory and prior to this he was chief Operating Officer for uK life, having joined Aviva in 2008. developments, competition, community investment including the Groups Archives He previously worked at charcol, becoming Managing director, before moving to Js & P and Museums.
Prior to joining the Group, he was the communications director at now Towry as chief Executive.
Before that, Toby spent a number of years at McKinsey, santander uK and has also held senior positions with Abbey national and natWest.
specialising in the financial services and technology sectors.
Matt is a member of the Board of Trustees at in Kind direct, one of the Princes charities, and founded by HRH Prince of Wales in 1996.
He is a member of the city uKs strategic Advisory committee and of the chartered institute of Public Relations.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information
