Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Marketplace trends 19 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business model and strategy 22 Delivering our action plan 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 42 Summary of Group results 44 Divisional results 52 Group Operations and Central items 67 Other financial information 68 1 77 115 203 355 Five year financial summary 76 MARKETPLACE TRENDS The external macro economic and regulatory environment in which we The weakness of the Eurozone was a significant drag on the UK economy operate remains uncertain.
We have outlined below some of the key in 2012, with net exports down from the previous year.
With inflation regulatory, economic and social factors impacting our markets.
squeezing consumer spending power, and government spending growing well below its normal rate, the economy was broadly flat through 2012, excluding the volatility caused by the Olympics and an additional The economy Bank holiday for the Queens Diamond Jubilee.
As a result, the path of 2012 turned out to be a year of two very different halves.
The aftermath this UK economic recovery has fallen even further behind that seen in of the financial crisis continued to influence the global economy during previous recoveries.
the first half of the year, with worsening conditions in Eurozone sovereign Early estimates suggest output of the UK economy grew only marginally and bank credit markets a particular drag on growth.
But an improvement by 0.2 per cent in 2012 from 2011.
The unemployment rate, however, is in crisis response in the second half of the year reduced financial market estimated to have fallen from 8.4 per cent in the last quarter of 2011 to stresses and economic prospects have brightened as a result.
7.8 per cent in the three months to December 2012, a direction and scale of change that would normally only be associated with healthy economic Chart 1: UK GDP, real terms growth.
Some of the rise in employment is likely to have been a temporary Early 70s Late 70s Early 90s Current boost from the Olympics but it also appears that productivity has fallen Quarters from peak since pre-crisis, boosting growth in companies unit wage costs and -12 -10 -8 -6 -4 -2 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 being a likely contributor to inflation remaining higher than expected.
115 Company failures have also continued to decline, down from 4,294 in England and Wales in the final quarter of 2011 to 3,834 by the final quarter 110 of 2012, and the failure rate has improved from 0.8 per cent to 0.7 per cent of companies, close to its pre-recession trough.
House prices appear to 105 have turned upwards during the final two months of the year, ending the year 2.3 per cent up on end 2011, but commercial property prices fell on 100 average by 4.2 per cent.
95 Based on data for the first three quarters of 2012, the Irish economy appears to have grown weakly after having expanded in 2011 for the first time 90 since 2007.
The unemployment rate is estimated to have started to fall Source: ONS around mid-year, and at 14.6 per cent at the end of 2012 was lower than 14.8 per cent at the end of 2011.
Strict austerity measures in recent years, targeted at improving international competitiveness, are beginning to pay The weakness of developed economies since the end of the initial financial off falling domestic demand is now being more than offset by increasing crisis-driven recession in 2009 is due to the high levels of indebtedness net exports.
The huge correction in property markets also appears to be that many countries accumulated prior to 2008.
These have been holding nearing completion.
CRE prices fell by 6.5 per cent in 2012, the smallest fall back economic growth through deleveraging of, initially, the private since the decline started in 2008 and house prices ended 2012 4.5 per cent sector, but now governments too.
Private sector deleveraging now looks lower than at the end of 2011, but with a trend of monthly increases largely complete in the US and significant progress has been made in the since May.
But some Eurozone countries still appear to have significantly further Future economic developments in the UK and Ireland continue to be to go.
Across the UK, Eurozone and the US governments also need to rein highly contingent on i how successful political leaders are at maintaining in borrowing significantly.
Thus, with many countries trying to reduce debt progress against the Eurozone crisis and enacting a tough but gradual all at the same time, there has been no external offset to weak demand fiscal tightening in the US, ii the extent to which the UK private sector at home in each country.
The weakness of growth in some Eurozone can offset the effect of a shrinking public sector, and iii how the countries has not been fully anticipated and this has led to slippage against implementation of new regulation on banks impacts their ability to supply fiscal targets, which in turn has often triggered further cuts in government credit.
With consensus forecasts for 2013 having stabilised in recent spending or higher taxes, feeding back to even weaker growth.
As the months, the most likely outlook for the Eurozone is another broadly flat market lost confidence in countries with particularly high government debt year Chart 2. or deficit levels through 2011 and the first half of 2012, a further feedback loop developed between rising sovereign bond yields and a deteriorating Chart 2: Consensus forecasts for 2013 GDP growth % outlook for government finances, raising the prospect of Eurozone UK Eurozone break-up.
Naturally this impacted consumer and business confidence, further damaging economic growth through 2012.
Date of forecast 2012 2013 The response to the sovereign debt crisis in the Eurozone has improved J F M A M J J A S O N D J since the middle of 2012.
Decisive support from the European Central Bank 2.0 to struggling sovereigns, a slightly softer stance on further austerity and agreement on steps towards a banking union have together reversed the 1.5 trend of spiralling sovereign yields.
At the same time banks funding costs have been reduced and the outlook for their capital positions improved 1.0 by stronger liquidity and the declining risk of Eurozone break-up, helping to limit the need for more bank recapitalisations which would be a further 0.5 burden on governments.
Some concerns remain over continued pressure for further austerity in weak countries, and over the detail of banking union which at this stage doesnt appear to sever the link between banks and 0 sovereigns.
But the sign of increased willingness and ability of Eurozone Source: Consensus Economics Inc. authorities to deal with crisis development has already raised financial market confidence and is key to the future improvements in consumer and business confidence necessary to secure sustained economic recovery.
Index, peak in gdp 100 Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 20 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 MARKETPlAcE TREnds The current consensus view for 2013 uK GdP growth is better at Regulation 1.0 per cent.
The low level of imbalances in the economy relative to the Greater clarity is now emerging over the shape of the regulatory 2008 position suggests that recent weakness should not deteriorate into landscape but significant uncertainty remains and a number of key significant recession provided the Eurozone continues to move towards regulatory changes will impact our markets: a solution to the sovereign debt crisis.
indeed, the recent abatement of the inflation squeeze on consumers should help growth improve.
Financial Services Banking Reform Bill But with growth expected to pick up only gradually, held back by fiscal On 12 October 2012 the Government published the draft Financial tightening and weak export markets, the Bank Rate is expected to stay at services Banking Reform Bill to implement the recommendations of the current low levels through 2013 and most probably longer, and property independent commission on Banking.
The draft Bill would require banks prices are expected to be broadly stable.
The recent improvement in to ring-fence some retail and sME activities from investment banking unemployment is expected to moderate.
The recent loss of the uKs AAA activities, conform to additional capital requirements beyond those rating is not assumed to have a material impact on the outlook since it had required by Basel iii and implement a 7-day current account switching been largely expected by financial markets.
importantly for the Group, given we are primarily a The current consensus view for 2013 irish GdP growth is 0.9 per cent, and uK-focused retail and commercial bank, the vast majority of our the unemployment rate there is expected to improve only very gradually.
operations are likely to be within the ring-fence.
House prices are expected to continue their recent rise, but the overall The Bill is being scrutinised by the commission on Banking standards pace of increase is likely to be very slow.
prior to its introduction into Parliament.
The commission released an However, whilst a definitive agreed and fully-implemented solution to interim report in december 2012 that called for the Bill to be amended to the Eurozone crisis remains lacking, there continues to be some risk that give the regulator powers to force a bank to implement full separation if ongoing uncertainty around the Eurozone economic outlook, the survival there is thought to be significant risk to the ring-fence.
The commission of the Euro currency and the availability of credit could cause return to a will continue to take evidence on the Bill throughout the first quarter of recession in the uK and ireland, albeit that risk has declined over the past 2013 on questions that remain open such as which services banks can six months.
such a scenario would likely result in higher uK corporate place within the ring-fence.
it is expected to produce its final report in failures, a second leg of falling property prices, albeit by less than during the second quarter of 2013. uncertainty therefore remains over what the the 2008-9 recession, and rising commercial tenant defaults.
irish property commission will ultimately recommend and whether the Government will prices would also fall further.
in turn, this would have a negative impact on accept the amendments that it proposes.
the Groups income, funding costs and impairment charges.
The Group has made significant progress in reducing its non-core assets, although Capital Requirements Directive iv CRD iv our secondary and tertiary commercial real estate portfolios in Business in november 2010 the G20 endorsed the recommendations of the support and leverage finance portfolios do remain vulnerable.
Basel committee for Banking supervision to strengthen global capital and liquidity rules.
The recommendations are being implemented in the Eu through cRd iV.
The new rules will strengthen capital and The impact on our markets liquidity standards, change the definition of capital, introduce new The weak economic recovery has kept growth in our markets subdued.
definitions for the calculation of counterparty credit risk and leverage With the economy expected to grow slowly in 2013, our central ratios, introduce additional capital buffers and develop a global liquidity expectation is that growth in our markets will also remain weak.
negotiations on the final text for cRd iV continue in Europe.
An implementation date has not yet been confirmed, although current For the market as a whole, net new mortgage lending has amounted to just consensus is that it will be 1 January 2014 at the earliest.
0.6 per cent of outstanding balances during 2012, very similar to the previous two years.
consumers use of unsecured credit has begun to improve slightly Once cRd iV is fully implemented it will make banks more resilient in the consumers made net borrowings of 0.9 per cent of outstanding balances face of financial and economic shocks.
in 2012 after 3 years of making net repayments.
Household deposits rose by 5.7 per cent in 2012, however, well above the 2-3 per cent growth rates of the Recovery & Resolution Mechanisms previous 3 years, although still a third below the pre-crisis rate.
The European commission published the Recovery & Resolution directive on 6 June 2012. it requires all firms to develop a recovery plan, companies have continued to hold back investment spending and proposes new early intervention powers for supervisors and introduces prioritise cashflow, feeding both into lower borrowing and higher new powers for regulators at resolution stage.
This was in line with the deposits.
non-financial companies made net repayments of 2.6 per cent recommendations of the Financial stability Board.
The uK has pre-empted of sterling lending from banks and building societies in 2012, after the European legislative process, with firms already required to prepare repayments of 2.9 per cent in 2011, 3.5 per cent in 2010 and 2.4 per cent recovery plans.
These aggregates reflect a significant amount of refinancing in capital markets by large companies.
company deposits with uK banks it is not yet clear how the new resolution powers such as bail-in will work rose by 4.9 per cent in 2012, the greatest rate of increase for 5 years.
Further uncertainty surrounds how the Recovery & Resolution directive interacts with other European legislative proposals such as the Our central expectation of a year of only gradual recovery for the uK deposit Guarantee scheme and the work on Banking union.
economy in 2013, is likely to be accompanied by a slight fallback in customer deposit growth with demand for borrowing improving but only slowly.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Marketplace trends 19 20 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business model and strategy 22 Delivering our action plan 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 42 Summary of Group results 44 Divisional results 52 Group Operations and Central items 67 Other financial information 68 1 77 115 203 355 Five year financial summary 76 UK Supervisory Structure The Verde business will have the capability to be a strong and effective The Financial services Bill that will reform the uK financial supervisory challenger in what is already a highly competitive sector.
We are seeing system received Royal Assent on 19 december 2012.
The legislation will a number of new or expanding players including Virgin Money and formalise the responsibilities of the Financial Policy committee for Metro Bank looking to make inroads into the sector and an enhanced macro-prudential regulation and replace the FsA with the Prudential industry-wide switching service will be launched in september 2013, giving Regulation Authority and the Financial conduct Authority.
The new customers increased confidence to change provider when dissatisfied or institutions will assume their regulatory responsibilities on 1 April 2013. offered a better deal elsewhere.
We are supportive of the new twin peaks model of regulation and believe Technological developments are already reshaping the banking industry it will help enhance stability in the sector.
and we expect this change to accelerate exponentially in the coming years.
We anticipate influx of new entrants, with business models that do Other regulatory reforms not rely on expensive branch networks, offering innovative digital banking The amount of regulatory change continues to rise.
These new entrants are likely to have expertise and experience in could have significant impact on the Group include changes to accounting digital product offerings, with strong funding positions, credible brands, standards, the dodd-Frank Act, Eu Market infrastructure Regulation, and pre-existing customer bases.
FATcA, the Markets in Financial instruments directive Review, the OFT Alongside these market developments the regulatory environment Personal current Account Market Review and solvency ii.
will also change this year, with new bodies for prudential and conduct regulation.
The new conduct regulator, the Financial conduct Authority, Customer drivers, including competition will have a competition duty giving it a strong and explicit mandate to tackle competition issues, such as hurdles to switching or barriers to entry, Want simplicity and transparency q swiftly and effectively.
demand a quality, multi-channel customer service experience q Our strategy, as outlined on the next few pages, reflects the market conditions and the changing needs of customers.
Above all it recognises increasingly demand better value for their money q that we operate in a competitive market where additional challengers in the competitive open markets in which we operate, customers benefit continue to emerge and the only way of ensuring success is by focusing from an increasing range of products and services from a growing choice on the ever-changing needs of our customers.
The expectations and demands of customers continue to rise.
Access to convenient branches remains important for many customers, but demand for a quality multi-channel banking proposition is now more prevalent.
More customers expect to be able to manage their finances whenever and wherever is most convenient for them, whether by telephone, online, or using smartphones.
service remains one of the key drivers of customer satisfaction and customers are less accepting of poor service given the competitive nature of the market.
in the current low interest rate environment, many customers are motivated by their desire to achieve better value for money, but security and reputation remain important factors.
customers want clear and transparent products delivered with good service and access to helpful, relevant, expert advice when they need it.
Product innovation is also important for some, whereas long-standing relationships remain important for others.
There are some clear customer trends emerging, but we recognize that every customer, whether an individual or an organisation, has particular needs and must be treated accordingly.
Every customer has a choice and will select the provider that can most effectively service their personal needs.
Marketplace trends Key opportunities Key challenges economic environment: significant progress in reducing the Groups economic environment: a weak, outlook for the uK economy, q q risk profile and strengthening the balance sheet in recent years along along with continuing economic uncertainty in the Eurozone.
with strategic actions taken in the last couple of years means we are Regulatory environment: uncertainty remains over key elements q better positioned to benefit as the economy recovers.
of the independent commission on Banking reforms, particularly Customer requirements: Our strategic assets, including a recovery and resolution mechanisms and retail ring fencing, and future q comprehensive multi-channel distribution network, strong customer capital and liquidity requirements arising from cRd iV remain unclear.
relationships, well recognised brands and high quality people mean Competition: increasingly competitive market for lending and q we are well positioned to address the customer trends.
Regulatory environment: Greater clarity emerging on q regulatory requirements.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information
