Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 30 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RElATiOnsHiPs And REsPOnsiBiliTY BE THE BEsT FOR OuR cusTOMERs SMEs and fast growing enterprises play a vital role in creating jobs and generating growth in the UK.
We demonstrated our support for SME customers with gross lending of 13.2 billion in 2012, delivering year on year net lending growth of 4 per cent in this business area.
This was in contrast to a decline in the stock of lending of 4 per cent across the industry.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Marketplace trends 19 30 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business model and strategy 22 Delivering our action plan 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 42 Summary of Group results 44 Divisional results 52 Group Operations and Central items 67 Other financial information 68 1 77 115 203 355 Five year financial summary 76 Customer focus The Groups strategy is built on being the best bank for customers, and C U S TO M E R S creating value by investing where we can make a real difference for customers.
The customer is at the heart of everything we do, whether Only by focusing on customers needs and that be in our branches, our brands or our people.
This commitment is addressing those needs can we expect to deliver supported by the Group values of putting customers first, keeping it benefit to our stakeholders.
simple and making a difference together.
During 2012 we underlined our commitment to SME and Mid Markets Aim lending by successfully participating in both the National Loans Guarantee Our aim is to be the best bank for customers.
Becoming the best bank Scheme NLGS, and the governments Funding for Lending FLS initiative.
for customers means being the best bank for families, for businesses and We issued our full funding allocation of 1.4 billion under NLGS, as well as for our communities.
We will achieve this by focusing on: becoming the first bank to participate in the Funding for Lending scheme and have committed in excess of 11 billion in gross funds to customers UK customers and those connected to the UK q through the scheme since its launch in September.
Simplifying processes, policies and systems q We have continued to support our SME and Mid Market customers Investment in growth initiatives q throughout the economic cycle in order to ensure their financial health, An appropriate risk appetite viability and growth.
In cases where businesses have experienced financial q difficulties, our Business Support Unit BSU is specifically tasked with Ensuring the business has the strength in funding and capital q providing help.
Since 2009 the BSU has restructured facilities for around to meet the most challenging of headwinds.
10,000 businesses and has protected more than 250,000 UK jobs.
As further evidence of the long-term assistance that we offer to enterprise, Performance in 2012 at the start of 2010 we launched our SME Charter.
Within this we pledged to support 300,000 new businesses set up by the end of 2012.
We Customer complaints FSA banking Customer satisfaction % are delighted to say that this target was exceeded with 350,000 such complaints per 1,000 a c Net Promoter Score businesses being helped across the three year period.
49 1.7 We are committed to supporting the UK housing market and first time 1.5 44 1.4 38 buyers in particular, writing 1 in 4 of all first time buyer mortgage loans 1.1 completed in the UK.
We advanced more than 6 billion of new lending to first time buyers in 2012, helping over 55,000 customers own their own homes.
We have committed publicly to lending 6.5 billion to 60,000 first time buyers in 2013, an increase of 30 per cent on our 5.0 billion commitment in 2012, and the UKs biggest-ever commitment to support H1 2011 H2 2011 H1 2012 H2 2012 2010 2011 2012 first time buyers.
Our gross new residential mortgage lending totalled Through our Simplification programme and We have developed a comprehensive 26.2 billion in the UK in 2012 across all customer segments.
continued focus on becoming the best bank customer experience programme measuring for customers, our FSA reportable banking customer service at key touch points and their complaints continued to fall.
This is measured through the cross industry Net Promoter Score Excluding PPI London 2012 metric where we have seen continued progress.
This year saw the culmination of our partnership with the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games, following five years of activity aimed at Priorities for 2013 bringing the Games closer to customers, communities and colleagues Continue to simplify systems, processes and products by making it across the UK.
Some of the highlights of the community benefits include: q easier and more convenient for customers to do business with us, 1 billion of lending to help businesses benefit from London 2012 thereby improving the overall experience opportunities, 1,000 local heroes supported in communities across the UK, 24,000 schools taking part in National School Sport Week, inspiring Continue to improve our complaint handling performance reducing q over 9 million children to try sporting activities, 1,497 Olympic and FSA reportable banking complaints per 1,000 accounts to 1.0 by the Paralympic torchbearers selected by Lloyds Banking Group, and end of 2013 3,000 customers were taken to the Games.
The Games were just the Maximise the use of our customer relationships and insight to enable q beginning, highlighting and reinforcing the positive impact we can have us to engage more effectively with our customers and become more on our communities.
This is why we are delighted to be building on the responsive to customer needs.
This will enable us to deliver against legacy of the Games by developing both National School Sport Week their expectations at key customer touch points to improve our and Local Heroes.
These two programmes underpinned our partnership customers current and future experience and had significant impact, opening doors to millions of children and communities up and down the country, encouraging them to play more sport.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 32 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RElATiOnsHiPs And REsPOnsiBiliTY Complaint handling Simple, tailored products and services As part of our strategy to become the best bank for customers we publicly Our strategy recognises our customers needs for product simplicity and committed to reduce the level of FsA reportable banking complaints, transparency, access through multiple channels and value for money excluding PPi, we receive by 20 per cent year on year.
We achieved a products and services.
We have worked hard to ensure we are offering reduction from 1.5 complaints per 1,000 accounts in the second half products and services that respond to customers evolving needs, and as of 2011, to 1.1 in the second half of 2012.
We aim to reduce this further a result, a number of new and innovative products have been launched in 2013 to 1.0 complaint per 1,000 accounts.
The progress to date has in 2012.
We also built on our disability principles for product and process been accomplished through the ongoing success of our phone-a-friend design: these involve adhering to our legal duty to make reasonable service, a dedicated team which branch and call centre staff can refer to adjustments to anticipate the needs of customers with disabilities and for specialist support with complaint handling, and the training we provide prevent discrimination and also to make reasonable adjustments to stop to our c. 40,000 front line colleagues.
We are the first financial services less favourable treatment if it is occurring.
organisation to roll out an externally accredited complaint handling We have enhanced our internet banking offering to enable our retail qualification to all our complaint handling staff.
As a result of these and customers to do more online.
This has helped to drive large increases in other initiatives, we are now resolving over 90 per cent of complaints at the number of customers who use both traditional online services and first touch.
in addition, we offer a 24 hours a day, 7 days a week service, mobile banking with customers increasing to 9.5 million and 3.3 million helping colleagues to resolve complaints around the clock, ensuring respectively.
in addition we have become one of the founding partners customers get the right outcome faster.
We have also made a significant of Go On, a nationwide campaign which aims to help improve digital improvement to our online complaint handling form, meaning we are now capability for all, with a particular focus on sMEs.
able to respond to these complaints within 6 hours.
We have extended the innovative lloyds TsB lend a Hand Mortgage Our Group wide Root cause Analysis team, who conduct detailed analysis to help customers purchase a home with the help of their local authority.
and research into the source of customer complaints, reduced complaints We also launched our Best for Business campaign and reaffirmed our further this year.
They achieved a reduction of approximately 39,000 per continued support for the sME charter to respond to 90 per cent of month by continuing to listen to customers to understand the cause lending appeals within 15 working days which will exceed the industry of their complaints, and by making improvements to fix these issues to standard of 30 days.
in addition we have made significant investments prevent repeat occurrences.
For example, changes to customers pending in the Business Growth Fund, scottish investment Bank and Big funds information has enabled telephone banking advisors to provide society capital.
a much clearer breakdown of current account transactions to customers, Our Retail division continued to develop their savings product offering.
resulting in a reduction of approximately 2,500 complaints per month.
The Halifax savers Prize draw has been very popular, with over 1 million These improvements have been driven by listening to our customers and customers subscribing, supporting strong increases in customer advocacy.
acting directly on their feedback.
They also continued to develop the isA Promise that resonated with customers and helped to support a record new isA performance in 2012. in addition, they developed new ways to support our customers savings requirements including the recently launched Junior isA that allows young people to start to build a tax free savings pot.
We continue to be recognised with external awards.
Our corporate and commercial businesses won the Best Bank of the Year award for the eighth consecutive year at the Real Fd cBi excellence awards, and in our insurance division we were named as Britains Most Popular Home insurance Provider by the independent market researchers GFK nOP for the eleventh year in a row.
in meeting the needs of our customers, we also made strong progress this year on improving the products and services we offer customers with disabilities.
The progress to date has been accomplished through many initiatives including the launch of the disability services support Team, a specialised team set up to help front line colleagues with queries Listening to our customers or complaints, our ongoing work under the Prime Ministers challenge We have made some great improvements to our isA on dementia, the introduction of a comprehensive colleague guide, processes.
We have simplified the isA account opening working with disability Rights uK to hold customer focus groups to process and made it easier to transfer funds in, enhanced understand how we capture and action customers appropriate service our systems and removed administration hurdles, instated savings champions in branch to deal with isA customer needs and the introduction of an online accessibility feedback form queries and improved interest rate visibility.
so we get greater understanding of our customers requirements.
The Business disability Forum ranked lloyds Banking Group joint second in the disability standard 2011 12 and this activity will continue into 2013 with the introduction of additional services to improve our accessibility to customers with a wide range of disabilities.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Marketplace trends 19 32 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business model and strategy 22 Delivering our action plan 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 42 Summary of Group results 44 Divisional results 52 Group Operations and Central items 67 Other financial information 68 1 77 115 203 355 Five year financial summary 76 Online sign language service The Group was the first financial services provider in the uK to introduce sign Video a sign language communication service for deaf customers.
This technology enables customers to communicate in their first or preferred language of British sign language.
Customer service and Simplification Financial inclusion in line with our strategy to become the best bank for customers, customer We aim to lead the banking sector in reaching those who are financially needs remain at the heart of how we reshape our businesses.
Through excluded and equip them with the confidence and capability to manage our simplification programme we have continued to enhance and their money effectively.
streamline customer processes, with a number of significant Retail division also provides current accounts to one in three people in improvements having been made during the year.
These include the the uK and are the uKs biggest provider of basic bank accounts, making re-design of our account switching and closure processes, improvements a significant investment in helping to bring people into the financial to our cash isA transfer process, enhancements to our end-to-end system.
We currently provide over 3 million such accounts and in 2012 bereavement process and the streamlining of our commercial lending opened around 225,000 new accounts.
in conjunction with the national process.
We have also introduced advanced interactive Voice Response Offender Management service, we offer more basic banking facilities to technology, bringing a new and more flexible approach to the way prisoners than any other bank.
Almost as importantly, we can help our customers undertake their telephone banking.
customers move to a full facility current account.
in 2012 over 100,000 customer satisfaction is assessed through the net Promoter score nPs, customers who previously had a basic bank account either upgraded to which measures the likelihood of customers recommending us to others.
or opened a mainstream bank account.
We have recently made a number Our high street brands made significant headway in 2012, achieving their of improvements to make it easier for basic bank account customers highest ever nPs scores, with the Group wide score rising from 44 in 2011 to upgrade.
Supplier relationships Treating customers fairly Having strong relationships with our suppliers is key to the delivery central to our aim of building deep and lasting customer relationships is of our strategy and ensuring both the banks and our customers needs our determination to treat customers fairly and ensure we are transparent are effectively met.
The Group looks to build and develop strong in dealings with them.
We conduct regular monitoring to check that we are collaborative relationships and engage in regular dialogue, meaning we complying with our robust customer treatment policies and are achieving can better understand the environment in which we operate and help fair outcomes for customers.
customer outcomes are an important access and drive the continuous improvement and innovation in our value component in colleague reward and remuneration.
Our approach to fair chain.
Through working with our suppliers, we also get the opportunity customer treatment takes into consideration product, sales and after sales: to leverage their unique specialist knowledge in order to drive increased value and proactively optimise our supply chain.
We consider our Products: we have strengthened our framework for developing and suppliers social, ethical and environmental performance as a standard managing our product range, including the introduction of new product part of our procurement process.
We are also a signatory to the Prompt governance processes and a comprehensive risk assessment tool that Payment code which requires us to provide clear guidance on payment centres on fair customer treatment.
procedures and encourage similar good practice amongst our suppliers sales: our sales processes consider affordability and are designed and other businesses.
to minimise the risk of customers buying products they do not need or cannot afford.
We review these processes continuously and update them as necessary.
After sales: we listen carefully to customer feedback, and take a proactive stance to after sales.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information
