l a n o i t a n r e t n i d n a e c n a n i F t e s s A, h t l a e R W e P S O R P l i a t e n R i A Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 22 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 BusinEss MOdEl And sTRATEGY unlOcKinG THE GROuPs POTEnTiAl Our iconic and distinct brands, our broad multi channel distribution customers are at the heart of the organisation and network, our financial strength, conservative approach to risk management by leveraging our strategic assets and capabilities and our high quality, committed colleagues are the foundation for effectively in all of our divisions we believe we can providing customers with effective service.
Through distinctive strengths, help Britain prosper and deliver strong, stable and in particular superior customer insight, simpler tailored products and relationship focus we want to meet the financial needs of our customers, sustainable returns for shareholders.
whether that be through banking, insurance, investment, debt financing or risk management products, and help them succeed financially.
Our business model We also deliver value through a focus on increasing the efficiency lloyds Banking Group is a leading financial services group with a simple, of operations and processes across the value chain, simplifying the lower risk, customer focused, uK retail and commercial banking organisation and reducing costs.
creating a lower risk, more agile, efficient business model.
organisation enables us to more effectively address customer needs We provide a range of banking and financial services, primarily in the uK, whilst reducing the cost base.
to personal, commercial and corporate customers and have designed our The uK financial services market remains one of the largest in the world business model around our distinctive assets and capabilities in serving and although our business model and strategy have been formulated customers effectively.
By really focusing on the needs of customers, and in the context of a cautious outlook for the uK economy it remains operating sustainably and responsibly, we believe we will help Britain appropriate for all stages of the economic cycle.
Whilst providing real prosper and create value for shareholders.
differentiation and positioning us well for future regulatory reform.
ultimately as a simple, lower risk, customer focused uK retail and commercial bank, we can rebuild the trust of our customers and other stakeholders, help Britain prosper and deliver strong, stable and sustainable returns for shareholders.
strong superior customer customer relationships insight High-quality Financial committed strength people BeCOMinG STROnG, STABLe THe BeST conservative Multi-channel ReTURnS FOR BAnK FOR risk distribution SHAReHOLDeRS management CUSTOMeRS iconic simple, tailored and distinct products brands and services Key ASSeTS AnD CAPABiLiTieS DiviSiOnS T i R B G g n n i k n i a B P l a i L c r e e m m H o c e c n a r u s n i Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Marketplace trends 19 22 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business model and strategy 22 Delivering our action plan 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 42 Summary of Group results 44 Divisional results 52 Group Operations and Central items 67 Other financial information 68 1 77 115 203 355 Five year financial summary 76 Our strategy Our action plan for success The Groups strategy is built on being the best bank for customers, and The four key elements of our action plan to deliver our strategy creating value by investing where we can make a real difference for them.
are outlined in more detail on the next few pages: customer leadership driven by superior customer insight, simple tailored products, better service and relationship focus is the overriding priority.
The customer is at the heart of everything we do, whether that be in our branches, our brands or our people.
This commitment is supported by the Group values of putting customers first, keeping it simple and making a difference together.
We are creating a simpler, more agile, efficient and responsive customer focused organisation with a real focus on operating sustainably and REsHAPE responsibly and helping Britain prosper.
We are reshaping and simplifying our business portfolio the business and investing a portion of the savings realised from our to fit our assets, capabilities simplification programme in customer related growth initiatives.
focusing on core markets which offer strong returns and attractive growth we are maintaining a prudent approach to risk and further strengthening the Groups balance sheet and liquidity position.
We are reshaping our business portfolio to fit our assets, capabilities and risk appetite.
We are strengthening the balance sheet through the continued reduction of our non-core assets and reducing the risk in the business through the application of a conservative approach to, and prudent appetite for risk.
We are also reducing our international presence in order to focus on our core uK customers.
We believe we can unlock the potential in our franchise and deliver sTREnGTHEn value to customers and shareholders by creating a simpler organisation.
the Groups balance sheet Opportunities exist to increase the efficiency of operations and processes and liquidity position.
and reduce costs whilst addressing changing customer needs and the external environment more effectively.
Our customer focus remains the key driver for strategy and business decision making and substantial customer related investment is planned.
Our strategy reflects our customers needs for product simplicity and transparency, access to credit, demands for access through multiple channels, value for money products and services and the importance of our staff in managing customer relationships.
Our strategy is being delivered though a clear action plan focused on reshaping our business portfolio to fit our assets capabilities and risk siMPliFY appetite, strengthening the Groups balance sheet and liquidity position, the Group to improve agility simplifying the Group to improve agility and efficiency and investing to be and efficiency.
the best bank for customers.
Our progress against this plan and the key priorities for 2013, is described on the next few pages.
inVEsT to be the best bank for customers.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information
