Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 34 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RElATiOnsHiPs And REsPOnsiBiliTY c OllEAGuEs W H O P u T cusTOMERs F iRsT With colleagues who put customers first, keep it simple and make a difference together, we will deliver the service that makes us the best bank for customers.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Marketplace trends 19 34 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business model and strategy 22 Delivering our action plan 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 42 Summary of Group results 44 Divisional results 52 Group Operations and Central items 67 Other financial information 68 1 77 115 203 355 Five year financial summary 76 Living through our values To unlock the great potential in our business, we ask all colleagues to focus c O ll EA G u E s on our three values: putting customers first, keeping it simple and making a difference together.
Our colleagues will deliver the service that makes us Putting customers first means thinking about whats best for customers in the best bank for customers.
That means understanding and anticipating customers needs, delivering on our promises to customers and each other and taking Aim ownership to get things right for every customer.
We need to ensure Our ambition is to be a bank where our colleagues give their best and that what we are doing enables our customers to get the most from their want to build their career.
Our people are at the heart of our business money: living this value will enable colleagues to deliver our strategy to be and are critical in ensuring that we deliver our strategy to be the best bank the best bank for customers.
for customers and through this, help Britain prosper.
Each colleague should have access to the training and development opportunities that enable them to do their role well.
This should also ensure that we are able to grow talent internally, to drive our business in a sustainable way.
Having a diverse workforce is also a priority for us.
At lloyds Banking Group, we want the diversity of our employee base to reflect the population of the uK and who our customers are: the better we reflect our marketplace, the better we can serve it.
We also encourage our colleagues to work closely with the community to build lasting relationships that are the foundation for our business in the future.
Performance in 2012 Keeping it simple means being easy to do business with and communicating clearly and openly.
Our colleagues are continually Staff engagement score % Staff training days identifying opportunities to simplify the things we do and work hard to UK industry average get things right first time every time.
69 68 Making a difference together means working together to deliver for 6.9 6.9 customers, listening to how we can improve what we do: treating all 63 63 61 52 60 5.4 48 people fairly and acting responsibly at all times: and contributing to the communities we serve.
We see our involvement in the work we do in fundraising for charity as an important part of our contribution.
colleagues have raised 3.6 million for save the children since the beginning of 2011.
As part of our involvement with the national school sport Week initiative, EEI 2011 EEI 2012 PEI 2011 PEI 2012 2010 2011 2012 over 5,000 colleagues have volunteered their support over the last four The Employee Engagement Index EEI Colleagues received an average of 6.9 days years.
Overall 32,000 colleagues have volunteered their time this year measures the individual motiviation of formal learning in 2012 reflecting ongoing to communities.
colleagues whilst the Performance Excellence commitment to learning and development.
Index PEI measures how strongly colleagues believe the Group is committed to improving Colleague engagement customer service.
Our annual colleague Engagement survey is an important way for us to Priorities for 2013 find out how we are working together and how well we are building a high performance culture.
More than 77,000 colleagues took part in this years Ensuring colleagues live our values q colleague survey, giving us the clearest insight yet into how colleagues Building colleague pride and trust in the Group and our future q feel about working for lloyds Banking Group.
The survey also gives each colleague an opportunity to add their own individual comments Helping colleagues fulfil their potential through learning q and around 40,000 colleagues took time to do this.
and development The outputs provide two separate and measurable scores, the Employee Managing all aspects of performance q Engagement index EEi, which measures the individual motivation of Building a diverse and inclusive workforce q colleagues, and the Performance Excellence index PEi, measuring how strongly colleagues believe the Group is committed to improving customer service.
These inform Group wide and local action plans that will prioritise the things that will make the Group a better place to work.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 36 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RElATiOnsHiPs And REsPOnsiBiliTY The results highlight strong levels of engagement in some areas including The Group significantly increased its focus on its Emerging Talent using customer feedback to improve processes and providing colleagues programmes in 2012.
We launched two new Group wide programmes.
with appropriate training to keep up with customer demands.
Our PEi in its inaugural year our Apprenticeship scheme made 500 places score is again well above the uK industry average, showing that colleagues available offering a range of career opportunities across the Group.
believe in the Groups commitment to delivering and continuously We are building on the success of the scheme by offering more places improving the products and services we provide to our customers.
At the more senior level we launched our Future Executives scores indicate that our colleagues are committed to the Groups strategy Programme giving 23 MBA graduates the chance to fast track their careers of becoming the best bank for customers.
in addition, the Group maintained its focus on hiring significant numbers of uK graduates, with Our EEi score shows that we have more to do to engender trust in a 20 per cent increase on 2011 hires across its six core schemes.
the organisation and in its future.
The current economic climate and the constant external focus on the financial services sector and banks significant progress has been made on improving both the efficiency have undoubtedly contributed to a lack of confidence and trust in the and effectiveness of the learning offered to colleagues.
Building colleagues pride and trust in the Group and classroom training to e-learning, and increased the average amount of our future is something the senior leadership team is fully committed training received to a level above industry benchmarks.
to and an area that we will continue to focus on throughout 2013.
The Group wide Academies have now been fully implemented, Thanks to colleague feedback and the strategic input from the Groups providing a clear learning standard and a clear way to plan their careers leaders, in 2013 we are focusing on three key areas: for all colleagues.
fostering authentic and credible leaders who, through their actions, engender trust and understanding and personify the Group Values: Performance and Reward demonstrating that there is a promising future for colleagues with Managing performance plays a critical role in helping us to develop our attractive opportunities for learning and development and a compelling colleagues to build long term partnerships supporting customers and reward offering: and strong relationships with each other.
creating a solid platform to share and reinforce our strategic vision and Reflecting the regulatory environment, continued good progress has help colleagues understand the role they play in helping us to be been made in the strengthening of reward governance, particularly Best Bank for customers.
incentives, and the alignment of long term incentives with our strategic goals.
The performance management process ensures we calibrate We have four recognised unions who we have consulted about these between colleagues and take full account of risk at all levels to assess risk actions and have been involved in discussions on a series of changes stewardship by all our senior executives.
that we have made this year.
We value the partnerships we have with these organisations.
Encouraging colleague share ownership in lloyds Banking Group is important.
The first save-As-You-Earn plan in 3 years has been announced, commencing in 2013, as well as the continued promotion of our Learning and Development sharematch scheme.
Our Flex programme, which offers a range of benefit learning and development supports our colleagues to be the best they choices, continues to be popular with colleagues.
We also began Pensions can be to help us be the best bank for customers.
Auto-Enrolment from 1 January 2013 for those colleagues who do not An important sign that we are doing the right thing, is the proportion participate in one of our existing Pension plans.
of appointments that we can fill internally.
during 2012 we have been successful in filling 78 per cent of executive roles with internal talent.
We also focused on building rounded general management experience by moving some of our highest potential executives across our different businesses and in 2013 we will continue our work to validate and improve internal succession.
We have continued to deliver Group wide leadership programmes to accelerate the development of the most effective leaders and to strengthen our leadership capability overall.
Embedded in these programmes is a focus on building a high-performance culture and putting customers at the heart of everything we do.
This year, we have worked with the Open university to launch our new core curriculum of leadership training to equip a wider range of colleagues with the knowledge and skills required to improve performance in their roles.
Overall, 3,000 of our leaders have experienced leadership training in 2012.
Growing great leaders The Group has continued to provide leadership programmes with success: highlighted by the fact that 78% of our executive roles in 2012 were filled with internal talent.
The Group has also increased focus on our Emerging Talent shown through the launch of the Apprenticeship scheme and the Future Executives Programme.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Marketplace trends 19 36 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business model and strategy 22 Delivering our action plan 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 42 Summary of Group results 44 Divisional results 52 Group Operations and Central items 67 Other financial information 68 1 77 115 203 355 Five year financial summary 76 Diversity networks The Group has four diversity networks, which were formed by groups of colleagues to help focus on the specific challenges and barriers that they face at work.
They do this through connecting their members virtually and face to face, focusing on development and playing an active role in supporting the development of the diversity strategy.
We continued to focus on developing our talented ethnic minority Diversity and inclusion colleagues throughout 2012.
Ten career development Programme A key element of achieving our vision is having a diverse and inclusive courses were delivered to over 120 colleagues.
The programme is aimed workforce: and we have made progress during 2012.
With a footprint that at colleagues who are looking to achieve their first management or senior touches nearly every community and household in the uK, understanding management position and supports participants in achieving their full and meeting those diverse needs, as well as our workforce reflecting potential.
The course receives outstanding feedback from delegates and the communities we serve, will support our goal of being the best bank has produced excellent results with improved promotion rates, improved for customers.
performance ratings and increased engagement.
Our gender programme has made strong progress throughout the year.
To ensure that we continue to provide one of the best packages for in 2011 lord davies Review recommended that organisations have a working parents in the uK we introduced a number of improvements, target of 25 per cent female representation on the board by 2015.
The which included, better advice and guidance for colleagues and line Group committed to meet this goal and we are proud to have exceeded managers, e-learning modules to support new parents, and a Parents this during 2012 two years ahead of target with 27 per cent female forum where colleagues can connect and share experiences around representation.
We also launched a role model programme across the working parent issues.
Footprints in the snow showcases the career paths of the Groups These activities are showing positive outcomes, with higher engagement most senior women, providing footprints and stepping stones for other scores for female and ethnic minority colleagues, and some steady women to follow, be inspired by and succeed.
This has proved to be one progress in closing the gap for lesbian, gay and bisexual colleagues.
We of our most successful programmes to date with positive feedback from will continue to build upon our progress during 2013 to ensure we reflect the women who have attended sessions.
Role model programmes the diverse needs of our customers, colleagues and communities.
for ethnic minority, disabled, and lesbian, gay, transgender and bisexual colleagues are now being developed to launch during 2013.
Our sexual orientation programme continues to be recognised as London 2012 Partnership amongst the best.
in the stonewall 2012 Top 100 Employers index the colleagues were an integral part of the successful delivery of the Group was placed in the top 20 organisations and was named Top Welsh london 2012 Partnership.
A key objective for the Partnership was to Private sector Employer and 2nd best scottish Employer.
Our Rainbow ensure that all colleagues within the Group were proud of the Partnership.
network was also given star performer status.
We are also leading the We also wanted to provide a platform for colleague participation and way for customers with both lloyds TsB and Halifax featuring gay couples community engagement and give colleagues the opportunity to build in product advertising.
in 2012 our disability programme was ranked joint 2nd, achieving Gold As part of our objective to ensure that colleagues were engaged in the standard and named Best Private sector Employer by the Business Games we launched a Group wide Reward and Recognition programme, disability Forum, the worlds leading employers organisation on disability Go for Gold, in July 2010. colleagues were recognised for supporting and business.
Our end-to-end Workplace adjustment programme is and living our Group Values.
500 colleagues were rewarded with a pair industry leading and, to date, almost 10,000 cases have been managed of tickets to the Olympic or Paralympic Games.
in addition we provided through this process.
250 colleagues with the unique opportunity to be an Olympic Torchbearer for making a difference in their community.
Beyond these Group wide recognition programmes we awarded around 2,500 colleagues with tickets to the Olympic or Paralympic Games for exceptional performance through other divisional Recognition Programmes.
Also 500 colleagues were given places in the lOcOG Volunteer Programme, giving a once in a lifetime opportunity to support the Games by being a Gamesmaker.
Further to this approximately 145 of our best customer service colleagues were given the unique opportunity to work in the Athlete Village and Media centre branches at the Olympic Park during the Games.
The Torch Relay was a key event for us as part of the london 2012 build-up and over 350 colleague volunteers supported the colleague Advance Tour and the Evening celebration Events as part of our Olympic Torch Relay campaign.
Many more branch staff and other colleagues lined the streets to support the Relay as it passed through their communities and at sponsor stops.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 38 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RElATiOnsHiPs And REsPOnsiBiliTY Our 2013 14 charity of the Year is supporting Alzheimers society and Alzheimer scotlands live Well campaign.
HOW WE ARE dOinG MORE We recognise that if we are to be the best bank for our customers, we must also aim to be the best bank for communities.
By doing more to be a responsible business we are able to make a sustainable contribution to help Britain prosper.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Marketplace trends 19 38 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business model and strategy 22 Delivering our action plan 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 42 Summary of Group results 44 Divisional results 52 Group Operations and Central items 67 Other financial information 68 1 77 115 203 355 Five year financial summary 76 c O M M un i T i E s One of the ways Lloyds Banking Group helps Britain prosper is by contributing positively to the communities we serve.
Our scale and reach through our brands and branches means we are doing more to help communities across the UK.
Aim The aim of our community strategy is to help the uKs most disadvantaged communities prosper as a result of our financial and colleagues commitment.
during 2012 we continued to develop our community strategy around the themes of Education, Employability and Enterprise.
last year the Group invested 85 million in a range of flagship Money for Life Challenge programmes and initiatives.
despite the challenging economic The Money for life challenge is a national competition that provides 500 grants to empower teams of 16-24 year olds environment the Group committed to keep our investment at this level to develop innovative money management projects that for the period of its strategic plan.
Performance in 2012 Colleague volunteers Total community m investment Community Programmes 85 85 32,000 76 We want to build thriving communities in the uK, both with direct investment and by encouraging our colleagues to support communities with their skills and knowledge.
This aim is supported by our community 16,000 programmes themed around Education, Employability and Enterprise.
7,300 education 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Personal money management is a fundamental life skill.
in recent years there has been a huge groundswell of support to introduce compulsory In 2012, the Group supported over 32,000 Our Community Investment total includes colleagues volunteering for charities and support for financial inclusion, community financial education in schools, but there remains a lost generation of community groups.
The Foundations also initiatives, leveraged colleague fundraising, adults who have passed through the education system without acquiring provided Matched Giving to some of these sponsorship and support for grass roots charities.
organisations for colleagues time spent these skills.
volunteering outside of working hours.
Our response to this is Money for Life, an award-winning personal money management programme, targeted at young people and adults in the Priorities for 2013 wider Further Education, work-based learning and community learning continuing our level of investment in uK communities aligned with q sectors.
lloyds Banking Group has invested 4 million in the programme our strategy themed around Education, Employability and Enterprise since 2009 and has committed a further 4 million over the next two years.
and support of the uK charity sector through our Foundations The Money for life Qualifications programme provides accredited training continuation of our plan to strengthen our responsible business q to enable organisations ranging from citizens Advice Bureaus to Housing governance, including our reporting assurance and verification process Associations, charities and colleges to embed money management skills at a local level.
We trained 1,400 people to run money management develop a set of measures that will help us to understand the extent q sessions in communities in 2012. to which we help Britain prosper.
From the outputs of the measures we will look to create associated robust KPis and targets The Money for life challenge is a national competition that provides 500 grants to empower teams of 16-24 year olds to develop innovative launch a Financial inclusion steering Group and set priorities in 2013 q money management projects that impact their communities.
We awarded 110 grants in 2012. in september 2012 we announced a partnership with Family Action to train our employees to deliver money management workshops to 1,500 vulnerable families by August 2013.
Money for life was awarded a Big Tick and was highly commended in Business in the communitys Awards for Excellence 2012.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 40 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RElATiOnsHiPs And REsPOnsiBiliTY employability Business connectors was developed in the wake of the uK riots in 2011, Lloyds Scholars, our social mobility programme aimed at uK students, was and in particular the devastating effect these events had on the sense established in 2011. in partnership with six leading universities across the of community in some of the uKs most disadvantaged neighbourhoods.
uK, we offer students from lower income households a complete support The programme was therefore designed to tackle these issues head on package, helping them manage the financial strain of university whilst by harnessing expertise from business to tackle local needs.
scholars receive a unique combination of financial support, a Community volunteering lloyds Banking Group mentor, sessions to develop their skills and the Our Day to Make a Difference volunteering programme enables opportunity to gain valuable work experience through paid internships.
colleagues to spend one day a year volunteering for a charity or in return we ask that they volunteer for local causes, enabling them community project of their choice.
Over 32,000 of our colleagues to enhance their cV whilst giving back to the community.
We accept registered to use their day to volunteer in 2012.
This compares with students from nearly all disciplines and all have the opportunity, but no 7,300 colleagues in 2010 and 16,000 colleagues in 2011. obligation, to join our Graduate leadership Programme after university.
Empowering our people to participate in activities, during work time, that lloyds scholars was named corporate Responsibility Project of the year benefit their local communities, helps to build pride in the bank.
As well at the 2012 charity Times Award.
as the benefits that our peoples skills bring to communities, which equate to millions of pounds of in-kind support for organisations, it also gives enterprise them the opportunity to develop skills which are valuable to our business.
in January 2012 the School of Social Entrepreneurs and the bank launched community activity also helps us to work alongside our customers, visibly the lloyds Banking Group social Entrepreneurs programme.
supporting demonstrating that we are committed to the same things as they are.
this programme demonstrates lloyds Banking Groups commitment to aiding the uKs economic recovery by enabling social entrepreneurs Give & Gain Day to realise their ambitions and thereby supporting enterprise and We are the largest participant in Business in the communitys Give & strengthening communities.
Gain day the uKs single biggest day of volunteering.
in 2012 more than 4,500 colleagues took part, doubling the engagement seen in 2011.
The aim over the next five years is to help over 1,300 social entrepreneurs We have committed to sponsor Give & Gain day until 2014. to start up or scale up their social enterprise, creating jobs across the uK and helping local communities to help themselves.
The programme national School Sport Week offers grants of between 4,000 - 25,000 as well as a lloyds Banking Our vision for london 2012 was to inspire and support young people, Group mentor to help them be sustainable and successful in their ideas.
communities and business all over Britain on their journey to the Games Additional funding for this project is provided by the Big lottery.
Part of this vision was running national school sport Week, We are a major sponsor of the Business Connectors programme in a week long sporting celebration for schools.
Over 2,500 volunteered, partnership with Business in the community, a Prince of Wales charity.
helping to bring the excitement of london 2012 to their local communities.
in 2012 we made a commitment to second up to 20 senior managers per year to become Business connectors, working in their local communities Funding grassroots charities to help broker relationships between charities, community groups and local business, with the goal of helping to build thriving communities Much of the our charitable giving is through the Lloyds TSB and Bank across the uK.
during 2012 the Group donated more than 29 million to the Foundations enabling them to make grants to local, regional and national charities across the uK.
Many charities working in the uKs most deprived areas have received support, making a significant difference to the communities that need it most.
in addition to making grants, the Foundations encourage our colleagues to become active in their community by providing Matched Giving for charities they support.
Each colleague can claim up to 1,000 per year for their charitable fundraising efforts and time given to charities.
Funding local organisations The 2012 community Fund provided grants to local community organisations supporting young people.
nominated by our colleagues and voted on by members of the public, 132 organisations across the uK each won a community Fund award worth 5,000.
The Groups sponsorship of london 2012 allowed us to promote nominated organisations at Olympic Torch Relay events.
This raised their profile Lloyds Scholars and encouraged communities to support them by voting.
We estimate lloyds scholars, our social mobility programme aimed at uK students, was established in 2011. in partnership 100,000 young people across the uK will be positively impacted as a with six leading universities across the uK we offer students result of the awards.
from lower income households a complete support package, helping them manage the financial strain of university whilst improving their employability.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Marketplace trends 19 40 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business model and strategy 22 Delivering our action plan 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 42 Summary of Group results 44 Divisional results 52 Group Operations and Central items 67 Other financial information 68 1 77 115 203 355 Five year financial summary 76 Colleague volunteering We are the largest participant in Business in the communitys Give & Gain day the uKs single biggest day of volunteering.
in 2012 more than 4,500 colleagues took part, doubling the engagement seen in 2011 All programmes are on track to meet their 2020 targets with some Fundraising delivering early.
More detail on the progress of our initiatives will be Through a range of engaging fundraising initiatives and personal described in our 2012 Responsible Business Report, which will be commitment, colleagues from across the Group have raised over published in May 2013.
3.6 million, including Matched Funding, for our 2011 12 charity of the Year save the children.
This has by far exceeded our fundraising target As an example our no Travel Week policy has changed the Groups of 2.5 million.
business travel culture since its introduction in June 2011.
By promoting viable technology alternatives travel bookings have decreased by 130,000 The funds raised will help over 12,000 children in our local communities during this period.
We have also met the World Wildlife Fund 1 in 5 through the Families & schools Together FAsT programme.
FAsT challenge and made significant progress against our target to reduce provides support to parents by engaging them in their childrens business travel by 20 per cent by 2020. education.
The programme aims to reinforce family bonds and create a supportive network between parents, children, schools and communities.
As well as benefitting the environment, making fewer journeys means Teachers have reported a 5 per cent improvement in reading, writing and our colleagues are away from home less, improving their health and maths amongst children enrolled in FAsT after just eight weeks.
These programmes have contributed to the Groups reportable cO Our 2013 14 charity of the Year, chosen by colleagues, is supporting 2 emissions reducing by around 9 per cent from the previous period.
Alzheimers society and Alzheimer scotlands live Well campaign, the first uK-wide dementia carers programme.
CO emissions tonnes 2 2012 2011 Measuring our performance Total uK cO emissions 374,361 410,237 2 in order to measure and manage our overall community investment in scope 1 emissions 49,414 58,572 a systematic way, we use the industry standard london Benchmarking Group model.
The model records cash, colleague time, in-kind donations scope 2 emissions 290,726 308,844 and management time, as well as the outputs and longer-term community scope 3 emissions 34,221 42,821 and business impacts of our projects.
The Group reports those energy emissions arising from its own direct business activities where it holds the title to the energy supply contract directly with the energy supplier.
Reducing our environmental impact We have improved the accuracy of energy data for the 2011 reporting period, replacing estimates with actual data.
We have also applied the latest dEFRA conversion factors to both reporting As a responsible business, we are working to reduce our own periods.
Our reporting periods are from the 1 October to the 30 september each year.
environmental footprint and support the uK Governments targets to move towards a low-carbon economy.
Supporting the Green economy Our Environmental Action Plan incorporates programmes to reduce our in supporting the Green Economy, we need to create real opportunities impacts in the areas of energy, paper, business travel, waste and water.
for the provision of finance for low carbon products, services and green specific initiatives include no travel weeks, embedding an enhanced technologies in a socially inclusive way.
To achieve this we recognise the dry mixed recycling process and optimisation of our building controls need to work with governments and other stakeholders to address the to reduce the energy we use.
global sustainability mega trends that will impact our future.
As one of the most active participants in the Project Finance market, lloyds Banking Group is playing a key role in finding solutions to current and future funding requirements.
We currently have commitments to renewable energy projects in the uK with capacity totalling over 1800MW.
More detail will be available in our 2012 Responsible Business Report.
com Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information
