Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 82 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 diREcTORs REPORT Results The consolidated income statement shows a loss for the year ended 31 december 2012 of 1,343 million.
Principal activities The company is a holding company and its subsidiary undertakings provide a wide range of banking and financial services through branches and offices in the uK and overseas.
Business review, future developments and financial risk management objectives and policies The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review, future developments and financial risk management objectives and policies can be found in the following sections of the annual report, which are incorporated into this report by reference: Pages Business review and future developments 10 to 76 and 115 to 202 Key performance indicators 4 to 9 Financial risk management objectives and internal control policies 115 to 202 and page 92 Principal risks and uncertainties 118 to 124 Financial risk management objectives and internal control policies in relation to the use of financial instruments 115 to 202 and in note 55 on pages 318 to 338 Post balance sheet events There have been no material post balance sheet events.
Going concern The going concern of the company and the Group is dependent on successfully funding their respective balance sheets and maintaining adequate levels of capital.
in order to satisfy themselves that the company and the Group have adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future, the directors have considered a number of key dependencies which are set out in the risk management section under principal risks and uncertainties: liquidity and funding on page 123 and pages 177 to 184 and capital position on pages 187 to 200 and additionally have considered projections for the Groups capital and funding position.
Having considered these, the directors consider that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Directors Biographical details of directors are shown on pages 78 and 79.
Particulars of their emoluments and interests in shares in the company are given on pages 98 to 114. changes to the composition of the Board since 1 January 2012 up to the date of this report are shown in the table below: Joined the Board Retired from the Board s V Weller 1 February 2012 G T Tate 6 February 2012 T J W Tookey 24 February 2012 lord leitch 29 February 2012 M G culmer 16 May 2012 sir Julian Horn-smith 17 May 2012 G R Moreno 17 May 2012 lord Blackwell 1 June 2012 c J Fairbairn 1 June 2012 M A scicluna and T T Ryan, Jr will retire from the Board on 31 March 2013 and 18 April 2013, respectively.
n l luff will be appointed to the Board on 5 March 2013. lord Blackwell, c J Fairbairn and n l luff were, or will be, appointed to the Board since the annual general meeting held in 2012 and will therefore stand for election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
in the interests of good corporate governance and in accordance with the provisions of the uK corporate Governance code, all of the other directors will retire and those willing to serve again will submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Board of Directors 78 82 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group Executive Committee 80 Directors report 82 Corporate governance report 86 Directors remuneration report 98 Other remuneration disclosures 114 1 18 115 203 355 Directors conflicts of interest The Board, as permitted by the companys articles of association, has authorised all potential conflicts of interest that have been declared by individual directors.
decisions regarding these conflicts of interest could be and were only taken by directors who had no interest in the matter.
in taking the decision, the directors acted in a way they considered, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the companys success.
The directors have the ability to impose conditions, if thought appropriate, when granting authorisation.
Any authorities given are reviewed periodically, and as considered appropriate, and at least every 15 months.
no director is permitted to vote on any resolution or matter where he or she has an actual or potential conflict of interest.
The Board confirms that no material conflicts were reported to it during the year.
Directors indemnities The directors of the company, including the former directors who retired during the year and since the year end, have entered into individual deeds of indemnity with the company which constituted qualifying third party indemnity provisions and qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions for the purposes of the companies Act 2006. in addition, the company has granted a deed of indemnity through deed poll which constituted third party indemnity provisions and qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions to the directors of the Groups subsidiary companies, including to former directors who retired during the year and since the year end.
The deeds were in force during the whole of the financial year or from the date of appointment in respect of the directors who joined the Boards in 2012 and 2013.
The indemnities remain in force for the duration of a directors period of office.
The deeds indemnify the directors to the maximum extent permitted by law.
deeds for existing directors are available for inspection at the companys registered office.
in addition, the Group has in place appropriate directors and Officers liability insurance cover which was in place throughout 2012.
Corporate governance report The corporate governance report can be found on pages 86 to 97 and, together with this directors report of which it forms part, fulfils the requirements of the corporate Governance statement for the purpose of the Financial service Authoritys disclosure and Transparency Rules dTR.
Share capital information about share capital is shown in note 46 on pages 285 and 286 and is incorporated into this report by reference.
The powers of the directors are determined by the companies Act 2006 and the companys articles of association.
The directors were granted authority at the 2012 annual general meeting to issue and allot shares and to repurchase its own shares.
Renewal authorities will be sought at the 2013 annual general meeting.
The company did not repurchase any of its shares during the year 2011: none.
Substantial shareholders information provided to the company by substantial shareholders pursuant to the dTR is published via a Regulatory information service and is available on the companys website.
As at the date of this report, the company had been notified under Rule 5 of the dTR that The solicitor for the Affairs of Her Majestys Treasury had a direct interest of 39.76 per cent in the issued share capital with rights to vote in all circumstances at general meetings.
no other notification has been received that anyone has an interest of 3 per cent or more in the issued ordinary share capital.
The actual direct interest in the issued share capital of the company held by The solicitor for the Affairs of Her Majestys Treasury as at the date of this report is 39.25 per cent.
Dividends The directors do not propose to pay a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 december 2012.
Further information on ordinary dividends is shown in note 50 on page 290 and is incorporated into this report by reference.
Change of control The company is not party to any significant contracts that are subject to change of control provisions in the event of a takeover bid.
The company is party to a deed of covenant with each of the four lloyds TsB Foundations the Foundations which hold limited voting shares in the company the limited voting shares are further described in note 46 on page 286. under the terms of the deeds of covenant, the company makes an annual payment to each of the Foundations.
in the event of a successful offer for more than 50 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the company, each limited voting share would convert to an ordinary share under the terms of the companys articles of association.
The payment obligation under the deeds of covenant would come to an end one year following the conversion of the limited voting shares.
Donations The income statement includes a charge for charitable donations totalling 33,657,000 in 2012 2011: 32,972,000, including 28,228,000 2011: 28,228,000 which will be paid under the deeds of covenant to the four lloyds TsB Foundations during 2013 and 1,000,000 paid to the Bank of scotland Foundation during 2012.
Research and development activities during the ordinary course of business the Group develops new products and services within the business units.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 84 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 diREcTORs REPORT employees lloyds Banking Group is committed to providing employment practices and policies which recognise the diversity of our workforce.
We will not unfairly discriminate in our recruitment or employment practices on the basis of any factor which is not relevant to individuals performance including sex, race, disability, age, sexual orientation or religious belief.
We work hard to ensure lloyds Banking Group is inclusive for all our colleagues.
To support us in this aim, lloyds Banking Group belongs to a number of major uK employment equality campaign groups, including the Business disability Forum, The Age and Employment network, stonewall and Race for Opportunity.
Our involvement with these organisations enables us to identify and implement best practice for our staff.
lloyds Banking Group has a range of programmes to support colleagues who become disabled or acquire a long-term health condition.
These include a workplace adjustment programme to provide physical equipment or changes to the way a job is done.
The Group also runs residential Personal and career development Programmes to help colleagues deal positively with the impact of a disability and the colleague disability network, Access, provides peer support.
Employees are kept closely involved in major changes affecting them through such measures as team meetings, briefings, internal communications and opinion surveys.
There are well established procedures, including regular meetings with recognised unions, to ensure that the views of employees are taken into account in reaching decisions.
schemes offering share options or the acquisition of shares are available for most staff, to encourage their financial involvement in lloyds Banking Group.
lloyds Banking Group is committed to providing employees with comprehensive coverage of the economic and financial issues affecting the Group.
We have established a full suite of communication channels, including an extensive face-to-face briefing programme, which allows us to update our employees on our performance and any financial issues throughout the year.
Further information on employees can be found on pages 34 to 37.
Policy and practice on payment of creditors The company has signed up to the Prompt Payment code published by the department for Business innovation and skills, regarding the making of payments to suppliers.
information about the Prompt Payment code may be obtained by visiting www.
The companys policy is to agree terms of payment with suppliers and these normally provide for settlement within 30 days after the date of the invoice, except where other arrangements have been negotiated.
it is the policy of the company to abide by the agreed terms of payment, provided the supplier performs according to the terms of the contract.
The number of days required to be shown in this report, to comply with the provisions of the companies Act 2006, is 25 2011: 23 days.
This bears the same proportion to the number of days in the year as the aggregate of the amounts owed to trade creditors at 31 december 2012 bears to the aggregate of the amounts invoiced by suppliers during the year.
essential business contracts There are no persons with whom the Group has contractual or other arrangements that are considered essential to the business of the Group.
Significant contracts details of related party transactions are set out in note 52 on pages 298 to 301.
Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
under that law, the directors have prepared the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with international Financial Reporting standards iFRss as adopted by the European union.
under company law, the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the company and of the profit or loss of the company and Group for that period.
in preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable iFRss as adopted by the European union have been followed.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the iAs Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
A copy of the financial statements is placed on our website www.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
legislation in the uK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the current directors, who are in office and whose names and functions are listed on pages 78 and 79 of this annual report, confirm that, to the best of his or her knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with iFRss as adopted by the European union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and Group: and the management report contained in the business review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Board of Directors 78 84 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group Executive Committee 80 Directors report 82 Corporate governance report 86 Directors remuneration report 98 Other remuneration disclosures 114 1 18 115 203 355 independent auditors and audit information Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that, so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware and each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of the companies Act 2006.
Resolutions concerning the re-appointment of  llP as auditors and authorising the Audit committee to set their remuneration will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
On behalf of the Board Claire A Davies company secretary 1 March 2013 company number sc95000 Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information
