Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 78 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 BOARd OF diREcTORs nO n-EXEcuTiVE diREcT ORs Sir Winfried Bischoff David Roberts chairman deputy chairman independent director chairman of the nomination & Governance committee.
Member of the Remuneration chairman of the Risk committee.
Member committee and the Risk committee of the Audit committee, the Remuneration committee and the nomination Joined the Board in september 2009 & Governance committee Age: 71 Joined the Board in March 2010 Age: 50 Skills and experience: sir Winfried has substantial experience of leading complex Skills and experience: david has many years experience at board and executive international boards in the uK, Asia and the us.
His background spans a range of sectors, management level in retail and commercial banking in the uK and internationally.
As chair including banking and capital markets, finance and government regulation and public of the Risk committee, he has a deep understanding of risk management, underpinned policy.
sir Winfried is a highly respected leader with the proven experience and by recent, in-depth knowledge of all aspects of banking operations.
davids valuable judgement to lead the Board of lloyds Banking Group.
contributions to the deliberations of the Board and committee meetings, combined with natural leadership qualities, make david an effective deputy chairman.
external appointments: sir Winfried is a non-Executive director of Eli lilly and company and The McGraw Hill companies inc.
He is chairman of the Advisory external appointments: david is the non-executive chairman of The Mind Gym.
council of ThecityuK and a Member of the Akbank international Advisory Board.
Former appointments: david joined Barclays in 1983 and held various senior Former appointments: sir Winfried was appointed chairman of citigroup Europe in management positions culminating in Executive director, member of the Group 2000.
He became the acting chief Executive Officer of citigroup inc. in 2007 and was Executive committee and chief Executive, international Retail and commercial Banking, subsequently appointed as chairman in the same year until his retirement in February a position which he held until december 2006.
He is a former non-Executive director 2009.
Prior to this, he was the Group chief Executive and then chairman of schroders.
of BAA and Absa Group and was chairman and chief Executive of BAWAG P. s. K. AG.
Lord Blackwell Carolyn Fairbairn independent director independent director Member of the Audit committee Member of the Audit committee and the Risk committee and the Remuneration committee chairman of scottish Widows Group Joined the Board on 1 June 2012 Joined the Board on 1 June 2012 Age: 52 Age: 60 Skills and experience: lord Blackwell has in-depth insurance, banking, regulatory and public Skills and experience: carolyn has extensive digital and on-line, Government and regulatory policy experience gained from senior positions in a wide range of industries.
He has the experience gained across a range of sectors including media and financial services.
With her knowledge and experience to contribute effectively as a non-Executive director and lead the broad experience and strong analytical mind, carolyn plays an active part in reviewing the Board of scottish Widows Group.
strategy of the Board and contributing to the debate at Board and committee meetings.
external appointments: lord Blackwell is the chairman of interserve plc.
He is a non-Executive external appointments: carolyn is a non-Executive director of The Vitec Group and director of Ofcom and Halma plc and a member of the Board of the centre for Policy studies.
a member of its Audit, nominations and Remuneration committees.
in January 2012, she was appointed a trustee of Marie curie cancer care.
Former appointments: lord Blackwell is a former senior independent director of standard life and chaired their uK life and Pensions Board.
He was a non-Executive director of Former appointments: carolyn was a non-Executive director of the Financial services dixons Group and sEGRO and a non-Executive Member of the Office of Fair Trading.
He was Authority and chaired their Risk committee, a director of Group development and a partner of McKinsey & co. and a director of Group development at natWest Group.
From strategy at iTV plc and director of strategy and a member of the Executive Board at 1995 to 1997, lord Blackwell was Head of the Prime Ministers Policy unit and was appointed the BBc.
she is a former partner of McKinsey & co. and was a policy adviser in the a life Peer in 1997.
carolyn began her career as an Economist at the World Bank.
Anita Frew nicholas Luff independent director independent director Member of the Audit committee Member of the Audit committee and and the Risk committee Risk committee with effect from 5 March 2013. chairman of the Audit committee Joined the Board in december 2010 with effect from 1 April 2013 Age: 55 Joining the Board on 5 March 2013 Age: 45 Skills and experience: Anita has extensive board, financial and general management Skills and experience: nick has significant financial experience in the uK listed experience across a range of sectors, including banking, asset management, environment having served in a number of senior finance positions within a range of manufacturing and utilities.
Her breadth of experience and strong leadership qualities sectors.
His background and experience enables him to fulfil the role of Audit committee make her an effective non-Executive director.
chair and for sEc purposes the role of Audit committee Financial Expert.
external appointments: Anita is the chairman of Victrex plc, having previously been external appointments: nick is the Group Finance director of centrica.
its senior independent director, and is the senior independent director of Aberdeen Former appointments: nick was previously the Finance director of The Peninsular Asset Management.
she is a non-Executive director of iMi.
& Oriental steam navigation company and chief Financial Officer of P&O Princess Former appointments: Anita was an Executive director of Abbott Mead Vickers, cruises plc.
until december 2010, he served as a non-Executive director and was the director of corporate development at WPP Group and a non-Executive director of Audit committee chair of QinetiQ Group.
nick started his career with KPMG where northumbrian Water.
she has held various investment and marketing roles at scottish he qualified as a chartered accountant in 1991.
Provident and the Royal Bank of scotland.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Board of Directors 78 78 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group Executive Committee 80 Directors report 82 Corporate governance report 86 Directors remuneration report 98 Other remuneration disclosures 114 1 18 115 203 355 nO n-EXEcuTiVE diREcT ORs T Timothy Ryan, Jr Martin Scicluna independent director independent director until 18 April 2013 until 31 March 2013 Member of the Remuneration committee chairman of the Audit committee.
and the Risk committee Member of the Risk committee and nomination & Governance committee Joined the Board in March 2009 Joined the Board in september 2008 Age: 67 Age: 62 Skills and experience: Tim is a senior investment banker with international board and Skills and experience: Martin has significant finance experience.
He was with management experience and a strong background in the us government sector.
Tim deloitte for 34 years including 26 years as an Audit Partner serving a number of brings an international perspective to the Board with a strong focus on financial markets FTsE100 companies.
His background and experience enables him to fulfil the role and securities, government relations and international emerging best practice.
of Audit committee chair and for sEc purposes the role of Audit committee Financial Expert.
external appointments: Tim is the Global Head of Regulatory strategy and Policy at JP Morgan.
He is a director of the Great-West life insurance co. Power corporation external appointments: Martin is the chairman of RsA insurance Group and of canada and Power Financial corp. Great Portland Estates and a Governor of Berkhamsted school.
Former appointments: Tim was the President and chief Executive of the securities industry Former appointments: Martin was a member of the Board of Partners of deloitte uK and Financial Markets Association and a director in the Office of Thrift supervision, us from 1991 to 2007 and served as its chairman from 1995.
He joined the firm in 1973 department of the Treasury.
He is a former director of Koram Bank, the international Foundation and was a partner from 1982 until he retired in 2008.
Martin was a member of the Board of Election systems and the us-Japan Foundation.
He held a number of senior appointments in of directors of deloitte Touche Tohmatsu from 1999 to 2007.
JP Morgan chase including Vice chairman, Financial institutions and Governments.
Tim was also a member of the Global Markets Advisory committee for the national intelligence council.
Anthony Watson, CBe Sara Weller senior independent director independent director chairman of the Remuneration committee.
Member of the Remuneration committee Member of the Audit committee, and the Risk committee the Risk committee and the nomination Joined the Board on 1 February 2012 & Governance committee Age: 51 Joined the Board in April 2009 Age: 67 Skills and experience: Tony has over 40 years experience in the investment management Skills and experience: With a background in retail and associated sectors, including industry and related sectors.
As senior independent director and chair of the Remuneration financial services, sara brings a broad perspective to the Board.
she is a strong committee, he ensures close and regular dialogue with shareholders with the aim of better advocate of customers and of the application of new technology, both of which aligning executive reward with shareholder interests.
His former experience as chief Executive directly support lloyds Banking Groups strategy.
sara has considerable experience of Hermes Pensions Management places him in an ideal position to carry out these roles.
of boards at both executive and non-executive level.
external appointments: Tony is a non-Executive director of Vodafone Group.
He is the external appointments: sara is a non-Executive director of united utilities Group senior independent director of Hammerson and Witan investment Trust and chairman and chair of their Remuneration committee.
of the lincolns inn investment committee and Marks & spencer Trustees.
Former appointments: sara is the former Managing director of Argos.
she held Former appointments: Tony is the former chief Executive of Hermes Pensions various senior positions at J sainsbury including deputy Managing director and Management.
He was also formerly chairman of the Asian infrastructure Fund, served on its Board between January 2002 and May 2004. she was a non-Executive MEPc and of the strategic investment Board northern ireland.
He was a member director of Mitchells & Butler and also held senior management roles for Abbey of the Financial Reporting council and a member of the norges Bank investment national and Mars confectionery.
EXEcuTiVE diREcT ORs Antnio Horta-Osrio George Culmer Group chief Executive Group Finance director Appointed Group chief Executive Joined the Board on 16 May 2012 in March 2011 Age: 50 Joined the Board in January 2011 Age: 49 Skills and experience: Antnio brings extensive experience in, and understanding Skills and experience: George has deep operational and financial expertise of, both retail and commercial banking.
This has been built over a period of more including strategic and financial planning and control.
He has worked in financial services than 25 years, working both internationally as well as in the uK.
Antnios drive, in the uK and overseas for over 20 years.
With a strong background in insurance and enthusiasm and commitment to customers, along with his proven ability to build shareholder advocacy, his skills and experience enhance the Board and strengthen and lead strong management teams, brings significant value to all stakeholders further the senior management team.
external appointments: Antnio is a non-Executive director of Fundao Former appointments: George was an Executive director and chief Financial champalimaud and sociedade Francisco Manuel dos santos in Portugal and a Governor Officer of RsA insurance Group.
He is also the former Head of capital Management of the london Business school.
of Zurich Financial services and chief Financial Officer of its uK operations.
George Former appointments: Antnio joined Grupo santander in 1993 and held various previously held various senior management positions at Prudential.
senior management positions culminating in Executive Vice President of Grupo santander and a member of its Management committee.
in november 2004 he was appointed as a non-Executive director of santander uK and from August 2006 until november 2010, served as its chief Executive.
Antnio is also a former non-Executive director of the court of the Bank of England.
Claire A Davies company secretary Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information
