30 Business review London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Technology Services Group Technology Services Introduction Technology is a key driver of our business and underpins the future success of our full range of Group services.
The Groups Technology Services provide high speed trading platforms, real time market data and infrastructure products and services to our own markets as well as a wide range of customers including banks, specialist trading firms and other exchanges.
The Technology Services division performed well in the past year with revenues up eight per cent to 52.6million 2011: 48.6million.
Exchange Technology After last years successful migration to Millennium Exchange, our The Groups Technology Services UK cash equity and Turquoise cash equity markets have continued to benefit from the superior technical performance and exceptional provide high speed trading reliability of our platform.
Turquoise markets have an average latency of less than 98 microseconds, one of the fastest operating platforms, real time market data trading platforms in the world.
The UK cash equities platform, and infrastructure products and with higher functionality and a broader range of customers has an average latency of 124microseconds, making it consistently services to our own markets as faster than any comparable exchange trading platform.
well as a wide range of customers Our Italian cash market and the MOT fixed income market, are presently hosted and operated from London.
Over the past year we Antoine Shagoury have been configuring the Millennium Exchange trading platform Chief Operating Officer and Chief Information Officer ready for a mid 2012 migration.
This will also involve relocation of the matching engine and co-location services to Milan.
We expect this to lead to further expansion of co-location services in these markets, with our customers benefiting from ultra low-latency Strategy: and enhanced functionality.
Deploy low cost, high performance The migrations onto Millennium Exchange go beyond our and reliable platforms and software markets.
By the end of 2012, Oslo Brs is also scheduled to migrate across theGroup to Millennium Exchange and continue to be hosted in London.
This will enable us to fully retire the legacy TradElect system.
Place the needs of our customers at the heart of our technology Our co-location services, which enable trading clients to place innovation anddevelopment their servers in our data centre and thereby gain high performance trading access through reduced network latency, are continuing to Provide specialist capital markets expand with the benefits achieved using the Millennium platform.
technology products to third We continue to invest in our data centre and, upon the retirement partiesworldwide of TradElect, additional co-location space will be available for expansion of this service.
We are extending our services around this offering with flexible data control for the client and connectivity to other markets via ournetworks.
Other services include our Extranex Service, a partnership with Verizon, which provides a connectivity solution for customers to connect directly to London Stock Exchange.
Our STX service is a fast and secure private telephone network used by member firms and other industry professionals across the UK.
The service is open to member firms and non-members alike.
We continue to develop fully integrated, high performance operations to accelerate market access with common communication and common access to all our platforms.
Our new Ticker Plant will be a step change in the Groups provision of real time market data, supplying ultra low latency feeds and harmonising group real time data distribution using one consistent protocol, across asset classes and locations.
The Ticker Plant will deliver enriched levels of data, that ultimately will enable the Group to further diversify our data product offering.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Business review Annual Report 2012 31 MillenniumIT MillenniumIT is a leading technology solutions provider serving the global capital markets industry.
Part of the Group since 2009, MillenniumIT designs, develops and implements a comprehensive suite of capital market products that include trading platforms, surveillance, clearing, smart order routers and CSD systems.
MillenniumITs products currently power exchanges, depositories, brokerages and regulatory bodies in Europe, North America, Africa and the Asia-Pacific region.
It also provides enterprise sales and ITinfrastructure services to third parties in Sri Lanka.
In 2012, MillenniumIT increased its external revenue by 26 per cent at constant currency, to 22.2million 2011: 18.2million.
Tony Weeresinghe Technology Sales and Implementation Director of Global Development and CEO of MillenniumIT During the year, MillenniumIT has worked on several projects, including configuring a cash equity and fixed income trading system for Borsa Italiana.
MillenniumIT delivered a trading system to Johannesburg Stock Exchange which is currently testing with users and expected to go live during the summer of 2012.
UK Equity trading platform milliseconds MillenniumIT has also delivered trading and surveillance systems to the Chittagong Stock Exchange and an electronic trading system 12 for fixed income instruments to Tullett Prebon.
Other contracts 11.0 won by MillenniumIT in the last year include: 10 the provision of its tailored IT solution, Millennium Exchange, 8 to Botswana 6.0 6 5.0 the provision of smart order router technology for State Bank 3.7 4 ofIndia 3.0 1.4 2 Millennium Surveillance to Bursa Malaysia 0.124 0.098 0 Millennium CSD for the Mozambique Stock Exchange BVM as their Central Securities Depository Millennium NewClear to be the platform for technology services for the new CCP.
CEE, a central counterparty mechanism that will facilitate standardised cross regional clearing in central and eastern European capital markets, initially covering Vienna, Prague, Ljubljana and Budapest.
Exchange Partnerships Following the agreement signed last year, we are in the final development stage of new trading, surveillance and settlement systems for the Mongolian Stock Exchange.
The Group has also worked closely with the Mongolian financial community and the local regulators to develop new trading, membership, clearing and custodian rules for the Mongolian Stock Exchange and Central Securities Depository.
The Group has assisted with advice on moving the market from pre-funded to T 3 settlement cycle and provided the Mongolian financial community, including regulators and the central bank, with a comprehensive financial training programme.
As part of its broader strategy to provide emerging markets with cutting edge technology, MillenniumIT has recently signed an agreement with the Delhi Stock Exchange to provide trading and risk management technology and management support to assist in the development of the market.
Trading system latency milliseconds TradElect Jun 07 TradElect Oct 07 TradElect Sep 08 TradElect May 09 TradElect Jul 09 TradElect Mar 10 Millennium Exchange London Stock Exchange equity Millennium Exchange Turquoise
