36 Business review London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Our wider responsibility The Group has important corporate responsibilities.
We play a key role in supporting economic growth by enabling companies to access funds for growth.
We manage our business responsibly, conscious of our impact upon our environment and focused on delivery of value to our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Our economic role evaluate appropriate ways to promote voluntary disclosure The Group provides a choice of markets to help companies raise of environmental, social and governance issues by companies money, fostering economic development, job creation, growth listed on our markets and innovation.
From August 2007 to March 2012, Londons assess FTSEs CR policies and practices, and consider equity markets provided 42 billion of new issue capital and appropriate integration within the Group framework 184billion through successful further capital raisings equivalent promote greater staff and stakeholder engagement with to around 70per cent of the Bank of Englands Quantitative Easing our CRprogramme programme during the period and 50billion was raised in Italy Community over the same period.
The Group is committed to contributing to the communities Particularly relevant is our role in enabling small and medium in which it operates.
To meet this aim, we have established the enterprises SMEs to access financing.
Since its launch in 1995, London Stock Exchange Group Foundation, which channels our our growth market AIM has helped over 3,300 SMEs raise more charitable giving and promotes staff involvement.
than 78billion to help fuel their growth, drive innovation and The Foundation primarily receives funding from the Group and create jobs.
A study by Grant Thornton revealed that AIM companies fines collected from disciplinary action against member firms.
contributed 21 billion to GDP and supported the equivalent of During the year, the Group donated 500,000, with an additional 570,000 full-time jobs.
300,000 from London Stock Exchange fine income.
The Group Our position at the centre of global financial markets also gives us donated a further 163,000 directly for charitable causes through an important role in promoting responsible corporate behaviour, FTSE and other Group companies.
financial education and more transparent and accessible markets.
Last year money donated by the Foundation amounted to 815,000, For example, we have a history of driving standards of corporate of which 45per cent was donated to UK charities, 29per cent to governance in the UK and Italy, we actively participate in the Italian charities and 26per cent to Sri Lankan charities.
These regulatory debate and we are proponents of active retail charities cover youth and children, healthcare, and art and culture.
participation in the financial markets.
The Foundations giving is administered by Charities Aid Managing a responsible business Foundation CAF, and the grants awarded selected by a Our responsibilities lie at the heart of our culture.
We have defined foundation committee drawn from across thebusiness.
the key Corporate Responsibility CR objectives for our business those which are likely to shape our development and where we Priorities for FY 2013 can positively contribute.
As a result, last year we formalised our Our community priorities are to: CR efforts under four key pillars: community, people, ethics and focus the Foundations efforts on helping young and governance and environment.
disadvantaged people to reach their potential by developing Our commitment to our CR objectives is enshrined in our life skills and business enterprise, and involve our staff approach and is held accountable by: in selecting and volunteering for partner charities whose mission is in line with the Foundations new focus the Group CEO, who represents CR at Board level, with the involve our customers in our community approach, exception of environmental issues that are represented through fundraising and shared programme development by the GroupCFO the Executive Committee, which is accountable for CR across theGroup a CR Committee, which coordinates activities on the Executive Committees behalf The CR Committee meets at least four times a year and includes representatives for each focus area from all of our principal geographies.
Each financial year, the CR Committee submits an action plan to the Executive Committee.
This focuses not only on our current objectives, but also on other CR opportunities for the Group and a critical evaluation of our successes.
As part of our efforts, we have developed our first Corporate Responsibility Report.
The London Stock Exchange Group CR Report contains a detailed description of our CR strategy and activities and can be accessed at www.
Group CR priorities The Groups approach to CR continues to evolve.
Our priorities for FY 2013 are to: evaluate existing and emerging CR reporting frameworks Images above and best practices Top: On Friday 23 March 2012 Dr Peter Kinsley left and Dr Julian Thompson right determine measurements relevant to CR, including and his four year old patient Liam, opened the market on behalf of Londons Air Ambulance, one of our partner charities.
non-financialmetrics Bottom: We put strong emphasis on building ongoing relationships with local schools.
Recent projects have included a reading scheme in a school in Limehouse, East London.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Business review Annual Report 2012 37 People colleagues, partners and suppliers, regulatory bodies, communities The Group is committed to investing in our people, so that we and the environment.
These behaviours cover integrity and honesty, can execute on our strategy.
commitment to fair competition, equal opportunities and diversity, confidentiality, financial disclosure, dealings with regulatory During the year, we continued to prioritise a high performance authorities, and political activity.
Our Business Principles can culture, through actions designed to: be accessed at www.
com corporateattract, develop and retain key talent on a global basis responsibility corporate-governance business-principles.
enhance our performance management approach The Group is committed to high corporate governance standards increase staff awareness of strategy and the desired behaviours and fully complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
and results More information can be found on pages 46 to 53. increase focus on leadership and management development in order to execute our strategy Priorities for FY2013 Our ethics and governance priorities are to: All staff are involved in the year end performance review process to provide our staff with specific performance objectives for the year engage more widely with stakeholders about our role ahead.
To improve the effectiveness of this process, all managers in promoting good ethical and governance practices with people management responsibilities in Europe were involved develop our own approach to best practices within the Group in an extensive training programme to enhance their performance Environment development skills.
We are committed to managing our environmental impact The bi-annual leadership events this year focused senior Group through a process of review and improvement.
managers from across the globe on the themes of high performance During the year, we held our first Group-wide Green Week, and customer focused innovation.
This involved external experts, engaging employees on topics such as energy and waste workshops, best-practice teach-ins and feedback facilitation.
management, charitable giving and living healthily.
The Our budget for training and development increased by 28per cent response from staff was extremely positive.
and we intend to maintain this level of investment.
Our waste reduction and recycling initiatives reduced waste The Groups global Graduate Programme marked its second by 92tonnes to 570 tonnes and increased recycling rates from anniversary with a new intake of 17 graduates from universities 44 per cent to 61 per cent.
In the UK, our improved waste around the world.
Our Internship programme was launched in management system received a Platinum Award from the the UK, and in Sri Lanka MillenniumIT provided 39 internships City of Londons Clean City Scheme.
to undergraduates, as well as scholarships to the University Against a backdrop of business growth, our energy use ofColombo.
increased by 2.5 per cent during the year.
We continue to invest Staff turnover was down year on year to 15 per cent in the UK, in energy efficient technology across our sites.
Despite continued threeper cent in Italy and 14 per cent in Sri Lanka FTSE not included.
growth, we travelled less, resulting in reduced CO emissions 2 from business travel.
We remain committed to providing a safe and healthy environment.
Although, in the prior year, there were no reportable accidents To standardise our measurement processes, we will be rolling across the Group, in the last year there were five reportable accidents out an environmental performance management tool to all which required more than three days off work.
This will allow us to see real time utility performance, respond quickly to inefficient use and improve To directly involve staff in the growth and success of the Group, visibility of performance against ourtargets.
ashare save plan was launched involving all employees globally, with 35per cent of staff taking part in the scheme.
Priorities for FY 2013 Our environment priorities are to: In addition, we invested and enhanced our internal communications programmes launching a new regular CEO all-staff briefing, better review our carbon emissions reporting process, to ensure our and more regular staff communications and knowledge seminars to expanded portfolio aligns with the Greenhouse GasProtocol increase awareness of our business priorities.
review our utility meter reading capabilities, to identify improvement opportunities and establish revised improvement Priorities for FY 2013 targets for water, waste and energy management, reflecting Our people priorities are to: our expanded propertyportfolio develop a new Group-wide competency framework, providing the context for fulfilling our staffs potential while executing our strategy and developing a high performance culture focus on innovation, through collaboration that leverages London Stock Exchange Group plc Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 the Groups geographic and business diversity Managing the business in an effective and responsible manner Ethics and governance Maintaining our reputation for integrity is vital to our success.
Further information on our CR activities, please see our Corporate Responsibility Our Business Principles set out the behaviours we expect Report online: from employees in their dealings with customers, shareholders, www.
