26 Business review London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Information Services Introduction In todays modern trading and investment environment, the need for accurate, fast and reliable information has never been greater.
The Information Services division has been a consistently strong performer within the Group and is itself a diversified business with aglobal suite of products and services.
In addition to real time price information, we also provide a wide range of other information services, from FTSE indices to post trade analytics.
In the past year, we continued to pursue our growth strategy, both organically, through the development of our services offering, and inorganically, having acquired the 50 per cent stake in FTSE that we did not already own, and through the purchase of the FSAs Transaction ReportingService.
Th e Information Services division In 2012, the Information Services division increased revenue has been a consistently strong by 27per cent to 218.9million 2011: 171.8million.
This result reflects growth in real time data up three per cent to 102.8million, performer.
In the past year, we increased demand for UnaVista and SEDOL, together with other continued to pursue our growth information services products up eight per cent to 65.6million and includes revenue contribution from FTSE acquired in December strategy, both organically, through pre-acquisition royalties of 13.1million and post-acquisition the development of our services revenues of 37.4million.
Real Time Data offering, and inorganically, having Our Real Time Data service provides the primary price reference acquired the 50 per cent stake in data for UK and Italian equities.
This service is used by traders, brokers and fund managers from around the world.
FTSE that we did not already own.
The number of professional users accessing real time data, across David Lester our direct network, 200 network service providers and market Director of Strategic Development data vendor partners, decreased to 90,000 2011: 93,000 for London and Information Services Stock Exchange as a consequence of adverse market conditions and were flat at 139,000 for Borsa Italiana.
We have offset this decline by introducing fees for non-display data licences, taken by customers using trading algorithms, smart order routers or Strategy: for data used indatabases.
Deliver information services that In January 2012, we signed a data licence agreement with Google improve the efficiency of our industry which allows it to distribute real time last trade price data free of charge.
Users of Google will, for the first time, be able to access Leverage our flexible platforms to a portion of London Stock Exchange and Borsa Italiana real time expand scale and scope of product trading data that was previously only available with a 15-minute offering across the Group delay.
The agreement is part of the Groups on-going commitment Tailor our offering to meet customers to making core real time data services as accessible as possible needs and enhance their performance to retail investors around the world, to encourage greater and broader uptake of trading in stocks on our markets.
Deliver synergies arising from full control ofFTSE FTSE On 16 December, we completed the acquisition of the remaining 50per cent of FTSE International Limited.
FTSE is a leading, high growth, global indices business, which is described in the case study overleaf.
It gives the Group further global reach and an increasingly diversified customer base.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Business review Annual Report 2012 27 London Stock Exchange professional terminals SEDOL is our global, multi-asset class, numbering system which is thousands operated on the UnaVista technology platform, providing reference data and unique identification codes for global equity, derivatives 112 and fixed income securities.
SEDOL codes are a unique country 104 93 93 level identifier and include both listed and unlisted instruments.
90 The SEDOL Masterfile Service database provides clients with access to reference data on over 20million instruments, sourced from over 80countries worldwide.
Proquote is the Groups global market data platform and offers awide range of trading services through its trading platform and 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 electronic execution gateway.
Proquote has expanded its offering by adding new services, including mutual fund trading, best execution Borsa Italiana professional terminals services and analytics tools, and a risk management product which thousands assists customers monitoring their trade flow.
The Proquote RSP network connects 140 brokers to 40 RSPs.
Of note, Proquote Italy 160 won a major new contract with Italys fourth largest bank, Gruppo 151 142 139 139 Banco Popolare.
Under the agreement, Proquote Italy will provide the Bank with terminals and real time data feeds for 18,000 users and online brokers, across 2,200branches.
Proquote Italy is the leading information services provider in the retail tier with 39,000direct screens.
RNS remains a leading high quality service for UK real time 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 regulatory news announcements.
RNS helps companies and their intermediaries fulfil their UK and other global regulatory disclosure obligations in the most efficient and trusted way.
Over Other Information Services 200,000 announcements are processed by RNS each year, covering In addition to real time price information, we also provide the majority of all price-sensitive UK company announcements.
a range of reference data, processing, data management, connectivity and software products to meet client needs for enhanced and secure information services.
In particular: cross-asset transaction reporting, trade confirmation and data reconciliation services through UnaVista international numbering services through SEDOL desk-top front end solutions, order management and fix connectivity services through Proquote, our leading Retail Service Provider RSP trading network real time market information communication through RNS UnaVista is the Groups secure, hosted platform for matching, validation and reconciliation needs, offering a range of business services within three areas: Post Trade Services, Data Solutions and Reconciliations.
During the year, demand for UnaVista has been strong and there has been excellent growth in the number and breadth of customers.
We further expanded our UnaVista service through the purchase of the FSAs Transaction Reporting Service TRS, used by over 600reporting firms.
The flexibility of our technology has allowed us to complete the migration of TRS customers to our own service in just sixmonths.
These new customers can now take advantage of UnaVistas reconciliation services designed to reduce their operational risk.
They will also see the benefit of automated post trade communications of exchange traded and OTC transactions through the UnaVista Swaps and Confirmation Portal services which in their own right have gained additional new clients over theyear.
28 Business review London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Case study FTSE: a leading international index provider An international leader in the provision of global index and analytic solutions Acquired 100 per cent ownership A global top 3 index provider by revenue, the market leader in the UK and Italy and aleader in China ETFs Two main revenue streams: Data subscriptions 60% and licensing 40% Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Business review Annual Report 2012 29 Revenue Growth EBITDA Growth million million before royalty payments CAGR: 21% 119.1 CAGR: 24% 53.6 98.4 40.0 82.0 70.1 30.6 56.7 24.6 20.9 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Calendar years Calendar years Introduction Data subscription services FTSE is a worldwide leader in the Revenues originate from two main provision of investment decision support sources, subscription fees for data services tools.
It calculates indices across a wide and licensing the FTSE trademark for use range of asset classes, allowing a global in financial products.
60 per cent of FTSE client base encompassing institutional revenue derives from subscription fees for investors, asset managers and sell-side data services.
FTSE data and analytical firms to benefit from the provision of tools are used extensively in the benchmarking and index licensing products investment process as its indices are and related analytical tools.
Over $3 trillion employed as performance benchmarks by in assets are linked to FTSE indices.
Notably, FTSE is world number two for global equity On 16 December 2011, we completed benchmarks, built around the FTSE the acquisition of the 50 per cent stake in All-World Series.
Bypartnering with local FTSE International Limited that we did not exchanges or trading venues, it also already own.
Hence, FTSE is now 100 per provides domestic benchmarks.
cent owned and consolidated by London Subscription revenue is stable with high Stock Exchange Group.
We are confident renewal rates 97per cent and is also that this new ownership structure will characterised by high growth rates.
enable us to harness the significant growth Customers are typically both active and opportunities deriving from our combined passive asset managers, consultants, asset businesses, especially in derivatives and owners, sell-side firms and various other fixed income indexing, whilst respecting users ranging from data vendors to the independence of FTSEs governance serviceproviders.
processes which have underpinned its success to date.
Licensing The second revenue stream comes The acquisition is an additional step from licensing the FTSE trademark in pursuit of our diversification strategy for use in financial products, which and brings significant advantages: full accounts for 40per cent of revenues.
upside from continued organic growth of Index licensing, the largest component FTSE: full upside from favourable industry of which is licensing of passive funds growth trends: full upside from the revenue and ETFs, is an extension of the synergies expected from expansion of both benchmarking business as many FTSE and our related business growth: of the passive funds and ETFs are and full upside from the cost synergies we linked to its most popular benchmark can deliver through the combination of indices.
The licensing of funds and thebusinesses.
ETFs is currently the fastest growing FTSE background business area, driven largely by Originally launched in 1995 as a joint increasing levels of passive investment venture between London Stock Exchange among asset owners and managers.
and The Financial Times Ltd. FTSE has Fees are based on the value of assets successfully grown into a worldwide managed and, despite adverse market franchise.
It is now a global top three conditions, growth in the first quarter index provider by revenue, and calculates of calendar year 2012 remains good.
over 200,000 individual indices covering There is also a natural extension from 80countries, including the FTSE All-World, the most heavily traded domestic FTSE China A50 and FTSE 100. indices into derivative licensing, where fees are based on trading volumes.
Looking ahead, current industry trends appear favourable to further FTSE growth.
Demand for passive fund management is growing, as well as for exposure to emerging markets though benchmark indices and for transparent index-based products such as ETFs.
FTSE has the benchmarking expertise, the global customer relationships and the product range necessary to exploit these trends and to fully meet customersneeds.
