22 Business review London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Post Trade Services Introduction Post trade functions are vital to securities trading and are a key building block of efficient, well run capital markets.
Through our post trade entities, CC&G and Monte Titoli, we provide markets and customers with risk management, clearing, central counterparty, depository and custody services that enable trades to be completed safely and assets to be effectively and securely managed.
The last 12 months have been characterised by continued turbulent market conditions.
In turn, this has further heightened regulatory attention on the post trade sector and emphasised the importance of its part in the trading value-chain.
Our stability during the unprecedented volatility experienced across different market segments has confirmed that the risk management and resilient Our Post Trade Services division processes deployed in our post trade operations are appropriate.
delivered an excellent performance, The Post Trade Services division delivered an excellent performance.
Total income including net treasury income, an integral income providing risk management, trade line of a central counterparty business increased 52 per cent processing as well as custody services to 228.5million 2011: 150.6million and grew organically by 58per cent after excluding Servizio Titoli, sold with effect from in an efficient, secure and open way.
Kevin Milne CC&G Director of Post Trade Services CC&G provides risk management, open access clearing and central counterparty CCP services for 13 markets, including services to non-Group markets, and across a range of asset classes including cash equities, derivatives, energy products and fixed income.
CC&G performs a key function in eliminating Strategy: counterparty risk, acting as buyer for the seller and vice versa, thus Provide international financial markets becoming the guarantor of the final settlement of the contracts.
with the most efficient, open and secure post trade arrangements Build the scale of our offering throughout Contracts cleared the post trade process million Champion greater post trade efficiency 116 117 111 108 and competition in Europe 103 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Business review Annual Report 2012 23 Initial margin held By carefully managing clearing and treasury risks in a time of Average billion unprecedented market volatility, in Italy as well as other European markets, we achieved strong results over the past year, with clearing 9.4 revenues up 14 per cent to 41.1million 2011: 35.9million.
6.9 An integral part of a CCPs income is from treasury management of cash margin held.
CC&Gs initial margin averaged 9.4 billion 4.5 daily for the period, up 36 per cent from the previous year 2011: 3.1 2.6 6.9billion.
During the year, our treasury management process, together with the increased margins collected from higher traded volumes and heightened demand for our cash, enabled us to gain 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 improved returns on short term deposits.
Net treasury income increased 147per cent to 126.9million 2011: 51.3million.
CC&G extended its CCP service to three additional trading venues during the year.
Euro TLX and HI-MTF, both non-Group trading services, will use the CC&G CCP service for Italian Government and corporate bonds, while e-MID Repo will clear repo contracts and interbank collateralised deposits through CC&G.
In providing its best practice international clearing and risk management services, CC&G will also substantially contribute to CCP.
CEE, the new standardised cross-regional clearing infrastructure for CEE markets initially in Vienna, Prague, Ljubljana and Budapest, which will begin its roll-out in Vienna in late-2012, with the Prague cash markets to follow soon after.
During the year the Group acquired the 13.6 per cent minority shareholding in CC&G and now owns 100 per cent of the business.
24 Business review London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Case study Monte Titoli Monte Titoli is a leading provider of efficient and secure financial market post-trade services.
As a Central Securities Depository CSD, it provides on-exchange and OTC trade matching and confirmation as well as pre-settlement services, a highly efficient European settlement system and a multiasset custody service.
Overview Monte Titoli services a broad range and number of clients, comprising: 2, 200 issuers: 253 intermediaries bank and brokers : Seven CCPs and eight trading venues.
Settlement Monte Titoli settles over 68million on and off-exchange transactions per year.
It provides the highest settlement rate in Europe with a 99.4 per cent success rate: and offers direct or indirect access to 17securities markets 15domestic European and U. S. A. and two International Central First wave participant in .
TARGET2-Securities Custody and asset services Third largest CSD in Europe.
Provides custody services for 3.1 trillion assets.
Services 37,000 Covers around 37,000 financial financial instruments instruments for 2,200 issuers.
for 2,200issuers Provides tax services to 10 markets.
Future developments We are expanding Monte Titolis international network by enhancing and increasing its existing settlement links.
TARGET2-Securities T2S will be the new centralised settlement platform for securities and will provide settlement services for any type of transaction in Central Bank money.
T2S is being developed and will be operated by the 3.1 trillion assets European Central Bank.
Monte Titoli is under custody the only confirmed major CSD participant to join as part of the first wave, expected to go live in2015.
Being selected as part of the first stage of implementation, Monte Titoli will be at the forefront of a completely different market ready to take advantage of wider client networks, offering clients crossborder settlement in a large pool of securities and additional asset servicing, leading to back-office savings for clients.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Business review Annual Report 2012 25 Monte Titoli Settlement instructions Monte Titoli, our Central Securities Depository CSD, is a leading million provider of efficient and secure pre-settlement, settlement, custody and asset services.
83.9 74.3 72.0 69.8 68.2 Monte Titoli operates a sophisticated platform, providing on-exchange and OTC trade matching and confirmation as well as a highly efficient European settlement system and custody service for safe-keeping of assets across multiple security classes.
In the past year, Monte Titoli processed 68.2million settlement instructions, down two per cent reflecting increased netting prior 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 to settlement 2011: 69.8 million.
Its settlement rate was 99.4 per cent, the highest rate in Europe, ensuring low costs for clients.
Assets under custody Monte Titoli has committed to participate in the first wave of trillion implementation of T2S, serving as a pioneer amongst CSDs in the European financial community.
T2S will be the new harmonised 3.08 3.02 2.87 2.79 2.69 settlement platform for securities and will re-shape the Eurozone settlement services landscape.
Developed and operated by the Eurosystem, which comprises the European Central Bank and the national central banks of the Eurozone, T2S has been conceived to provide settlement services for any type of transaction in Central Bank money.
The system is currently scheduled to go-live in 2015.
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 In September 2011, we established a new settlement link with Euroclear formerly CREST in the UK and Ireland.
The link allows participants to further harmonise settlement of their cross-border trading activity within Europe.
The initiative followed In the past 12 months, Monte Titoli has completed a detailed the enhancement of similar links with Swiss SIX SIS service as revision of the procedures relating to clients connectivity.
The well as the recent introduction of a link with the German CSD, initiative has led to the complete automation of the admission Clearstream Banking Frankfurt.
In total, Monte Titoli now has process of financial instruments into the custody system.
links to nine CSDs in Europe and the US.
Monte Titoli already In responding to growing customer demands, Monte Titoli provides cross-border settlement and custody services for over developed a new tri-party collateral management service, called 100banks in these markets.
X-COM, with the first phase going live in mid-2012.
Under the Monte Titolis custody business provides asset servicing for a wide new service, Monte Titoli will play the role of neutral tri-party range of financial instruments with an extensive international agent and will provide a flexible set of tools for more effective risk customer base of over 250 banks and brokers, CCPs and trading and liquidity management and for the optimisation in the use venues, and offers its services to more than 2,000 issuers, making of collateral.
Moreover, customers will benefit from automatic it the third largest CSD in Europe.
Notwithstanding financial administration of collateral requests and real time allocation, market turmoil, assets held under custody by Monte Titoli substitution and restitution of securities.
increased two per cent to 3.08 trillion.
