06 Overview London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 What we do business model We provide services to a broad set of customers across a diverse range of asset classes and functions.
This section provides an overview of the Groups activities and their inter-connections.
Capital Markets Post Trade Services Our central economic function is to bring together companies and other The Group offers a fullrange issuers seeking capital with investors from around the world.
of Post Trade services, providing risk management and efficiency for traders.
Based in Italy, CC&G Primary market Secondary market provides clearing services to a Our primary markets in London Our systems provide fast and number of Group trading platforms and Italy provide companies efficient trading, allowing investors and third party venues.
Monte and other issuers of capital and institutions access to UK and Titoli offers pre-settlement, from around the globe with Italian equities, as well as European settlement and custody services.
cost efficient access to some and US equities through Turquoise, of the worlds deepest and international depositary receipts most liquid pools ofcapital.
on our International Order Book, European corporate and government bonds fixed income and equity and index derivatives Italian, Norwegian, Russian and now, UK.
Information Services Real time data Other information services We supply real time prices To facilitate efficient trading on and trading data, creating the our markets, we have developed a transparency and liquidity that number of other reference, desktop are essential for market users.
and workflow products, which we provide to institutions, traders, Indices retail brokers and market makers.
Through FTSE, a global leader in the calculation and provision of indices, we assist asset managers and owners to benchmark investment performance.
Technology Services All of our businesses depend on technology that is secure, stable and performs to high levels of availability and throughput.
We provide the same leading technology solutions for the Groups needs and to third parties.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Overview Annual Report 2012 07 Where to go for more information Further explanation See the Segmental Review Equities section pages 17 to 31 for Our primary markets are home to a wide range of an update on developments companies, from global and well known to small in each main business area and medium size enterprises.
Our systems allow our members to electronically trade equities listed Read the Financial Review on our markets.
The majority of trading takes place pages 32 to 35 for details on our Main and AIM markets both in London and of business performance Italy.
Through Turquoise, traders canalsoaccess over the past year pan-European and USequities.
Like any industry, capital Fixed income markets has its own language.
The Groups MTS, MOT and ORB businesses For that reason, we have provide platforms for the trading of Government included a glossary and corporatebonds.
on pages 112 to 113 Derivatives In addition, the framework Our success in running primary markets has enabled us for trading financial to develop derivative markets for the trading of emerging instruments has changed market equity derivatives, particularly Russian considerably with the derivatives.
IDEM is our derivatives market for Italian introduction of the Markets equities: Turquoise trades International Order Book in Financial Instruments derivatives and during the year also launched FTSE 100 Directive MiFID and other Index Futures and Options.
An overview of how the markets work in Real time data Europe under MiFID is This data is of high value and is used and referenced by provided on pages 110 to 111 market participants and trading services.
As well as providing feeds directly to clients, we also distribute An overview of current through providers such as Bloomberg and Thomson regulatory changes and Reuters.
These providers incorporate our data with other how these potentially information and sell it to trading firms, investors and affect the Group can be institutions around the world.
found on pages 10 to 11 FTSE Indices FTSE provides benchmark and other indices to active and passive asset managers and other market users on a global basis.
Other information SEDOL unique security identifier numberingsystem UnaVista trade matching and reconciliation service RNS Regulatory News Service Proquote market data system Technology With continued demand for new functionality and highly automated trading, we are investing to increase the speed and capabilities of our trading services.
With MillenniumIT, we have an agile, efficient, in-house ITdevelopment capability that will serve the Groups capital markets businesses.
MillenniumIT also sells and licenses the same exchange related technology and services tocapital markets businesses across the globe.
