64 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Directors Report The Directors of the Company Principal activities and results The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries are the are pleased to present their annual admission of securities to trading, the delivery of trading systems, the clearing and settlement of trading in securities, the organisation report to shareholders, together and regulation of markets in securities, the provision of investment with the financial statements for support tools including benchmarking and index licensing products and the provision of real time data and other information the year ended 31 March 2012. products, together with a wide range of technology services from trading platform solutions through to connectivity to our markets.
The Group made a profit before taxation, before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items, of 400.6million 2011: 296.3 million.
After taking into account amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items, the profit of the Group before taxation for the year ended 31March 2012 was 639.7 million 2011: 238.2 million and profit after taxation was 531.4 million 2011: 156.5 million.
Business review The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be found in this Directors Report and in the following sections of the Annual Report which are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference: Overview pages 2 to 16: and Business Review including the Financial Review pages 17 to 43.
Dividends The Directors are recommending a final dividend for the year of 19.0pence 2011: 18.0 pence per share which is expected to be paid on 20August 2012 to shareholders on the register on 27 July 2012.
Together with the interim dividend of 9.3 pence 2011: 8.8 pence per share paid in January 2012, this produces a total dividend for the year of 28.3pence 2011: 26.8 pence per share estimated to amount to 76.4million 2011: 72.2 million.
Share capital As at 31 March 2012 the Company had 271.1 million ordinary shares in issue with a nominal value of 6 pence each, representing 100per cent of the total issued share capital.
There were no changes to the Companys issued ordinary share capital during the year.
Share rights The rights and obligations attached to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Companys articles of association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Group Company Secretary.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company.
Every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote on a show of hands and one vote for every ordinary share held on a poll.
Proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received by the Companys Registrars not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding a general meeting or adjourned general meeting or as otherwise specified in the Companys articles ofassociation.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Governance Annual Report 2012 65 No shareholder shall be entitled to vote at a general meeting, Issue of Shares either in person or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and without unless all monies presently payable by him in respect of that prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares or class of share have been paid.
In addition, no shareholder shall be entitled shares, any share may be issued with such rights or restrictions as to vote, either in person or by proxy, if he has been served with a the Company may by ordinary resolution determine or, subject to notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 concerning and in default of such determination, as the Board shall determine.
interests in those shares and has failed to supply the Company Authority to Allot Shares with the requisiteinformation.
The authority conferred on the Directors at last years AGM to Other than restrictions considered to be standard for a UK listed allot the unissued share capital of the Company up to a maximum company there are no limitations on the holding or transfers of nominal amount of 6,250,000 representing approximately ordinary shares in the Company, both of which are governed and 33.3per cent of the issued share capital of the Company as at regulated by the Companys articles of association and applicable the latest practicable date before publication of the Notice of the legislation and regulation, and the Company is not aware of Companys last AGM or, in connection with a pre-emptive offer any agreements between holders of shares that may result to existing shareholders by way of a rights issue, up to a maximum in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
nominal amount of 12,500,000 representing approximately 66.6per cent of the issued share capital of the Company as at Corporate Governance Statement the latest practicable date before publication of the Notice of the The Companys Corporate Governance Report is set out on Companys last AGM, expires on the date of the forthcoming pages 46 to 51 and is, together with the information on share AGM.
Although the latter authority was not utilised by the rights set out above, incorporated into this Corporate Governance Company, shareholders will be asked to give a similar authority Statement by reference.
to allot shares at the forthcomingAGM.
Articles of Association Authority to Purchase Shares The Companys articles of association adopted by special resolution The authority for the Company to purchase in the market up to passed on 14 July 2010 may only be amended by special resolution 27,000,000 of its ordinary shares representing approximately at a general meeting of the shareholders.
10 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company as at the Substantial Shareholding latest practicable date before publication of the Notice of the As at 18 May 2012 the Company had been notified of the following Companys last AGM granted at the Companys last AGM, expires interests amounting to more than three per cent in the issued share on the date of the forthcoming AGM.
Although the latter authority capital of the Company in accordance with DTR 5 of the FSAs was not utilised by the Company, shareholders will be asked to give Disclosure and Transparency Rules: a similar authority to purchase shares at the forthcoming AGM.
Directors interests Borse Dubai Limited 20.6% Directors interests in the shares of the Company as at 31 March 2012, according to the register maintained under the Companies Qatar Investment Authority 15.1% Act 2006, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on UniCredit S. p. A.
No company in the Group was, during or at the end Intesa Sanpaolo S. p. A.
5.3% of the financial year, party to any contract of significance in which any Director was materially interested.
FIL Limited 5.0% Employees Legal & General Group plc 3.9% Information on the Companys employment policies is given on page37 and information on the Groups share schemes is provided Directors in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 63.
The Details of the Directors are set out on pages 44 to 45 and are Company provides an induction programme for new employees, incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
including training on health and safety, and a range of development programmes for all staff to develop their skills and knowledge.
The rules governing the appointment and replacement of Directors The Company encourages and assists the employment, training and are set out in the Companys articles of association.
Where changes to working practices or At each AGM, pursuant to the UK Governance Code, all of the structure affect staff, they are consulted and given the appropriate Directors will retire and be proposed for re-election.
All employees are provided with information on matters of concern to them in their work, through regular briefing meetings Powers of the Directors and internal publications.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys articles of association and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board which may exercise all the powers of the Company, including without limitation the power to dispose of all or any part of the undertaking of the Company and to issue or buyback shares under the authorities described below.
No alteration of the Companys articles of association and no such direction shall invalidate any prior act of the Board which would have been valid if that alteration had not been made or that direction had not beengiven.
66 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Donations Facility Agreements Charitable Donations The Company as borrower has entered into: During the year the Group gave 663,000 2011: 384,000 a revolving facility agreement with, among others, Lloyds to charitable organisations.
In addition, 300,000 of London TSB Bank plc, Bayerische Hypound Vereinsbank AG, London Stock Exchange fine income was donated to charity.
In aggregate, Branch, and Intesa Sanpaolo S. p. A. dated 24 July 2008, as 800,000 2011: 1,300,000 of these donations were made to the amended by an amendment agreement dated 7 February 2012: London Stock Exchange Group Foundation.
Details of the Groups charitable giving is contained in the Corporate Responsibility a revolving facility agreement with, among others, Barclays Report on pages 36 and 37.
Capital, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, HSBC Bank plc, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Limited, Intesa Sanpaolo S. p. A.
Political Donations and Expenditure Lloyds TSB Bank plc and Unicredit Bank AG, London Branch, The Group made no political donations and incurred no political dated 17November 2010, as amended by an amendment expenditure during the year.
It remains the Companys policy agreement dated 7 February 2012: and not to make political donations or to incur political expenditure, however the application of the relevant provisions of the Companies a revolving facility agreement with, amongst others, Lloyds TSB Act 2006 is potentially very broad in nature and, as last year, the Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Morgan Stanley Bank Board is seeking shareholder authority to ensure that the Group International Limited and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, does not inadvertently breach these provisions as a result of Limited, dated 15 December 2011. the breadth of its business activities, although the Board has no All the above agreements contain change of control provisions intention of using this authority.
Accordingly, the Board is which, if triggered, allow the relevant facility agent upon proposing that shareholders pass a resolution at the forthcoming instructions from the majority lenders to cancel the relevant AGM to authorise the Group to: facility and declare all outstanding loans under the relevant make political donations to political parties and independent agreement, together with accrued interest and all other amounts election candidates not exceeding 100,000 in total: accrued, due and payable.
make political donations to political organisations other Notes than political parties not exceeding 100,000 in total: and The Company has issued two sterling Notes due 2016 and 2019.
Both Notes contain a redemption upon change of control incur political expenditure not exceeding 100,000 in total, provision which, if triggered by the combination of a change of and in aggregate not exceeding 100,000, until the Companys control and, within 120 days thereafter, a credit rating downgrade AGM in 2013. to non-investment grade, allows Noteholders to exercise their option to require the issuer to redeem the Notes and pay any Supplier payment policy accrued and unpaid interestdue.
It is the Groups ongoing policy to agree payment terms with suppliers when business transactions are negotiated and to Implementation Agreement make payments in accordance with those terms when goods and The Company has entered into an implementation agreement services have been satisfactorily supplied.
London Stock Exchange with LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited and the Companys wholly plc is an approved member of The Prompt Payment Code, part owned subsidiary, London Stock Exchange C Limited, dated of a structured initiative devised by the UK Government, with 9March 2012, which records the parties obligations with respect the Institute of Credit Management, to tackle the issue of late to the implementation of the acquisition by the Company of a payment and help small businesses.
The Prompt Payment Code majority interest in LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited, as contemplated can be viewed at: www.
The creditor by the press announcement made by the Company dated 9March days at 31 March 2012 based on the aggregate of the amount which 2012.
It may be terminated prior to completion by LCH.
Clearnet was owed to trade creditors and the aggregate of the amount in Group Limited on publication of a formal offer announcement which the Group was invoiced by suppliers during the year was pre-conditional or otherwise under Rule 2.7 of the Takeover 28days 2011: 24 days.
Code relating to an acquisition of the Company which is not at a discount to the closing middle market price of the Companys Significant agreements shares as at the trading day prior to such announcement, provided The following are significant agreements to which the Company that in the case of a unilateral offer, such offer would justify, in the is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of good faith judgement of the LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited board control of the Company following a takeover bid.
taking account of appropriate external financial and legal advice exercise of its termination right in order to comply with its fiduciary duties.
On termination of the implementation agreement, the offer made by London Stock Exchange C Limited to acquire the issued share capital of LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited on the terms and subject to the conditions set out in the offer document and form of acceptance sent to LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited shareholders on 16March 2012 would lapse and subject to any pre-existing claims or rights the parties obligations under the implementation agreement would cease.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Governance Annual Report 2012 67 Employee Share Plans Audit information The rules of the Companys employee share plans set out In accordance with Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, the consequences of a change of control of the Company on the Directors confirm, in the case of each Director in office at employees rights under the plans.
Generally such rights the date the Directors Report is approved, that: will vest on a change of control and participants will become so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit entitled to acquire shares in the Company although in certain information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and circumstances the Remuneration Committee has the discretion he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a to defer vesting and to require rights to be exchanged for Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit equivalent rights over the acquiring companysshares.
information and to establish that the Companys auditors are Employee benefit trust aware of thatinformation.
As at 31 March 2012 the trustee of the London Stock Exchange Auditors Employee Benefit Trust, which is an independent trustee, held A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as the 1.2million shares 2011: 1.9 million under the terms of the trust Companys auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
for the benefit of employees and former employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The trust is a discretionary trust and the shares are held to meet employees entitlements under the Companys By Order of the Board share plans.
Employees have no voting rights in relation to the shares while they are held in trust.
The trustee has full discretion to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares or to abstain from voting.
Shares acquired by employees through the Companys employee share plans rank equally with the ordinary shares in issue and have no special rights.
Lisa Condron Contractual arrangements essential to the Company Group Company Secretary Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to provide 18 May 2012 information about persons with whom the Company has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business.
The Group has contractual arrangements with its clearing services providers including the LCH.
Clearnet Group and SIX X-Clear and with SIA-SBB for the provision of technology to CC&G, Monte Titoli and MTS, which remain essential for the business.
Various Group entities are regulated and the Group attaches the highest priority to complying with local regulatory requirements.
Financial risk management The use of financial instruments by the Group and the Groups financial risk management have been specifically considered by the Directors, and relevant disclosures appear in Principal Risks and Uncertainties, on pages 38 to 43 of this Annual Report, and in the notes to the Financial Statements, on pages 77 to 81 of this Annual Report, and in each case are incorporated by reference into this DirectorsReport.
68 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, theDirectors Remuneration Report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Going Concern the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
toaffect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Overview and Business Review sections of the Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements Annual Report on pages 2 to 43.
In particular, the current for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared economic conditions have created a number of risks and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with uncertainties for the Group and these are set out in Principal International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by Risks and Uncertainties on pages 38 to 43. the European Union.
The financial statements are required by law togive a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company The financial risk management objectives and policies of the andthe Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Group and the exposure of the Group to capital risk, credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk are discussed on pages 77 to 81.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are The Group continues to meet Group and individual entity requiredto: capital requirements and day-to-day liquidity needs through select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the Groups cash resources and available credit facilities.
consistently Committed term funding at 31 March 2012 increased to make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent 1,350million 2011: 1,000million all of which is committed state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted until July 2013 or beyond 2011: 1,000million committed by the European Union until July 2013, described further in the Financial Review prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, on pages 32 to 35. unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will The Directors have reviewed the Groups forecasts and continue in business projections, taking into account reasonably possible changes in The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above trading performance, which show that the Group has sufficient requirements in preparing the financial statements.
On the basis of this review, and after making due enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the them to ensure that the Annual Report, the financial statements financialstatements.
and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Directors Responsibility Statement Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are set out safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence on pages 44 to 45 of this Annual Report, confirm that, to the best for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud of their knowledge and belief: and other irregularities.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, ofthe Companys website and legislation in the United Kingdom liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group governing the preparation and dissemination of financial the Directors report contained in the Annual Report includes a statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face By order of the Board Lisa Condron Group Company Secretary 18 May 2012
