28 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance report continued Board of Directors Jon Aisbitt Alison Carnwath Peter Clarke Phillip Colebatch Frdric Jolly Chairman of the Board and Independent non-executive Chief Executive until 28 Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Chairman of the Nomination director February 2013 director and Chairman of the director Committee Remuneration Committee Background and experience Jon Aisbitt has 20 years Prior to joining the Board, Peter Clarke joined Man in 1993 Prior to joining the Board, Phillip Frdric Fred Jolly was Chief experience in international AlisonCarnwath spent 20 years from the investment banking Colebatch was a member of the Executive Officer ofRussell corporate finance and was working in investment banking.
industry, having worked at Executive Boards of Swiss Investments Europe, Middle previously a Partner and Morgan Grenfell and Citicorp.
Reinsurance Company and East and Africa until the Managing Director in the He was appointed Head of Credit Suisse Group.
Prior to this, Investment Banking Division Corporate Finance & Corporate he was Head of Investment ofGoldman Sachs.
Consulting at The Wyatt Company, Paris now Watson Wyatt.
1 Date of appointment Jon was appointed to the Alison was appointed to the Peter was appointed to the Phillip was appointed to the Fred was appointed to the Boardas a non-executive Board as a non-executive Board in 1997 and was Board as a non-executive Board as a non-executive director in August 2003 and director in January 2001 and appointed Finance Director in director in September 2007. director in August 2009.
His wasappointed non-executive was Senior Independent May 2000.
He was appointed Phillips current three year term current three year term of office Chairman in September 2007.
Director between July 2009 and Deputy Group Chief Executive of office expires in July 2014. expires in May 2015.
Jons current three year term of July 2011.
Alisons current term inNovember 2005 and Chief office expires in May2015.
of office expires at the 2013 Executive in March 2007.
Peter AGM and she will not be will retire as Chief Executive and seeking reappointment.
step down from the Board on 28 February 2013.
External appointments Jon is an Advisory Board Alison is Chairman of Land None.
Phillip is a non-executive Fred is Senior Advisor for Director of Celtic Pharma I and Securities Group plc.
She is a director of Lend Lease Europe, Investec Asset Celtic Pharma II biotechnology non-executive director of Zurich Corporation and is on the Management.
and a Director of New Forests Insurance Group Ltd and an Boards of Trustees of the LGT Company Holdings African Independent Director of Group Foundation and the forestry.
Committee membership Jon is Chairman of the Alison is a member of the As Chief Executive, Phillip is Chairman of the Fred is a member of the Nomination Committee anda Remuneration Committee and Peterregularly attended Remuneration Committee and Remuneration Committee and member of the Remuneration the Nomination Committee.
Remuneration Committee amember of the Nomination Nomination Committee.
He attends Audit andNomination Committee Committee.
and Risk Committee meetings meetings by invitation and was by invitation.
Chairman of the Executive Committee.
Note: 1 The appointment of all the directors is subject to their retirement and reappointment by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meetings.
