03 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Market backdrop Strategy and key priorities Investor demand overall for alternative investment Mans corporate strategy is to deliver strong longproducts continues to grow steadily.
However, since term investment performance: 2008 certain segments in which Man has historically Across our range of alternative investment benefited from a strong market position, for example strategies and formats fund of hedge funds and European retail investors, To a growing global investor base have reduced their exposure significantly.
With a strong framework of risk and people management, governance, innovation and Much of the demand for hedge fund products in recent years has come capitalallocation from the US institutional market place, which now accounts for over two thirds of all hedge fund assets.
Institutions there are allocating a greater The actions we take to implement our strategy vary from year to year.
In proportion of their assets to hedge fund managers: whilst Man is 2012 we identified five key priorities across our business which build on continuing to build its sales capability in the US, assets under the three priorities we set out in our last report and accounts of management from US-based investors still account for only 5% of the investment performance, meeting client needs and efficiency.
These firms funds under management.
Recent low absolute returns among priorities are aimed at positioning the firm for future growth, whilst hedge funds have, however, curbed demand in geographies where we controlling costs and maximising the efficiency of our balance sheet.
have raised significant funds historically.
We have started to make progress against each of these priorities during We anticipate that operating conditions for hedge fund firms will continue 2012 and will continue to focus on them in 2013. to be challenging in 2013 with investor sentiment remaining fragile and the risk on risk off environment making it difficult to perform.
Whilst this environment persists, it will remain relatively difficult to attract and retain clients assets.
In the long-term, however, Man continues to be well positioned to benefit from improved investor sentiment as and when risk appetite returns by virtue of our product set, performance, distribution capability and infrastructure.
Investment performance The quest for investment performance unites all of our investment managers and In the meantime, we are focusing on the things that we can control: is evident in innovations such as Man generating the best returns possible, expanding our product offering Systematic Strategies MSS.
judiciously, enhancing our distribution and running our business as efficiently as possible.
Creating options for growth In a rapidly evolving environment which Hedge fund industry assets 20072012 remains difficult for some of our core US$ trillion products, creating and developing options 2.5 for growth is key.
2.25 2.0 2.01 1.92 1.87 Distribution effectiveness 1.60 1.5 Reorienting the distribution effort to reflect 1.41 the increasing weighting of sales to the 1.0 institutional channel and away, in particular, from guaranteed products.
0.5 Cost reduction 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Having looked in depth at the optimal configuration of the business, we are Source: HFR moving more decisively to align our costs to flows rather than inventory.
Balance sheet efficiency As the mix of our business changes we will continue to focus on maximising the efficiency of our balance sheet.
