63 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Essential contracts in the event of a director being found to have acted fraudulently or The Group has agreements with Citibank, N. A. London Branch Citi and dishonestly in respect of the Company.
Citco Fund Services Cayman Islands Limited Citco to provide, inter alia, registrar, transfer agency and valuation services to AHL and FRM Change of control products further details are given in note 5 to the Financial Statements.
Significant agreements Each of the agreements with Citi and Citco mentioned above contain a Material contracts provision which could allow Citi and Citco to terminate the agreements At no time during the year did any director hold a material interest in upon certain pre-defined changes in control.
The directors are not aware anycontract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiary of any other significant agreements to which the Company and or any of undertakings other than the service contracts between each executive its subsidiaries is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a director and the Company.
change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
Substantial voting interests Employee share incentive schemes As at 28 February 2013 the following voting interests in the ordinary share The Companys employee share incentive schemes contain provisions capital of the Company disclosable under the FSAs Disclosure and whereby, upon a change of control of the Company, outstanding options Transparency Rules have been notified to the Company.
and awards would vest and become exercisable, subject in the case of certain schemes only to the satisfaction of performance conditions at Shareholder % that time and any time pro-rating of options and awards.
UBS Investment Bank 5.62 Odey Asset Management LLP 5.30 Share transfer restrictions BlackRock, Inc. 5.05 As at the year end, 83,615,960 ordinary shares in the Company G&S Trustees Limited Pierre Lagrange 3.51 whichwere issued to certain principals of GLG as consideration for the acquisition of GLG Partners, Inc are subject to share lock-up agreements.
Under the terms of such agreements, and with limited exceptions, the Restriction on voting rights shares must not be disposed of until 14 October 2013 the third Where shares are held in employee benefit trusts for the satisfaction of anniversary of the acquisition.
awards made under share schemes, under the trust deeds the trustees have discretion to vote or abstain from voting.
In 2011 in connection with Mans acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in GLG Ore Hill LLC formerly Ore Hill Partners LLC Ore Hill, Directors ordinary shares in the Company were issued to the principals of Ore Hill Details of the current directors, together with their biographies, can be and their related trusts.
These shares are subject to the terms of share found on pages 28 and 29.
Kevin Hayes served on the Board during the lock-up agreements which restrict the transfer sale of shares until 31 year but resigned as a director on 18 June 2012.
December 2013, subject to the following exceptions: Powers of directors 1. one third of the relevant shares will be freely transferable in June 2013: The Board is responsible for the management of the business of the and Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the 2. some shares may also be unlocked earlier to satisfy certain provisions of relevant statutes and the Companys Articles of Association definedliabilities.
A copy of the Articles is available on the Companys website www.
com and by request from the registered office of the Company.
The Board may decline to register a transfer of any share which is not a The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
In addition, registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the Uncertificated Appointment and retirement of directors Securities Regulations and where the number of joint holders exceeds four.
Under the Articles the Board has the power to appoint further directorsduring the year, but any director so appointed must stand for Political donations reappointment at the next annual general meeting.
Under the Articles, During the year, the Company did not make any donations to any political one-third of the Board must retire by rotation at each annual general party or other political organisation and did not incur any political meeting and may stand for reappointment.
In practice, and in accordance expenditure within the meanings of Sections 362 to 379 of the with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors retire and offer Companies Act 2006. themselves for reappointment at each annual general meeting.
Auditors The Articles give the power to a director to appoint any person to be his A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors of the alternate, subject to the appointment of such person who is not another Company and the Group will be proposed at the 2013 AGM.
director being approved by the Board.
By order of the Board Directors indemnities and insurance cover On their appointment, new directors are granted an indemnity by the Rachel Rowson Company, to the extent permitted by law, in respect of any third party Company Secretary liabilities which they may incur as a result of their service on the Board.
28 February 2013 The Company arranges directors and officers liability insurance to cover certain liabilities and defence costs which the Company indemnity does not meet.
Neither the indemnity nor the insurance provides any protection
