32 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance report continued Non-executive directors 2012 evaluation Independence Our 2012 Board evaluation was undertaken by an independent Man is fortunate to have a broad mix of non-executive directors who firm, Edis-BatesAssociates, which has no other connection with the alldemonstrate unquestionable independence in their thinking and Company.
The evaluation consisted of in-depth interviews with each of challenge of management.
I greatly value the experience and insight that the directors and the Company Secretary to assess the Boards collective they bring to Man from their external roles.
To ensure that such roles do performance in key areas of its role and activities during the year.
not present any conflict with their responsibilities to Man, we ask directors Theperformance of the main Board Committees Audit and Risk, to notify us of their external appointments on joining the Board and to Remuneration and Nomination was similarly assessed.
Structured keep us advised of any changes on a continuing basis.
Any director feedback was also obtained on the performance of individual directors, wishing to take on a new commitment must discuss both the nature of including their contribution, independence and commitment.
the role and the likely time commitment with me.
Any interests which areperceived to represent a potential conflict with Mans business are The results of the collective evaluation were presented to the Board and reviewed by their executive colleagues and appropriate guidance given.
Summary findings for the evaluation of the Board, including both areas of strength and areas for continuing focus Education and development during 2013, are discussed below.
The separate Committee reports As an initial introduction to the business, new non-executive directors are discuss the evaluation findings for those Committees.
The feedback offered a tailored and regularly updated induction programme, an outline onindividual directors was shared with them by me in one to one of which is given on our website www.
Patrick OSullivan, as Senior Independent Director, led a oftheir business knowledge is achieved through presentations by senior review of my own contribution as Chairman, informed by the evaluation management at Board and Committee meetings.
Although cost findings, and has given me direct feedback.
constraints had an impact on the extent of Board visits overseas during 2012, non-executives were able to debate key topics such as the review Findings of 2012 evaluation of our distribution network and compensation structure and the The period leading up to this years evaluation was difficult and development of our US strategy by video link with the relevant business demanding for both the Company and the Board.
In this environment, heads in Switzerland and the US.
In London, the Board has received directors were challenging of their performance in anticipating and regular progress updates from the AHL and FRM investment teams.
responding to deteriorating trading conditions and initiating the changes Presentations on the new GLG Macro and Fixed Income platform from required to diversify and reposition the business.
They recognised the GLG portfolio heads are scheduled later this year.
In addition, to keep need to continue to expand their knowledge of competitors strategies, non-executives abreast of the complex regulatory environment in which products and flows.
They sought to deepen their understanding of the Man operates, external programmes on topical legal, accounting and problems and opportunities offered by Mans individual businesses.
They regulatory developments are made available on a regular basis.
resolved to maintain an increasingly sharp focus on performance and Non-executives are free, should they feel this necessary, to take rigorous follow through on agreed management actions.
independent advice on the Companys business at any time.
There was, nevertheless, a strong view that Board relationships were Board evaluation working well with an appropriate balance of non-executive support and 2011 evaluation challenge.
The executive team, with a new Chief Financial Officer, was The recommended actions arising from our previous Board evaluation, considered to be refreshed and effective and providing good access to carried out in March 2011, were that the Board should review and build senior management below Board level.
With clear progress made during on its strategy, further develop its knowledge of competitor performance the year on executive succession, it was agreed that more attention and products, and renew its focus on senior executive development and should now be given to non-executive director planning and the future succession planning.
Achievements during 2012 in the areas of strategy skills and experience required to meet the changing needs of the and executive succession planning are given in the table of Board business.
Further details of planned activities in this area are given actionson page 27 and in the Nomination Committee report on intheNomination Committee report on page 38. page38respectively.
Shareholder engagement Institutional investors Man undertakes a comprehensive programme of meetings and events for institutional investors and research analysts.
This was particularly important in 2012 when, with significant change going on in the business, we needed to pay particular attention to the views and concerns of the investment community.
Last year our programme included some 280 investor meetings, year end and interim results presentations, and conference calls to discuss interim management statements.
Investors and analysts also met with key operational managers, notably to gainmore insight into AHL.
The Board routinely receives updates from our investor relations team on significant movements in the share register, analysts consensus forecasts, market sentiment and feedback from investor meetings.
We also invite our brokers and financial PR advisers toreport on investor sentiment and advise on the focus of our communications.
