38 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance report continued Nomination Committee report Committee membership The Nomination Committees most All our non-executive directors are members of the Nomination important role is to keep under review Committee the Committee and meetings are normally attended by the CEO and the Global Head, Human Resources.
Directors attendance at theBoards membership and skill base to main Committee meetings during the year is shown in the table below.
Inaddition, a number of Committee calls and sub-Committee meetings ensure that the Board continues to have the were held to progress and finalise decisions on key issues which are not full range of competencies, knowledge and included in this table.
The full terms of reference for the Committee are given on our website www.
experience required for the direction and oversight of the business.
In line with this Directors attendance at Committee meetings requirement, the Committees primaryfocus Number of meetings held during 2012 4 during the year was the consideration and Jon Aisbitt, Chairman 4 execution of changes inthe key executive Alison Carnwath 4 Phillip Colebatch 4 appointments of CFO and CEO as detailed 1 Frdric Jolly 3 in this report.
Matthew Lester 3 Patrick OSullivan 4 Nina Shapiro 4 Jon Aisbitt Chairman Note: 1 Frdric Jolly did not attend the meeting which considered the renewal of hisappointment.
Executive director changes Chief Financial Officer In the first half of 2012, the Committee conducted, through an independent search firm, an extensive external search for a new CFO as a successor to Mr Hayes.
The Committee also looked at internal candidates and asked the chosen search firm to evaluate both the preferred internal and external candidates against the requirements for the role.
A number ofexternal candidates were interviewed and references were taken.
After full consideration of the current needs and position of the business, the Committee concluded that an internal candidate, Jonathan Sorrell, who had joined Man in August 2011 as Head of Strategy and Corporate Finance, was the best person for the role and recommended his appointment to the Board.
In reaching this decision, the Committee took account of the skills that MrSorrell had demonstrated in his financial analysis of the business and his structuring of the acquisition of FRM.
It was recognised that he had broad experience of financial markets and in depth knowledge of the hedge fund industry gained from his years at Goldman Sachs.
He had astrong background in strategy and execution and would help reinforce the Companys current focus on costs and financial efficiency.
The Committee also considered areas of development or support which might be necessary to help Mr Sorrell make the transition to his new role.
