02 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Business model and drivers of long-term growth Performance Products Mans business model begins and ends Man is able to offer a wide range of liquid withinvestment performance.
The abilityof investment strategies and formats across ourinvestment managers to deliver strong geographies to meet the needs of the long-term returns for our investors across investor.
These include quantitative and a broad spectrum of alternative investment discretionary, long only and long short, strategies is critical.
Fund Investors AHL is a systematic, trend following managed futures Investor priorities and regulatory regimes vary manager with a 25 year performance track record.
significantly between jurisdictions, meaning that investor solutions need to be carefully Mans investor base is broadly split tailored to the needs of local markets.
Having GLG has expertise across a wide range of one third two thirds between private the scale and expertise to be able to package discretionary investment strategies including equity investors and institutional investors.
investment returns appropriately to meet investor long short and long only, credit and convertibles, Mans private investor base is focused and regulatory requirements is a key source of fixed-income and macro.
on the mass affluent market and high net competitive advantage.
worth individuals and we have around FRM provides actively managed, thematic fund of 870 institutional clients predominantly hedge fund offerings and manages the guaranteed pension funds, insurance companies, product range.
Their extensive managed accounts banks, asset managers, sovereign wealth platform offers institutional investors control, funds and endowments.
transparency and sophisticated risk management.
These investors invest in independent fund entities for which Man acts as the investment FUM by manager FUM by format manager.
The independent fund entities pay Man management fees and performance fees.
Guaranteed $5.7bn Management fees are charged for providing 4 2.
FRM $16.0bn investment management services at a 2.
Open ended $21bn percentage of each entitys gross investment 3.
Gross investment exposure in this other $18.9bn report is referred as FUM.
Long only $11.4bn 3 3 Performance fees are charged as a percentage of the investment performance earned above a benchmark return or a previous higher valuation high water mark.
Infrastructure & capital Distribution The fund entities are independently governed.
Surrounding our investment management Their investment performance, assets and Our extensive global distribution network, and distribution is a strong operational liabilities are separate from Man and are not long established local relationships and infrastructure, risk management, people consolidated into Mans financial statements.
high quality technology-enabled investor management and governance which ensures reporting gives us competitive advantage.
the sustainability of our business model FUM by investor type and enables us to take advantage of new We distribute our products and solutions to business opportunities.
private investors via a unique global network 1 of intermediaries, and directly to institutions.
Our surplus capital of $795m and liquidity Intermediaries are rewarded through sales 1.
Private 38% resources of $3.5bn give us flexibility to support commission.
Client service is an essential part 2.
Institutional 62% and grow our business across market cycles.
of our growth strategy and we focus equally on expanding our investor base and serving existing investors.
2 FUM by geography 1 4 Surplus capital 3 1.
