26 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance report The leadership of the Board, within a framework of prudent and robust risk management and controls, is recognised as of paramount importance for the longterm success of a company and the cornerstone of good governance.
In thisreport, which follows on from my Chairmans review, I will be discussing how the Man Board is organised and has discharged its leadership role during the year.
The report outlines the processes, practices and behaviours the Board adopts to optimise its decision making and safeguard its independence.
The report also sets out the framework through which the main Board Committees provide oversight on keyaspects of the business.
Jon Aisbitt Chairman Board experience and skills As part of our longterm succession planning, we made some major changes to the executive membership of the Board during the year as discussed in detail in my Chairmans review and Nomination Committee report.
The Board believes that Manny Roman and Jonathan Sorrell, our new CEO and CFO respectively, together have the combination of strong financial and commercial skills, financial markets experience and deep understanding of the hedge fund industry necessary to drive the business forward.
Our diverse range of non-executive directors, all of whom we regard asfully independent, continued unchanged through the year.
These individuals bring to the Board a wealth of strategic development, operational and people management experience from a wide range of financial services organisations.
They offer institutional knowledge and client development expertise.
All have a keen understanding of financial markets and broad international exposure.
Biographical details of all our Board members are set out on pages 28 and 29.
Alison Carnwath, who has served on the Board and its Committees in avariety of roles over her 12 years as a non-executive director, will be standing down at this years Annual General Meeting.
We will, therefore, be looking to recruit a new non-executive director to add to and refresh the Boards skills and experience base in the course of 2013.
The Boards succession planning activities, together with its approach to building diversity, are discussed in my Nomination Committee report on page 38.
