09 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Accordingly, investor sentiment has improved somewhat over the last two months, and requests for proposals and the pipeline of new mandates have both increased.
However, given the lead time required by institutional investors, gross sales are likely to remain muted in the first half whilst Balance sheet efficiency redemptions will generally remain a function of the overall market environment.
We have seen this in January and February 2013 with funds Summary under management estimated to be $55.0 billion at 25 February, down Disposal of residual exposure to the Lehman estate completed.
$2.0 billion from year end with net outflows and negative FX movements BlueCrest loan note disposal.
being partly offset by positive investment performance and regears.
Reduction in loans to funds and proprietary investments.
Continued focus on managing balance sheet effectively.
It is also worth noting that, over the last two years, there have been similar periods in which investor risk appetite has normalised, only to subsequently reverse in response to renewed macro-economic uncertainty.
It would be premature, therefore, to suggest that the The strength of our balance sheet is one of our key competitive operating environment has improved on a sustainable basis.
advantages, enabling us to invest selectively in products and distribution globally.
As at 31 December 2012, the Group had tangible net assets of We have made a number of enhancements to our Executive Committee $1.5 billion, $795 million in surplus regulatory capital, $3.5 billion in over the last 12 months, with several new members promoted internally liquidity and $1.1 billion of net cash.
reflecting the deep bench of talent within the Group.
I am grateful not only to my Executive Committee colleagues but to everyone at Man who has In 2012, some key steps were taken to ensure the most efficient and contributed to the progress we have made this year and I am confident productive use of the Groups capital.
These included the disposal of the that there is a very strong team in place to take the business forward.
residual exposure to the Lehman estates acquired in July 2011 yielding Man Group Executive Committee total upfront proceeds of $456 million and the disposal of the BlueCrest Manny Roman CEO, Man Group loan notes creating a gain on disposal of $15 million.
Jonathan Eliot Chief Risk Officer In an environment which is likely to remain challenging, we will continue to Luke Ellis President, Man Group focus on managing our balance sheet efficiently.
Robyn Grew Global Head, Compliance & Regulatory December 2011 December 2012 Keith Haydon CIO, FRM Balance Sheet efficiency Teun Johnston Co-CEO, GLG $m Mark Jones Co-CEO, GLG 1200 1,141 Pierre Lagrange Chairman, Man Asia & Senior 1000 975 Managing Director, GLG 800 795 Michelle McCloskey Senior Managing Director, FRM Christoph Mller Global Head, Sales & Marketing 600 587 573 496 Sandy Rattray CEO, AHL & MSS 400 Michael Robinson Global Head, Human Resources 200 Jasveer Singh General Counsel 0 Investments in Net cash Surplus Jonathan Sorrell Chief Financial Officer funds and Lehman capital Simon White Global Head, Technology & Operations Tim Wong Chairman, AHL & MSS Outlook Peter Clarke Chief Executive As of mid-February 2013, most of our strategies were off to a good start on the back of the risk rally triggered by the US fiscal cliff being averted, some positive key data points in the US and China, and a significant shift of investors from bonds to equities.
As of 25 February 2013, AHL was 13.1% below high water mark on a weighted average basis, and as of 25 February 2013, 85% of GLG funds were above or within 5% of performance fee highs.
