39 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 This included a familiarisation with technical listed company financial Our firm principle remains to make Board appointments based on merit reporting standards and processes which was provided by the and overall suitability for the role and we will be applying this policy in Companys auditors.
oursearch for a new non-executive director later this year.
We would be delighted to welcome further women to our Board provided that they meet Chief Executive Officer the relevant role criteria.
I have previously commented on the difficulties Later in the year, the Committee focused on succession plans for the we have experienced in sourcing suitable women candidates for roles CEO.
As part of these discussions, it took account of feedback from within our industry and the paucity of the female senior executive talent selected major shareholders, key points made in the 2012 Board pool from which such candidates might be drawn.
For this reason, the evaluation and comments from individual Board and Executive Board does not think it is appropriate or realistic to commit to achieving a Committee members.
An independent search firm was appointed to given percentage of women on our Board by a certain date.
In addition, draw up a list of potential external candidates and benchmark them given the relatively small size of our Board, such a commitment would against an agreed CEO role specification.
have implications for the continuing tenure and contribution of our existing directors and could be prejudicial to the business.
Our full policy on Board diversity is given on our website www.
The Committee also reviewed potential internal candidates.
This  of Emmanuel Manny Roman, President and Senior management diversity Chief Operating Officer, who had joined the Board in 2011.
It was noted Man remains committed, as part of its recruitment and succession that Mr Roman had brought to Man a wealth of experience in trading, planning, to promoting gender diversity at senior management and markets and business management from his previous roles at GLG and Executive Committee level.
Our recruitment policy has the objective of Goldman Sachs.
He had been a key driver of the development of Mans securing 50% female representation on long lists of candidates internal investment management expertise over the previous two years and had and external for senior roles and we engage executive search firms who worked closely with the current CEO on sales and distribution.
He was have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct on gender diversity perceived by the Committee to be a strong leader for the business with and best practice.
Following recent changes, we now have two women the skills, experience and drive to continue Mans focus on delivering inkey senior roles who sit on that Committee, namely the Global performance, strengthening client relationships and maintaining pressure Head, Compliance and Regulatory and the Senior Managing Director, on costs.
After full discussion, the Committee resolved to recommend to FRM.
The improved diversity of the refreshed Executive Committee the Board the appointment of Mr Roman as CEO designate subject to membership, as listed on page 9, is welcome.
The fact that all the new the outcome of an independent assessment of Mr Romans capabilities appointments have been achieved through internal promotion is measured against the agreed CEO role specification.
Following review by testimony to the breadth and depth of talent within Man and our the Board of this assessment, and discussion of Mr Romans candidacy commitment to its development.
with the FSA, the Board accepted the Committees recommendation and approved Mr Romans appointment as CEO to take effect on the retirement of Mr Clarke at the end of February 2013.
Committee evaluation The operation and effectiveness of the Committee were reviewed as part Senior executive succession planning of the independent external evaluation of the Board and its Committees The Committee is responsible for overseeing senior management discussed on page 32.
The principal areas identified on which the succession plans to ensure that there is continuity of appropriate Committee has agreed it should focus during 2013 are listed below.
resource immediately below Board level.
As part of this, in November the Committee reviewed succession plans for the Executive Committee and Priorities for 2013 the key governance roles of Risk, Internal Audit, Compliance, Legal, More regular discussion of Board skills and experience requirements.
Product and Client Operations, and Technology.
It was noted that there Increased focus on non-executive succession planning.
were potential ready now successors for all but one of these roles and More formal agenda scheduling.
that this represented a significant improvement on the previous years Increased opportunity to interact as a non-executive group.
The Committee were updated on planned changes to the Executive Committee.
These included an internal and external search Future focus fora new Global Head of Sales and Marketing in anticipation of the I have taken good note of the evaluation findings in planning the work retirement of the current role holder.
The criticality of this role and the ofthe Committee for 2013.
Our programme will include both scheduled importance of finding the best available candidate external or internal meetings and opportunities for non-executives to discuss nomination and were fully recognised.
people related issues informally when required.
Non-executive director succession The first task in our formal schedule will be to agree the role specification In addition to reviewing executive director succession, the Committee and conduct the search and selection process for the appointment of a considers the renewal of non-executive director appointments on the new non-executive director.
Our focus in this will be on finding candidates expiry of their fixed term contracts.
Subsequent to the 2012 year end, who, as well as having the general skills and experience necessary for andfollowing feedback from the 2012 Board evaluation on the anon-executive director, have the specific knowledge and capability contribution of individual directors, the Committee considered and requiredto serve as a member of the Audit and Risk Committee.
This agreed to recommend to the Board the renewal of the appointment of willhelp address the finding arising from the recent Audit and Risk MrOSullivan, our Senior Independent Director, for a further three years, Committee evaluation which identified the benefit of further strengthening subject to his reappointment by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
We will also be looking, as part of that Auditand Risk remit, for an individual with an in depth understanding of Board diversity theregulatory environment impacting our business who can help review I have referred in previous reports to the value to be derived from and advise us on our ongoing compliance and development.
bringingtogether on a board individuals with a broad range of backgrounds, experience and outlook.
Gender is rightly recognised to be Jon Aisbitt an important part of this diversity and we have been pleased to have two Chairman female non-executive directors on our Board.
This number will reduce later this year following Alison Carnwaths retirement at the 2013 AGM.
