20 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Distribution private investor sales in 2012 $5.2 billion compared to 2011 $15 billion.
Mans extensive global distribution network Despite this we continue to make inroads in terms of representation on and long established local relationships the key private banking platforms which account for a substantial share ofthe flows.
Man product is on all nine of the most significant private give us competitive advantage.
investor banking platforms and has won around 20 new platform approvals since the completion of the GLG acquisition with a similar number of pending approvals.
Man operates two distinct distribution models, marketing to private investors via third party intermediaries and directly to institutions.
Our Institutional sales in 2012 were $7.6 billion, 28% higher than in 2011, and regional offices are predominantly staffed by local people such that with institutional allocations predicted to constitute a significant proportion investors and distributors can interact with specialists who speak their of ongoing asset raising, we continue to work hard on our consultant language and understand the culture and particular nuances of doing relationships.
Consultant coverage of Man has increased from 35 products business in that region.
in January 2010 to 92 today and we have maintained 20 strong buy ratings.
In the face of considerable market uncertainty and fragility in investor Redemptions in 2012 totalled $20.1 billion, lower than calendar 2011 at appetite we achieved sales of $12.8 billion, which is testament to the $23.1 billion but very much reflective of the continued challenging operating breadth of our offering and the relevance to investors of the different environment.
Retaining client assets as well as winning new business strategies at varying points in the cycle.
We demonstrated our ability to remains a key focus and as such a new internal sales compensation deliver strong sales of outperforming strategies including European long structure which incentivises both selling and retaining assets, whilst short, distressed and global convertibles.
2012 also re-emphasised our aligninginterests on costs, was introduced on 1 January 2013. strength in executing and capitalising on complex thematic products.
TailProtect, the volatility trading strategy run by Man Systematic Strategies The US remains our main geographical focus for growth and the hire was designed to mitigate the portfolio risks associated with extremely ofJohn Rohal as Executive Chairman of Man North America and the volatile markets and MSS now manage over $700 million from some of experience he brings will help us to enhance our offering and deepen the worlds most sophisticated institutional investors in this product.
Private investors remain extremely cautious with anecdotal evidence ofhigh allocations to cash.
This was evidenced by significantly lower Europe & Middle East Our network Sales offices: London, Pfaffikon, Rotterdam, Dubai Dedicated sales & marketing staff: 130 Intermediary relationships: 2,640 Client base: Balanced mix of private investors and institutions The Americas Asia Pacific Sales offices: New York, Toronto, Sales offices: Tokyo, Hong Montevideo, Miami Kong, Singapore, Sydney Dedicated sales & marketing Dedicated sales & marketing staff: staff: 40 80 Intermediary relationships: Intermediary relationships: 760 2,320 Client base: Balanced mix of Client base: Mainly private private investors and institutions investors
