03 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Market backdrop Strategy and key priorities Investor demand overall for alternative investment Mans corporate strategy is to deliver strong longproducts continues to grow steadily.
However, since term investment performance: 2008 certain segments in which Man has historically Across our range of alternative investment benefited from a strong market position, for example strategies and formats fund of hedge funds and European retail investors, To a growing global investor base have reduced their exposure significantly.
With a strong framework of risk and people management, governance, innovation and Much of the demand for hedge fund products in recent years has come capitalallocation from the US institutional market place, which now accounts for over two thirds of all hedge fund assets.
Institutions there are allocating a greater The actions we take to implement our strategy vary from year to year.
In proportion of their assets to hedge fund managers: whilst Man is 2012 we identified five key priorities across our business which build on continuing to build its sales capability in the US, assets under the three priorities we set out in our last report and accounts of management from US-based investors still account for only 5% of the investment performance, meeting client needs and efficiency.
These firms funds under management.
Recent low absolute returns among priorities are aimed at positioning the firm for future growth, whilst hedge funds have, however, curbed demand in geographies where we controlling costs and maximising the efficiency of our balance sheet.
have raised significant funds historically.
We have started to make progress against each of these priorities during We anticipate that operating conditions for hedge fund firms will continue 2012 and will continue to focus on them in 2013. to be challenging in 2013 with investor sentiment remaining fragile and the risk on risk off environment making it difficult to perform.
Whilst this environment persists, it will remain relatively difficult to attract and retain clients assets.
In the long-term, however, Man continues to be well positioned to benefit from improved investor sentiment as and when risk appetite returns by virtue of our product set, performance, distribution capability and infrastructure.
Investment performance The quest for investment performance unites all of our investment managers and In the meantime, we are focusing on the things that we can control: is evident in innovations such as Man generating the best returns possible, expanding our product offering Systematic Strategies MSS.
judiciously, enhancing our distribution and running our business as efficiently as possible.
Creating options for growth In a rapidly evolving environment which Hedge fund industry assets 20072012 remains difficult for some of our core US$ trillion products, creating and developing options 2.5 for growth is key.
2.25 2.0 2.01 1.92 1.87 Distribution effectiveness 1.60 1.5 Reorienting the distribution effort to reflect 1.41 the increasing weighting of sales to the 1.0 institutional channel and away, in particular, from guaranteed products.
0.5 Cost reduction 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Having looked in depth at the optimal configuration of the business, we are Source: HFR moving more decisively to align our costs to flows rather than inventory.
Balance sheet efficiency As the mix of our business changes we will continue to focus on maximising the efficiency of our balance sheet.
04 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Chairmans review of GLG and FRM is similarly monitored at every meeting and members of all our investment teams are invited to discuss progress and future prospects with the Board.
Creating options for growth Conscious of the need to continue to diversify the business, the Boardidentified and agreed at its annual strategy review a number of workstreams aimed at rationalising Mans product offering and launching new strategies with the aim of increasing funds under management and generating additional revenue.
All these workstreams, which include theopportunity for further asset allocation to AHL Evolution and non-momentum trading, the build out of GLGs Asian LongShort strategy and improving the sales focus for GLGs high performing Creditfunds, are currently being implemented.
Midway through the year, the Board approved the acquisition of FRM.
This successful acquisition created the opportunity to leverage extra value from Mans existing Multi-Manager business through enhanced Jon Aisbitt client and manager access and a reinvigorated managed account Chairman pipeline.
It also reinforced Mans position in the key Japanese market andfacilitated a selective upgrade of talent.
Over the last three years, we have seen a fundamental change in the Distribution effectiveness nature and profitability of our business, in particular as a result of the A full review of distribution was one of the workstreams agreed at our Board rapid decline in our book of high margin guaranteed products.
Following a presentation from the Head of Global Sales on sustained low interest rate environment and difficult markets for trend current global trends in retail and institutional markets, the Board focused following have contributed to a reduction in guaranteed product funds inparticular on Mans strategy for growth in the US.
They endorsed the under management from some $34.3 billion in 2008 to $5.7 billion at appointment of John Rohal as Executive Chairman of Man North America 31December 2012.
Despite the positive impact of the acquisition of FRM, and sought confirmation of the skills and experience of the US sales team our total funds under management fell from $58.4 billion at the beginning and the ambition of their targets.
The Board has debated with management of the year to $57.0 billion at the end.
Adjusted profit before tax for the their development of a new internal sales compensation structure, seeking year was $278 million compared with $262 million for the nine months to achieve an optimum model which fully aligns the long-term interests of ended 31 December 2011.
Weaker flows and investment performance fund investors, shareholders and sales teams.
A new structure approved by led us to impair the GLG and Man Multi-Manager goodwill resulting in a the Board was introduced at the start of 2013 and its impact will be closely pre-tax statutory loss of $745 million for the year.
Against this backdrop of monitored in the year ahead.
negative trends and decline in profitability, my review this year outlines the steps the Board has taken to address these impacts and position the Cost reduction business as strongly as possible for long-term growth.
In late 2011 and January 2012 we announced our intention to implement a total of $95 million of cost savings by the end of 2012.
In July, we To create a firm foundation for future earnings, our strategy has continued announced a further $100 million of savings to be implemented by the tobe to improve investment performance, develop our product offering to end of 2013.
The Board has reviewed and discussed managements meet investor needs, and drive cost efficiency throughout the business.
proposals for delivering these commitments which will be achieved both Notwithstanding the difficult markets which persisted during 2012, and through headcount reduction and non-compensation savings.
We sought inparticular the negative impact for trend followers of the sharp reversals and obtained assurance that the reductions proposed would neither triggered by monetary policy intervention, we have challenged management compromise the expertise and flexibility of our investment management to improve investment performance and create opportunities for growth.
teams nor prejudice the integrity of the Groups regulatory, compliance Wehave overseen the reshaping of the business and rescaling of the cost and risk management functions.
Future options for growth will remain base to match the economics of a reduced and different mix of asset flows.
The first phase of the savings has now been completed The acquisition of FRM has reinvigorated our fund of funds business.
We and the Board will continue to monitor progress on the second phase have reviewed and redefined our dividend policy and ensured that the through the remainder of this year.
Group has an appropriate and efficient level of capital and liquidity for its potential future needs.
Dividend policy In March last year, following further consideration of Mans long-term Investment performance earnings potential and future capital requirements, we reviewed and Our management team is very focused on the relative and absolute redefined our dividend policy.
The new policy is that we will pay out at least performance of our various funds.
At every Board meeting we monitor 100% of adjusted net management fee earnings per share in each financial relative performance and challenge management on any funds which year by way of ordinary dividend.
In addition, Man expects to generate might be underperforming.
The relative performance of AHL versus its significant surplus capital over time, primarily from net performance fee peers has received significant attention and recent changes to the team, earnings.
Available surpluses, after taking into account our required capital, research process and models have produced positive results.
We potential strategic opportunities and a prudent buffer, will be distributed to recognise the central importance of AHL for the business and continue to shareholders over time, by way of higher dividend payments and or share invest in people to strengthen our research capabilities.
Whilst the Board considers dividends as the primary method 05 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 of returning capital to shareholders, it will continue to execute share Remuneration report on page 43, create a much simpler and more repurchases when advantageous.
transparent structure for the delivery of short-term annual cash bonus and long-term deferred share awards.
The Board has adopted a revised set of For the financial year to 31 December 2012, we have applied this policy to KPIs which are key to the success of the business and which form the pay a total dividend of 22 cents.
An interim dividend of 9.5 cents per share backbone of the balanced scorecard against which executive was paid in September 2012 and a final dividend of 12.5 cents per share performance will be measured.
We believe that the new arrangements will will, subject to shareholder approval at the 2013 Annual General Meeting, support the delivery of the Companys strategy and that the extended five be paid in May this year.
Future distributions will be assessed against the year vesting period for deferred awards will increase long-term alignment Companys current and projected future earnings, its financial position and between executive and shareholder interests.
the Boards view of the long-term prospects for the business.
Board changes Two very significant changes to the executive leadership were made To continue our stated dividend policy and to provide flexibility in the during the year.
In June the Board accepted Kevin Hayes decision to capital structure of the Group, we announced in July our intention to put step down from the Board and, following a lengthy and rigorous process in place a new holding company by means of a scheme of arrangement to identify the best possible candidate, decided that Jonathan Sorrell, and to reduce the capital of that new holding company to enhance our formerly Head of Strategy and Corporate Finance, should succeed him access to distributable reserves.
Following the implementation of this as Chief Financial Officer.
The Board considered that Jonathan had, since restructuring, some $1.9 billion of distributable reserves were created in joining Man, demonstrated the strong financial and commercial skills the new holding company.
We also recognised that his experience of financial markets and his deep working knowledge of the hedge fund industry Balance sheet efficiency would be extremely valuable in strengthening Mans position in the The Board continues to work to ensure that Man has a strong and evolving hedge fund world.
I should like to thank Kevin, on behalf of the efficient balance sheet with an appropriate level and mix of regulatory Board, for his contribution as Finance Director over the previous five years capital and liquidity for its potential future needs.
To reduce the level of and wish him every success in the future.
surplus liquidity and related interest cost, we approved the issue of a tender offer which resulted in the buyback of 166 million of our outstanding senior bonds.
To increase future funding flexibility on Later in the year, Peter Clarke advised the Board of his intention to retire favourable terms, we approved the extension of the maturity date of as Chief Executive and to step down from the Board on the $1,320 million of our $1,525 million revolving credit facility by a year to announcement of the Companys 2012 results.
We reduced our balance sheet exposures by approving the process which involved the assessment of external as well as internal disposal of the BlueCrest Loan Notes for $92 million in cash and the candidates, the Board decided that Peter should be succeeded as Chief residual claims in the Lehman estates for $456 million in cash.
Executive Officer by Emmanuel Manny Roman who was previously Mans President and Chief Operating Officer.
We considered that Mannys commitment to improving fund performance, deepening client Governance relationships and maintaining pressure on costs made him the ideal Risk candidate to continue Peters repositioning of the business.
Following a The determination of risk appetite and the oversight of Mans risk handover period, Manny will be Chief Executive Officer from 28 February.
exposures are an essential part of the Boards governance role.
During I should like to thank Peter, on behalf of the Board, for his many years of theyear we reviewed Mans risk appetite statements and quantified our service with Man, his leadership of the business through very challenging operational and business risk tolerances as reported on page 22.
In our trading conditions and the very strong management team he has put in annual Board risk review we received a presentation on the Companys place.
We wish him all the very best for the future.
risk management framework, organisation and policies.
At every meeting we review an updated risk dashboard which summarises the current A further change to the Board will arise with the retirement of Alison assessment of the likelihood and size of the key risks faced by the Carnwath who will step down at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
During 2012 the risk levels associated with counterparty risk has served with distinction on the Board and its Committees for more and related Euro issues declined as credit spreads narrowed and the than 12 years.
We shall miss the rigour of her challenge and the breadth European leadership confirmed its commitment to holding the Eurozone of her support and wish her all the very best for the future.
The level of risk on the Groups balance sheet also declined following the sale of the exposure to the Lehman estates.
We are intent on maintaining a forward focus on risk, including the potential impact on the Outlook business of the reduction in costs and resources in the current period.
In looking ahead, the Board recognises the work still required to position Further details of the Boards risk management activities are given in the the business for long-term profitable growth.
We are confident that we Corporate governance and Audit and Risk Committee reports on pages have an effective management team in place to achieve this.
Together we 30 and 34. will remain fully focused on repositioning and diversifying the business, driving investment performance and optimising our distribution to deliver Remuneration improved shareholder returns.
Compensation for 2012 reflects the fall in company earnings with the compensation cost to revenue ratio maintained at 33% in line with the Jon Aisbitt previous reporting period.
Following the reshaping over time of Mans Chairman business strategy, and to reflect our current focus on investment performance and fund flows, the Board undertook and consulted with shareholders on a major review of our executive director incentive structure.
The new proposals, which are discussed more fully in the
