33 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 As Chairman, I attend results presentations to analysts and investors and, Statement of compliance towards the end of last year, undertook a programme of meetings with The Company has, throughout the year ended 31 December 2012, key institutional investors to supplement contact between investors and applied the principles of and complied with the provisions of the UK the executive management team.
This gave me the opportunity to hear at Corporate Governance Code dated June 2010 the Code except in first hand from investors on their perceptions and concerns about the the following respects: business.
The Chairman of our Remuneration Committee has engaged with investors and shareholder representative bodies to discuss planned Provision D. 2.2 of the Code requires that the Remuneration Committee changes to our executive compensation arrangements.
The Senior should have delegated responsibility for setting the remuneration of all Independent Director is always available to meet with major shareholders the executive directors and the chairman.
about any issues of concern.
Executive directors remuneration Private investors At Man, the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee provide We are keen to hear the views of our private shareholders and we that the Committee should recommend, for approval by the Board, encourage them to use our shareholder mailbox shareholder@man.
com individual executive directors objectives and compensation.
This is for detailed enquiries and our website for Company reports and business subject to the proviso that no director should participate in the approval information.
The website also provides direct access to Shareview of his or her objectives or compensation.
co. uk which enables shareholders to manage their shareholding account online.
The Board believes that, given the importance of motivating the executive team to deliver the Companys strategy, it is appropriate for all At last years AGM, the CEO gave his regular update on the positioning of non-executive Board members, rather than just those who sit on the and outlook for the business.
Shareholders were invited to ask questions Remuneration Committee, to determine the executive directors formally during the meeting and to follow up these discussions with objectives and compensation packages.
directors on a one to one basis afterwards.
In December we held a meeting for members of the UK Shareholders Association in London Chairmans remuneration where Jonathan Sorrell, our CFO, reported on the progress of the The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Board based business and the Boards areas of strategic focus.
We look forward to on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee.
This makes welcoming all our shareholders to our 2013 AGM in May and updating the process fully transparent and allows the views of all the directors, them on business developments.
executive and non-executive, to be taken into account.
