16 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Investment management AHL Managed futures as a strategy class faced considerable headwinds client trading this year.
Our research pipeline is also very strong, with in 2012.
AHLs performance during the period, though encouraging seven new strategies currently in test trading.
Douglas Greenig, who relative to peers, remained below the funds long-term average.
As tookover as Chief Risk Officer in April, has brought with him a wealth of momentum traders we aim to make money for our clients when there real-world trading experience.
His drive to understand our sensitivities to are clear trends in markets and during extreme risk-off periods.
various scenarios is proving invaluable in todays financial markets, where Unfortunately, neither of these conditions has been met in recent headline risk and increasing correlation of instruments pose interesting times, but as we have seen many times in our 25-year history, more questions for portfolios.
Anthony Ledford, our Chief Scientist, continues favourable trading environments can present themselves very to lead research efforts at the Man Research Laboratory, our unique quickly, providing us with opportunities to profit handsomely collaboration with the University of Oxford, as well as build relationships whenthey do.
with cutting-edge quantitative finance researchers from around the world as our Academic Liaison.
2012 review 1 The AHL Diversified Programme had a slightly negative year in 2012, Looking ahead returning -1.3%.
Positive performance was realised in the first quarter, as We enter 2013 with the lowest execution cost base, the broadest range of markets exhibited sustained bullish trends at the beginning of the year.
markets and the greatest diversity of models in our history.
We hope that For the majority of the year, trends in developed markets continued to be the decreased correlation among developed markets witnessed towards short and subject to sharp reversals, as Europe and the US battled over the end of 2012 is maintained in 2013, bringing additional opportunities debt and budgetary crises, respectively.
Trends in fixed income drove for AHL to capture trends in world markets.
With an exciting research returns in the portfolio, with positive performance from bonds, credit pipeline for the year ahead, we remain motivated and committed to indices and interest rate futures.
These were counterbalanced with attempt to generate strong returns for our clients over the coming negative returns from commodity markets, in particular energies and monthsand years.
The annualised return of the AHL Diversified Programme since inception 26 March 1996 is 14.1%, and the fund remains an effective AHL track record diversifier for traditional investment portfolios.
26 March 1996 to 31 December 2012 11000 Business update 10000 The difficult environment for trends over the past two years has 9000 8000 challenged us continually to improve our understanding of markets and 7000 improve our performance.
In 2012, as with years past, we remained 6000 focused on developing our research pipeline and improving diversification 5000 within the AHL portfolio.
4000 Our operational strength and trading expertise affords us the ability to 3000 enter into markets that other CTAs find difficult to access.
Hence, while most CTA portfolios have struggled to cope with the recent choppy environment, these non-traditional markets have presented us with much 2000 better opportunities to make money.
AHL has been growing its exposure to these instruments steadily since 2005 and they now constitute a quarter of the risk of the Alpha and Diversified programmes.
In late 2012 we began offering select institutional investors direct access to these 1000 diversifying markets through AHL Evolution, and interest has been high.
We are continuously refining our momentum systems in order to maximise our chances of capturing trends wherever and whenever they 1 AHL Diversied Programme World bonds occur.
Adapting our trading speed, for example, has enabled us to ride Barclay BTOP 50 Index World stocks out short-term changes in market sentiment.
We have also developed and implemented a suite of seasonal and mean-reverting models.
Like Source: Man database, Bloomberg and MSCI.
There is no guarantee of trading performance and momentum models, they are robust across asset classes and trade at a past or projected performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance.
Returns may increase or decrease as a result of currency uctuations.
range of frequencies from a few days to a few months.
They clearly World stocks: MSCI World Net Total Return Index hedged to USD.
World bonds: benefit AHLs flagship funds at times like these when trends are not Citigroup World Government Bond Index hedged to USD total return.
Please note that the historic prevalent in markets.
They play an even larger part in Dimension, our Barclay BTOP 50 Index data may be subject to change.
multi-strategy managed futures programme, which seeks to capitalise 1 Represented by Man AHL Diversied plc from 26 March 1996 to 29 October 2012, from a broad range of market inefficiencies.
and by Man AHL Diversied Guernsey USD Shares Class A from 30 October 2012 to 27 December 2012.
The representative product was changed at the end of October 2012 due to legal and or regulatory restrictions on Man AHL Diversied plc preventing Additions to the management team the product from accessing the Programmes revised target allocations.
Both funds are The appointment of Matthew Sargaison to the role of Chief Investment valued weekly: however, for comparative purposes, statistics have been calculated using Officer, in a move from Chief Risk Officer, has given added impetus to our the last weekly valuation for each month.
research effort, and a dozen new research ideas have progressed into Mar 96 Aug 96 Index value USD log scale Jan 97 Jun 97 Nov 97 Apr 98 Sep 98 Feb 99 Jul 99 Dec 99 May 00 Oct 00 Mar 01 Aug 01 Jan 02 Jun 02 Nov 02 Apr 03 Sep 03 Feb 04 Jul 04 Dec 04 May 05 Oct 05 Mar 06 Aug 06 Jan 07 Jun 07 Nov 07 Apr 08 Sep 08 Feb 09 Jul 09 Dec 09 May 10 Oct 10 Mar 11 Aug 11 Jan 12 Jun 12 Dec 12 17 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 GLG Performance at GLG is delivered through a comprehensive range GLG continued to broaden strategically its investment management ofliquid investment styles and products, encompassing pure representation in Asia in 2012.
Throughout the year, we built a long short hedgefunds, long only investment products and hybrid investment equity team based in Hong Kong, overseen by the Head of Asia Equity, structures, across a variety of asset classes including equities, credit, David Mercurio, and dedicated risk specialist, Ben Freischmidt, leading a rates and multi-asset products, across a range of geographies.
The team of four portfolio managers.
The successful recruitment of this team aim since GLGs foundation in 1995 has been to exceed investor culminated in the launch of the Asia LongShort strategy, which we expectations by delivering a combination of attractive returns, intend to market by mid 2013, on the back of a promising track record.
portfolio transparency and outstanding client service.
GLG Portfolio We are also focusing on brand promotion and education in Mainland Managers are by definition fiercely individualistic in their investment China, as we develop our onshore presence in the region.
views, but at the same time we encourage a collegiate approach in which expertise and ideas are regularly shared, an environment GLGs strategic priorities for the coming year are to build on the positive which we believe makes GLG unique.
performance we have seen across most styles this year, to continue to service client needs and to invest where appropriate in the improvement Many of GLGs alternative funds performed well throughout 2012 of the business.
Following the hires to the Macro and Fixed-Income team, withanumber of the Credit strategies in particular delivering excellent we will be developing our investment management capabilities in this returns, with a range of funds turning in first quartile double digit space and making initial launches on the new platform.
Market Neutral, Global Convertible and Euro Distressed were rewarded for their strong performance with nominations for the GLG track record 2012 EuroHedge Awards.
1 April 1997 to 31 December 2012 6000 Various equity strategies also performed strongly in 2012, with the flagship European LongShort strategy returning benchmark beating 5000 single digit returns and doubling its assets under management over the year.
The funds capital growth plus capital protection mandate was 4000 clearly, consistently achieved throughout the year.
3000 While overall flows for 2012 were muted, several of the best performing strategies reached capacity and soft closed, including the UCITS version 2000 of ELS, European Equity Alternative.
We continue to ensure that we manage capacity to maximise returns for our investors.
1000 GLG focused this year on offering core strategies in a wider range of 0 structures to meet client needs.
The Groups structuring expertise was leveraged to create a range of regulated onshore vehicles in a number of jurisdictions including the US, Canada and the European Union, helping 1 GLG Alternative Strategies Dollar-Weighted Composite us to increase the breadth of our investor base.
2 GLG Long Only Dollar-Weighted Composite Dow Jones Credit Suisse Hedge Fund Towards the end of the year, GLG made some senior hires to create a HFRI Fund Weighted Composite Index combined Macro and Fixed Income platform co-headed by Jamil Baz World stocks and Sudi Mariappa, who previously ran PIMCOs $80 billion international fixed-income offering.
In a world where mainstream economies and Source: Man database, Bloomberg and MSCI.
There is no guarantee of trading developing markets are increasingly integrated, there are tremendous performance and past or projected performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance.
opportunities for investors who want to take advantage of global capital Please note that the HFRI index performance over the past 4 months is subject to change.
flows while at the same time leveraging regional themes.
We look forward World stocks: MSCI World Net Total Return Index hedged to USD.
to building our business in this area, which has many attractions for 1 Represented by the GLG Alternative Strategies Dollar-Weighted Composite.
investors in todays volatile market environment.
GLG alternative strategy dollar-weighted average returns are calculated as the composite performance of the alternative strategy funds and funds that have closed, in addition to managed accounts managed in accordance with alternative strategies, weighted by the sum of the prior month-end AUM.
2 Represented by the GLG Long Only Dollar-Weighted Composite.
GLG long only dollar-weighted average returns are calculated as the composite performance of the long only strategy funds and funds that have closed, in addition to managed accounts managed in accordance with long only strategies, weighted by the sum of the prior month-end AUM.
Mar 97 Sep 97 Index value USD Mar 98 Sep 98 Mar 99 Sep 99 Mar 00 Sep 00 Mar 01 Sep 01 Mar 02 Sep 02 Mar 03 Sep 03 Mar 04 Sep 04 Mar 05 Sep 05 Mar 06 Sep 06 Mar 07 Sep 07 Mar 08 Sep 08 Mar 09 Sep 09 Mar 10 Sep 10 Mar 11 Sep 11 Mar 12 Sep 12 18 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Investment management continued FRM FRM is responsible for Mans open-architecture hedge fund Equity Long-Short managers benefited from the appreciation of equity solutions for institutional investors, including fund of hedge funds, markets during the year.
In addition, the reduction in intra-stock correlations client advisory solutions and a managed account platform.
In 2012, benefited market neutral managers in the second half.
However, returns Man completed the acquisition of FRM to support its existing were held back by the weak performance of Global Macro and Managed multi-manager business.
We are pleased to report that the postFutures managers in our portfolios.
The environment for timing entry and takeover process has been extremely smooth and that staff from exit of markets on a macroeconomic scale has been tough: in markets thetwo legacy firms are now working seamlessly as one team.
driven by central bank and government policy rather than fundamental Theclient reaction to the acquisition has also been overwhelmingly data, it was difficult for any manager in this strategy to have an edge.
Moreover, FRM was recognised by six industry awards in as a manager built a position on an economic trend, there was a new 2012, including FoHF of the year for FRM Equity Alpha and Best policy initiative that completely changed the landscape.
Advisory team, from Hedge Funds Review, and European Independent Funds Group of the Year, from Acquisition Focus on performance .
The outlook for traditional investments is uncertain: risk-free assets have negative real yields while equities remain beset by low growth expectations 2012 Review and downside risks.
As a result, investors are continuing to allocate to active In 2012, indices generally reported positive but low returns for the year management, as evidenced by the growth of the hedge fund industry in HFRX Global Hedge Fund Index returned 3.5%.
Our portfolios generally 2012 and expectations of further growth in 2013. carry less equity market beta than the broader indices, and as a result have delivered slightly lower returns.
Our largest diversified fund, FRM At FRM, it is important that in the coming year we continue to provide first 1 Diversified II, returned 1.8%.
Other notable returns include AA class service to our clients and a combination of products that provide 2 3 Diversified 1.2%, Man Dynamic Selection 2.4% and Man GLG solutions to their issues.
But, most important of all, we must focus on 4 Multi-Strategy 3.8%.
The chart below shows the three year annualised delivering the returns that can help to make hedge funds an important part risk and return of these portfolios in relation to market indices, illustrating of an investors portfolio.
Post-takeover, we have an unparalleled depth of that we continue to deliver attractive risk-adjusted returns relative to most research experience to find differentiated ideas, together with a Managed traditional assets.
Furthermore, our segregated client portfolios generally Accounts infrastructure which allows us more fully to understand and delivered returns in the region of 45%.
monitor our investments in managers.
This unique combination means that we are in a strong position to extract the entrepreneurial premium that During the year our investments in certain strategies have worked makes hedge funds what they are, while delivering the institutional quality particularly well, with those involved in liquidity provision essentially that investors crave.
market making or acting as counterparty to those who have to trade, such as Statistical Arbitrage, among the outperformers.
The structural changes to the landscape as banks have withdrawn from proprietary Three-year annualised risk and return trading has created considerable opportunity for hedge funds to step in % as capital providers and generate strong risk-adjusted returns.
7 World stocks 6 Credit managers also generated positive performance.
A consensus search for yield across the investment industry saw record inflows into 5 World bonds the broader credit markets during the year, leading to price appreciation 4 4 Man GLG Multi-Strategy Fund and more easily exploitable technical themes for hedge fund managers in this asset class.
The best performers were in the Structured Credit 3 1 FRM Diversied II markets, where shrinking capital bases, low starting prices and policy 2 2 AA Diversied HFRI Fund of Funds Composite Index stimulus such as QEIII led to substantial gains for the RMBS asset class.
1 3 Hedge fund returns of 1020% or higher in this space were not Man Dynamic Selection uncommon during the year.
0 HFRX Global Hedge Fund Index -1 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 3 year annualised volatility Source: Man database, Bloomberg and MSCI.
There is no guarantee of trading performance and past or projected performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance.
World stocks: MSCI World Net Total Return Index hedged to USD.
World bonds: Citigroup World Government Bond Index hedged to USD total return.
Please note that the HFRI index performance over the past 4 months is subject to change.
1 Represented by FRM Diversied II Fund SPC Class A USD.
2 Represented by Absolute Alpha Fund PCC Ltd Diversied USD.
3 Represented by Man Dynamic Selection USD I.
4 Represented by Man GLG Multi-Strategy Fund Class A USD Shares.
