34 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance report continued Audit and Risk Committee report Composition and attendance at meetings The Audit and Risk Committee is an Attendance essential part of Mans governance Committee members record Matthew Lester Chairman 9 9 framework to which the Board has Patrick OSullivan 9 9 delegated oversight of the Groups financial Nina Shapiro 8 9 reporting, risk management, internal controls and compliance, internal and The Audit and Risk Committee the Committee is comprised entirely of independent non-executive directors and the Committee held nine formal external audit.
These functions form an meetings during the year.
The Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating integral part of the Groups three lines of Officer, Chief Risk Officer, General Counsel, Head of Global Compliance and Regulatory, Head of Internal Audit and representatives of the external defence model see page 22.
This report auditors attended the majority of meetings by invitation.
In addition the Committee had regular private meetings with both Internal Audit and the provides an overview of the work of the external auditors.
Patrick OSullivan and I are the members considered Committee and details how it has tohave relevant and recent financial experience.
Biographies of the Committee members can be found on pages 28 and 29 and the terms discharged its duties during the year.
ofreference for the Committee, together with details of the standard business considered by the Committee, can be found at www.
Matthew Lester The Committees role and responsibilities Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee How the Committee fits into the committee structure overseeing Mans governance framework is illustrated below.
Issues are escalated to the Committee through the Finance Committee and Risk Assurance Committee as appropriate and by the Committee to the Board, who are ultimately responsible for governance across the Group.
Board Executive Audit and Risk 1 Committee Committee Finance Risk Assurance 1 1 Committee Committee Note: 1 Further information on the role of these Committees can be found on page 23.
35 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 The Committee monitors and reviews the functions Key areas reviewed during 2012 detailed below and is responsible for reporting its findings and any recommendations to the Board.
Detailed below are some of the key areas the Committee considered during the year, together with an indication of which functions these related to.
F Financial reporting F EA Accounting judgements Year end and interim accounts to ensure they give a balanced and a true and fair view of the business and comply with required Prior to the Boards review of the interim and year end accounts the accounting standards and regulation, with particular focus on: Committee considers all key accounting judgements.
The most Key accounting policies and judgements.
significant judgement made related to the goodwill valuation of the Going concern statement.
For the interim accounts the Committee Annual Report sections on Risk Management and the Audit and Risk engaged the services of Duff and Phelps, an independent valuation Committee.
specialist, to provide an independent assessment of the recoverable Changes to financial reporting standards and regulations.
amount of goodwill for each main business unit.
The valuation exercise Effectiveness of the financial controls framework.
focused on the key assumptions used for the valuation model, especially investment performance, sales and redemptions.
This review resulted in R Risk management, internal control and compliance an impairment of the goodwill associated with the GLG business of $91 million and for Man Multi-Manager $142 million in respect of the six The effectiveness of: months ended 30 June 2012.
The Groups policies and process for the identification, assessment and management of risk, including regular reporting from the Risk A further goodwill valuation was undertaken for the year end accounts Assurance Committee and Finance Committee.
andthis was led by management who made a recommendation to the The Group Risk Framework including reports on the Groups risk Committee.
It was agreed not to engage Duff and Phelps as it has profile, related internal controls and responsibility for risk beenestablished that their valuation methodology and outcome is not management.
significantly different from the internal valuation calculation that is currently The internal controls operation in line with Turnbull guidance.
The Committee reviewed managements assumptions and The Groups Regulatory Reporting activities and Compliance recommended goodwill valuations and found them to be appropriate.
aresult of revised assumptions for investment performance and net flows, In addition, the Committee reports any relevant findings in relation to a further impairment of the goodwill associated with the GLG business, risk matters which may impact the bonus pool or individual amounting to $746 million, has been recognised in the year-end accounts calculations to the Remuneration Committee for consideration during please see page 78 for further information.
F R EA IA New Group holding company Internal Audit During the year the Company undertook an internal restructure which Approval of the annual Internal Audit Plan and Internal Audit activities.
involved the creation of a new listed holding company for the Group.
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
Further information on this can be found on page 90.
As part of the All significant Internal Audit recommendations and findings and restructure, Man was required to prepare and publish a prospectus which managements response to and progress in addressing them.
included disclosures on working capital, financial reporting procedures EA and risk factors.
The Committee reviewed these disclosures in detail and External Audit made recommendations to the Board on their appropriateness.
The Committee was kept regularly updated on the proposals and the Appointment and remuneration of the external auditors, including implementation of the revised structure.
reviewing their effectiveness and independence.
Review the nature and scope of the audit and the auditors control R F IA Governance and assurance review procedures.
Findings of the audit and the auditors management letter.
Throughout 2011 and 2012 Mans governance and assurance functions Approval and monitoring of the policies relating to the provision of have continued to be enhanced, including the continued roll out of the non-audit services by the external auditors and the hiring of personnel Risk Control Self-Assessment process see page 25.
During the year the from the external auditors.
Committee undertook a detailed review of each assurance function and how they interact to provide comprehensive coverage of the business.
Aspart of this, the Committee looked in depth at the Compliance, Risk, Legal, Finance and Internal Audit departments, their remits, interaction with the business and other stakeholders, the challenges faced and theirplans for 2013.
Progress against these plans will be reviewed by theCommittee.
36 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance report continued Audit and Risk Committee report continued R FRM integration EA External auditors Following the acquisition of FRM during the year the Committee received Non-audit services regular updates on the status of the integration with Mans legacy fund of The Committee has an agreed principle that the external auditors should fund business.
The potential risks associated with the acquisition were not be selected for non-audit services, unless they are expected to reviewed and monitored by the Committee.
The most material risks undertake the work because of their office or if there are other material identified related to increased client redemptions and loss of key staff.
Work expected to be completed by the Going forward the Committee will receive updates on the integrated FRM external auditors includes formal reporting for shareholder and other business as required.
circulars, regulatory assurance reports and work in connection with acquisitions and disposals.
R Service providers to funds Under the policy there is a specific list of services for which the external Man is undertaking various outsourcing initiatives to transfer certain auditors cannot be engaged as the Committee considers that the services provided to funds to alternative service providers and to provision of such services would impact their independence.
Any rationalise the number of service providers used across the firm.
The potential services to be provided by the external auditors that have an Committee reviewed the proposals and the impact of such arrangements expected value of $75,000 or more and which are not prohibited by the on Mans risk profile.
Areas of particular focus were the stability of third policy must be pre-approved by the Committee.
There is a further limit party suppliers, contingency planning for the services and ensuring that whereby the aggregate pre-approved fees in any financial year must not adequate processes were in place to monitor and secure a high quality of exceed $2 million without Committee approval.
The Risk Assurance Committee receives updates at each meeting which are then reported to the Committee through the The table below shows the remuneration paid to the external auditors, standing reports.
In addition, the Committee will receive updates from the  LLP PwC and its worldwide associates, for business on specific areas and outsourcing will continue to be an area of the year ended 31 December 2012. focus during 2013.
Remuneration paid to Mans auditors, PwC and its worldwide IA Internal audit associates 12 months 9 months The Committee, together with senior management, is responsible for to December to December $000 2012 2011 monitoring Internal Audit activities and effectiveness and ensuring that sufficient resources are in place.
As Mans business has developed into Fees payable to the Companys auditors three distinct businesses, the areas of specialism required to be covered for the audit of the Parent Company and by the Internal Audit function have increased.
In order to provide the consolidated financial statements 1,202 2,304 scalability and flexibility of specialist resource required within Internal Other services: Audit it was decided to move to a fully outsourced Internal Audit function.
The audit of the Companys subsidiaries This will enable Man to leverage the skills and expertise of an external pursuant to legislation 2,494 3,955 specialist provider who has extensive depth of resource.
It was agreed to outsource the function to an independent provider, KPMG LLP, who have Audit-related assurance services 668 704 previously worked closely with Internal Audit and have a detailed Tax compliance services 556 399 understanding of the function and how it operates within the business.
The transition will be a particular focus of the Committee during 2013.
Tax advisory services 235 193 Other assurance services 687 Development of the financial controls F EA IA All other services 891 387 framework Total auditors remuneration 6,733 7,942 During the year the Committee reviewed and approved developments to the Groups financial controls framework.
The Committee has monitored The Committee reviews whether the level of non-audit fees could impact the implementation and operation of the enhanced control framework the independence of the auditors.
This is monitored by reference to the through a controls dashboard which is reviewed at each meeting.
Further level of fees paid for services, excluding services which are required to be information on the financial controls in place can be found on page 30. provided by PwC due to their office, against the fees paid for the audit ofthe Company and its subsidiaries.
Further information on the services R Information technology update provided under these categories is detailed below.
For the year ended 31December 2012 a significant audit fee reduction was negotiated.
This The Committee receives updates from the Global Head of Technology has an impact on the level of non-audit services as a percentage of the twice per year.
The updates during the year focused on the project to audit fee.
simplify and standardise Mans IT services and to migrate the FRM business on to Mans IT systems.
In addition, the Committee tested Audit-related assurance services consist of fees paid for the work Mans approach to cyber-crime and the management of systems access undertaken in reviewing the interim results and for assurance reports for joiners, leavers and internal transfers.
required to be submitted to financial regulators in various jurisdictions.
These services, which amounted to $668,000, are required to be undertaken by PwC as the Companys external auditors.
