27 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Board leadership Actions and areas of focus during 2012 The table opposite gives an indication of the main actions Developing strategy theBoard has taken to provide leadership to the business during the year.
These fall within the key areas of strategy, Improving investment performance performance monitoring, risk management and balance sheet Continual review of relative performance of AHL versus peers and strength and efficiency headlined in my Chairmans review.
Ongoing review of relative performance of GLG and FRM.
com GB board-governance Reviewed GLG fund capacity and identified potential for growth in youwill find a Schedule of matters reserved for decision by Fixed Income.
the Board which sets out the full range of business issues which aremandated for Board review and approval on an Creating options for growth ongoing basis.
Approved acquisition of FRM to grow assets, achieve cost synergies and upgrade talent.
Reviewed distribution network, analysed economics and identifiedgaps.
Reviewed US strategy and market trends leading to renewed focus oninstitutional business.
Approved new internal sales compensation structure to promote asset gatheringand retention, cost control and the alignment of investor andshareholder interests.
Monitoring management and business performance Regular review of progress on FRM integration focusing on people, systems, redemptions and sales pipeline.
In depth analysis of future run rate management fee economics under various performance scenarios.
Review of longterm impact of guaranteed product fide-gear.
Approval and regular review of progress on cost reduction programmes.
Challenged management to ensure that actions taken would not constrain capability and growth.
Managing risk Updated risk appetite statements to quantify operational and business risk tolerances.
Reviewed and confirmed adequacy of stress tested liquidity surplus.
Reviewed high level risk dashboard at every meeting and discussed the impact of changes in the size and likelihood of key business risks.
Reviewed the Boards overall governance of risk and confirmed the effectiveness of the existing framework.
Financial strength and balance sheet efficiency Reviewed longerterm regulatory capital forecasts against anticipated changes in regulatory requirements.
Approved revised dividend policy and secured access to further distributable reserves through the implementation of a scheme of arrangement and capital reduction.
Approved the disposal of the BlueCrest Loan Notes and the residual claims in the Lehman estates to reduce balance sheet exposures.
Approved the buyback of 166 million senior debt to reduce interest cost.
Approved a one year extension to the maturity date of $1.3billion of the Revolving Credit Facility to increase funding flexibility.
