28 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance report continued Board of Directors Jon Aisbitt Alison Carnwath Peter Clarke Phillip Colebatch Frdric Jolly Chairman of the Board and Independent non-executive Chief Executive until 28 Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Chairman of the Nomination director February 2013 director and Chairman of the director Committee Remuneration Committee Background and experience Jon Aisbitt has 20 years Prior to joining the Board, Peter Clarke joined Man in 1993 Prior to joining the Board, Phillip Frdric Fred Jolly was Chief experience in international AlisonCarnwath spent 20 years from the investment banking Colebatch was a member of the Executive Officer ofRussell corporate finance and was working in investment banking.
industry, having worked at Executive Boards of Swiss Investments Europe, Middle previously a Partner and Morgan Grenfell and Citicorp.
Reinsurance Company and East and Africa until the Managing Director in the He was appointed Head of Credit Suisse Group.
Prior to this, Investment Banking Division Corporate Finance & Corporate he was Head of Investment ofGoldman Sachs.
Consulting at The Wyatt Company, Paris now Watson Wyatt.
1 Date of appointment Jon was appointed to the Alison was appointed to the Peter was appointed to the Phillip was appointed to the Fred was appointed to the Boardas a non-executive Board as a non-executive Board in 1997 and was Board as a non-executive Board as a non-executive director in August 2003 and director in January 2001 and appointed Finance Director in director in September 2007. director in August 2009.
His wasappointed non-executive was Senior Independent May 2000.
He was appointed Phillips current three year term current three year term of office Chairman in September 2007.
Director between July 2009 and Deputy Group Chief Executive of office expires in July 2014. expires in May 2015.
Jons current three year term of July 2011.
Alisons current term inNovember 2005 and Chief office expires in May2015.
of office expires at the 2013 Executive in March 2007.
Peter AGM and she will not be will retire as Chief Executive and seeking reappointment.
step down from the Board on 28 February 2013.
External appointments Jon is an Advisory Board Alison is Chairman of Land None.
Phillip is a non-executive Fred is Senior Advisor for Director of Celtic Pharma I and Securities Group plc.
She is a director of Lend Lease Europe, Investec Asset Celtic Pharma II biotechnology non-executive director of Zurich Corporation and is on the Management.
and a Director of New Forests Insurance Group Ltd and an Boards of Trustees of the LGT Company Holdings African Independent Director of Group Foundation and the forestry.
Committee membership Jon is Chairman of the Alison is a member of the As Chief Executive, Phillip is Chairman of the Fred is a member of the Nomination Committee anda Remuneration Committee and Peterregularly attended Remuneration Committee and Remuneration Committee and member of the Remuneration the Nomination Committee.
Remuneration Committee amember of the Nomination Nomination Committee.
He attends Audit andNomination Committee Committee.
and Risk Committee meetings meetings by invitation and was by invitation.
Chairman of the Executive Committee.
Note: 1 The appointment of all the directors is subject to their retirement and reappointment by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meetings.
29 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Matthew Lester Patrick OSullivan Emmanuel Roman Nina Shapiro Jonathan Sorrell Independent non-executive Senior Independent Director Chief Executive Officer from 28 Independent non-executive Chief Financial Officer director and Chairman of the February 2013 director Audit and Risk Committee Matthew Lester was Group Patrick OSullivan was previously Emmanuel Manny Roman Nina has had a long career of Jonathan joined Man in August Finance Director of ICAP plc Vice Chairman of the Group joined Man as Chief Operating senior roles within the World 2011 as Head of Strategy and from 2006 to 2010.
Prior to this Management Board, as well as Officer in October 2010 Bank and was Vice President, Corporate Finance.
Before this he worked at Diageo plc in a Group Finance Director, of following the acquisition of GLG.
Finance and Treasurer of he spent 13 years at Goldman number of senior finance roles, Zurich Financial Services Group.
He joined GLG in 2005 as theInternational Finance Sachs in the Investment including Group Financial Co-Chief Executive Officer after Corporation from 2000 to 2011.
Management, Securities and Controller, Treasurer and 18 years with Goldman Sachs Investment Banking Divisions, Divisional Finance Director.
where he was Co-Head of latterly leading investments Worldwide Global Securities inabroad range of hedge and Co-Head of the European fundfirms.
Matthew was appointed Patrick was appointed to Manny was appointed to the Nina was appointed to the Jonathan was appointed to the totheBoard as a non-executive theBoard as a non-executive Board in May 2011.
He was Board as a non-executive Board as Chief Financial Officer director in May 2011.
His current director in September 2007. appointed President of Man director in October 2011.
Jonathan has no three year term of office expires Hewas appointed Senior inAugust 2012 and Chief current three year term of office fixed term of office.
Independent Director in July Executive Officer on 28 expires in October 2014. contract is terminable on 2011.
His current three year term February 2013.
of office expires in July 2013. fixed term of office.
His service Subject to his reappointment by contract is terminable on shareholders at the 2013 AGM, 12months notice.
his term of office will be renewed until May 2016.
Matthew is Chief Finance Officer Patrick is Chairman of Old Manny is a trustee of the Hedge Nina is a director of African None.
He is Mutual plc and is Deputy Fund Standards Board and a Minerals Ltd. on the main Committee of the Governor of the Bank of Ireland.
non-executive director of Grupo Hundred Group of Finance He is also non-executive Prisa SA.
Chairman of the Shareholder entertainment.
Matthew is Chairman of the Patrick is a member of the Manny regularly attends Audit Nina is a member of the Audit Jonathan regularly attends Audit Audit and Risk Committee and Auditand Risk Committee, the and Risk Committee meetings and Risk Committee and the and Risk Committee meetings amember of the Nomination Remuneration Committee and by invitation.
attended Remuneration Remuneration Committee Committee meetings for certain meetings for certain items items of business.
Executive Officer, he will chair the Executive Committee and attend Remuneration and Nomination Committee meetings by invitation.
