37 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Other assurance services relate to work undertaken in connection with the creation of the new listed holding company for the Group.
This required assurance to be given on the financial content of the shareholder circular and prospectus.
In addition PwC prepared a detailed private working capital report and comfort letter addressed to the directors to support their working capital statement contained in the prospectus.
Due to their office as external auditors and given that they had audited the historical financial information, PwC were selected to provide these services.
PwC worked on two significant projects which fall within the definition ofall other services.
These were the acquisition of FRM and advisory services provided in connection with the creation of the new listed holding company of the Group.
The services provided in connection with the acquisition of FRM are generally expected to be undertaken by the external auditors in line with market practice.
Man benefited from cost efficiencies by using PwC for the advisory services in connection with thenew holding company.
Review of external auditors For the year ended 31 December 2012 the Committee reviewed the effectiveness and independence of the external auditors.
This was facilitated through the completion of a questionnaire by the relevant stakeholders on the performance of the auditors throughout the year, consideration of PwCs internal policies and a review of external reports, such as the FRC reports on the audit industry and individual firms.
During the year the Committee considered the reduction in audit fee and how this would impact the external audit.
There were a number of factors which increased the cost efficiency of the audit, including improvements in Mans internal controls, the move to outsource certain services to third party suppliers and other general efficiencies.
The Committee considered the scope of the audit and requested confirmation from the auditors that they were satisfied that the reduction in fees would not reduce the effectiveness or quality of the audit.
Following this review the Committee recommended to the Board that PwC be reappointed as external auditors.
Evaluation of the Committees effectiveness During the year the Company engaged Edis-Bates Associates to undertake an independent evaluation of the Committee for further information please see page 32.
This evaluation found that the Committee had discharged its obligations effectively and highlighted the improvements made to the operation of the Committee over recent times.
The evaluation identified areas for further consideration and development by the Committee during 2013 including: Increased forward looking focus on strategic risks to supplement the Committees extensive review of day-to-day operational risks.
The skills and experience of the Committee and the benefits of increasing the membership.
Providing more focused papers whilst still highlighting all relevant issues.
Matthew Lester Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee
