31 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 The Board has delegated oversight of risk management and systems Directors attendance at main Board meetings including ofinternal control to the Audit and Risk Committee.
At each meeting the strategy reviews Audit and Risk Committee reviews summary dashboards for each of risk, Number of meetings held in 2012 8 internal controls, the financial controls framework and compliance.
They Jon Aisbitt, Chairman 8 also receive reports from the Risk Assurance Committee which considers Alison Carnwath 8 the effectiveness of risk controls through regular review of Risk and Peter Clarke 8 Control Self-Assessments, risk scenarios, key risk indicators and Phillip Colebatch 8 operational risk incident reports.
Objective assurance on the operation 1 Kevin Hayes 4 and effectiveness of internal controls is provided by Internal Audit whose Frdric Jolly 8 audit programme is targeted on the business areas and processes that Matthew Lester 8 are most significant in terms of the Groups risk profile and where there Patrick OSullivan 8 are key controls on which the Group relies.
In the last quarter of 2012, Emmanuel Roman 8 theAudit and Risk Committee reviewed a report on the effectiveness of Nina Shapiro 7 Mans governance functions.
The report from the Chairman of the Audit 2 Jonathan Sorrell 4 and Risk Committee on pages 34 to 37 provides further information on how the Committee has discharged its risk oversight responsibilities during the year.
Notes: 1 Kevin Hayes left the Board on 18 June 2012.
2 Jonathan Sorrell joined the Board on 18 June 2012.
As part of its risk oversight responsibilities a number of operational andregulatory matters were reported to the Audit and Risk Committee Chairmans role during the normal course of business.
Whilst Man sought to improve its My aim as Chairman is to create a diverse, inclusive and effective Board processes as a result, they were not sufficiently material in number or which is fully informed about the business and able to provide the nature to either require separate disclosure or to indicate that the control executive membership with an appropriate balance of challenge and environment has not been working effectively.
Of key importance in the development of a climate of open communication and constructive debate are my relationship with our In addition to its ongoing monitoring of risk controls, the Board has CEO and his interaction with our non-executive directors.
The CEO and I conducted a specific period end review of the effectiveness of the Groups have clearly differentiated and complementary responsibilities which are risk management and internal control systems during the twelve months set out in the statements of our respective roles on our website.
and for the period up to the date of this Annual Report.
I work with the CEO and Company Secretary to plan covered all material controls including operational, financial and compliance the Boards forward agenda, anticipating business needs and and included a review of all significant operational risk incidents and Internal developments and ensuring appropriate and timely discussion of both Audit findings raised during the period.
The Board also reviewed the scheduled and unexpected matters.
This will frequently involve the outcome of the firm-wide Risk and Control Self Assessment process, convening of additional meetings or extending existing sessions to andconsidered the potential impact of certain risks as identified by the consider complex issues such as our capital restructuring or our business, and the quality of the controls in place to mitigate them.
The regulatory capital submissions to the FSA.
Through informal and regular review did not include the risk management and internal control systems contact with our Senior Independent Director and my other noninplace in respect of the business of FRM prior to its acquisition by Man.
executive colleagues, I keep abreast of their thinking, areas of interest No significant weaknesses or material failings in the risk management and and any issues of concern.
I find our regular Board evaluations very useful internal control systems were identified in this review.
in identifying areas for further improvement in the workings of the Board and will be actively pursuing the recommendations arising from our 2012 Board commitment evaluation set out later in this report.
The table shows directors attendance at the main Board and strategy review meetings held during the year.
However, Board members are also regularly called on at short notice between meetings to review and respond to proposals circulated by email on urgent business that cannot wait for the next scheduled meeting.
Any decisions so taken willbe formally approved and ratified at the next meeting.
In addition, anappropriate quorum of the Board comprising executive and nonexecutive directors may be appointed to pursue and execute a particular transaction after preliminary discussion and approval in principle at a main Board meeting.
Such meetings are not included in the meeting attendances shown.
Every effort is made to set an annual Board schedule which accommodates non-executive directors other business appointments with full use made of telephone and video communication to maximise their participation.
Their terms of appointment set out a minimum time commitment varying between 24 and 33 days per annum though in practice this allocation is far exceeded.
