07 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Most of GLGs strategies had strong absolute and relative performance Key priorities in2012.
Credit strategies had the strongest performance: the Market Neutral, European Distressed and Ore Hill funds were up 18.4%, 17.9% and 15.3% respectively.
On the Equity side, the European LongShort fund was Despite the difficult operating environment we remain positive about the up 5.7% whilst Alpha Select finished the year up 0.8%.
Our Macro strategy long term prospects for our industry and have identified a number of key ended the year marginally negative down -0.1%, whereas the Emerging priorities to ensure we remain well positioned to achieve our strategic Markets fund was up 9.4%.
Long only strategies performed well: MSSs objectives.
These build on the three priorities of investment performance, Europe Plus Fund, which uses high quality ideas from approximately 65 meeting client needs and efficiency set out in our last report and accounts leading brokers to create a liquid, highly diversified, long only European and are aimed at positioning the firm for future growth, whilst controlling equity portfolio, was up 22.6%, some 530bps ahead of its MSCI Daily Net costs and maximising the efficiency of our balance sheet.
Total Return Europe benchmark: the Japan CoreAlpha fund ended up the year up 17.1%, although 380bps behind its TOPIX benchmark.
We have started to make progress against each of these priorities during 2012 and will continue to focus closely on them in 2013.
The focus for 2013 will be to continue selectively to upgrade investment talent at GLG, in order to deliver top quartile performance to our fund investors.
Importantly, the strength of our brand and infrastructure means that we are able to continue to attract talented teams and individuals.
Investment performance Strongest performing funds in 2012 % Summary 30 AHL back in the pack of leading peer group.
FRM performance improved in 2012 amid successful integration.
23.6 GLG credit and convertibles strategies exhibited strong absolute 20 18.4 17.9 and relative performance.
15.3 MSS Europe Plus Fund up 22.6% in the year.
11.4 10 Performance is the raison dtre of our business.
We aim to generate superior risk-adjusted returns for our fund investors through the quality of 0 AHL GLG GLG GLG GLG our research, the talent of our investment managers and the strength of Evolution Market Global European Ore Hill our operations and risk infrastructures.
In the midst of a difficult and Neutral Convertible Distressed fund volatile market environment, the overall performance of our strategies fund fund fund was positive in 2012.
Various enhancements to AHLs research process, combined with some key changes within the team including the appointments of Douglas Greenig as AHLs Chief Risk Officer and Matthew Sargaison as Chief Investment Officer led to good relative performance vs. peers.
However, Growth opportunities absolute performance for the CTA industry remained muted due to the alternating risk-on risk-off environment.
AHL Diversified was down -1.3% for the year, ahead of peers such as Aspect down -10.7% : AHL Alpha, Summary the lower-volatility product, was down -0.4%, ahead of Winton down GLG to develop Macro and Fixed Income offering.
Finally, AHL Evolution, which applies trend-following algorithms to Marketing of GLG Asia LongShort.
less developed markets, was up 23.6% for the year.
In 2013, we will FRM acquisition completed in July 2012 creating the largest continue the focus on AHLs core trend following expertise, whilst aiming non-US fund of hedge funds.
to build a scalable, diversified quantitative business in both absolute Focus on marketing AHL Evolution.
return and long only strategies.
Build out of non-trend following quantitative business.
Performance improved at FRM in 2012: FRM Diversified II, the flagship commingled fund, was up 1.8%.
The integration of FRM Holdings with In a rapidly evolving environment which remains difficult for some of our Mans Multi-Manager Business MMB has been a clear success: we now core products, creating and developing options for growth is of great have a best-in-class research and investment team drawing on both importance.
For 2013, we have identified a clear set of initiatives on the FRMs and MMBs staff, streamlined processes, a unique managed investment management and product side.
accounts infrastructure solution and a wide reach within the hedge fund industry strengths on which we hope to capitalise in 2013.
Source: Man database, Bloomberg, International Traders Research and MSCI.
There is no guarantee of trading performance and past or projected performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance.
Returns may increase or decrease as a result of currency fluctuations.
Please note that the HFRI index performance over the past 4 months is subject to change.
AHL Evolution: Represented by AHL Investment Strategies SPC: Class E AHL Evolution USD Notes.
Aspect: Represented by Aspect Capital Limited: Aspect Diversified Program.
CBOE VIX: Represented by the CBOE SPX Volatility Index.
FTSE 100: Represented by the FTSE 100 Total Return Index.
MSCI Emerging Market Local Currency : Represented by the MSCI Emerging Markets Local Index.
S&P 500: Represented by the S&P 500 Total Return Index.
TOPIX: Represented by the TOPIX Total Return Index.
Winton: Represented by Winton Capital Management Ltd: Winton Diversified Trading Program.
Please see the Investment Performance section on page 19 for a full list of the internal funds and share classes that have been referenced in this section.
08 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Operational and strategic review continued At GLG, we announced in January 2013 a number of senior hires to The US remains a key geographical focus for future growth.
The team create a combined Macro and Fixed Income platform co-headed by currently in place has made significant progress over the last 18 months, Jamil Baz and Sudi Mariappa, who previously ran PIMCOs $80 billion with sales of $1.1 billion in 2012: however, the potential in this huge market international fixed-income offering.
We believe there are tremendous is very significant.
We recently announced the hiring of John Rohal as opportunities for investors in this space and look forward to building our Executive Chairman of Man North America.
Johns experience and business in this area.
In August 2012, we launched David Mercurios Asia expertise, most recently at Makena Capital Management, will enable us LongShort strategy and it currently has $150 million of funds under to both enhance our offering and deepen relationships in the US.
management: we intend to market the strategy actively by mid-2013, on the back of a promising track record.
Finally, we will continue to enhance Globally, we are continuing the efforts to align our distribution capabilities the European equities team in order to increase capacity: some of the with industry flows and investor interest, without losing optionality across equities sector specialists, such as Financials and Technology, have our product range.
A new internal sales compensation scheme which successfully branched out with independent strategies, increasing the balances the need to both raise and retain assets, whilst aligning interests teams overall global reach.
on costs, has been introduced.
We are also focusing on global consultant relationships, for which a dedicated team has been created.
The acquisition of FRM Holdings completely revamped our fund of funds business, creating the largest non-US fund of hedge funds.
This has Our targeted approach to long-term opportunities in China is also generated momentum with clients globally and a strong sales pipeline, beginning to bear fruit.
We are involved in a number of initiatives which, especially for our market-leading Managed Account platform.
The without over committing the Group, over the medium-term should objective for 2013 will be to capitalise on this momentum and reverse the position us at the forefront of the alternatives industry in China as that trend of outflows we have experienced in recent years.
For AHL, a focus will be on marketing the Evolution product which has Finally, Christoph Mller, Global Head of Sales & Marketing, has $1billion of capacity reserved for direct investors, helped by a great year announced that he will be retiring in June 2013: a search is currently in 2012.
Beyond the continuous improvement of our trend following on-going to find a successor.
Over a 32-year career at the Group, models, we also intend to build up our non-trend following quantitative including 17 years as Head of Sales, Christoph built up a formidable sales business, as such strategies are increasingly gaining market share.
With capability and we are delighted that he will remain involved with Man as MSS, weare strongly positioned in this important area, as illustrated by an advisor.
the remarkable growth in FUM to $2.5 billion in the two years since its launch in January 2011.
The team is now working on adapting its Europe Plus strategy for Asia: the back testing results are positive.
Cost reduction Our industry remains fragmented and there continues to be opportunities for incremental growth through acquisition in certain areas.
A number of quality investment managers are realising they cannot cope with the Summary operating costs required to maintain and grow assets: some of the early, Positioning the cost base for reduced guaranteed products.
and sometimes most successful, participants in our industry are reaching First phase of $95 million of cost savings achieved.
a stage in their business cycle when they need to transition: large financial Second phase of $100 million of cost savings on track for delivery institutions are disposing of non-core assets.
The recent acquisition of FRM Holdings is an example of seizing an opportunity to generate shareholder value through selective acquisition.
Given our resources and size, we believe we are well positioned to benefit The difficult environment for our industry and in particular the continuing from further consolidation trends.
run off of high margin guaranteed products has had a significant impact on the firms profitability.
As a result, we have continued to focus on reducing our cost base to a level which reflects the economics of our business flows.
Distribution effectiveness Two cost reduction initiatives were announced in late 2011 January 2012 and July 2012, of $95 million and $100 million respectively.
The first phase has now been completed.
The second phase is on track to be achieved Summary by the end of 2013, for a full impact in 2014.
Non-compensation New internal sales compensation scheme effective 1 January 2013. expenses have been reduced materially and significant attention is being Deepen US reach with new North America Chairman.
given to running the business as efficiently as possible.
Headcount has New team focusing on global consultant relationships.
been reduced from 1,876 as of June 2011 to 1,306 today.
However, talent Develop position as leader in alternatives in China.
remains the greatest asset in our business, and we continue to invest in recruiting and developing key people.
Ensuring our investor access remains effective, comprehensive and Our remuneration arrangements are closely linked to performance with alignedwith market opportunities is vital to our success.
In 2012, we raised the result that variable compensation reduced by 35%, in line with $12.8 billion of new assets globally, against a very difficult market backdrop.
Our compensation cost to revenue ratio for the period was 33% Going forward, we have identified a number of key priorities to enhance our and we aim to keep this ratio within a range of 30-40% well in line with distribution capabilities.
