20 Strategy our plan We migrated over 13 million bwin.
com customers to our single technology platform in December 2012.
We are working towards completing our technical integration that will deliver further synergies and we expect to deliver our target of 65m in 2013.
Despite the shifting regulatory, technological and macroeconomic backdrop, our long-term strategy remains robust and comprises veelements: 2.
Invest in our core assets: technology, product, brands and people Read more on page 23 1.
Focus on regulated and to-be-regulated markets Read more on page 22 bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting 21 4.
Extend into new areas of digital entertainment Read more on page 25 5.
Secure long-term strategic alliances Read more on page 26 Ayue Zhang Designer Read more on page 24 John Shepherd Corporate Communications The online gaming market isevolving rapidly into 22 Strategy amixture of regulated dotcom and regulated dot- 1.
Focus on regulated national markets, both in Europe and the US.
and to-be-regulated Givenour scale, brand strength and proprietary markets technology, this transition represents a major opportunity forbwin.
party, although it does come atthe costof greater gaming taxes and additional regulatory compliance costs.
December 2012 2012 achievements Plans for 2013 net gaming revenue Denmark launched PartyPoker, The transition to regulated markets PartyCasino, PartyBets and services isexpected to continue with several Dotcom 50% Not taxed locally, forour local partner, Danske Licens Spil countries considering regulatory nationally regulated 12% in January 2012 frameworks foronline gaming.
In Germany Subject to local gaming taxes, a newGambling Treaty was introduced Spain launched poker, casino, sports nationally regulated 22% andbwin.
party has applied for a licence.
Subject to local gaming taxes, betting and bingo in June 2012 under the not nationally regulated 16% Weareprogressing the requisite process in bwin and Binguez branded labels both Nevada and NewJersey which will be Belgium secured entry into the important milestones in our bid to launch regulated online gaming market in real money gaming services in theUS once December 2012 through apartnership legislation becomes effective.
with Groupe Partouche Germany Licences secured in We continue to support an active Schleswig Holstein for sports programme of political and regulatory betting, poker and casino dialogue in key markets ensuring that we are fully informed and ready to mobilise our resources quickly should a market opportunity arise.
Our objective is to launch as soon as regulations allow andtake a leadership position as quickly aspossible.
With top three positions in all key products in Italy, France and Spain thisis a strategy that has served us well to-date.
Simon Godwin Corporate IT Viva Espana!
Spain opened up as a fully regulated online gaming market in June 2012.
Online slots are expected to also becomeregulated during 2013. bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting The past 18 months have been focused on creating Strategy 23 afully-integrated, single technology platform, one 2.
Invest in our core assets that controls key elements of the value chain and technology, products, will support our future strategic plans for more brands and people details on our technology platform, see pages 28 and 29.
Asthis process nears completion, we have begun toshift our focus and resources towards revitalising many ofour core services through a series of innovations aneffort that will continue throughout2013.
2012 achievements Plans for 2013 Migration of 13 million bwin.
com We will deliver several operational and customer accounts ontoour new product developments in 2013, each of proprietary technology platform which are central to our transition from integration to innovation: Launched PartyCasino product suite forbwin customers Technology Added 15 new games to our main casino Continue working towards the portfolio, all of which were developed completion of our technology in-house integration Launched FastForward Poker, an Decommission surplus technology excitingnew variant of our popular andassociated resources to drive TexasHold em game financial synergies Launched Binguez, our bingo brand Secure the necessary infrastructure to forSpanish-speaking customers launch into the US Three-year extension of our multiProducts and brands territory video streaming rights for New version of PartyPoker.
com, themain football leagues in Germany including all touch-enabled channels and Spain forfurther details see page 32 Sold Ongame poker network Real money poker and casino games Acquired access to 350 skilled social and inthe UK for Zynga Bet and watch online gaming IT professionals We offer live multi-bets, New proprietary bingo product on Implemented a exible bene t integrated with real-time ourintegrated technology platform streaming of sports events.
programme in seven locations Number of new features for our sports product People Introduce a 360 degree appraisal process to assess and identify skill gaps for our managers and leaders Close skill gaps through a tailored programme of training Upgrade our work processes using agileenvironments We seek to leverage our own assets and the assets 24 Strategy of others, generating new opportunities and revenue 3.
Secure long-term streams that would otherwise be out of reach.
strategic alliances Weachieve this through strategic B2B relationships and sports sponsorships.
2012 achievements Plans for 2013 Partnership agreement with United Continue to deliver excellent service and Auburn Indian Community in California product to our existing B2B customers Partnership agreement with Groupe Explore regulated and to-be regulated Partouche in Belgium markets for partners that can make a difference to our B2C business and or Agreement with Zynga to launch real deliver a strategic bene t that we cannot money poker and casino games in achieve alone theUK Build on our online partnership with Became of cial digital gaming and Manchester United and establish betting partner of Manchester United additional signature partnerships in selected regulated markets bwin derby The Champions League saw Real Madrid and Manchester United, two of our sponsorship partners, battle for a placein the final stages in 2013.
Jason Kinnear Games Designer bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting Recognising the expansion in social gaming through Strategy 25 digital channels, we launched our own social gaming 4.
Extend into new areasof strategy in 2012.
Supported by our own in-house digital entertainment analytics platform, WinSight, we have launched Cheeky Bingo and Slots Craze, our first in-house developed social gaming applications.
The growth in smartphone penetration is also driving our mobile real money gross gaming revenues that grew to 42.6m in 2012 2011:24.0m.
2012 achievements Plans for 2013 Acquired Orneon and Valesco Services Mobile extensions for allmainproducts Formation of Win: the Groups dedicated A unique social sports social gaming franchise bettingapplication Published our first social gaming New bingo application applications Increase revenue from sports rights Established partnership with Nordeus, andrelated data creator of the worlds most popular Launch Kalixa as a new payments social sports application: Top Eleven brand and grow third-party PartyPoker and PartyCasino launched payments revenues on iOSand Android Reel pirate Peg Leg Greg is one of the many new slot games on offer on Slots Craze.
Animal magnetism Our Teddy Pets social slot game has already attracted a growing active user-base.
New technologies pose new challenges and 26 Strategy opportunities.
To be leaders overthe long-term 5.
Act responsibly requires a structured, integrated and evidence-based approach to responsibility that fosters innovation andexceeds regulatory requirements.
Making responsibility real underpins our business strategy, bringing together eight strategic initiatives that are important for sustainable results and growth see page 58 for further details regarding ourapproach.
2012 achievements and measures Plans for 2013 ofsuccess Continuation of our strategy to base Seven-year collaboration with the innovation in safe and secure digital Division on Addiction, Cambridge entertainment on a solid fundament Alliance, a Harvard Medical School ofscienti c evidence teaching af liate DOA has seen the Continued collaboration with the total number of peer-reviewed studies DOAand a research project with increase to 17 OxfordInternet Institute Over 63,000 unique visitors from over Ongoing evaluation and optimisation 90different countries have visited ofintegrated consumer protection tools TheTransparency Project website that and policies was launched in 2009 Increase outreach to key stakeholders, Our work with the DOA has also especially in newly regulated markets delivered some practical applications Increase employee pro bono byinnovating our player protection participation toolsand policies bwin.
party has again been accredited as a member of the FTSE4Good Index Series 35% of employees participated in the Groups pro bono scheme bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting 27 focus on our business On the following pages wehave highlighted three features of ourbusiness: Technology Social gaming PartyPoker
