32 Focus on PartyPoker raising our game Online poker has been through numerous We are now about 12 years on from when twists and turns in the last decade, the online poker came into being and 10 years on biggest of which was the change to US law from the boom that ultimately ingrained one in the autumn of 2006, requiring us to exit of the worlds oldest and best loved card our biggest market.
Regulatory changes inEurope and in particular national games into the digital channel to be enjoyed ring-fencing, have had a dramatic impact by millions of players around the world.
on thedynamics of online poker.
Whilstthere is talk of possibly merging international liquidity pools, for now weface an increasing number of small, ring-fenced national markets that undermine the optimum structure Sergei Muller ofshared player liquidity using the Marketing dotcommodel.
Changes in technology have borne a range of devices through which people can now connect to the web, driving yet more shifts in consumer habits, tastes and brand loyalty.
It is no longer just about click and play: its about touch, pay and play and also about being available through all distribution channels, including social media and mobile.
Smartphone and tablet technologies are revolutionising access to all forms of eCommerce, including gaming.
Back in 2002, PartyPoker was the disruptive brand at the vanguard of an expanding online poker market poker was hot.
Tenyears on, the market has matured withone dominant player in most countries and little to differentiate the other major poker brands: and experience combined with technology has given an increasing number of players a greater edge.
The net result is that recreational and social players are not having as much fun playing the game online as they once did, winning less often than they used to.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting The question we had to ask ourselves was: Rewards have historically been geared 33 against this background and knowing that towards the experienced players while still today the main reasons people tell us recreational players, the life blood of the they play poker are recreational and social, poker room, receive little reward The market dynamics of the online what can we do to revitalise our product Re-opening of the US market taking poker world are changing.
longer than expected rising to this challenge by refreshing Dominant competitor continues to Game plan and repositioning PartyPoker as the consolidate the European market PartyPoker has long been the home of brand for the future a brand that is Lack of real product differentiation focused on the recreational poker themore recreational player and while versus competitors player and delivers on the twin weare tailoring the navigation and other promise of fun and reward.
features to improve the player journey There is dissonance between the Andreas Meinrad, andexperience, our brand positioning recreational brand positioning and Group Commercial Director andall of our efforts remain focused on theproduct experience, which is geared appealing to the mass market.
Having towards more experienced players conducted extensive research and player What we are going to do testing, we are changing our look and feel, PartyPoker 3.0 to one that is modern and contemporary An improved product experience is at and importantly, very different from our theheart of the relaunch that will be competitors.
We are also changing the way rolled out in a series of phases in 2013 the player interacts with us, this is more Research shows that the No.
1 reason than a new coat of paint.
Easy-to-use and why people play poker is for fun and with a fresh approach, it will re ect entertainment not for the win or thedemands of todays digital consumer, themoney offering fun and reward for all players.
PartyPoker will be focused around social After many months of planning and competition United in Competition development, the launch will mark and United in Play theopening of a new chapter for our Our focus is on the recreational player pokerbusiness.
through an improved player journey Catalysts for change new easy-to-play lobby format Online poker market maturing in new features tailored for the western Europe recreational player dotcom market being replaced by Our own research shows we will add additional social dot-national, ring-fenced markets featuresso that players can share that 62% of people who play Emergence of new national champions theplaying experience poker offline have not yet The ability to advertise is positive, but New brand identity and website design taxation reduces economic returns played the game online.
Changed business operating model to Rise of the App easy, cheap and focus on the acquisition and retention constantly changing offers ofrecreational and social players Chat is no longer a social connector Having completed the migration of our inonline poker bwin.
com accounts to our integrated technology platform in December 2012, the new bene ts andfeatures will alsobeavailable for bwins dotcom pokercustomers.
