Key brands: 48 Markets and risks PartyCasino Spotlight on bwin Casino & games Gioco Digitale Market snapshot Online casinos were some of the first online gaming sites to emerge in the mid-1990s and have been one of the best performing segments of the online gaming sector.
Excluding the US, the global online casino market was estimated to be worth 4.7bn of GGY in 2012, up 7.9% versus 2011.
It is forecast toreach 6.5bn by 2015, implying a compound annual 3 growth rate of 11.3%.
Bet type: Against the house that Success factors extracts a statistical margin As play is against the house, player liquidity is not as important as in poker.
However, or edge being a xed scale does mean that an operator is able to offer larger jackpot prizes and this can act as percentage of the amount a major draw for customers.
Reputation is also important as players need to be con dent wagered.
The edge varies that games are fair and that ifthey win a major prize, the operator will pay them.
Having a depending upon which game broad range ofpopular games that is continually being refreshed with new content is is being played another important success factor, ensuring that players can always nd a game they want to play.
Key offer: A variety of slot games, Our offer jackpot slots and traditional Our online casino business has a global footprint and is a market leader.
In 2012, Casino & table casino games such as games generated total revenue of 271.2m 2011: 263.7m pro forma or 33.5% ofthe total 4 blackjack and roulette and Clean EBITDA of 80.1m 2011: 92.3m pro forma, 48.6% of the total.
These represent an increase of 3% and decrease of 13% over the previous year respectively.
Variations: In addition to our dotcom offer, our casino products are licensed in Italy, including slot Casino tournaments, raf e games, which were introduced in December 2012 where we operate under the local jackpot slots, virtual racing, Gioco Digitale brand, in Denmark under the PartyCasino brand and in Spain since June video poker and live dealer 2012 where we offer table-based casino games under the bwin and PartyCasino brands slots are currently not permitted by the regulation.
How we make money: Gross revenue is total stakes less prizes paid out.
Games pay out randomly and thereforeover short periods, revenues can be volatile but over time will gravitate to thepre-determined rate of return or edge.
Prizes for progressive or jackpot slots are accrued out of gross revenue.
Example revenue model Total Amount wagered 1,000 Typical gross win margin 3% Gross revenue 30 Less bonus costs 15% Net gaming revenue 25 3.
Continuing operations after deducting unallocated corporate bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting In casino, content is king and we have developed a unique and diverse portfolio of 49 games including those produced in-house such as Melon Madness, Score, Ride of the Valkyries and Dr. Carters Gene Machine.
Tosupplement our own branded content, we have partnered with several other brand owners to build an exclusive range of unique slot games including The Godfather Part I, Rambo, Terminator, Sin City, Gone With TheWind and Resident Evil.
Developing our own games is a key point of differentiation from competitors that rely onthird-party suppliers for their content.
While this differentiation isan attraction forcustomers, we also offer many well-established online slot games licensed from third-parties such as Monopoly, Midas Millions andCleopatra.
We continue to develop innovative game formats such as Circus, the first role-playing slotgame, and Raf e Jackpot which guarantees pay-outs at a pre-determined time.
Ourjackpot strategy is a major draw for customers and with Melon Madness we paid outasingle jackpot prize of $7.5m in 2013.
Casino products are offered in both download and instant play variants, the latter, which is the most popular of the two options, does not require the installation of any software onto the customers computer.
New channels Historically the majority of customers arrived at our casino sites having first played Going places atone of our other gaming verticals.
For PartyCasino, the majority of these customers Production of mobile games arrive via our PartyPoker brand, while bwin casino players come via the bwin sports will be transformed in 2013 as we increase our footprint on betting site.
Customers that come directly to casino games typically play more and are mobile and touch devices.
consequently of higher value and not having come from our other gaming sites, do notcannibalise other revenue streams.
In October 2012 we announced that we had entered into an exclusive partnership with Zynga, the worlds leading producer ofsocial games, to provide real money casino and poker services in the UK.
Under the terms of the arrangement, Zyngas real money casino is based upon our market-leading software, complemented by anumber of bespoke features including FarmVille-branded slots which have been produced by our in-house team.
Mobile As with sports betting, the mobile channel represents an exciting channel for future growth in our casino segment.
In 2012 we launched a new mobile browser-optimised offer under the bwin casino brand which was followed by a PartyCasino offering in the first quarter of 2013.
Further games will be added under both brands throughout the coming year.
In the second half of 2013 the Group will be transforming its production process to enable us to offer games simultaneously on PCs, mobile and tablet devices.
Whilst we are continuing the development of native apps for the iOS and Android platforms, we have prioritised a browser-based approach to best maintain control ofthecustomer offer.
