Key brands: 46 Markets and risks bwin Spotlight on betoto Sports betting Gamebookers Gioco Digitale PartyBets Market snapshot The global online sports betting market is highly fragmented, with a large number ofprivately owned companies in addition to a few large publicly-listed operators.
Excluding the US, the global online sports betting market was estimated to be worth 10.5bn in gross gaming revenue GGY in 2012, an increase of 8.7% on the prior year.
Thisgrowth is forecast tocontinue, with the market worth an estimated 12.9bn by 2015, Bet type: 1 a CAGR of 7.1%.
Against the house orbookmaker Success factors Offering odds on a wide variety of sporting events is important but so too is scale and Key offer: brand strength.
By having a broadly-based pool of bets, a sports book operator is better Odds on a broad range of able to balance its exposure to risk.
Customers bet against the house and so it is possible sports both pre-event and for the operator to lose money if it fails to set odds correctly.
But, across a wide variety live or in-running where ofbets and events, an operator should be able to make a positive return, or gross win customers can place a bet margin.
The increasing popularity of live betting means that operators also need to after the game or event beable to offer an extensive range of live bets in order to remain competitive.
Betting hasstarted through mobile devices is also becoming more popular and being available on all Variations: channels is also becoming a further source of value.
Single bets as well as combination or accumulator bets on multiple results and How we make money: special bets on individual Gross revenue is total amount wagered less winnings gaming taxes due thatare elements such as first passed on to consumers may also be withheld by the operator.
Byoffering attractive goal scored odds to customers, bookmakers seek to balance the portfolio of bets taken on a particular event so that they achieve a targeted return or gross win margin based onthe expected outcome.
Bypredicting the correct result more often than not, a bookmaker can achieve an average gross win margin of 68% of the total amount wagered, depending upon the mix of live and pre-event betting that tends to generate different returns as summarised below: Example revenue model Live Pre-event Total Amount wagered 700 300 1,000 Typical gross winmargin 6% 14% 8% Gross revenue 42 42 84 Less bonus costs 10% 10% 10% Net gaming revenue 38 38 76 1.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting Our offer 47 Sports betting is our second-largest product vertical, generating total revenue in 2012 of262.9m 2011: 260.6m pro forma or 32.8% of the total and Clean EBITDA of 42.7m 2 2011: 64.3m pro forma 25.8% of the total.
Our primary brand is bwin, a pioneer in onlinesports betting and which today offers odds on more than 90 different sports in 22different languages with up to 30,000 bets being placed simultaneously.
We also operate a number of smaller brands including Gamebookers, Gioco Digitale and PartyBets, which are focused on regional markets.
Our diverse geographical footprint means that our sports betting performance is not directly comparable with other, mainly UK-focused sports books.
While many of our processes are automated, more than 100 bookmakers are responsible for managing our sports offer and work around the clock to manage odds on sports including all popular ball-related sports, US sports and motorsport such as Formula 1 andMotoGP.
By far our most popular sport is football, where we offer odds onmore than 500 leagues in over 100 different countries.
As well as pre-event betting, we revolutionised the industry in 2002 with the creation of the first live bet on bwin.
com, enabling customers to bet on live sports events.
We now offer live multi-bets and integrate real-time streaming of audio and video coverage including all games in the German Football Bundesliga, games from the Spanish Liga Extended reach BBVA Primera Division, as well as the quali ers for the Champions League, the Europa bwins sponsorship of basketball League and the European Championships, to name but a few.
Mobile Since launching our first mobile product in 2001, we have continued to innovate with the addition of dedicated mobile apps on several different platforms.
In 2012 we enhanced our mobile sports offer with the launch of anew touch-based mobile portal ahead of Euro 2012 and optimised our existing native app portfolio for the iOS and Android operating systems.
We have seen a 81% year-on-year increase in sports betting revenue generated from our mobile channel in 2012.
Further upgrades to our mobile offer have been limited, pending the migration of our technology to a single platform.
This will change in 2013 with the launch of an all new mobile sports betting offer during the year.
Sponsorship Signature sponsorships have always been a key aspect of our sports marketing programme and re ect our close connection with the world of sport.
We focus on European football and in 2012 we enhanced our activity through the launch of a digital partnership with Manchester United, complementing our relationship with Real Madrid: our premium partnership with FC Bayern Munich: and the title sponsor of Italys secondtier football league, Serie B.
Away from football, bwin sponsors MotoGP, the International Basketball Federation FIBA European and World Championships, Euroleague Basketball and Pro Padel.
Each of our sponsorships is subject to a continuous process of evaluation including the impact on customer acquisition, brand awareness and the media value obtained.
Asseenthrough our partnership with Manchester United, in 2012 we began to evolve oursponsorship strategy to focus on social media and social gaming, online and mobile int inte eg gr ra at ti io on n, r re e e ecti ctin ng t g th he e sh shif ift t i in n consu consumer mer us usa ag ge e o of f t th hese ese cha channels nnels..
Continuing operations after deducting unallocated corporate
