Key brands: 50 Markets and risks PartyPoker Spotlight on Poker bwin Gioco Digitale WPT poker Market snapshot Online poker is the third-largest segment of the online gaming market.
Excluding the US, the global online poker market stagnated in 2012, with its values estimated to be 2.9bn ofGGY, up by just 0.2% on 2011.
It is forecast to return to growth over the next few years, 5 reaching 3.7bn by 2015, implying a compound annual growth rate of 8.2%.
Bet type: This recent weak performance when compared with other products can in part be Peer-to-peer explained by a number of factors that have affected the dotcom online poker market over the past decade.
The first was when a change in US law prompted many of the Key offer: worlds largest poker operators to withdraw from the market while others remained and Texas Holdem is the most became dominant players in the sector.
The second was the advent of a new regulatory popular variant, played in concept, being ring-fenced player liquidity.
Italy was the first market to effectively both cash game and remove all of its players from the dotcom liquidity pool, a step which has been followed tournament formats.
In cash by France and Spain.
By fragmenting player liquidity, the quality of the poker players games, players directly bet experience is reduced and this has impacted the value of the global online pokermarket.
against each other while in tournament play, chips are used as a virtual currency, with a knockout format How we make money: adopted where the winner The Group does not act as principal but facilitates games and in cash gamestakes a small isthe player who ultimately commission on the amount wagered on each hand referred to asrake.
In tournaments wins all of the allotted chips we charge an entry fee.
Variations: Other formats include Example revenue model Total Omaha and 7 Card Stud in Amount wagered 1,000 both standard and Hi Lo versions.
In 2012 we launched Typical gross win margin 2% FastForward, a quickre Gross revenue 20 variant of Texas Hold em Less bonus costs 18% where players who fold are immediately dealt in at a Net gaming revenue 16 newtable 5.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting Success factors 51 In addition to excellent software and safe and secure payments, having suf cient player liquidity is a prerequisite for success in online poker.
It means that players can quickly nd Raising the stakes WPT has extended its reach around the world a table to play at the stakes they want.
Being able to offer attractive tournaments and witharange of international developments.
promotions are also important for success.
Our offer Against this backdrop, our poker network, that now combines the player liquidity of our two leading poker brands, PartyPoker and bwin, is one of the largest networks outside ofthe PokerStars Full Tilt nexus.
This position was secured in December 2012 following the migration of bwin.
com poker players to the PartyPoker network.
In 2012 our poker segment generated total revenue of 176.5m 2011: 213.0m pro forma or 21.7% of the 6 total and Clean EBITDA of 28.5m 2011: 30.0m pro forma, 17.3% of the total.
We offer the full suite of online poker games in both a cash game and tournament format.
As highlighted on pages 32 and 33, PartyPoker will undergo a complete relaunch in2013 which will include not only totally new branding but a fundamental overhaul of theplayer experience.
In advance of the relaunch we have taken steps to improve the ecology of our poker liquidity by reducing the number of higher-stakes and experienced players, in favour of lower stakes, more casual players.
As well as PartyPoker, we will continue to use bwin brand that remains strong in poker and is an important source of customers.
In France, Spain, Belgium and Italy we operate dotnational poker sites.
In France a large part of our liquidity is driven through our strategic alliance with PMU, the French horseracing giant, while in Italy our largestbrand is Gioco Digitale that was acquired in2009.
As with casino, see pages 48 and 49 our agreement with Zynga includes the introduction of real money poker using the Zynga brand in the UK, with players joining our dotcom poker liquidity pool.
World Poker Tour The World Poker Tour WPT, while not included in our poker segment from a financial reporting perspective, is an important part of our overall poker offer.
WPT was a major force behind the explosive growth in the early years of online poker, breaking new ground by televising high stakes tournaments that proved to be a hugely popular format.
Televised coverage of poker games has soared since the WPT enabled viewers to see each players cards during a game, enhancing the broadcasting appeal.
Since its acquisition, WPT has expanded its reach both inside and outside the US, hosting a total of 55 main events in 2012 up from 29 in 2011.
Now into its eleventh season, WPT programming is broadcast in over 150 countries and viewership increased by 9% over 2011, maintaining its number one rating on Fox Sports Networks for the second consecutive season.
Club WPT, the Groups subscription poker offer, increased its subscriber base by 52% in 2012, maintaining its position as the largest subscription pokerservice of its kind in the US.
Mobile In December 2012 our first native PartyPoker mobile app was launched on the platform, augmenting our existing native app products which are offered under the bwin brand.
PartyCasino and bwin Casino went live on mobile in February 2013 and a PartyPoker app on iOS is expected to launch in the first half of 2013 with further optimisations and an HTML5-based product to be rolled out later in the year.
Continuing operations after deducting unallocated corporate
