28 Focus on our technology a platform for growth Despite the huge challenge of combining We have spent 18 months and thousands of two very different technology frameworks, man-days on moving us towards our goal: to each with different processes and priorities as well as a multitude of differing create a shared set of common design, engineering sub-platforms and functionalities, the and production efforts that enable more effective vision to create a unique, scalable, interdependence of key business functions whilst fullyexible and inter-connected technology platform upon which we could reducing costs and increasing exibility.
build a digital entertainment company for the future, was a key driver for me to joinbwin.
Guy Duncan, Group Product andTechnology Director bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting Why bother?
Core platform eCommerce hub What are the bene ts?
29 Our approach, which seeks to control the The foundation for any eCommerce We believe that our target platform will key elements of the value chain, differs business: provide us with a signi cant competitive from most of our competitors.
We believe advantage by controlling key elements Captures all customer data, is scaleable, that eCommerce and online gaming in ofthe value chain.
Speci c advantages fast, stable and secure particular, is only going to become more arise from: Processes real money, multi-currency, complex with multiple markets, labels, Scalable we can increase volumes with micro transaction services brands, products, regulations, channels, little or no increase in cost 2.
Customer lifecycle and regulatory and much more demanding and Best-in-class we can draw on the best services connected customers.
To succeed over products from each of bwin and Fully-integrated to the core platform thelong-term we need to be a properly PartyGaming as well as third parties, Highly exible customer lifecycle connected company i. e. we need the ifrequired management to tailor the customer infrastructure to be able to attach, adapt Speed to market independence journey acquisition, conversion, ordecouple services and functions for increases our exibility and speed payment, retention, loyalty, promotion, different markets and products, as ofdevelopment VIP, risk, churn prevention, reputation required.
We also need to be able to add Independence brings financial, management, social network new products and services.
Such exibility operational and strategic bene ts integration, responsible gaming etc.
is key given the rapid evolution not just wecan offer B2B services ofthe online gaming market but of Regulatory services customer ID, Integrated business intelligence eCommerce as a whole.
government noti cation, blacklisting, allowsus to optimise our business report integration and other compliance The first step andmaximise Clean EBITDA requirements On announcement of our Merger in July Unbundling opportunities existing as Distribution management socialisation 2010, we began to analyse what we had, well as new services, business models & gami cation, integration with external come up with a design for what we needed and revenue streams platforms such as mobile and Facebook the infrastructure to do, identify gaps and New products and services developed 3. Business intelligence and then work out the most effective path internally, as well as by others, predictiveanalytics toget us there, all whilst minimising the expanding into new areas Fully integrated into the core platform impact on our core operations and Interactive gaming platform exploring continuing to drive the business forward.
Utilises the very best third-party big data and social customer What was key was that we map our technology and systems and is able to relationship management capabilities technology infrastructure to the needs connect to other technologies vendors Barriers to entry our new platform andrequirements of our current and as required isdif cult to replicate given its scale futurebusiness model.
Functions include: post-processing, data andcomplexity warehouse management, data mining What are the key elements?
Intellectual property several and business intelligence to facilitate The platform supports our gaming processes and features have been real-time decision support.
Also provides products and supporting services under designed for our needs and we are a customisation layer to provide acommon architecture, one that allows looking to protect them through patents actionable and competitive intelligence each element to be developed and and other intellectual property rights Used to maximise player values and maintained quickly and independently Cloud-based provisioning and sourcing optimise marketing and business mix ofthe other, but one that also allows each we can market each or all of these 4.
Integration backbone platform glue element to be integrated quickly, enabling services to third parties to create a new fast-track development.
All of this Whilst dif cult to visualise, this is the source of revenue for the Group.
We can functionality also needs to be delivered key to connecting each element of the also outsource certain elements of the inacost-effective way.
platform and ensuring maximum platform to third-parties, if it makes exibility, control and stability The target platform that excludes the sense to do so.
If someone can do it In its purest form this is a clear and gaming products and customer interfaces better, faster and cheaper, we can exploit standardised approach to connecting for each can be segmented into four that expertise through the Cloud for our and decoupling each element of the mainparts: own advantage platform, allowing the capability of Our technology is the backbone of theplatform to expand quickly and ourbusiness.
We have established easily through the addition of new thefoundation upon which our future elements whilst removing or at least success will now be built.
minimising any interdependence on existing functions To nd out more about our platform, visit www.
