10 Our business model how we make money In 2013 we will shift our focus from volume to value.
Our aim is to deliver long-term pro table growth through growing sustainable revenue and optimising our cost base.
As a consumerfacing business we need to be consistent inthe delivery of great content in a safe andsecure environment, at a price that represents good value for money and inaway that is easy to use.
Source of gross pro t Key Revenue driver Revenue model Key performance indicator Whilst the dynamics vary by product, our revenue Pro t and loss item model applies to each of our four main product verticals: how many players do we have on a daily Player Mix of basis and how much do they spend each time retention games they visit?
Multiply one by the other and we have gross gaming revenue.
Other revenue includes New player Frequency revenue from our business-to-business B2B sign-ups of play customers such as PMU in France and Danske Licens Spil in Denmark and non-gaming activities Existing active Player such as WPT, InterTrader our financial spread players mix betting site, payment services supplied to third parties and the sale of sports content.
Number of Average yield per Key Performance Indicators active players active player day Each of our Key Performance Indicators KPIs lies behind one of our core revenue drivers, x affecting either the number of active players or Gross gaming revenue average player yield.
Weprovide quarterly - dataoneach of these metrics on our website Bonus costs and fair value adjustments www.
These in turn are also affected by changes inplayer retention and the number of existing players that leave the Net gaming revenue sitethrough churn: the mix of games played asdifferent games bets have different revenue Other revenue characteristics : how often people play andthe mix of players i. e. are they experienced high-value Total revenue players or novice, low-value players?
Given our shift in focus from volume to value - Cost of sales and gaming taxes the inter-relationship of our KPIs can also be expected to change with less emphasis on new player sign-ups and more focus on retaining Gross pro t existing customers and increasing player yields.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting 11 External factors can also in uence revenue Operating structure performance such as changes in gaming As detailed in our Review of 2012, our regulations and taxation, the prevailing business is organised into four main macroeconomic environment and the product verticals: casino and games, sports competitive landscape.
In the section betting, poker and bingo.
Such a structure onMarkets and risks pages 4457, we means that each vertical can determine have sought to provide some further the best allocation of technical, marketing background on some of these factors.
and other resources to maximise returns.
Cost base Further details regarding the performance From gross pro t we deduct our operating of each of our product verticals are contained costs that fall under two broad headings: in the Review of 2012.
See pages34to 43 a distribution costs or marketing-related expenses that tend to be more variable in nature, rising and falling with revenue:and Kriton Kounelakis b administrative expenses that mainly Af liate Marketing include those items that are more xed in nature and can therefore provide asource of operational leverage.
We seek to maintain a tight control on costs and identi ed up to 65m in annual synergies from the Merger, three-quarters of which are expected from cost savings as we rationalise surplus technology, brands and roles.
The balance is expected to come from revenue synergies such as crossselling and improved yield management.
Balance sheet and distribution policy We generate net cash and have no net debt.
In recognition of the Groups strong operating cash ow, the Board has established a progressive dividend policy and intends to target a payout ratio ofapproximately 30% of annual free cash ow.
We paid a 16m half year dividend in October 2012 and are recommending a final dividend of approximately 16.7m.
During 2012 we also repurchased 27.3million ordinary shares for a total consideration of approximately 51.5m.
Given our focus on regulated and to-be-regulated markets, there could be further calls on our balance sheet in the forms of either bank guarantees, surety bonds or tax pre-payments required bygovernments as pre-conditions for marketentry.
Our policy is to continue to manage our Competitive balance sheet actively whilst retaining advantage the exibility to seize opportunities to Our technology platform is the enter new markets should they arise.
