JPM Mercantile pp01 18 JPM Mercantile pp01 18 27 03 2012 16:36 Page 6 6 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Investment Managers Report Market Background Contributions to total returns in Mid and small sized UK equities suffered a negative return for the year the year ended 31st January ended 31st January 2012, following two very strong years of recovery.
2012 % Investors were concerned by the reduced prospects for growth and by the interminable political wrangling in Europe which was failing to deliver Benchmark total return 4.1 a path to either debt reduction or growth.
Markets in 2011 were Asset allocation 1.5 Stock selection 3.4 characterised by periods of intense volatility.
Risk aversion increased as Cash effect 1.7 Europes debt crisis worsened and the stockmarket began to fear the Effect of management fee 0.5 return to recession in the US and a dramatic slowing in China.
This was Other expenses 0.1 against a background of an already heightened level of anxiety due to the Interest expense 1.0 overturn of three regimes in North Africa and major earthquakes in New Proposed dividend Zealand and Japan and also serious flooding in Thailand.
use of prior year revenue reserve 0.3 Performance Gearing effect 1.0 The net asset value total return for the year ended 31st January 2012 Return on net assets 7.2 was 7.2% which was behind the Companys benchmark index, the FTSE Effect of decrease All-Share excluding FTSE 100 constituents and investment companies, in discount 5.0 which returned 4.1%.
Within the stockmarket there were more big Return to shareholders 12.2 fallers than risers last year as perceived safe, low risk, high quality stocks re-rated in response to the anxiety and fear generated by Source: Xamin JPMAM AIC Morningstar.
These high quality stocks became increasingly more The table provides a breakdown, expensive as the year progressed and as the cautiousness of investor relative to the benchmark, of the contributions to total return.
A glossary of terms and definitions is The bar chart shows the relative contributions to performance for the provided on page 56. year for the five best and five worst sectors within the portfolio.
The dark green bars to the right show positive contributors relative to the benchmark index and reflect both sector weighting and stock selection.
The light blue bars to the left show the negative relative contributors.
Year to 31st January 2012 0% Top 5 Gas, Water & Multiutilities 1.65% 1.09% Household Goods and Home Construction Oil & Gas Producers 0.79% General Retailers 0.64% Non-life Insurance 0.40% Bottom 5 0.90% Support Services 0.95% Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 0.96% Real Estate Investment & Services 1.31% Fixed Line Telecommunications 1.32% Software and Computer Services Relative Contribution Source: Factset JPM Mercantile pp01 18 JPM Mercantile pp01 18 27 03 2012 16:36 Page 7 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 7 This shows that the most positive contributor was the Gas, Water and Multiutilities sector where we benefited from an agreed takeover of Northumbrian Water by CKI and also from our holding in another water company, Pennon, which performed well as the market found its inflation linked characteristics attractive.
Home Construction was our second best contributor: expectations for the sector at the beginning of the year were low but as the year progressed trading stabilised and profit margins improved as the companies began to build on newer, less expensive land.
The sector began to outperform as cash flow turned positive and balance sheets were no longer seen to be problematic.
Cove Energy was again a strong performer in the Oil and Gas Sector as it continued to discover substantial gas reserves in offshore Mozambique and since our year end Cove has received a takeover approach at a substantial premium.
The worst contributing sector was Software and Computer Services where we suffered from a takeover bid for Misys failing when its Board could not agree a price with the bidder, Fidelity National Information Services.
However, since our year end Misys has received new merger and takeover approaches.
Elsewhere in the sector, Logica underperformed when it suffered from profit estimate downgrades as its European and UK customers reduced their information technology expenditure.
The Fixed Line Telecommunications sector suffered particularly from big profit estimate downgrades to Cable & Wireless Worldwide as its UK Government and retail sector customers cut back on their telecoms expenditure.
A new Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director were appointed, and the Company is working to execute a strategic plan which will generate an improved performance from its substantial network of cable, fibre, data centre and unbundled telephone exchange assets.
Since our year end Cable & Wireless Worldwide received preliminary takeover interest from both Vodafone and Tata Communications.
Activity The investment managers have the flexibility to operate within a gearing range of 90% to 120% invested and a more specific tactical range is agreed regularly with the Board.
Gearing was reduced from 109% to 100% in the first half of the year to reflect reduced economic growth prospects and seemingly intractable Sovereign debt problems.
As market volatility increased, reflecting doubts about politicians willingness and ability to tackle large budget deficits in Europe and in the United States of America, gearing was reduced further to around 99% over the summer, but, as investor anxiety reached its peak at the beginning of October, gearing was increased to around 110%, reaching 115% by the Companys year end.
The use of the gearing range allows the investment managers to take advantage of opportunities in a volatile market.
The types of shares acquired when the gearing was increased generally had either good growth or value characteristics in anticipation of stockmarket performance broadening away from the small group of low risk, high quality stocks which had become so dominant during times of extreme uncertainty.
The portfolio continues to retain its style of broad diversification across all sectors, comprising 135 stocks of which 80 are FTSE mid 250 index stocks and 55 are smaller companies.
JPM Mercantile pp01 18 JPM Mercantile pp01 18 27 03 2012 16:36 Page 8 8 The The The Mer Mer Mercantile cantile cantile In In Inv v vestment estment estment T T Trust rust rust plc plc plc Annual Annual Annual Repor Repor Report t t & & & A A Ac c cc c counts ounts ounts 2012 2012 2012 Investment Managers Report continued Portfolio Size Distribution Benchmark index Fund Relative Market weighting weighting weighting capitalisation %% % More than 1.5bn 34.4 32.6 1.8 1.0bn to 1.5bn 26.4 26.0 0.4 500m to 1.0bn 22.4 23.2 0.8 300m to 500m 7.5 5.8 1.7 100m to 300m 8.1 6.9 1.2 50m to 100m 1.1 2.5 1.4 Less than 50m 0.1 3.0 2.9 Total 100.0 100.0 0.0 As at 31st January 2012 The table above shows that our holdings in companies which have a market capitalisation of more than 1 billion account for more than half of the portfolio.
We focus on those successful larger companies which are progressing towards promotion into the FTSE 100 index and also on some relatively small companies, capitalised at less than 100 million, which can present outstanding growth opportunities.
Of the ten largest investments at the year end, which are shown on page 13, five were in the top ten a year ago and a further four were already substantial holdings within the portfolio.
One, Laird, is a new holding acquired during the year.
Of those remaining five stocks which were in the top ten one year ago but which are not in the top ten this year, smaller positions in three are still held in the portfolio and two, ITV and Tate and Lyle, have been sold, having been promoted into the FTSE 100 index.
At the sector level the portfolio is overweight in: Consumer Goods, reflecting our holdings in housebuilders: Financials, reflecting our holdings in non-life insurance companies and insurance brokers: Oil and Gas, with our largest position in the sector being in Cove Energy: and in Technology and Telecommunications reflecting our holdings in software companies and in Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable & Wireless Worldwide.
The portfolio is underweight in: Basic Materials, not holding many chemicals companies: Consumer Services, not holding many retail stocks: and Industrials, being underweight in support services and engineering companies which we believe are generally too highly rated.
Many UK quoted mid and small sized equities offer exposure to growing economies and one third of the revenue generated by companies held in the portfolio is from outside the UK and Continental Europe.
Of the remaining two thirds of revenues generated by invested companies, 57% comes from the UK and only 10% is generated in Continental Europe.
We remain underweight in companies with significant European exposure because we believe growth prospects will remain subdued as the impact of austerity measures is felt especially in the southern countries within the Euro zone.
JPM Mercantile pp01 18 JPM Mercantile pp01 18 27 03 2012 16:36 Page 9 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 9 During the year we held more than 250 meetings with companies and this remains an important component of our investment process when evaluating companies.
We believe that properly targeted company meetings can help us to analyse smaller companies that are often overlooked by the mainstream, evaluate managers and resolve issues.
Our fundamental analysis of companies is aided by JPMorgans in-house proprietary screening process which helps us to identify companies that exhibit the best value and growth characteristics.
Outlook Mid and small sized UK equities have recovered strongly from a low point in October when investor anxiety peaked and volatility increased as markets focussed on short term newsflow and the increased likelihood of a recession in Europe.
The recovery in markets came when the European Central Bank announced a new three year loan deal for the commercial banks which effectively removed the systemic risk of a series of European bank bankruptcies destabilising the economy.
The recovery in the stockmarket then gathered pace as it became clear that the extreme pessimism on US growth was beginning to look misplaced.
The stockmarket continues to be dominated by macroeconomic developments and we should expect some volatility to persist, with markets generally rising in response to looser monetary policy from central banks and falling in response to bad news from the Euro zone or to deteriorating macroeconomic data.
Because investor sentiment and positioning in equities is generally still negative we expect that there will be a tendency for equities to rise in the absence of further bad news.
Having the flexibility to operate within a gearing range of 90% to 120% invested is a great advantage in these volatile market conditions enabling the investment managers to take the opportunity to increase their investment in the stockmarket when pessimism is high and valuations are low.
Some profits have been taken following the strong recovery since October 2011, during which time Mercantiles benchmark index, the FTSE All-Share excluding FTSE 100 constituents and investment trusts, has risen by more than 20%.
Gearing has been reduced to 101% invested since the Companys year end.
Nevertheless, the valuations of many mid and small sized UK equities are still attractive on a medium term view.
Companies have generally improved their balance sheets since the credit crisis, many are exploring acquisition opportunities or share buybacks and the outlook for dividend growth is good.
