ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 Investment Managers Review the governments themselves became the focus Economic Background of concerns regarding debt levels and solvency.
In the 1993 film Groundhog Day, weatherman Clearly peripheral European countries like Greece Bill Murray is forced to re-live the same day are in a desperate situation but even the USA and over and over again, struggling to find a way out France have lost their coveted Standard & Poors of his repetitive existence.
This bears a striking AAA credit ratings.
resemblance to financial markets in recent years.
Periodic bouts of optimism that politicians and Economic growth has generally been modest central bankers can agree a rescue package for against this difficult background, with the USA the Eurozone periphery, the banking system or the showing signs of improvement in activity and Simon Gergel is Head US housing market are followed by a realisation employment in recent months after a weaker of the RCM Value & that the problems are even more intractable patch in the middle of 2011.
Europe has generally Income Team based in than originally believed and that lower growth seen weak growth expectations reduced even expectations are exacerbating the fundamental further over the last year, particularly in the London.
peripheral Eurozone countries, with the UK slipping back into contraction in the last quarter of 2011.
The debt problems started in the consumer, Even Germany, which had shown robust growth housing and property development sectors in earlier in the year has slowed in recent months.
the US, UK and several European countries but Emerging markets have fared better but have not quickly spread to the banking system which been immune to the environment, with growth financed the borrowing.
In turn the banking rates slowing in China, India and Brazil.
system had to be supported and bailed out by governments and central banks.
In the last year, There was a clear divergence between investment styles during the year, with lower risk, defensive and high dividend yield shares performing better, as shown by the 3.5% return on the FTSE 350 Higher yield Index.
8 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 THE MERCHANTS TRUST PLC Investment Managers Review continued There was a clear divergence between investment The FTSE 100 index Market trends styles during the year, with lower risk, defensive The UK stock market traded in a narrow range for closed the year close and high dividend yield shares performing better, the first half of the year, as concerns about the to its starting point and as shown by the 3.5% return on the FTSE 350 difficult economic environment and the continuing Higher yield Index.
Conversely higher risk, cyclical produced a total return, Eurozone crisis were counterbalanced by low share and financial shares and smaller companies valuations and robust company results.
However including income, of performed worse, with the FTSE 250 Mid Cap fears gained the upper hand in August, as poor Index ex.
US economic data releases raised the spectre The polarisation between high and low risk shares of a double-dip contraction in this key economy.
reversed somewhat in the last two months of the The market fell sharply and remained volatile year with the rebound in investor optimism.
until late November when a fragile recovery in risk appetite began.
Towards the end of the year The best performing sectors were tobacco, the pendulum swung back towards the optimistic beverages and pharmaceuticals, whilst the laggards camp with markets buoyed by a huge liquidity included banks, financial services, food retail and injection into the European banking system, mining.
hopes of an agreement on the Greek sovereign debt problem and a modest improvement in US economic statistics.
The FTSE 100 index closed the year close to its starting point and produced a total return, including income, of 0.4%.
9 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 Investment Managers Review continued disappointing market expectations.
The Trust Investment Performance was not immune to this factor with Man The Merchants Trust portfolio produced a capital Group, Inmarsat and Mothercare being hit return of -2.7%, compared to the capital return hard in response to trading issues.
Also certain of -3.1% on the FTSE 100 Index.
The portfolio economically sensitive, medium sized companies yield is significantly higher than the yield in the were derated, including Hays, Premier broader stock market.
Including income received, Farnell, DMGT and UBM.
The final material the total return was 1.9% compared to the total negative contributors were Diageo, SABMiller return of 0.4% on the FTSE 100 Index.
The and Autonomy, which were not owned and portfolios outperformance reflected its higher yield performed well.
The largest active stock positions made a significant contribution The portfolios performance lagged the FTSE 350 to this outperformance, with GlaxoSmithKline, Higher Yield Index return reflecting the particular Unilever, SSE and National Grid all producing structure of this benchmark and the strong double digits returns.
The other major performance outperformance of high dividend stocks.
This index driver was having only a modest exposure to the is highly concentrated in a few sectors like oil, mining and banks sectors as they both fell heavily, pharmaceuticals and tobacco and benefitted last depressing the index returns.
year from having no mining shares or domestically focused banks which were particularly poor Whilst the overall portfolio return was strong, performers.
a nervous stock market fide-rated many cyclical companies and severely punished companies Contribution to Investment Performance relative to FTSE 100 Index Positive Over under Negative Over under % % Contribution weight Contribution weight GlaxoSmithKline 0.9 Man Group -0.7 Lloyds Banking 0.6 - Inmarsat -0.7 Group Xstrata 0.4 - Hays -0.4 Unilever 0.4 Diageo -0.4 - Rio Tinto 0.4 - SABMiller -0.4 - SSE 0.4 Mothercare -0.3 Anglo American 0.4 - Premier Farnell -0.3 National Grid 0.3 DMGT -0.3 Barclays 0.3 - UBM -0.3 Bunzl 0.3 Autonomy -0.2 - Over under weight: Whether proportion of portfolio in stock is higher or lower - than its weighting in the FSTE 100 Index.
10 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 THE MERCHANTS TRUST PLC Investment Managers Review continued The other new investment, later in the year, was Portfolio Changes Close Brothers, a diversified financial services In the first half of the year, with the market company.
The core of the business is a specialist range-bound, most of the activity was driven by bank which is conservatively financed and focused stock specific considerations.
As reported in the on niche asset backed lending, generating high interim report we sold out of a number of cyclical returns with significant barriers to competition.
companies, taking profits on WPP, Melrose and It is seeing reduced competition as large banks British Land.
We accepted the takeover offer retrench and pull money out of non-core activities.
for Brit Insurance and cut the holding in Home Close was lowly valued despite an excellent record, Retail Group following a change in view.
We also with a well covered 7% dividend yield which has introduced three companies Carnival, London been maintained through the financial crisis and & Stamford Property and Mothercare and we grown over the long term.
have continued to build up these positions.
There were two other complete sales from the Early in the second half of the year, as economic portfolio.
Both had been disappointing investments news from the USA in particular started to and were relatively small positions that were not deteriorate, we positioned the portfolio more paying a dividend.
Pendragon was sold after a defensively, reducing positions in the mining, rights issue challenged our hope that shareholders industrial and financial sectors and adding to would benefit from a turnaround strategy without food retailers and utilities.
In particular we added recourse to external funds.
Lloyds Banking Sainsbury J to the portfolio as the business was Group was also sold towards the end of the year.
performing well with a quality and value offering Although the valuation of the bank was low, there that was gaining traction in a difficult environment.
was considerable risk to the business from the The valuation and yield were attractive with regulatory and economic background and little the shares further supported by a considerable hope for a meaningful dividend in the medium property portfolio.
Largest Net Purchases Largest Net Sales Company m Company m Sainsbury J 8.1 Aviva 7.0 Centrica 8.0 BHP Billiton 6.8 Britvic 7.7 GlaxoSmithKline 6.5 BP 5.5 Unilever 6.3 London & Stamford Property 4.9 British Land 6.2 Carnival 4.9 British American Tobacco 5.6 UBM 4.6 AstraZeneca 5.4 Reckit Benckiser 4.6 Royal Dutch Shell B 5.4 Mothercare 4.1 Brit Insurance 4.7 Tesco 4.1 WPP 4.4 11 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 Investment Managers Review continued As well as new investments we added to Other significant sales included taking profits We built up the position companies with sound long term prospects that on part of the holding in cyclicals such as BHP in BT Group, where we were oversold on trading concerns.
These included Billiton and Meggitt and reducing exposure to have confidence in the UBM, DMGT and Britvic.
We built up the position some of the higher risk financials including Aviva in BT Group, where we have confidence in the and Barclays.
We also reduced the position in turnaround strategy, turnaround strategy, and in BP, where the shares pharmaceutical stock AstraZeneca on concerns and in BP, where were still over-discounting the likely impact from about a deteriorating medium term outlook, with the Macondo incident in the Gulf of Mexico.
several key products losing patent protection over the shares were still the next five years.
In contrast, we took profits on many defensive over-discounting the shares particularly later the year as they had likely impact from the Derivatives Strategy performed well and offered less value.
Such Macondo incident in the The Trust operates a covered call overwriting partial sales included GlaxoSmithKline, British strategy on a limited proportion of the portfolio to American Tobacco, Royal Dutch Shell, SSE Gulf of Mexico.
In writing or selling and Unilever.
an option, the Trust gives the purchaser the right After initially selling out of Centrica, we made to buy a specific number of shares in a company significant purchases later in the year as the at an agreed strike price within a fixed period.
In valuation fell to more attractive levels and it lagged exchange the Trust receives an option premium other defensive, high yielding shares.
Similarly we which is taken to the income account.
The Trust increased Reckitt Benckiser, Reed Elsevier and gets the full benefit of any move in the share Tesco which had also lagged their peers and were price up to the strike price but not beyond.
The Tesco position was reduced this share price rises above the strike price, there is a January after their profit warning challenged our potential opportunity cost but not cash cost to fundamental view of the companys competitive the Trust as the option holder can exercise their positioning.
option to buy the shares at the strike price.
12 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 THE MERCHANTS TRUST PLC Investment Managers Review continued In its second year, the call overwriting strategy strike price, provided that the premium income The valuations of has again generated both income and a net received is sufficiently attractive.
The options defensive shares have profit for the Trust.
Additional income of around written are typically short dated with most under risen significantly.
Whilst 1,860,000 has been accrued and a net profit 4 months duration.
The total exposure is closely of just over 950,000 earned taking into account monitored and limited to 15% of the portfolio a year ago many of the opportunity cost associated with any exercised value with all option positions covered by shares these stocks traded on options.
Our approach to option writing is selective held within the portfolio.
From a holistic view it and driven by the investment fundamentals on can be argued that the overwriting strategy slightly low absolute valuation each stock rather than by a separate derivatives reduces the Trusts gearing to the equity market, metrics and offered rationale.
We write calls on portions of share neutralising some of the financial leverage.
clear value compared to holdings that we would be happy to sell at the the wider market, the situation has changed.
Constructing a portfolio - achieving the right balance Constructing a portfolio in the current environment has particular challenges.
As described in the Investment Managers Review, share price movements have polarised with sharply divergent performance between perceived defensive and cyclical equities as investors have reacted to macroeconomic news in risk-on and risk-off phases.
There is a strong argument that it is best to focus on classically defensive companies with robust balance sheets, strong cash flow and globally diversified exposures.
Indeed the Trust has held a significant bias towards these businesses over the last year.
However there are also several arguments for looking more broadly for investment opportunities.
The defensive industries themselves are not risk free, particularly as governments and consumers struggle to balance their spending against limited incomes.
Risks include rising excise duties on tobacco and alcohol, greater pressure from governments on pharmaceutical pricing, utility taxes and competitive pricing pressure in telecommunications.
These risks are compounded by the limited diversification available from a relatively small number of perceived defensive sectors.
The valuations of defensive shares have risen significantly.
Whilst a year ago many of these stocks traded on low absolute valuation metrics and offered clear value compared to the wider market, the situation has changed.
Currently many defensive shares trade close to their long term average valuations and at a premium to the wider market.
The shares may not be expensive in absolute terms but their relative attractions are less clear cut.
Another consideration relates to the macroeconomic and market outlook.
Whilst our central view is cautious, it is possible that we are wrong and that a stronger economic recovery takes hold, or a workable solution is found for the Eurozone region.
Even without that happening, stock markets could rally significantly as valuations are not high and many other asset classes look expensive.
If we see a sharp stock market rally it is likely that defensive shares would lag most cyclical and financial stocks.
Ultimately however, the main reason for looking at more cyclical investments is that we are finding specific companies which have robust competitive positions trading on attractive valuations due to the fide-rating of these businesses over the last year.
We focus our analysis in these situations on the long term potential and the operating or financial risks to the business model.
13 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 Investment Managers Review continued the recent Greek debt agreement, the situation The outlook for Future Policy remains unpredictable and there remains the Following the theme of Groundhog Day, the emerging markets is risk of contagion into Portugal and elsewhere.
current outlook is in many ways similar to last better than in the West Rising social pressures, youth unemployment and year.
Once again industrial confidence surveys income inequalities are causing a backlash against but they have their and unemployment trends seem to be improving, business, banking and mainstream politicians.
The financial system is still own challenges and raises the risk of populist economic policies being functioning after huge liquidity injections.
The pursued and the worrying prospect of increasingly they are not immune to peripheral Eurozone countries are putting a strain influential extremist groups.
on the stronger core, whilst Middle East tensions the wider global trade in Syria and Iran rather than Egypt and Libya are The outlook for emerging markets is better than in environment.
keeping the oil price high.
However just like last the West but they have their own challenges and year, the problem of the debt burden has not been they are not immune to the wider global trade addressed in a convincing and sustainable way.
Japan is caught in its own endless cycle of stuttering growth with high debt levels.
Whilst tentative signs of recovery in the US Our overall view remains that growth in the UK economy and its depressed housing industry and Western economies will be below trend, at are to be welcomed, there is political deadlock best, for a considerable period as the huge debt in Washington ahead of this years election with burden is worked off.
Furthermore the risks seem an almost guaranteed drag from austerity next asymmetrically biased to the downside due to year.
The UK and major European economies are austerity measures and rising social and political showing little if any growth with even Germany tensions.
Despite We have recently been taking a more balanced approach to stock selection and where possible adding specific cyclical or financial companies which meet our investment criteria.
14 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 THE MERCHANTS TRUST PLC Investment Managers Review continued In sharp contrast to the economic outlook, most Within the media industry the Trust owns several Themes within the of the non-financial corporate sector is surprisingly lowly priced, cash generative companies with portfolio include robust with modest debts and high levels of strong competitive positions.
The large UK companies which make to a corporate sector that is in robust financial a preference for up the FTSE 100 index are globally spread and health and thus likely to gradually increase companies able to diversified across industries, many of which are in spending on activities like exhibitions, data good health.
Valuations have increased recently information and marketing.
deliver above average but remain fair on a longer term basis, with low The Trust also owns selected consumer related growth, for example interest rates and government bond yields making companies.
The outlook for the consumer is equities look attractive in relative terms.
The difficult, with a severe squeeze on disposable through exposure to problem for equities is the challenging outlook.
However the squeeze should emerging markets.
The European Union and the USA are important incrementally improve from here if food and utility end markets for most large British businesses price inflation subsides and the companies in Also, we continue to and pressures in these regions provide a difficult the portfolio have strong market positions, clear backdrop.
In addition, the oil, mining and related find opportunities and successful strategies and trade at attractive industrial sectors make up around a third of the valuations.
amongst defence stock market value and have benefitted from high Areas where the portfolio has relatively limited commodity prices and strong resources demand.
and construction exposure include the mining industry where The outlook for these industries would be worse if companies as we feel we remain concerned about the sustainability Chinese growth disappoints expectations.
of commodity prices in a tough economic the clear pressures on Looking at the overall portfolio structure, we environment and where dividend yields are low.
continue to favour large, diversified and strongly public expenditure are Also there is only a small exposure to the domestic financed shares in defensive industries like banks, where the outlook remains particularly widely understood and pharmaceuticals and food producers given our uncertain and dividends are restricted, although concerns over the economic outlook.
However, there is a large holding in HSBC which has a more than priced into as set out in Constructing a portfolio - achieving strong funding position and attractive emerging many shares.
the right balance on page 13, we have recently market exposure.
We see good value in many been taking a more balanced approach to stock other high yielding financial stocks across a selection and where possible adding specific diversity of end markets, including real estate, cyclical or financial companies which meet our insurance and investment management.
Themes within the portfolio include a preference Simon Gergel for companies able to deliver above average RCM UK Limited growth, for example through exposure to emerging markets.
Also, we continue to find opportunities amongst defence and construction companies as we feel the clear pressures on public expenditure are widely understood and more than priced into many shares.
