ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 THE MERCHANTS TRUST PLC Directors Report he Directors present their report and regulatory environment in the year ahead as well as information on investment activity T the audited financial statements of the and the Company is preparing itself for within the Companys portfolio.
Company for the year ended 31 January implementation of the Alternative Investment Key Performance Indicators KPIs 2012.
Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, the Retail The Board uses certain financial KPIs to Distribution Review RDR and the Foreign monitor and assess the performance of the Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA.
The principal KPIs are: Board has appointed RCM UK Limited Business and Status of the Company to carry out investment management, Performance against the benchmark The Company is an investment company as accounting, secretarial and administration indices defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act services on behalf of the Company.
The The Companys performance is 2006.
Company has no employees or premises of benchmarked against the FTSE 100 Index.
The Company carries on business as an its own.
This is the most important KPI by which investment trust and was approved by HM performance is judged.
Revenue & Customs as an investment trust Investment Objective and Policies Performance against the Companys in accordance with Section 1158 of the The Companys objective is to provide an peers Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the year ended above average level of income and income The Board also monitors the Companys 31 January 2011.
In the opinion of the growth together with long term growth of performance with reference to its Directors, the Company has subsequently capital through a policy of investing mainly investment trust peer group.
conducted its affairs so that it should continue in higher yielding UK FTSE 100 companies.
The Company will continue to The Companys investment performance Performance Attribution seek approval under Section 1158 of the is assessed by comparison with other The performance attribution is considered Corporation Taxes Act 2010 each year.
The investment trusts within the UK Growth and at each Board Meeting and enables the Company is not a close company for taxation Income sector.
In addition, it is benchmarked Directors to judge how the Company purposes.
achieved its performance relative to the benchmark index and to see the impact The Company pays quarterly dividends and Regulatory Environment on the Companys relative performance the Board has a policy of making these The Company is listed on the London Stock of factors including stock and sector progressive from year to year, in keeping with Exchange and is subject to UK company law, allocation.
A Performance Attribution the Companys stated objective to provide an financial reporting standards, listing rules, Analysis for the year ended 31 January above average level of income and income tax law and its own Articles of Association.
Together with the proposed dividend, In addition to annual and half yearly the dividend has increased every year for Discount to net asset value NAV financial reports published under these the past thirty years and details of historic The Board has a share buy back rules, the Company announces net asset dividend payments are set out on page 20. programme which has a role to play values per share on a daily basis for the in enhancing the NAV for existing information of investors.
It provides more Performance shareholders, as shares are bought back detailed information on a monthly basis to In the year to 31 January 2012 the NAV per at a discount, and in minimising the the Association of Investment Companies, Share fell by 5.9%.
This compares with the volatility of movements in the discount.
In of which the Company is a member, in capital return on the Companys benchmark, the year to 31 January 2012 the shares order for brokers and investors to compare FTSE 100 Index, of -3.1%.
At 31 January traded between a discount of -0.9% and a its performance with its peer group.
The 2012 the value of the Companys investment premium of 12.3% with debt at fair value.
Board of Directors is charged with ensuring portfolio was 512.1m.
The Investment that the Company complies with its own Total expense ratio TER Managers review on pages 8 to 15 includes objectives as well as these rules.
The The most significant expense for the a review of developments during the year Board has been advised of changes to the Company is the cost of the management 23 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 Directors Report continued fee and the costs of interest on the the past ten years of the Net Asset Value of future.
For this reason the Directors continue Companys borrowings.
Other expenses the Companys Ordinary Shares against the to adopt the going concern basis in preparing include the costs of investment Companys benchmark indices, the growth the financial statements.
transactions, directors fees and insurance, in net ordinary distributions made by the Net Asset Value professional advice and regulatory fees Company against the Retail Price Index, and The Net Asset Value of the Ordinary Shares and the costs of production of the reports the Companys discount to Net Asset Value of 25p at the year end was 402.1p as to shareholders.
The TER is calculated by over the same period.
compared with a value of 427.1p at 31 dividing operating expenses, that is, the Invested Funds January 2011.
Companys management fee and all other Sales of investments during the year resulted operating expenses including tax relief Payment Policy in net gains based on historical costs of where allowable, but excluding interest It is the Companys payment policy for the 4,753,833 2011 gains of 25,156,875. payments and investment management forthcoming financial year to obtain the best Provisions contained in the Finance Act 2010 fee VAT refund as a percentage of terms for all business and therefore there is exempt approved Investment Trusts from total assets less current liabilities at the no consistent policy as to the terms used.
corporation tax on their chargeable gains.
The TER for the year ended In general, the Company agrees with its 31 January 2012 was 0.47% 2011 Share Buy Back suppliers the terms on which business will 0.46%.
There were no shares bought back during the take place and it is our policy to abide by year 2011 nil.
The Company had no trade Revenue creditors at the year end 2011 nil.
The net return attributable to Ordinary Future Development Shareholders for the year amounted to The future development of the Company is Donations and Subscriptions 22,712,211 2011 21,900,146. dependent on the success of the Companys There were no charitable donations and Net revenue return per ordinary share investment strategy against the economic subscriptions in respect of the year 2011 amounted to 22.00p.
The first and second environment and market developments.
No political donations were made interim dividends of 5.7p and 5.7p investment manager discusses his view of during the year.
respectively have been paid during the year.
the outlook for the Companys portfolio in his Final Dividend Since the year end the third interim dividend report beginning on page 8.
Subject to the final dividend being approved of 5.8p has been paid.
The final proposed The Board also believes that the Retail by shareholders at the Annual General dividend of 5.8p is payable on 14 May Distribution Review offers opportunities to Meeting, payment will be made on 14 May 2012.
In accordance with FRS 21 Events generate more interest in investment trusts 2012 to shareholders on the Register of after the Balance Sheet Date, the third and to demonstrate the advantages over Members at the close of business on 13 April dividend and final dividend are not open-ended investments.
This should lead 2012 at the rate of 5.8p per Ordinary Share.
recognised as liabilities within the financial to the Company raising its profile with new Further details are provided in Note 6 on statements on the basis that they have not investors.
page 51. been paid and approved, respectively, by the shareholders.
Going Concern Capital Structure The Directors have considered the Companys The Companys capital structure is Historical Record investment objective and capital structure summarised on page 55.
The details of The distribution of total assets is shown on and, having noted that the portfolio consists the 4% Perpetual Debenture Stock and pages 18 and 19, and the historical record of mainly of securities which are readily the 3.65% Cumulative Preference Stock the Companys revenue, capital and invested realisable, have concluded that the Company are provided in Notes 10 iv and 10 v funds over the past ten years is shown on has adequate resources to continue in respectively on page 55. page 20.
Graphs appear on page 7 showing operational existence for the foreseeable the performance on a total return basis over 24 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 THE MERCHANTS TRUST PLC Directors Report continued Principal Risks and Uncertainties The principal risks identified by the Board are set out in the table on this page, together with the actions taken to mitigate these risks.
A more detailed version of this table, in the form of a Risk Matrix, is reviewed and updated by the Board twice yearly.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company relate to the nature of its objectives and strategy as an investment company and the markets in which it operates.
Description Mitigation The Board manages these risks by diversification of investments through its investment Investment Activity and Strategy restrictions and guidelines which are monitored and on which the Board receives reports.
An inappropriate investment strategy, e. g. RCM UK Limited RCM provides the Directors with management information asset allocation or the level of gearing, may including performance data and reports and shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors lead to under-performance against the the implementation and results of the investment process with the investment manager, Companys benchmark index and peer group who attends all board meetings, and reviews data which show risk factors and how they companies, and also in the Companys affect the portfolio.
The Board reviews investment strategy, including gearing, at each shares trading on a wider discount.
The Board receives reports on shareholder activity and on shareholder sentiment on a Corporate Governance and Shareholder regular basis and contact is maintained with major shareholders.
Details of the Companys Relations compliance with Corporate Governance best practice, including information on relations Shareholder discontent could arise if there with shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 27 to is weak adherence to best practice in 31. corporate governance and which could result in potential reputational damage to the Company.
The financial risks associated with the Company include market risk price and yield, Financial interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Further analysis of these risks can be found in Note 18 on pages 58 to 63.
In addition to the specific principal risks identified in the table above, the Company faces risks to the provision of services from third parties and more general risks relating to compliance with accounting, tax, legal and regulatory requirements, which could have an impact on reputation and market rating.
These risks are formally reviewed by the Board twice each year.
Details of the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance best practice, including information on relations with shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement within the Directors Report beginning on page 27.
The Boards reviews of the risks faced by the Company also include an assessment of the residual risks after mitigating action has been taken.
25 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 Directors Report continued Voting Rights in the Companys Shares The voting rights at 29 March 2012 were: Number of Voting rights Total Share class shares issued per share Voting Rights Ordinary Shares of 25p 103,213,464 1 103,213,464 3.65% Cumulative Preference Stock of 1 1,178,000 1 1,178,000 Total 104,391,464 104,391,464 Every member on a show of hands has one vote.
On a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy or representative has one vote for every 1 in nominal amount of Preference Stock or one vote for every Ordinary Share of 25p.
There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no agreements which the Company is party to that might affect its control following a takeover bid: and no agreements between the Company and its directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
Interests in the Companys Share Capital As at 29 March 2012 the following had declared a notifiable interest in the Companys issued share capital: Ordinary Shares Number of Percentage of Name shares Voting Rights Legal & General Group PLC 4,099,823 3.97 Lloyds Banking Group PLC 4,086,614 3.96 Axa SA 3,664,667 3.55 This represents no significant change since the year end.
Directors Biographical details of the current Directors are shown on page 22 and, except where noted, all Directors served throughout the financial year under review.
All of the Directors are retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting AGM and each offers himself for re-election.
The Board considers each director to be independent of the Manager and has the full support of the Board in standing for re-election.
The Board confirms that, since the year end, the performances of all of the Directors have been subject to a formal evaluation and that each continues to be effective, have the appropriate skills and have demonstrated commitment and the necessary time to his role.
All Directors attended all board and relevant committee meetings during the year.
No contracts of significance in which directors are deemed to have been interested have subsisted during the year under review.
Contracts of service are not entered into with the directors, who hold office in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Directors and officers liability insurance cover is held by the Company and deeds of indemnity have been entered into with the Directors.
26 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 THE MERCHANTS TRUST PLC Directors Report continued The current Directors and their beneficial interests in the share capital of the Company as at 31 January 2012 and 31 January 2011 are listed below: Ordinary shares of 25p 2012 2011 Simon Fraser 20,000 20,000 Mike McKeon 450 450 Henry Staunton 10,000 10,000 Paul Yates 10,000 - Joined the Board in March 2011 and held 1,000 shares on appointment.
Dick Barfield held 2,440 Ordinary Shares at 31 January 2011 and at his retirement on 10 May 2011.
There have been no changes to directors interests since the year end.
Management Contract and Management Fee The management contract with RCM UK Limited RCM provides for a fee of 0.35% per annum 2011 0.35% of the value of the assets, calculated quarterly, after deduction of current liabilities, short term loans under one year and any funds within the portfolio managed by RCM.
The management contract is terminable at one years notice 2011 one year.
The Managers performance under the contract and the contract terms are reviewed at least annually by the Management Engagement Committee.
This committee consists of the Directors not employed by the management company in the past five years and therefore includes the entire Board.
During the year, the committee met the Manager to review the current investment framework, including the Trusts performance, marketing activity and total expense ratio.
The committee also reviewed the terms of the management contract and considered the level of the management fee.
The committee was satisfied with its review and believes that the continuing appointment of the Manager is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Individual Savings Accounts The affairs of the Company are conducted in such a way as to meet the requirements for an Individual Savings Account and it is the intention to continue to do so.
Corporate Governance Statement The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code and been guided by the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
Both documents can be found on the AIC website www.
As confirmed by the Financial Reporting Council following the AIC Corporate Governance Guide enables investment company boards to meet their obligations under the UK Corporate Governance Code and Listing Rules.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of UK Corporate Governance Code, except in relation to the UK Corporate Governance Code provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive: executive directors remuneration: and the remuneration committee.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the preamble to the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the Company as it is an externally managed investment company.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
27 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 Directors Report continued AIC Code Principles How the principles are applied THE BOARD 1 The chairman should be Simon Fraser joined the Board as a non-executive director in August 2009 and he has been independent.
Chairman of the Company since May 2010.
The Board, under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director, Henry Staunton, formally reviews the Chairman each year and it considers that Simon Fraser is independent both in character and in judgement and that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, his judgement.
The Senior Independent Director can provide a sounding board for the Chairman and serve as an intermediary for the other directors when necessary.
2 A majority of the board The Board is composed of four non-executive directors and all are considered to be independent should be independent of the of the Manager.
None of the directors has any former association with the Manager and each is manager.
considered to be independent in character and judgement.
3 Directors should be submitted All directors will stand for re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
for re-election at regular The Board reviews the composition of the Board and board committees every year.
Nomination for information on the activities of the Nomination Committee is on page 32. re-election should not be assumed but be based on disclosed procedures and continued satisfactory performance.
4 The board should have a Directors appointments are reviewed annually.
No director has a contract of service and a policy on tenure, which is director may resign by notice in writing to the board at any time.
A performance review of the disclosed in the annual report.
board and the individual directors is conducted annually.
The Company is a member of the FTSE 350 Index and therefore complies with the AIC Code principle concerning the annual re-election of all directors.
The Board aims to refresh its composition from time to time: a new appointment was made in March 2011 and there is a plan to make further changes over the next two years.
5 There should be full disclosure The directors biographies on page 22 demonstrate a breadth of investment, industrial of information about the commercial and professional experience and expertise.
28 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 THE MERCHANTS TRUST PLC Directors Report continued AIC Code Principles How the principles are applied 6 The board should aim to have The composition and balance of the Board is continuously under review and these matters are a balance of skills, experience, taken into account as part of every recruitment process.
length of service and knowledge of the company.
7 The board should undertake During the year, the effectiveness of the Board was assessed through interviews conducted a formal and rigorous by the Chairman with each director.
The Chairman also discussed individual training and annual evaluation of its own development needs with each director.
The Chairmans own performance was evaluated by performance and that of its the other directors who met under the leadership of Henry Staunton, the Senior Independent committees and individual Director.
The results of the effectiveness assessment, performance evaluation and development directors.
planning have been presented to the Board.
The Board will consider the use of external facilitators to carry out Board evaluation in the future.
8 Director remuneration The Directors Remuneration Report is on pages 38 and 39. should reflect their duties, responsibilities and the value of their time spent.
9 The independent directors The Nomination Committee, composed of all the independent directors and therefore the full should take the lead in the current board, considers the recruitment of new directors and all directors will meet a shortlist of appointment of new directors candidates.
As part of the most recent recruitment process, consultants were appointed to draw and the process should be up a shortlist to include as wide a spectrum of candidates as possible, including taking gender disclosed in the annual report.
10 Directors should be offered When a new director is appointed there is an induction process carried out by the Manager.
Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys regulatory and statutory requirements and internal financial controls.
Changes affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
11 The chairman and the board This principle does not apply to the Company as it is a long established investment company.
should be brought into the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
29 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 Directors Report continued AIC Code Principles How the principles are applied BOARD MEETINGS AND THE RELATIONSHIP WITH THE MANAGER 12 Boards and managers should The Board met six times in the year and also held an annual strategy meeting.
Representatives operate in a supportive, of the Manager, including senior executives of the management company and the investment co-operative and open managers, together with the Company Secretary attend every meeting and other investment environment.
professionals and marketing executives join the meetings from time to time.
The Chairman encourages participation and discussion at the meetings.
13 The primary focus at regular Full investment and performance reports are received and discussed at every board meeting board meetings should and matters such as gearing, asset allocation, marketing and investor relations, peer group be a review of investment information and industry issues are all matters that are covered by the agenda.
performance and associated matters such as gearing, asset allocation, marketing investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
14 Boards should give sufficient The Board conducts a formal strategy review each year and continues to monitor the matters attention to overall strategy.
15 The board should regularly The Management Engagement Committee considers the performance of the manager and the review both the performance contractual terms of engagement.
Further information on the activities of the Committee are on of, and contractual page 32. arrangements with, the manager.
16 The board should agree The investment management contract covers the provision of operational matters and the Board policies with the manager discusses with the manager and agrees policies concerning key operational matters such as covering key operational corporate governance issues and voting in respect of portfolio holdings, performance reporting issues.
methodology including matters such as benchmarking, gearing, share buy backs and investment restrictions.
17 Boards should monitor The share price is monitored and the net asset value is reported on a daily basis.
The Board the level of the share price receives reports on these issues at each Board meeting.
The Company has a share buy back discount or premium if any programme which includes in its aims the intention to reduce discount volatility.
The Company and, if desirable, take action to has also taken powers to issue limited numbers of shares in certain circumstances see page 34. reduce it.
18 The board should monitor The Audit Committee receives and considers internal controls reports from third party service and evaluate other service providers and the manager and Company Secretary report to the Committee on their monitoring providers.
and evaluation of these services.
30 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 THE MERCHANTS TRUST PLC Directors Report continued AIC Code Principles How the principles are applied SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS 19 The board should regularly The Chairman works with the manager to ensure that there is effective communication with monitor the shareholder the Companys shareholders.
There is a process for monitoring and analysing the shareholder profile of the company and register and this is reported at each Board meeting.
Visits to institutional shareholders and private put in place a system for client brokers are offered and carried out in a rolling programme.
There is an opportunity for canvassing shareholder views shareholders to meet and communicate with the directors and managers at the Companys and for communicating the Annual General Meeting, at which the portfolio manager gives a presentation.
The Senior boards views to shareholders.
Independent Director provides another point of contact for Shareholders.
20 The board should normally The Board, or a Committee of the Board, reviews all major communications by the Company.
take responsibility for, and have a direct involvement in, the content of communications regarding major corporate issues even if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
21 The board should ensure that The Board agrees with the Manager every year a budget for and programme of marketing shareholders are provided activity to communicate with investors and to reach a wider audience.
In addition to the Annual with sufficient information and half-yearly report, both of which are sent to all shareholders and those others who have for them to understand the registered to receive them, the Company publishes online and makes available in hard copy a risk:reward balance to which monthly factsheet and publishes daily on its website www.
co. uk the net asset they are exposed by holding value of the Companys shares and many other details of interest to investors.
Attendance by the current directors at formal Board and committee meetings during the year was as follows: Management Audit Nomination Engagement Director Board Committee Committee Committee No.
of meetings 6 2 1 1 Simon Fraser 6 2 1 1 Mike McKeon 6 2 1 1 Henry Staunton 6 2 1 1 Paul Yates 6 2 1 1 Invited to attend meetings, although not a committee member.
Dick Barfield attended all meetings during the year until his retirement from the Board on 10 May 2011.
31 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 Directors Report continued decision and that in taking the decision the Management Engagement Committee Special Rights Disclosure Directors will act in a way they consider, in The Management Engagement Committee There are no restrictions concerning the good faith, will be most likely to promote meets at least once each year to review the transfer of securities in the Company: no the Companys success.
The Board is able Management Agreement and the Managers special rights with regard to control attached to impose limits or conditions when giving performance.
It has defined terms of to securities: no agreements between holders authorisation if it thinks this is appropriate.
reference and consists of the non-executive of securities regarding their transfer known Directors and would exclude any Directors to the Company: no agreements which The Board confirms that its powers of previously employed by the Manager.
It is the Company is party to that might affect authorisation are operating effectively and that chaired by Simon Fraser, the Chairman of the its control following a takeover bid: and no the agreed procedures have been followed.
agreements between the Company and its directors concerning compensation for loss Board Committees Terms of Reference of office.
Audit Committee The Terms of Reference for each of the The Audit Committee Report is on page 37.
The Company is not aware of any committees may be viewed by shareholders agreements between holders of securities on request and are published on the website Nomination Committee with regard to control of the Company which www.
The Nomination Committee meets at least may result in restrictions on voting rights.
once each year and makes recommendations The Board has not constituted a on the appointment of new Directors and Remuneration Committee: all Directors are Conflicts of Interest the re-election of existing Directors by non-executive and remuneration matters are The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors shareholders.
The committee also determines dealt with by the whole Board.
A director must avoid a the process for the annual evaluation of situation where he has, or can have, a direct the Board.
The committee is chaired by Financial Reporting or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly Simon Fraser, the Chairman of the Board.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in may conflict, with the Companys interests.
All Directors serve on the committee and respect of the financial statements is on page Directors are able to authorise these conflicts consider nominations made in accordance 36.
The Independent Auditors Report can be and potential conflicts.
The Board reports with an agreed procedure.
The recruitment found on page 41. annually on the Companys procedures for process for new directors is for the Board ensuring that its powers of authorisation of to appoint external consultants to nominate Auditors Information conflicts are operated effectively and that the candidates for the committee to consider.
Each of the persons who is a Director at the procedures have been followed.
date of approval of this report confirms that: The Board has issued a statement giving Each of the Directors has provided a support to the intention of the Davies Review a in so far as the Director is aware, there statement of all conflicts of interest and Women on Boards to encourage diversity is no relevant audit information of which potential conflicts of interest relating to the on the boards of companies.
There are four the Companys auditors are unaware: and Company.
These statements have been directors on the board and as each has considered and approved by the Board.
b the Director has taken all the steps he served no more than four years there are no The Directors have undertaken to notify ought to have taken as a Director in order current plans to recruit new directors.
In the the Chairman and Company Secretary to make himself aware of any relevant last recruitment exercise, as described in the of any proposed new appointments and audit information and to establish that previous annual report, the Board sought to new conflicts or potential conflicts for the Companys auditors are aware of that identify a wide spectrum of candidates and consideration, if necessary, by the Board.
to take gender into account.
The Boards aim The Board has agreed that only Directors This confirmation is given and should be is to continue with a policy of shortlisting who have no interest in the matter being interpreted in accordance with the provisions women in the search for new directors.
considered will be able to take the relevant of Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006.
32 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 THE MERCHANTS TRUST PLC Directors Report continued and company secretarial services to The Audit Committee has received reports Internal Control the Company.
The Manager therefore from each of its service providers on the The Directors have overall responsibility for maintains the internal controls associated anti-bribery policies of these third parties.
the Companys system of internal control.
with the day to day operation of the It receives reports at each meeting on Whilst acknowledging their responsibility for Company.
These responsibilities are compliance with the Mangers anti-bribery the system of internal control, the Directors included in the Management Agreement policy.
are aware that such a system is designed between the Company and the Manager.
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of The Directors confirm that the Audit The Managers system of internal control a failure to achieve business objectives and Committee has reviewed the effectiveness includes organisation arrangements with can provide only reasonable but not absolute of the system of internal control.
During the clearly defined lines of responsibility and assurance against material misstatement or course of its review of the system of internal delegated authority as well as control loss.
control, the Board has not identified nor been procedures and systems which are advised of any failings or weaknesses which it The Board has established an ongoing regularly evaluated by management and has determined to be significant.
process for identifying, evaluating and monitored by its internal audit department.
managing the significant risks faced by the RCM is regulated by the Financial Services Relations with Shareholders Company.
This process is subject to review Authority FSA and its compliance The Board strongly believes that the annual by the Audit Committee and accords with the department regularly monitors compliance general meeting should be an event which Turnbull guidance and it is believed that the with FSA rules.
The Company receives private shareholders are encouraged to appropriate framework is in place to meet the reports at least annually from the manager attend.
The annual general meeting is requirements of the AIC Code.
The process on its internal controls.
The Company, in attended by the Chairman of the Board has been fully in place throughout the year common with other investment trusts, and the Chairman of the Audit Committee, under review and up to the date of signing of has no internal audit department, but the and the Investment Manager makes a this Annual Financial Report.
effectiveness of the Managers internal presentation at the meeting.
The number of The key elements of the procedures that the controls is monitored by Allianz Global proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution Directors have established and which are Investors internal audit function.
will be made available at the annual general designed to provide effective internal control There is a regular review by the Board of meeting.
are as follows: asset allocation and any risk implications.
The Manager meets with institutional The Board, assisted by the Manager, There is also regular and comprehensive shareholders on a regular basis and reports undertook a full review of the Companys review by the Board of management to the Board on matters raised at these business risks and these are analysed and accounting information including meetings.
The Chairman and, where recorded see page 25.
Every six months revenue and expenditure projections, appropriate, other Directors, are available the Board receives from the Manager a actual revenue against projections and to meet with shareholders to discuss formal report which details any known performance comparisons.
governance and strategy and to understand internal controls failures, including those Authorisation and exposure limits are set their issues and concerns.
All correspondence that are not directly the responsibility of the and maintained by the Board.
with shareholders is reviewed by the Board.
The Board continues to check The Audit Committee assesses the Shareholders who wish to communicate that good systems of internal control and Managers and Custodians systems of directly with the Chairman, the Senior risk management are embedded in the controls by reviewing Internal Control Independent Director or other Directors may operations and culture of the Company reports provided by the Managers and third write care of the Company Secretary at 155 and its key suppliers.
party service providers, including those of Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AD.
The appointment of RCM UK Limited the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, RCM as the Manager provides and Custodian, HSBC Bank plc.
investment management, accounting 33 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 Directors Report continued The Notice of Meeting sets out the business The Board has noted the Managers Annual General Meeting of the meeting and special resolutions are statement of its corporate governance aims Allotment of New Shares and explained more fully in the Directors Report.
and objectives, summarised as: Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights Separate resolutions are proposed for each Our primary corporate aim is to maximise Approval is sought for the renewal of the substantive issue.
shareholder value through the securing of Directors authority to allot relevant securities, corporate performance whilst protecting this in accordance with Section 551 of the The UK Stewardship Code and Exercise of value through operating within established Companies Act 2006, up to a maximum Voting Powers rules of conformance.
number of 34,401,047 Ordinary Shares, The Companys investments are held in a representing approximately 33% of the Our primary investment management aim is nominee name.
The Board has delegated existing Ordinary Share capital.
This authority to meet or exceed our clients expectations discretion to discharge its responsibilities is renewable annually and will expire at the through generating first class returns within in respect of investments, including the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in the constraint of their risk tolerance.
exercise of voting powers on its behalf to 2013. the Manager, RCM UK Limited RCM.
The RCM votes in all markets wherever possible, A resolution was passed at the Annual UK Stewardship Code sets out good practice and strives actively to encourage both General Meeting held on 10 May 2011 on engagement with investee companies.
It improved levels of disclosure among in accordance with Section 570 of the provides an opportunity to bring together UK companies and proper voting infrastructure Companies Act 2006, to authorise the and overseas investors committed to the high among custodians and agents globally.
Directors to allot Ordinary Shares for cash quality dialogue with companies needed to In the UK, RCM is a member of the National other than pro rata to existing shareholders.
Association of Pension Funds NAPF and the The authority is renewable annually and By creating a sound basis of engagement it International Corporate Governance Network expires at the conclusion of the Annual should create a much needed stronger link ICGN, and abides by these organisations General Meeting in 2012.
A Special between governance and the investment founding principles.
These guidelines also Resolution is therefore proposed under process, and support the concept of comply take into account international codes of special business at the forthcoming Annual or explain as applied by listed companies.
corporate governance from a number of General Meeting to renew this authority The FRC therefore sees it as complementary sources, including Employment Retirement for a further year.
This power is limited to a to the UK Corporate Governance Code Income Security Act ERISA legislation and maximum number of 10,321,346 for listed companies.
The Companys Department of Labor recommendations in Ordinary Shares, being approximately 10% Manager, RCM UK s policy statement on the U. S. where appropriate.
of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Stewardship Code can be found on the Company as at the date of this report, Where Directors hold directorships on its website: www.
com london pdf provided that there is no change in the issued the boards of companies in which the Stewardship Policy.
The Board has share capital between the date of this report Company is invested, they do not participate reviewed this policy statement and is satisfied and the Annual General Meeting to be held in decisions made concerning those that the Companys delegated voting powers on 9 May 2012. investments.
are being properly executed and is working An extract from the Companys voting record with RCM UK to assess the effectiveness of in the previous year will be available for the Stewardship Code in practice.
inspection at the annual general meeting each year.
34 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 THE MERCHANTS TRUST PLC Directors Report continued The Directors may allot shares under these UK Listing Authority Listing Rules limit the The authority in accordance with Section authorities to take advantage of opportunities price which may be paid by the Company 701 of the Companies Act 2006, will last in the market as they arise but only if they to 105% of the average middle-market until the Annual General Meeting of the believe it would be advantageous to the quotation for an Ordinary Share on the five Company to be held in 2013 or the expiry Companys existing shareholders to do so.
business days immediately preceding the of 18 months from the date of the passing The Directors confirm that no allotment of date of the relevant purchase.
The minimum of this resolution, whichever is the earlier.
new shares will be made unless the lowest price to be paid will be 25p per Ordinary The authority will be subject to renewal by market offer price of the Ordinary Shares is at Share being the nominal value.
Overall, this shareholders at subsequent annual general least at a premium to net asset value, valuing proposed share buy-back authority, if used, meetings.
should help to reduce the discount to net asset value at which the Companys shares Independent Auditors Purchase of Own Shares currently trade.
The Directors will place a resolution before The Board is proposing that the Company the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint The Board considers that it will be most should be given renewed authority to  LLP as statutory advantageous to shareholders for the purchase Ordinary Shares in the market for Auditors for the ensuing year.
A resolution Company to be able to continue to make cancellation.
The Board believes that such to authorise the Directors to determine the such purchases as and when it considers the purchases in the market at appropriate Auditors remuneration will also be proposed timing to be most favourable and therefore times and prices are a suitable method of at the Annual General Meeting.
does not propose to set a timetable for enhancing shareholder value.
The Company making any such purchases.
would make either a single purchase or a series of purchases, when market conditions By Order of the Board Under the Listing Rules, the maximum are suitable, with the aim of maximising the Kirsten Salt number of shares which a listed company benefits to shareholders and within guidelines Secretary may purchase through the market pursuant to set from time to time by the Board.
29 March 2012 a general authority such as this is equivalent Where purchases are made at prices below to 14.99% of its issued share capital.
For the prevailing net asset value of the Ordinary this reason, the Company is limiting its Shares, this will enhance net asset value for renewed authority to make such purchases the remaining shareholders.
It is therefore to 15,471,698 Ordinary Shares, representing intended that purchases would only be 14.99% of the issued share capital, provided made at prices below net asset value, with that there is no change in the issued share the purchases to be funded from the capital capital between the date of this report and reserves of the Company which are currently the Annual General Meeting to be held on 9 in excess of 380 million.
