Maintaining market leadership Panama Performance Jorge Nicolau Our Panama business, Cable & Wireless Panama, endured a Chief Executive Officer challenging year but delivered revenue of US$601 million, EBITDA of US$256 million and operating cash ow of US$131 million.
Panama We maintained over 50% mobile market share and increased mobile revenue by 3%, although significant pricing pressure following the introduction of mobile number portability impacted margins.
Our enterprise, data and other operations had a slower year, with Our brands revenues falling 18%, but we are confident the business retains a healthy future potential.
Mobile data Mobile data usage continued to increase as customers embraced new high speed mobile data services and upgraded to smartphones like the BlackBerry, iPhone and Samsung Galaxy S2.
More than three-quarters of our postpaid mobile customers are now using mobile data services.
Social Telecoms We have been a pioneer of managed services and social telecoms in Panama.
We are now seeing opportunities across the pan-American region.
In El Salvador, we have successfully implemented a 911 Highlights emergency services calling platform for the national police force.
Within Panama we delivered further social telecoms projects Maintained mobile including moving the countrys civil administration onto digital market share above platforms as part of the Governments Panama without Paper initiative.
50%despite intense We began the 2012 13 year by winning a contract to modernise Panamas national registry by creating digital storage for official competition documents and licences, and a new online customer interface.
Outlook and priorities Introduced high speed Our business will benefit from Panamas growing economy and our mobile data services market leadership.
Panamas economy posted GDP growth of 10% in 2011, and is forecast to have another strong year in 2012.
Work andthe iPhone is continuing on the project to widen the Panama Canal and double its capacity the project is due to complete in 2014 and should provide a significant economic boost to the region.
Panama also Panamas economy posted signed a Free Trade Agreement with the United States in 2011.
10% GDP growth in 2011 Panamas mobile market will remain highly competitive with four operators vying for customers, but we expect continued growth in demand for mobile data.
Installed 911 emergency Our Panama business is well positioned to compete effectively in its domestic market and is seeking opportunities to introduce social call service and telecoms and enterprise services throughout Central America.
established a presence inEl Salvador 10 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Business review Improving security in El Salvador We have installed a 911 emergency services call platform in El Salvador, our first social telecoms contract outside Panama.
The project will help El Salvadors national police forceto optimise response times to emergency calls.
By enabling police to quickly react when there isacrime or traffic accident the project is supporting the Governments efforts to tackle delinquency andviolent crime.
3% Increase in mobile revenue 10 5% Increase in mobile data revenue Increase in average revenue from US$2.40 each mobile customer Value of Panama without Paper US$11m social telecomscontract Cable & Wireless Communications 11
