Board of Directors Sir Richard Tony Rice Tim Pennington Nick Cooper NR Lapthorne, CBE Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Corporate Services Chairman, Chairman Director ofthe Nomination Committee Sir Richard Lapthorne is Tony Rice is Chief Executive of Tim Pennington is Chief Nick Cooper is an Executive Chairman of the Company the Company and has been so Financial Officer of the Company.
Director of the Company, having having been Chairman of Cable since demerger in March 2010, He previously served as the served as Corporate Services and Wireless plc since January having previously served as Group Finance Director for Cable Director for the Cable & Wireless 2003.
He is also Chairman of CEO of the predecessor Cable and Wireless plc and as Chief Communications business since the Nomination Committee.
In & Wireless Communications Financial Officer for the Cable December 2008 and Group March 2012 he was appointed business since November 2008.
& Wireless Communications General Counsel and Chairman of the Foresight He was Group Finance Director business.
Previously, Tim was Company Secretary for Cable Group on UK Manufacturing, of Cable and Wireless plc from CFO and an Executive Director and Wireless plc from January and is Chairman of the PwC March 2006 onwards, having of Hutchison Telecommunications 2006 to demerger.
He has Public Interest Body and a been a Non-executive Director International Ltd, a company Board level responsibility for Non-executive Director of since January 2003.
Tony was listed in Hong Kong and New Human Resources, Brand, Sherritt International, based at British Aerospace and its York.
Tim was also Finance PR & Communications, Legal in Toronto.
successor company BAE Systems Director of Hutchison 3G UK & Regulatory Affairs, Insurance, for 16 years as Group Treasurer Hutchison Whampoas UK Corporate Social Responsibility, Between June 2009 and April and ultimately Group Managing mobile business and has Procurement and IT.
Nick 2010, he was Chairman of the Director, Commercial Aircraft corporate finance experience qualied as a solicitor with McLaren Group.
From 1996 to responsible for its Airbus and with HSBC Investment Bank London law rm Herbert Smith.
May 2003 Richard was Chairman Regional Aircraft business units.
He has held in-house positions of Amersham International plc From 2002 he was CEO of as company solicitor with Asda now GE Healthcare having Tunstall Holdings Ltd, Europes and George Clothing and as joined its Board as a Nonleading telecare company until General Counsel and Company executive Director in 1989.
Secretary of The Sage Group Plc was Finance Director of British Tony was appointed the Senior and JD Wetherspoon Plc.
In Aerospace plc from July 1992 Independent Director and September 2002, Nick was and Vice Chairman from April Chairman of the Remuneration appointed Company Secretary 1998 until his retirement in 1999.
Committee of Spirit Pub and was part of the Executive Richard is a Trustee of Company plc which listed on Management Board of Energis Tommys Campaign, the charity the London Stock Exchange on until its acquisition by Cable and researching still and premature 1 August 2011.
Tony also became Wireless plc.
He was Non-executive a Director of the Commonwealth Chairman of New Look Group Business Council Limited on and Morse plc until November 1 April 2011 and has been a 2007 and February 2008 Non-executive Director and respectively and Her Majesty Chairman of Alexander Mann the Queens Trustee at The Solutions from 2008.
Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew until his retirement in September 2009.
32 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Governance ANR ANR ANR ANR Simon Ball Mary Francis, CBE Mark Hamlin Ian Tyler Deputy Chairman, Chair of the Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Senior Independent Remuneration Director, Chairman of Committee the Audit Committee Simon Ball is a Non-executive Mary Francis is a Non-executive Mark Hamlin has been a Ian Tyler has been a NonDirector of the Company Director of the Company, Non-executive Director of the executive Director of the having previously served as having previously served as a Company since his appointment Company since his appointment a Non-executive Director of Non-executive Director of Cable on 1 January 2012, and is on 1 January 2011.
Ian is Cable and Wireless plc since and Wireless plc since July 2009. a member of the Audit, also a member of the Audit, May 2006.
He is also the Deputy Mary became the Chair of the Nomination and Remuneration Remuneration and Nomination Chairman, Senior Independent Remuneration Committee in Committees.
From 1 June 2012 Director, Chairman of the Audit March 2010.
Mary is also a Clinical Psychologist, and is the Ian will replace Simon Ball as Committee and a member of the member of the Audit and Chairman of the Organisation Chairman of the Audit Remuneration and Nomination Nomination Committees.
Mary Resource Group of Companies.
From 1 June is Senior Independent Director He is a senior adviser to the accountant and has been Chief 2012 Simon will replace Mary of Centrica plc and a Nonboards of global businesses in Executive of Balfour Beatty plc Francis as Chairman of the executive Director of Aviva plc.
many areas including strategy, since January 2005, having Remuneration Committee.
Simon She has previously been a culture and corporate change joined the company in 1996 as is a Non-executive Director of Non-executive Director of the programmes in international Finance Director and having Tribal Group plc and of Allied Irish Bank of England, of Alliance & markets.
Born in Johannesburg, become Chief Operating Officer Banks plc.
Previously, Simon was Leicester plc and of St Modwen he is involved with a number in August 2002.
From 1993 to Group Finance Director for 3i Properties plc.
Mary has held a of charities in Africa, some 1996 Ian was Finance Director of Group plc until November 2008 number of positions in the UK aimed at creating additional ARC Limited, one of the principal and also held a series of senior Civil Service including Financial income for subsistence farmers subsidiaries of Hanson Plc, having finance and operational roles Counsellor at the British Embassy and their families, and others previously been Hansons Group at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson, in Washington DC, Private establishing life skills education Financial Comptroller since 1991. served as Group Finance Secretary to the Prime Minister centres for young people.
Mark Prior to that, from 1988, he held Director for the Robert Fleming and Deputy Private Secretary is the President of Wedmore the positions of Group Treasurer Group and was Director General, to the Queen.
From 1999 to Opera, a community based and Financial Controller at Finance for the Department for 2005, Mary was Director music performance charity Storehouse Plc, the retailing Constitutional Affairs.
General of the Association of in Somerset.
Ian is also President of British Insurers, and in addition CRASH, the charity for homeless to her non-executive roles is people around the UK.
currently a senior adviser to Chatham House.
A Denotes membership of Audit Committee.
N Denotes membership of Nomination Committee.
R Denotes membership of Remuneration Committee.
Committee membership shown as at 31 March 2012.
