Mobile data growth Macau Performance Vandy Poon Our Macau business, CTM, which celebrated its 30th anniversary in Chief Executive Officer 2011, is a market leader in a strong economy.
The business delivered its ninth straight year of record profits in 2011 12 and revenue of Macau US$524 million, EBITDA of US$165 million and operating cash ow of US$127 million.
Mobile data and broadband Mobile data services continued to grow rapidly in Macau and Our brand now account for 32% of mobile services revenue.
This followed continued strong demand for smartphones, led by exceptional sales of the iPhone and other devices.
Mobile revenue grew by 81% and we maintained a leading mobile market share of nearly 50% despite competition from three other operators.
Broadband subscribers and revenue also increased as our bre broadband network, with an increased download speed of up to 250 megabits per second, was extended to reach every business in Macau and more residential households.
Enterprise Our Macau business is a supplier of enterprise services to the major casinos in Macau, many of its banks and the Government.
We completed a large scale installation of front and back of house Highlights communication services for the Galaxy casino, which opened in 2011, and continue to manage the service.
We also provided services Ninth straight year for the latest stage of another major casino, the Venetian.
Both projects helped increase enterprise, data and other revenue by 9%.
ofrecord profits Outlook and priorities The territory attracted 28 million visitors in 2011 who increased Exceptional growth of their spending excluding gaming by 20% year on year to over US$5 billion, helping to grow Macaus GDP by 21%.
Macaus smartphone sales and economy is forecast to grow strongly again next year.
Visitor numbers are also expected to be strong with the opening of further mobile data new casinos, including the Sands Cotai Central resort in April 2012.
The economic growth will underpin the progress of our business.
Increased broadband The growth in mobile revenue is expected to continue with a further strong contribution from mobile data, and continuing demand for download speed to new smartphones from consumers.
world-leading 250 mbps In xed line, we expect to see a competitor enter the market following the issue of a new licence by the Macau Government.
CTM is well prepared for this new competition.
Continued economic In partnership with Cisco, we plan to launch cloud-based services for growth: Macau GDP 21% our enterprise customers.
Cloud services use the internet to improve the delivery of telecoms and IT services.
in 2011 Macaus strong economy and the willingness of our customers to embrace the new telecoms technology that CTM is introducing has created a positive environment for continuing growth.
12 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Business review Promoting technology in schools In 2012, CTM created the Digital Campus project, providing schools with superfast broadband connections at preferential prices to encourage useofthe internet.
The Digital Campus will enable students to submit assignments and complete assessments online, and have access to databases containing resources such aspast exam papers and teaching notes.
Teachers will maintain an electronic register and incorporate more multimedia elements into lessons.
52000 Additional mobile customers Of customers subscribing 50% tomobiledata plans 28m Visitors to Macau in 2011 Customer satisfaction rating 90% according to CTM survey Cable & Wireless Communications 13
