Turning now to the four questions posed annually as part of Independent Cable & Wireless Communications approach to measuring effective corporate governance: Directorsreport 1 What is the quality of the relationship between the Chairman and the Executive Directors?
The relationship between the Chairman and Chief Executive takes a traditional form with the Chairman being responsible for the leadership of the Board and the Chief Executive being responsible for the running of the business.
There is a clear understanding of the authorities of each party and the Chairman and the Chief Executive have regular contact including one to one meetings.
The other Executive Directors, being the Chief Financial Officer and the Corporate Services Director, report directly to the Chief Executive.
The Executive Directors maintain a strong relationship with the Chairman with direct contact and discussion as needed.
The relationship between the Chairman and the Executive Directors has remained consistently strong throughout the year.
The Board of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc rmly 2 How open are the Executive Directors with the Board?
believe in the principles of behavioural governance.
Prior The Board receives detailed reports and presentations from to demerger the Board of Cable and Wireless plc produced Executive Directors in advance of Board meetings as well as a report on behaviours for six years and the Company has oral updates at the meetings.
Members of the London Senior continued to do so for the last two years.
The Board is pleased Management team are invited to attend Board and Committee that behavioural governance themes have been embodied meetings to present and discuss a number of matters including in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
remuneration, risk and operational governance.
The meetings with the regional Chief Executives and local management teams as well The Board has eight scheduled Board meetings each year.
The as external stakeholders facilitate an open forum for discussion and annual meeting plan includes detailed reports and presentations unstructured debate with the Executive and the local senior teams.
on a number of recurring items to inform a structured debate.
In addition, a number of unstructured debates took place during the 3 What is the visibility of the checks and balances year covering strategy, remuneration and risk.
These discussions between the Executive Directors?
enable the Board to freely discuss and challenge the Companys The visibility of checks and balances between the Executive approach to such matters without the constraints of slides or Directors is high.
The Executive Directors show a willingness to openly debate and A number of the Board meetings take place in the regional business stimulate different perspectives in Board meetings, enabling the unit locations.
These visits give the Independent Directors an insight Non-executive Directors to obtain a rounded view of the Executive into the business unit operations, the local teams and the culture and Directors views.
In addition, formal and informal meetings with the environment within which they operate.
They also facilitate a close regional Chief Executives enable a supplementary view to that of understanding of the operational governance of the Executive team.
During the year the Board visited Panama and The Bahamas enabling them to receive a first hand view of progress since the acquisition of 4 Have questions asked by the Independent Directors in Board The Bahamas Telecommunications Company Limited BTC in April and Committee meetings been appropriately addressed?
2011 and meet with the regional Chief Executives and management The Independent Directors are comfortable that questions have teams as well as external stakeholders.
been answered in a professional and constructive manner During the course of the year, the Board has reviewed and focussed on throughout the year.
a number of new legislative and governance developments including As part of the annual corporate governance programme, the compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Bribery Independent Directors met separately during the year to discuss any Act 2010.
The Groups anti-bribery policies and procedures were relevant governance matters.
They also met twice with the Chairman reviewed and updated and a detailed implementation plan was present and once with the Chairman and Chief Executive present.
executed to communicate and roll out the policy.
This included discussion at the London and Business Unit Senior Management The Independent Directors are satisfied that the corporate Team meetings, adoption of the policy by the Groups local subsidiary governance controls of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc boards and face to face and mandatory online training programmes for are effective.
employees across the Group to enhance awareness and understanding The Board of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc consider that of the policy.
The Board also discussed Lord Davies report and gender this report continues to be an appropriate way to embody the diversity, the performance measures used to drive behaviours within principles set out in the new UK Corporate Governance Code and the business and reviewed the on-going training and development have confirmed that they will publish an Independent Directors programme which includes meetings with the regional business unit report for the year ended 31 March 2013. teams and external stakeholders, technology briengs, governance updates, and informal discussions for the Directors as well as the Simon Ball induction programme for new Directors.
This is supported by the Senior Independent Director annual board evaluation which focussed on a discussion and analysis 23 May 2012 of the behaviours of the Board.
Mark Hamlin, Chairman of the Organisation Resource Group of companies, joined the Board as an Independent Director in January 2012.
Marks insight and experience gained as a senior adviser to the boards of global companies on culture and transformation reinforces the Boards commitment to behaviours.
