Board Membership Biographies of the current Directors, including details of their Committee memberships, are shown on pages 32 and 33.
Directors Details of Directors attendance at scheduled Board meetings are shown in the table below: andcorporate Membership and attendance at meetings governance report Sir Richard Lapthorne 8 8 Nick Cooper 8 8 Tim Pennington 8 8 Tony Rice 8 8 It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure Simon Ball 8 8 that the Group is governed properly and Mary Francis 8 8 1 responsibly.
The Board is accountable to Mark Hamlin 2 2 2 Kate Nealon 3 3 shareholders for the creation and delivery Ian Tyler 8 8 ofstrong sustainable performance and longterm shareholder value.
The Board sets the 1 Mark Hamlin was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2012.
2 Kate Nealon resigned with effect from 22 July 2011. strategic aims of the Group and is collectively responsible for matters of strategy, With effect from 1 June 2012 Alison Platt will be appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director, and Mary Francis will retire as a performance, resources, governance, Non-executive Director with effect from the end of her current term standards of conduct and accountability.
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE There is a balance of formal and informal meetings throughout the Chairman year, which creates an environment that encourages challenge, the sharing of information, innovative thinking and open communication.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate with distinct Compliance with the UK Corporate responsibilities.
The Chairmans key areas of responsibility are the leadership of the Board, including setting its agenda, ensuring that Governance Code it receives clear, timely and accurate information and facilitating the Throughout the year the Group has complied with all contribution of the Non-executive Directors.
The Chairman is also relevant provisions set out in the UK Corporate responsible for corporate governance and for ensuring, together Governance Code the Code.
with the Senior Independent Director, that the Company maintains The Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders.
uk The commitment of the Chairman as a Non-executive Director of Sherritt International, a company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange and as Chairman of the Foresight Group on UK Manufacturing are noted on page 32, and the Board considers that these appointments are not a constraint on his agreed time commitment to the Company.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the leadership of the business and managing it within the authorities delegated by the Board.
Role of the Board The Board is responsible for the Groups corporate governance system and is committed to maintaining high governance standards.
In order to progress the objectives of the Group the Board meets on a regular basis and is responsible for organising and directing the Company and the Group in a manner that promotes the success of the Company and is consistent with good corporate governance practice.
To enable the Board to function effectively, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
The key policies and practices of the Company and the Group are set out in this report as well as in the reports of the Audit Committee on page 42 and the Remuneration Committee on pages 44 to 57.
Furthermore, our independent Non-executive Directors have prepared a report describing corporate governance and behaviours of the Board on page 41 and details of significant shareholdings and rights, obligations, powers and procedures under the Companys Articles of Association are set out in the Statutory Information on pages 37 to 40.
Together, these reports provide shareholders with an insight into how our Board and senior management seek to manage the business to create and deliver long-term success and increase long-term shareholder value.
Formal minutes recording decisions of all Board and Committee meetings are prepared and circulated to each Director as appropriate.
If a Director objects to a particular proposal, this is recorded in the minutes of the relevant meeting.
During the period under review there were no such objections.
34 34 C Ca able ble & & Wir Wire eless less Comm Communications unications A An nnual nual r re epor port t 2 20 01 11 1 1 12 2 G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-executive which includes: Directors, together with service contracts for Executive Directors, are available for inspection by shareholders at our registered Strategy and management: office during normal business hours and at our Annual General Approval of long-term objectives and strategy, extension of Meeting AGM.
Group activities into new business or geographic areas, any decision to cease to operate any material part of the Groups All Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary business, review of Group performance and the approval of as well as appropriate training and briengs on matters including annual budget corporate social responsibility, health & safety and governance matters.
Additionally, any Director may take independent Corporate governance: professional advice on any matter at the Companys expense in Annual formal reviews of its own performance, a review of Group the furtherance of his or her duties.
corporate governance arrangements, receiving reports on the views of shareholders and determining the independence of The Senior Independent Director Non-executive Directors Simon Ball is the Senior Independent Director of the Company.
Financial reporting and controls: The Senior Independent Director is available to meet shareholders Approval of announcements of interim and final results, annual on request and is the designated point of contact for shareholders report and accounts, approval of dividend policy and approval to raise any concerns where contact through the normal channels of of significant changes in accounting policies and practices the Chairman or Executive Directors is inappropriate.
Matters raised by major shareholders to any Director are brought to the attention Board membership and other appointments: of the Board.
Changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board, membership and chairmanship of Board Committees, ensuring As part of our commitment to regular dialogue, meetings have been adequate succession planning, appointment of the Senior held between the Executive Directors and investors on an ongoing Independent Director and the appointment or removal of basis throughout the year.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent the Company Secretary Director have, as in previous years, offered ongoing dialogue and meetings with shareholders to discuss any issues they wish to raise, Remuneration: and held meetings where appropriate or requested.
The Company Determining the remuneration policy for the Directors and other intends to continue this practice.
senior executives and the introduction of new share incentive plans or major changes to existing plans to be put to shareholders Internal control, risk management and financial reporting for approval The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control Delegation of authority: and for reviewing its effectiveness on a continual basis.
The Groups The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, Chief Executive and receiving reports from Board Committees the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide on their activities reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The concept of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost Contracts Expenditure: of control procedures should not exceed the expected benets.
Approval of all significant contracts and expenditure and all investments or disposals in shares in which the Group holds The Group operates a risk management process under which the an interest regional businesses identify the key risks to their plans, their likelihood and impact and the actions being taken to manage those risks and Internal Controls: the effectiveness of steps taken to mitigate them.
The risk register Receiving reports on and reviewing the effectiveness of the is presented to the Audit Committee on a rolling 12 month basis.
The Groups risk and control processes to support its strategy and principal risks identied by the Group are set out on pages 28 to 31. objectives and assessing these annually The Executive Directors report to the Board, on behalf of management, Other specic responsibilities are delegated to the Audit, Nomination significant changes in the Groups business and the external environment and Remuneration Committees, each with clearly dened terms of in which it operates.
In addition, they provide the Board with monthly reference.
Each Committee reviews their terms of reference annually financial information, which includes key risk and performance to ensure that they remain appropriate and effective.
The Groups key internal control and monitoring Full details on matters reserved to the Board and the terms of procedures include the following: reference of its Committees can be found on our website at Financial reporting: each year, an annual budget is agreed and www.
At each Board meeting, actual results are reviewed and reported against budget and, when appropriate, Board Balance and Independence revised forecasts The Board considers all the Companys Non-executive Directors to be independent in character and judgement.
Collectively the Investment appraisal: the Group has clearly dened policies for Non-executive Directors contribute to an effective Board with a capital expenditure.
These include annual budgets and detailed strong mix of skills and business experience.
As they all occupy or appraisal processes for such expenditure have occupied senior positions each contributes significant weight Monitoring systems: internal controls are monitored through a to Board decisions.
The Internal Audit function reports The Non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a three year to the Audit Committee on its examination and evaluation of the term with an expectation that they will continue for a further three effectiveness and adequacy of systems of internal control year term.
Cable & Wireless Communications 35 Board Committees Directors and corporate The reports of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee are set out on pages 42 to 43 and 44 to 57 respectively.
governance report Nomination Committee continued Nomination Committee Membership Membership and attendance at meetings Sir Richard Lapthorne 2 2 Simon Ball 2 2 Mary Francis 2 2 1 Mark Hamlin 1 1 2 Kate Nealon 0 0 Ian Tyler 2 2 1 Mark Hamlin was appointed to the Committee with effect from 1 January 2012.
2 Kate Nealon resigned from the Committee with effect from 22 July 2011.
Alison Platt will become a member of the Committee upon her appointment to the Board as a Non-executive Director effective Financial and nonnancial controls: the Group has dedicated 1 June 2012. resource to embed processes and controls across the businesses.
It operates a number of self-assessment exercises, which include Meetings monthly and quarterly processes to certify compliance with key The Nomination Committee the Committee has met on financial and non-financial controls via the Business Assurance two occasions in the period 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012.
The BAC requires management to assess and The principal duties of the Committee are set out in the terms certify the effectiveness of its fundamental controls over all of reference and include: aspects of its operations.
The results of this exercise are utilised by Internal Audit in planning its work for the forthcoming year To review the structure, size and composition of the Board and make recommendations with regard to any changes Whistle blowing: the Group operates an Ethics Helpline which is administered by an independent third party and is available to all To give full consideration to succession planning for key roles employees To identify and nominate candidates for the approval of the Board, having evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience Effectiveness of internal control on the Board The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems in operation during the financial year in accordance with the revised To review the time commitment required from Non-executive Turnbull guidance.
The processes as set out above have been in place Directors for the year under review and up to the date of this Annual report.
To ensure that the balance of the Board and its Committees Where appropriate, necessary action has been or is being taken to is consistent with good corporate governance and complies with remedy any failings and weaknesses identied as significant during the minimum requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code this review.
In accordance with the terms of reference, the Committee The responsibility for internal control procedures within our joint has reviewed succession planning requirements and the need to ventures rests with the senior management of those operations.
ensure planned and progressive refreshing of the Board as and We monitor our investments and exert our influence through board when required.
We are supportive of the recommendations in Lord Davies report Induction and professional development but not of the implementation of quotas for FTSE companies.
On appointment, the induction of new Board members is undertaken Our policy is that we recruit based on merit with the quality of by the Company Secretary at the request of the Chairman, who the candidate being a primary consideration.
When recommending retains responsibility for the induction process.
The induction the appointment of new directors to the Board, the Committee includes the provision of information about the Company, details considers a number of factors including the size of the Board, of procedures, governance issues and Directors responsibilities.
the balance of Executive and Non-executive Directors, the skills, The programme also includes meetings with senior management knowledge, experience and diversity already represented and the and key advisers, with meetings with major shareholders arranged likely future requirements.
During the period under review, the Committee considered and The ongoing training and development programme for the Directors recommended to the Board the appointment of Mark Hamlin as a includes: Non-executive Director, and as a member of the Audit, Nomination Regular visits to the overseas business units to meet the local and Remuneration Committees.
Mark Hamlin was identied as a teams, enabling knowledge of the business operations to be candidate who would complement the existing balance of skills and enhanced and to meet local external stakeholders knowledge of the Board, with sufficient time to dedicate to the role.
The suitability of his knowledge and skills was independently veried Technology brieng papers to enhance understanding of the by JCA Group, a boardroom consultancy rm.
Groups products and services Governance updates from external advisers or via the Company Secretarys report Additional presentations to provide an external stakeholder or market perspective In addition, individual training requirements are agreed and arranged with Directors as required.
36 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Governance In addition, the Committee considered and recommended the Directors re-appointment of Non-executive Director, Simon Ball for a further The names and biographical details of the Directors are set out one year period.
Simon Ball has been on the Board of the Company on pages 32 and 33. since demerger in March 2010, and prior to this served as a NonIn compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code which executive Director of Cable and Wireless plc from 1 May 2006.
The species that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject re-appointment of Simon Ball was considered in the light of the Code to annual election by shareholders, all Directors will stand for requirements for his continued independence and the need to ensure election or re-election at the 2012 Annual General Meeting AGM.
progressive refreshing of the Board.
The interests of the Directors and their connected persons in the Terms of reference shares of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc, along with details The terms of reference set out the authority of the Committee to of their share awards, are contained in the Directors remuneration carry out its duties.
report set out on pages 44 to 57.
The Committee undertook a review of its objectives and terms of No Director had a material interest in any significant contract with reference during the period and the full terms of reference of the the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
For further Committee are available at www.
information, refer to note 31 of the consolidated financial statements.
The Company has granted indemnities in favour of its Directors Performance evaluation against personal financial exposure that they may incur in the course In 2011 an external performance evaluation of the Board as a whole of their professional duties as Directors of the Company and or any was undertaken by Independent Audit Limited.
Independent Audit subsidiaries as applicable.
These indemnities are qualifying third has no other connection with the Company or Group, and was party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act appointed following a review of external providers due to their 2006 the 2006 Act.
They were granted on appointment of the specialist experience and expertise in all aspects of board Directors and are still in force.
Officers of wholly-owned subsidiary performance and governance.
companies within the Group have also been granted indemnities.
The evaluation process involved a thorough review of board documentation and individual interviews with members of the Board, Dividends the Company Secretary and other attendees including external The Directors recommend a final dividend of US5.33 cents per advisers and members of the senior management team.
ordinary share payable on 10 August 2012 to ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of business on 1 June 2012.
This final The evaluation concluded that the Board is strong and effective with dividend, together with the interim dividend of US2.67 cents per a good relationship between Executive and Non-executive Directors.
share paid by the Company on 12 January 2012, makes a total The report on the findings of the review was discussed by the Board dividend payment to shareholders of the Company of US8 cents at its meeting in May 2011.
For 2010 11, the findings of the per ordinary share for the year ended 31 March 2012. external evaluation were positive.
The evaluation made a number of observations.
It was agreed that it would be helpful to increase Share capital and treasury shares the time spent on strategic matters.
In addition to the twice yearly The called-up share capital of the Company, together with details of strategy sessions, a number of discussions in relation to principal shares allotted during the year, are shown in note 8 to the Company strategic themes have been held during the year.
The balance and financial statements.
At the 2011 AGM, the Company was authorised structure of overseas board meetings was also reviewed to allow by shareholders to purchase up to 257 million of its own ordinary more time for informal discussions.
All actions have been reviewed shares, representing approximately 10% of its issued share capital by the Board and its Committees as appropriate and followed up excluding shares held in treasury as at 8 June 2011.
Under the during the year.
authority granted by shareholders at the 2010 AGM to purchase up An internal Board evaluation has been conducted for 2011 12 using a to 262 million of its own ordinary shares, on 23 February 2011 the structured questionnaire which covered the operations of the Board Company announced a share buyback programme up to a value of and its principal Committees.
Questionnaires were also issued, in the US$100 million in order to return capital to shareholders.
During the case of each of the Board Committees, to those participants who period 1 April 2011 to 20 July 2011, the Company purchased regularly attend these meetings.
94,726,873 shares with a nominal value of US$0.05 each for an aggregate consideration of US$66 million, and these are held as The Non-executive Directors also appraised the Chairmans treasury shares 31 March 2011 42,762,000 shares in treasury.
performance and carefully reviewed the relationship between the The total number of shares held in treasury as at 31 March 2012 Chairman and the Executive Directors to ensure that the Board is 137,488,873. structure and relationships continue to promote the creation of long-term shareholder value.
The Board intends to seek shareholder approval at the forthcoming AGM on 20 July 2012 to make market purchases of up to 10% of its Other statutory information issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury.
Details of the Principal activities, business review and results proposed resolution are included in the Notice of Meeting.
The The Groups principal activities are detailed on pages 2 and 3.
Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority to Through this Annual report, including the Chairmans review and purchase the Companys ordinary shares but will keep the matter the Business review sections pages 1 to 31 that precede this report under review, taking into account other investment opportunities.
and the preceding corporate governance section pages 34 to 37, The authority would only be exercised if and when, in the light of the Board seeks to present a balanced and clear assessment of market conditions prevailing at the time, the Directors believe that the Groups activities, position and prospects.
Each of those sections the effect of such purchases will be in the best interests of is incorporated by reference into the Directors report, which shareholders generally.
is comprised of those sections, the information set out below and The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of the other information which is incorporated by reference.
The securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities Groups results for the financial year are shown in the consolidated or on voting rights.
Further details on the share capital of the Company are set out in note 8 to the Company financial statements on page 116 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
Cable & Wireless Communications 37 Directors and corporate governance report continued Companys shareholders As at 31 March 2012 and the date of this report, the Company had been notied of the following substantial holdings of voting rights in the issued share capital of the Company in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: As at 31 March 2012 As at 23 May 2012 No.
of % of voting ordinary shares rights Nature of holding ordinary shares rights Nature of holding Newton Investment As a discretionary As a discretionary Management Limited 252,784,845 9.99 fund manager 252,784,845 9.99 fund manager Orbis Holdings Limited 383,881,946 15.18 Indirect 383,881,946 15.18 Indirect Franklin Mutual Advisers LLC 242,437,048 9.24 Indirect 242,437,048 9.24 Indirect Legal & General Group Plc 98,421,834 3.75 Direct 98,421,834 3.75 Direct Ethics The Company has no intention of making donations to what are The Company is committed to sound business conduct in its generally regarded as political parties within the European Union.
relationships with key stakeholders shareholders, employees, As a precautionary measure and in the light of the wide denitions customers, business partners and suppliers, governments and of European Union political organisations for the purposes of the regulators, communities and the environment.
The Groups ethics 2006 Act, a resolution was passed at the 2010 AGM permitting the policy applies to all Group companies and employees.
Where the Company to make political donations and incur political expenditure.
Group operates in conjunction with business partners, third parties In aggregate the sum of US$233,167 was made to non-EU political or in joint venture arrangements without management control, it parties by non-EU subsidiary companies.
aims to promote the application of this policy.
The Group seeks to conduct its operations with honesty, integrity and openness, and Supplier payment policy with respect for the human rights and interests of our employees.
The Company did not enter into any purchase contracts with suppliers The Group respects the legitimate interests of all those with whom which required payment during the year to 31 March 2012.
It is the it has relationships.
During the year, a review of the Groups antiGroups policy to agree appropriate terms and conditions in advance bribery policy has been undertaken to ensure that our policies and with suppliers and to make payment in accordance with those terms procedures meet the standards required by the Bribery Act 2010. and conditions, provided the supplier has complied with them.
Charitable and political donations Employee inclusion and diversity During the year ended 31 March 2012, the Group gave US$3 million The Group operates in many countries with diverse employment 2010 11 US$1.07 million to charitable organisations including practices.
Whilst respecting local circumstances, wherever we US$144,312 90,000 2010 11 US$95,207 60,000 to the operate we follow the principles of equal opportunity in recruitment, Porthcurno Trust, a charitable organisation in the United Kingdom.
The Groups The Group actively supports corporate social responsibility in the employment policies also comply with local requirements and meet communities in which it operates and more information on these relevant standards on employment of disabled people.
Full and fair activities is set out on pages 18 and 19. consideration is given to disabled applicants for employment and training, and career development is encouraged on the basis of aptitude and ability.
It is Group policy to retain employees who become disabled whilst in its service and to provide specialist training where appropriate.
38 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Governance Employee communication Voting: Each share other than those held in treasury allows the The Group communicates with employees in many ways, including holder to have one vote at general meetings of the Company on regular briengs by management, newsletters and intranet sites.
These communications help to achieve a common awareness among Dividends: The Companys shareholders can declare dividends by employees of the financial and operational performance of the Group.
passing an ordinary resolution, but the payment cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
The Directors may also pay Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes interim dividends without shareholder approval if they consider that The Trustees of The Cable & Wireless Communications Share the financial position of the Company justifies it.
The Directors may Ownership Trust exercise the voting rights on shares held in the operate dividend reinvestment plans or, subject to shareholder employee trust in accordance with their duciary duties as Trustees, approval, operate scrip schemes or pay dividends by distributing which include the duty to act in the best interests of the beneciaries assets.
No dividend carries a right to interest from the Company.
If dividends remain unclaimed for 12 years they are forfeited by the shareholder and revert to the Company.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at 11am on Friday 20 July 2012 at The Partly paid shares: The Company has a lien on all partly paid shares Mermaid, Conference & Events Centre, Puddle Dock, Blackfriars, and dividends, which has priority over claims of others to such London EC4V 3DB.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the shares covering any money owed to the Company for the shares.
AGM are given in the Notice of Meeting.
The Directors may sell all or any of such shares where: i the money owed by the shareholder is payable immediately: ii the Directors Auditor have given notice demanding payment, stating the amount due and Resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as our external auditor and that the shares will be sold on non-payment: and iii the money to authorise the Directors to set the auditors remuneration will be has not been paid within 14 clear days of the service of the notice.
The Directors may make calls on shareholders to pay any money So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit which has not yet been paid to the Company for their shares.
If a information as dened in Section 418 3 of the 2006 Act of which call is unpaid, the shareholder will be liable to pay interest and all the auditors are unaware and the Directors have taken all reasonable expenses incurred by the Company as a result of non-payment if steps to ascertain any relevant audit information and ensure the the call remains unpaid for 14 clear days after the date of a notice.
auditors are aware of such information.
In addition, failure to comply with any such notice may result in forfeiture of any share which is the subject of the notice, including Change of control any unpaid dividends.
The Group has a number of contracts that are subject to change The Directors may decline to register the transfer of any shares that of control clauses.
These primarily relate to nancing facilities, are not fully paid, provided that such refusal does not prevent bonds, licences and operating agreements.
dealings from taking place on an open and proper basis.
Under the Groups US$500 million and US$100 million revolving Sanctions: Unless the Directors decide otherwise, a shareholder shall credit facility agreements, on a change of control the lenders are not not be entitled to vote at any general meeting of the Company or at obliged to fund any further sums and, if the majority lenders require, any separate general meeting of the holders of any class of shares on not less than ten days notice, the facility can be cancelled and in the Company or exercise any other right conferred by membership all outstanding loans, together with related charges, become in relation to general meetings if the shareholder has not paid all immediately due and payable.
amounts relating to those shares which are due at the time of the Under the terms of the US$500 million 7.75% 2017 Senior meeting, or if the shareholder is given a notice following a failure by Secured Notes and the US$400 million 8.75% 2020 Senior Secured that shareholder or someone who appears to be interested in the Notes the Bonds, if a change of control event occurs, each holder shares to comply with a notice under section 793 of the 2006 Act.
of the Bonds will have the right to require the repurchase of all or Further, if a shareholder holding 0.25% or more of the issued shares any part of their Bonds at a redemption price equal to 101% of the of a class excluding treasury shares or interested person is in principal amount of the Bonds purchased, together with accrued default of a section 793 notice, the Directors may also state in the but unpaid interest.
notice that: i the payment of any dividend shall be withheld: ii the shareholder shall not be entitled to elect to receive shares in A number of the Groups operating licences and shareholders place of dividends withheld: and iii the transfer of the shares held agreements include change of control clauses which may be by such shareholder shall be restricted.
triggered by the sale of all or a controlling stake in a business, or certain types of restructuring.
Certicated shares: The Company can sell any certicated shares at the best price reasonably obtainable at the time of the sale if: i in a In the event of a change of control, these clauses may require period of 12 years at least three dividends have become payable and consideration to determine their impact on the Group.
At present, no dividends have been claimed: ii the Company has published a risks arising from a change of control are not considered to be notice after the 12 year period stating that it intends to sell the significant.
The Group will take appropriate action to mitigate any shares: and iii during the 12 year period and for three months after risks arising from these events should they occur.
Change of control the notice, the Company has not heard from the shareholder or any provisions in relation to Directors service contracts are explained person entitled to sell the shares.
in the Directors remuneration report on pages 44 to 57.
The Directors may decline registration of certicated shares if: i a Rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares share transfer form is used to transfer more than one class of shares: The following section summarises the rights and obligations in ii transfers are in favour of more than four joint holders: or iii the the Companys Articles of Association the Articles relating to the share transfer form is not delivered to the office, or such other place ordinary shares of the Company.
The full Articles can be found decided on by the Directors, accompanied by the share certicate on the Companys website www.
relating to the shares being transferred unless the transfer is by a person to whom the Company was not required to, and did not, Amendment of Articles: The Articles may be amended by a special send a certicate and any other evidence reasonably asked for by resolution of the shareholders passed at a general meeting of the Directors to show entitlement to transfer the shares.
Cable & Wireless Communications 39 Powers of Directors Directors and corporate The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation and the Articles.
As provided in the Articles, the Directors may exercise governance report all the Companys powers provided that the Articles or applicable legislation do not stipulate that any such powers must be exercised continued by the members.
The Directors have been authorised to issue and allot ordinary shares, pursuant to Article 12.
The powers under Article 12 are referred to shareholders at the AGM for renewal.
Shareholders are also requested to renew the Directors power to make market purchases of shares at each AGM.
Any shares purchased may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
Conicts of interest The Articles permit the Directors to authorise conicts and potential conicts.
Procedures have been put in place for the disclosure by Directors of any such conicts and also for the consideration and authorisation of these conicts by the Board.
These procedures allow for the imposition of limits or conditions by the Board when authorising any conict, if they think this is appropriate.
Uncerticated shares: The Directors may decline registration of Going concern uncerticated shares if the transfer is in favour of more than four The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to joint holders or otherwise in accordance with the Uncerticated affect its future development, performance and position are set Securities Regulations 2001. out in the Business reviews on pages 1 to 31 including the Financial review on pages 20 to 27.
The financial position of the Group, its cash Interests in shares: Except where express rights are given, the ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Company will only recognise a current and absolute right to whole Financial review on pages 20 to 27.
Further, notes 27 and 35 to the shares.
The fact that any share, or any part of a share, may not be consolidated financial statements include the Groups objectives, owned outright by the registered owner is not of any concern to policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk the Company.
management objectives: details of its financial instruments and US Holders: The Directors may require a shareholder or other person hedging activities: and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
appearing to be interested in shares, to disclose information relating The Directors believe that the Groups wide geographic spread, to the ownership of such shares or to show that such shares are not robust monitoring and forecasting processes leave it well placed held by a US Holder dened in the Articles as being: i persons to manage its business risks in the current economic conditions.
resident in the US who hold shares in the Company and ii persons In addition, the Groups forecasts and projections, taking into who appear to the Directors to fall within sub-paragraph i of the account possible changes in trading performance which could be denition of a US Holder.
The Directors may require a US Holder to reasonably anticipated, indicate that the Group is able to operate sell their shares to someone who is not a US Holder, failing which, the within the level of its current available facilities.
A formal process Company may effect a sale of such shares on the US Holders behalf.
for monitoring compliance with debt covenants is also in place.
Disputes: Any disputes between a shareholder and the Company Further information on debt can be found in note 21 to the and or the Directors arising out of or in connection with the Articles consolidated financial statements.
shall be exclusively and nally resolved under the Rules of Arbitration After reviewing budgets and other longer-term plans and making of the International Chamber of Commerce, as amended from time enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the to time, in accordance with the Articles.
Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the Appointment and replacement of Directors going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Articles, including the rules for who is eligible to be By order of the Board elected as a Director and the procedure to be followed to nominate Clare Underwood such persons.
Company Secretary The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an ordinary 23 May 2012 resolution of the members or by a resolution of the Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, a Director appointed in this way retires and stands for election at the first AGM following his appointment.
The Companys members may remove a Director by passing an ordinary resolution for which special notice has been given.
Any Director will automatically cease to be a Director if: i they resign: ii they offer to resign and the other Directors accept that offer: iii all the other Directors being at least three require it: iv they are suffering from mental ill health and the Directors require them to cease to be a Director: v they have missed Directors meetings for a continuous period of six months without permission and the other Directors resolve that they shall cease to be a Director: vi a bankruptcy order is made against them, or they make an arrangement or composition with their creditors: vii they are prohibited from being a Director by law: or viii they cease to be a Director under legislation or are removed from office under the Articles.
40 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Governance
