Good start in The Bahamas Caribbean Performance David Shaw Our Bahamas business had a good first year while the rest of Chief Executive Officer the Caribbean performed in line with our expectations.
Revenue was US$1.2 billion including a contribution from The Bahamas of Caribbean US$352 million.
EBITDA was US$284 million and operating cash ow was US$120 million.
Following a review of assets and past investment, we took a US$184 million non-cash write down of our Jamaican assets.
Our brands Mobile data and Social Telecoms Mobile data usage in the Caribbean accelerated following the roll out of high speed mobile data networks in Barbados, The Bahamas, and the Cayman Islands.
We also exclusively launched the iPhone during the year.
We delivered several social telecoms projects in the region including a public internet capability for schools, libraries, post offices and other locations across Jamaica and a region-wide e-learning network.
Developing our Caribbean hub In April 2011, we purchased a controlling shareholding in the Bahamas Telecommunications Company BTC and began a restructuring process to improve the business.
We have made a number of changes to BTC, including introducing a Highlights reduced, single rate for mobile calls across The Bahamas, improving customer service facilities and launching several refurbished retail outlets.
We also undertook a voluntary separation programme, which Strong first year in reduced the employee base to a level in line with our other businesses.
TheBahamas In addition, we established a presence in the Dominican Republic providing wholesale broadband capacity to local internet service providers via our East-West cable, which has tripled the amount High speed mobile data of bandwidth available in the country.
networks introduced Outlook and priorities The Caribbean has suffered a deep economic recession and inkey markets conditions are unlikely to recover substantially in 2012 13, although some modest improvements are expected in visitor arrivals and New telecoms legislation tourist income.
The business will continue to focus on reducing its cost base against a backdrop of rising ination in the region.
in Jamaica should The turnaround of our Jamaica business remains a key priority, and this will be helped by the introduction of a new Telecommunications Act.
improve regulatory The new legislation will substantially improve the competitive conditions environment for us, providing a real possibility to improve our mobile market share.
We will also continue to introduce mobile data services in more Caribbean markets where we see demand and a strong take up of Rolled out Caribbean smartphones by customers.
e-learning network We have recently launched pay TV in Barbados and intend to extend services to other Caribbean markets in future.
Our Caribbean operating unit has been boosted by The Bahamas and across the region we have a strong platform to build on.
14 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Business review Introducing e-learning in the Caribbean We worked with the Caribbean Knowledge and Learning Network to create a broadband network connecting Caribbean universities and colleges regionally and internationally.
It is the regions first research network, effectively an academic internet.
The network provides students with the ability to access courses and educational resources remotely.
Lecturers and researchers can share work easily andsecurely and create new online academic communities which will collaborate on new ideasandinitiatives to tackle regional issues.
Growth in mobile data revenue inthe Caribbean excluding 12 % TheBahamas BTC retail outlets refurbished 7 andrelaunched in The Bahamas Contract to create academic US$6.5m internet for the Caribbean Channels available onnewBarbados 13 0 TV service Cable & Wireless Communications 15
