Data drives mobile growth Monaco & Islands Performance Denis Martin Our Monaco & Islands businesses performed well in 2011 12, Chief Executive Officer delivering revenue of US$586 million, EBITDA of US$186 million and operating cash ow of US$103 million.
Monaco&Islands Our businesses in Monaco and the Maldives delivered strong underlying results, although the latter was affected by a currency devaluation in the Maldives.
Anis, our start-up African enterprise business, suffered a higher than anticipated start-up loss, necessitating a US$18 million non-cash write down.
Our brands Mobile data Mobile data usage grew across the portolio.
In the Maldives our mobile broadband network was extended and now covers nearly 80% of the population.
On an underlying basis revenue increased by 3%, largely driven by mobile data and more roaming activity by tourists.
Monaco Telecom, which renewed its operating licence in the Principality in 2011, grew its domestic mobile customer base by 9%, aided by smartphone sales, and demand for quad play bundles mobile, broadband, xed line and pay TV.
Pay TV subscribers grew by 8% in the year, with many households taking up quad play.
Monacos mobile data revenue grew by 38%.
Highlights In Guernsey competition in mobile saw total revenue reduce by 3%, but we maintained strong market share and saw increased take up Completed telemedicine of smartphones and mobile data services.
contract in Maldives Enterprise Enterprise revenue also made a significant contribution to Monaco Renewal of operating & Islands performance.
Monaco Telecom extended its mobile services contract with Post & Telecommunications of Kosovo PTK licence in Monaco during the year, continuing a long-standing relationship.
Enterprise services also made a strong contribution to underlying performance in the Maldives where we completed a contract Strong penetration of for the Government to implement telemedicine services in smartphones and take 36 remote islands.
up of mobile data plans Outlook and priorities Macroeconomic conditions remain positive in our key territories in Guernsey of Monaco, the Maldives and Guernsey.
We expect to continue accelerating the introduction of data services in key markets next year.
The launch of an undersea cable network in the Maldives will Growth in mobile deliver high speed xed broadband between the islands and facilitate the extension of social telecoms services.
datarevenue across We also have an interest in a cable linking the Seychelles to East theportfolio Africa which will enable us to launch cable TV services.
This is set to be operational later this year.
We continue to invest across the portfolio to drive growth and deliver world class services to our customers.
16 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Business review Improving medical care in remotecommunities Telemedicine is an ideal solution for the Maldives where the population is spread across 200 islands.
Last year we completed a Government contract toconnect medical centres across the Maldives, enabling patients to consult over video link with specialist doctors in the capital Mal.
The introduction of telemedicine has led to faster diagnosis of conditions, vital earlier treatment andhasreduced the cost of delivering medical careinthecountry.
Of Monaco & Islands EBITDA isfrom Monaco, the Maldives 90 % andGuernsey Of mobile customers in the 26 % Maldives have a smartphone Of Guernsey customers use 43 % mobiledata Mobile data revenue accounts for30% of Monaco Telecom 30 % mobilerevenue Cable & Wireless Communications 17
