A Group of world class businesses We have over 140 years of telecoms experience and are the leader in a spread of globalmarkets.
Key facts and figures Our services Mobile We are the market leader in 21 out of the 27 jurisdictions in which we provide mobile services.
We are investing in faster 11.
8m and higher capacity mobile networks to support new mobile data services, which Mobile customers are growing rapidly.
Broadband We provide high speed broadband to homes and workplaces and are investing to meet ever increasing demands for speed and reliability.
We are the market leader 66 7k in 25 out of 28 jurisdictions in which we supply broadband.
Broadband customers Fixed line We are the leading provider of xed line voice telephony in 25 of the 27 markets we serve.
We provide xed line services to many different customer groups, from 1.
7 m residential subscribers through to large scale enterprises and governments.
Fixed line customers Entertainment We offer pay TV services in Monaco, Panama, Barbados and St. Lucia, and mobile TV in Jamaica.
Pay TV services allow us to offer customers convenient and good value bundles of products like triple play 82% TV, xed line and broadband and quad play TV, xed line, broadband and mobile.
Growth in mobile data revenue Managed Services Social Telecoms We manage, as well as install and operate, telecommunications services for businesses and governments.
Our social telecoms projects are helping governments revolutionise 19 the way they provide public services.
Capacity on 19 subsea cable systems in Carrier Data Centres  Our extensive subsea cable network carries large amounts of voice and data traffic on behalf of consumers, enterprises and other carriers.
In a number of jurisdictions we also store data on behalf of major enterprises.
Includes joint ventures 2 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Introduction Our markets We are Panamas market leader in mobile, Panama xed line and broadband services.
We are also a major provider of pay TV, carrier, EBITDA enterprise and social telecoms services.
com Operating cash ow US$131m For more information see page 10 Operating under the CTM brand, we are the Macau market leader in mobile, xed and broadband in one of the worlds most popular tourist EBITDA destinations.
2011 was the 30th anniversary US$165m of our business in Macau.
net cash ow US$127m For more information see page 12 We are the leading full service telecoms Caribbean provider in the Caribbean.
In April 2011 we expanded to The Bahamas, our 14th market EBITDA in the region.
com Operating cash ow US$120m For more information see page 14 Our Monaco & Islands business is a portfolio Monaco & Islands in small and emerging markets with interests in Europe, Asia, Africa and the Indian and EBITDA Atlantic oceans.
Its largest markets are in US$186m Monaco, Guernsey and the Maldives.
com mi cash ow US$103m For more information see page 16 Cable & Wireless Communications 3
