12 Directors Report Our bOard Of directOrs ANR Clive Butler NR John Barton Gavin Darby Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Nomination Committee andExecutive Director Remuneration Committee John Barton was appointed as a Director Gavin Darby was appointed as Chief Executive Clive Butler was appointed as a Director on on25January 2010 and became Deputy Officer of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc on 25January 2010 and became a Non-executive Chairman, Non-executive Director and 28November 2011.
Between 2001 and 2010, Director on demerger.
Clive served as a SeniorIndependent Director on demerger.
Gavin held a number of senior management non-executive director of Cable and Wireless On28June 2011, John Barton was appointed positions within the Vodafone Group including plc from his appointment in May 2005 until as Chairman.
John served as a non-executive chief operating officer, and subsequently chief thedemerger.
He was appointed as senior director of Cable and Wireless plc from his executive officer of Vodafone UK.
In 2004, independent director of Cable and Wireless appointment on 9 March 2009 until the hewas appointed chief executive officer for plc in July 2006 and chairman of Cable and demerger.
John is chairman of Next plc and a Vodafones joint ventures and investments Wireless plcs nominations committee in July non-executive director of Catlin Group.
He was outside Europe, including Africa, USA, China 2007.
Clive was corporate development formerly chairman of Brit Insurance Holdings and India.
director at Unilever plc, serving on its main NV, Wellington Underwriting plc, Jardine Lloyd board of directors from 1992 until his Between 1984 and 2001, Gavin worked Thompson Group plc and non-executive retirement in 2005.
He also undertook the roles attheCoca-Cola Company in a variety of director of WH Smith PLC.
of personnel director and category director for international executive positions, culminating the home and personal care division, having in two regional president roles with worked in a variety of marketing and general responsibility for 30 European countries.
management roles since joining Unilever Gavin was a non-executive director of Intertek in 1970.
From 1995-2003, Clive was a plc between 2009-2011, and has served on non-executive director of Lloyds TSB Group.
telecommunications public company boards Clive will be retiring as a Director of the in India, South Africa, Kenya and Hong Kong, Company at the conclusion of the 2012 AGM.
as well as five years on the board of Verizon Wireless in the USA.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 2011 12 13 ANR ANR Penny Hughes Ian Gibson David Lowden Senior Independent Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director and Director andExecutive Director Chairman of the Audit Committee Penny Hughes was appointed as a Director on Ian Gibson was appointed as an Executive David Lowden was appointed as a Non- 25 January 2010 and became a Non-executive Director and Chief Financial Officer on 21 July executive Director of the Company and a Director on demerger.
Ian joined the Cable&Wireless Group in member of the Audit, Remuneration and Audit Committee and served as Chairman of 1995 and has held a number of senior financial Nomination Committees on 21 July 2011. the Committee from demerger to 13 September management positions including Deputy Chief David was appointed Chairman of the Audit 2011.
On 28 June 2011, Penny was appointed as Financial Officer since May 2010.
In 2009 he Committee on 13 September 2011.
David is Senior Independent Director.
Penny served as was appointed as acting chief financial officer also a non-executive director of Berendsen anon-executive director of Cable and Wireless and played a leading role in the demerger and PLC and William Hill plc, and chairman of a plc from her appointment on 1 July 2009 until listing of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc.
Penny is a non-executive Priorto this, David held the position of chief During the period 2006 to 2009, Ian held directorof Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, executive of Taylor Nelson Sofres PLC from thepositions of chief financial officer of where she chairs the remuneration committee 2006 to 2010 having previously held the thebroadband business unit and financial and Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC where positions of chief operating officer and group controller for the Cable&Wireless Europe, she chairs the corporate compliance and finance director for that company.
David also Asiaand US business.
Prior to that, he held a responsibility committee.
Penny spent ten held the position of group finance director of number of other senior management positions years with Coca-Cola, initially as marketing Asprey plc.
David has held senior financial including director of group accounting director, ending as president of Coca-Cola GB positions within international companies services, head of group reporting and & Ireland, having started her career with Procter including A. C. Nielsen and Federal Express.
Before joining the & Gamble Limited and then The Milk Marketing Cable&Wireless Group, Ian spent 12 years Board.
Penny has held a number of nonat Deloitte working in both the London and executive roles on the boards of international Toronto offices within the audit and forensic businesses, including Home Retail Group plc, accounting teams.
Gap Inc, Reuters Limited, Vodafone Limited, Trinity Mirror plc and Body Shop International plc.
She is a trustee of the British Museum and former president of the Advertising Association.
A Denotes membership of Audit Committee N Denotes membership of Nomination Committee R Denotes membership of Remuneration Committee
