Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 2011 12 33 Other statutOry infOrmatiOn There are a number of legal and regulatory Authority to purchase shares requirements with which Cable & Wireless Worldwide The Company received authority from shareholders at plc must comply, such as the Companies Act 2006 and the2011 AGM to purchase up to 268 million of its own the Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency shares, within certain limits as set out in the special Rules.
This section contains additional information, resolution.
The authority is due to expire at the 2012 AGM, required by these laws and regulations, to be included where upon it is proposed that it will be renewed.
Shares by the Directors in the Annual Report and Accounts.
repurchased may be cancelled or retained as treasury shares.
No shares were purchased under the authority Principal activities, business review and results granted at the 2011 AGM, nor did the Company acquire Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, registered number anyof its shares by other means.
Currently the Company 7029206, is a global telecommunications company.
The holds no treasury shares.
Groups principal activities during the year are detailed onpages 1 to 11.
Through this Annual Report, the Board Transfer of shares seeks to present a balanced and clear assessment of the Unless otherwise provided in the Articles or the terms of Groups activities, position and prospects.
The Groups issue of any shares, any shareholder may transfer any or results for the financial year are shown in the consolidated allof his shares.
The Directors may decline to register the income statement on page 39. transfer of any shares in certificated form that are not fullypaid up or otherwise in accordance with the Articles, Business model provided that such refusal does not prevent dealings from The Company provides data, voice, application and hosting taking place on an open and proper basis.
solutions to its various customers in the public and private sectors, with the objective of creating value for shareholders Branches through the financial returns.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide, through various subsidiaries, has established branches in a number of different Company strategy countries in which the business operates.
The Company aims to deliver sustainable cash flow through the development of the strength of its customer franchise, Winding up the continued building of its internal capabilities in If the Company is wound up, the liquidator may divide the order to meet its customers increasing demands, whole or any part of the assets of the Company among the improving its return on capital, and the reduction of shareholders subject to the passing of a resolution by a its businesscomplexity.
75% majority vote of the shareholders.
No shareholder can be compelled to accept any shares or other property which Share capital carries a liability.
As at 31 March 2012, the issued share capital of the Company was 2,747,075,470 ordinary shares of 5 pence Major acquisitions and disposals each.
Details of changes to ordinary shares issued and Full details of disposals are disclosed in note 2.2 on awards and options granted during the year are set page50.
There were no major acquisitions during the year.
2 to the consolidated financial statements.
No person holds securities in the Company Events after the balance sheet date carrying special voting rights with regard to control of the On Monday, 23 April 2012, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements announced that the Board had reached agreement on the between holders of securities that may result in restrictions terms of a recommended cash offer for Cable & Wireless on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Each share Worldwide plc by Vodafone Europe B. V. an indirect wholly entitles the holder to one vote at general meetings of the owned subsidiary of Vodafone Group Plc, whereby Company on votes taken on a poll.
The rights attaching to Vodafone Europe B. V. would acquire the entire issued and the ordinary shares are defined in the Companys Articles to be issued ordinary share capital of Cable & Wireless of Association the Articles.
34 Directors Report Related party transactions Going concern Related party transactions are set out in note 5.2 to the The Groups business activities and financial position, financial statements on page 72. together with the factors likely to affect its future development and performance and its objectives and Essential contractual arrangements policies in managing the financial risks to which it is Given the scope and diversity of the Cable&Wireless exposed are discussed in the Business Review.
The risk Worldwide business, the Company does not consider factors which could adversely affect the Groups future there are persons with whom the Company has contractual results are set out on pages 10 to 11. or other arrangements, which are essential to the business After making due enquiries, the Directors have a of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational Significant contracts change of control existence for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, they The Group has a number of contracts that are subject continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the tochange of control clauses.
These primarily relate to financial accounts.
For further information please refer to financing facilities, major customer contracts and licence the Going Concern statement set out in note 1.2 of the agreements.
In particular, under the Groups 260 million revolving credit facility agreement, unless all the lenders agree otherwise, Business ethics on a change of control the facility shall be cancelled in full The Group places significant focus on Business Ethics and all outstanding amounts together with related charges andthe associated attitudes and practices it encourages.
become immediately due and payable.
In 2010 the Company launched Business Ethics into the organisation.
This included the creation of a worldwide Under the Companys 230 million 5.75% Convertible policy complimented by a mandatory e-learn course.
Bonds due in 2014, for a period of 60 days following a TheBusiness Ethics policy is available on the Companys change of control of the Company or, if later, notice website.
thereof the conversion price will be adjusted downwards inaccordance with a formula resulting in straight-line Employees amortisation of the conversion premium of the convertible The Group is committed to the fair and equitable treatment bonds.
In addition, on a change of control of the Company, of all its employees, irrespective of sex, race, age, religion each holder of convertible bonds may exercise their or belief, disability, sexual orientation or marital status.
To conversion rights or, instead, require the Company to this end, policies have been put in place to ensure that this redeem any convertible bond held by such holder at its commitment is implemented at recruitment and continues principal amount, together with accrued and unpaid throughout an individuals employment with the Group.
and fair consideration is given to applicants with disabilities At present, risks arising from a change of control are for employment and training, and career development is notconsidered to be significant.
For change of control encouraged on the basis of aptitude and ability.
It is the provisions in relation to Directors service contracts, refer Groups policy to make all reasonable adjustments for to the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 32. employees and applicants with disabilities to enable themto maximise their potential.
Creditor payment policy The Group communicates with employees in many When entering into purchase contracts, the Company ways, including: regular briefings by management, agrees payment terms with its suppliers and draws their newsletters, intranet sites, mobile phone broadcasts, attention to such terms.
The Company seeks to abide by videoconferences and consultation forums.
These those terms on timely submission of satisfactory invoices.
communications help to achieve a common awareness During the year, the average number of days between the amongst colleagues of the financial and operational invoice date and the date of payment within the Group was performance of the Group.
The Company does not have any trade payables.
employees on key matters affecting their interests through a formalised employee consultation forum.
Charitable and political donations During the year ended 31 March 2012, the Group made The Group is committed to ensuring that employees share charitable donations totalling 508,867. in its success.
Colleagues are encouraged to participate in share purchase schemes and hold investments in the The Company established the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Companys shares.
Foundation during the year, the primary aim of which is to enhance the lives of those with special needs through its expertise in mission critical communications.
It is not the Companys policy to incur political expenditure or to make political donations.
In accordance with this policy, no donations were made in any EU member stateforpolitical purposes, as defined in Section 364 oftheCompanies Act 2006, during the year ended 31March2012.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 2011 12 35 Carbon Our Carbon footprint in the UK was 220,793 for 2011 12 compared to 238,657 tonnes of CO2-e for 2010 11.
This figure, calculated using the Greenhouse Gas Methodology, has been externally verified for the sixth consecutive year by the Edinburgh Centre for Carbon Management.
Energy consumption in the UK 2011 12 2010 11 Electricity kWh 361,514,852 375,932,198 Natural Gas kWh 9,314,844 15,473,295 We have a well established energy reduction programme with projects to: Decommission redundant voice, data and network equipment: Rationalise the number of technical sites: Improve our electrical efficiency through voltage optimisation: Replace fans to improve efficiency of air conditioning systems: Raise the set temperatures in equipment rooms within recommended guidelines thereby using less air conditioning : and Increase server virtualisation.
Registered Office and Company Secretary The Companys Registered Office is: Waterside House, Longshot Lane, Bracknell, BerkshireRG12 1XL Telephone: 44 0 1344 713 000 Philip Davis is the General Counsel & Company Secretary.
Registrar If you have any queries regarding your shareholding in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, please contact the Companys Registrar at: Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, WestSussex BN99 6DA Telephone 0871 384 2104 UK shareholders 44 0 121 415 7047 overseas shareholders Shareholders can view up-to-date information about their shareholdings at www.
Documents on display Shareholders can view the service contracts of ExecutiveDirectors and the letters of appointment of Non-executive Directors at the Companys Registered Office.
Shareholders may also obtain copies of the Companys Articles of Association at the Companys Registered Office.
Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Othertelephone providers costs may vary.
