MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW Managers Portfolio Review This year we have slightly altered the way in which we present Returns From Markets information about the geographical distribution of assets, grouping for the year ended 30 April 2012 together Asian Emerging Markets with other Emerging Markets Geographical performance against FTSE World Index in instead of with the developed markets of the Asia Pacic region sterling terms excluding Japan as in previous years.
We hope this gives a clear picture of exposure of the portfolio to Emerging and Developed 30% Markets.
In terms of changes made over the year there was a net 20% reduction in our exposure to Emerging Markets as sales of equities in these countries exceeded purchases and there were also reductions 10% in Europe and Developed Asia including Australia.
These net sales 0% were more than offset by net purchases of equities in North America, -10% the United Kingdom and Japan.
Our already small position in bonds was reduced, mainly as a result of profit taking in our holding of the -20% Athena Debt Opportunities Fund.
-30% In early July 2011 we decided to hedge part of the portfolio against -40% JAPAN the rising risk of a sharp fall in markets owing to the unhealthy UK CONTINENTAL NORTH DEVELOPED EMERGING EUROPE AMERICA ASIA MARKETS combination of mounting concerns about the ability of Europes politicians to nd a solution to the crisis in the eurozone, deadlock in Source: Baillie Gifford & Co the US Congress over the issuance of debt and the ending of support Monks portfolio for the markets from quantitative easing in America.
We did this FTSE World Index through sales of futures contracts based on the S&P 500, FTSE 100 All figures are calculated on a total return basis with net income reinvested.
and Eurostoxx 50 indices, representing the US, UK and European markets respectively, in order to provide a proxy for shares in general around the world and at the same time protected ourselves against A less successful strategy was our addition to holdings of shares of the possibility of a large rise in markets by purchasing call options on gold mining companies made in September and October 2011. the same indices.
This strategy proved effective in July and August The gold price had been rising up to that point but the shares of when markets around the world suffered large declines but it did gold miners had not followed suit with funds owing instead into have the by-product of reducing our already relatively small effective exchange traded funds.
We took the view that the divergence exposure to the US further and it was not a perfect match for our between the growing profits and cash ow of the miners and their portfolio as it did not include any Emerging Market indices in the falling share prices would ultimately be corrected as it was cheaper hedge.
For this reason we adjusted the position in February 2012 by to buy gold reserves in the stock market than to explore for them on closing the S&P 500 futures and options and replacing them with the ground.
Instead the gap has widened as the prices of a number corresponding positions on the Brazilian Bovespa Index and the of the shares we bought in September have subsequently greatly Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, an index made up from Chinese underperformed the falling price of bullion.
companies listed in Hong Kong.
The hedge provides some mitigation Performance was also adversely affected by the weakness of a of losses in the event of market falls at a modest cost in terms of number of Emerging Market currencies, notably the Brazilian real, potential upside forgone.
Had it not been in place the net asset value following the withdrawal of European banks from their previous role per share would have been 1.2% lower at the year end.
as recyclers of global savings into Emerging Markets.
On a more The following graph shows the impact of hedging on our net asset positive note a number of our holdings produced excellent results value, starting in November 2010 when we first used futures to during the year while the set-backs for Emerging Markets are likely to offset gearing.
prove temporary given their lower levels of debt and superior growth prospects.
420 The ten largest positive and negative individual stock contributors to performance are described below.
In aggregate the top ten positive 400 contributions outweighed the top ten negative contributions even though for the portfolio as a whole the balance was tilted in the 380 other direction.
Two of the largest positive contributors to 360 performance, Aggreko and Seadrill, were also in the top ten positive contributors last year.
One of this years largest negative contributors, 340 Renhe, was also on the list of largest negative contributors for the previous year and another of the largest negative contributors, 320 Digital Garage, was on the list of last years largest positive N D J FMA M JJ A S O N D J F M A 2010 2011 2012 contributors.
NAV at par NAV excluding hedging positions Source: Baillie Gifford & Co. Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
6 ANNUAL REPORT 2012 NAV per share pence
