DIRECTORS REPORT The Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to Directors consider environmental, social and governance ESG factors when Information about the Directors who were in ofce during the year selecting and retaining investments and has asked the Managers to and up to the date the financial statements were signed, including take these issues into account as long as the investment objectives their relevant experience, can be found on page 18. are not compromised.
The Managers do not exclude companies In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance from their investment universe purely on the grounds of ESG factors Code, all of the Directors are retiring at the AGM and are offering but adopt a positive engagement approach whereby matters are themselves for re-election.
Following formal performance evaluation, discussed with management with the aim of improving the relevant the Board considers that their performance continues to be effective policies and management systems and enabling the Managers to and that they remain committed to the Company.
The Board consider how ESG factors could impact long term investment returns.
therefore recommends their re-election to shareholders.
The Managers Statement of Compliance with the UK Stewardship Code can be found on the Managers website at The Directors at the end of the year under review and their interests in www.
The Managers policy has been reviewed the Company are as shown in the following table.
There have been and endorsed by the Board.
no changes intimated in the Directors interests up to 13 June 2012.
The Managers are signatories of the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment.
Directors Interests Conicts of Interest Ordinary 5p Ordinary 5p Nature shares held at shares held at Each Director submits a list of potential conicts of interest to the Board on an annual basis.
The Board considers these carefully, Name of interest 30 April 2012 30 April 2011 taking into account the circumstances surrounding them and, if JGD Ferguson beneficial 220,000 220,000 considered appropriate, they are approved for a period of one year.
CC Ferguson beneficial 50,000 50,000 Having considered the lists of potential conicts there were no actual EM Harley beneficial 200,000 200,000 direct or indirect interests of a Director which conicted with the DCP McDougall beneficial 1,373,160 1,365,648 interests of the Company.
Bribery Act 2010 Directors Indemnity and Insurance The Bribery Act came into force on 1 July 2011.
The company has The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of each a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and is committed to carrying of its Directors.
The deeds cover any liabilities that may arise to a out business fairly, honestly and openly.
The managers also adopt a third party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or zero tolerance approach and have policies and procedures in place breach of trust or duty.
The Directors are not indemnified in respect of to prevent bribery.
liabilities to the Company, any regulatory or criminal fines, any costs Investment Managers incurred in connection with criminal proceedings in which the The Board as a whole fulls the function of the Management Director is convicted or civil proceedings brought by the Company in Engagement Committee.
which judgement is given against him her.
In addition, the indemnity does not apply to any liability to the extent that it is recovered from An Investment Management Agreement between the Company and another person.
Baillie Gifford & Co sets out the matters over which the Managers have authority in accordance with the policies and directions of, and The Company also maintains Directors and Ofcers liability subject to restrictions imposed by, the Board.
The notice period for insurance.
terminating the Management Agreement is six months.
Careful Share Capital consideration has been given by the Board as to the basis on which Capital Structure the management fee is charged.
The Board considers that maintaining a relatively low total expense ratio is in the best interest The Companys capital structure consists of 256,124,859 ordinary shares of 5p each at 30 April 2012.
There are no restrictions of all shareholders.
The Board is also of the view that calculating the fee with reference to performance would be unlikely to exert a concerning the holding or transfer of the Companys ordinary shares and there are no special rights attached to any of the shares.
positive influence over the long term performance.
Details of the fee arrangements with Baillie Gifford & Co are shown in note 3 on Dividends page 33.
The ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends.
Interim The Board considers the Companys investment management and dividends are determined by the Directors, whereas the proposed secretarial arrangements on an ongoing basis and a formal review final dividend requires shareholder approval.
The Board considers, amongst others, the Capital entitlement following topics in its review: the quality of the personnel assigned to On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the handle the Companys affairs: the investment process and the results surplus assets will be paid to ordinary shareholders in proportion to achieved to date: investment performance: the administrative their shareholdings.
services provided by the Secretaries: and the marketing efforts undertaken by the Managers.
Following the most recent review it is the opinion of the Directors that the continuing appointment of Baillie Gifford & Co as Managers, on the terms agreed, is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23
