MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW The Biotech Growth Trust is an investment trust that invests in Largest positive contributors to performance: emerging biotechnology companies, most of which are listed in the IP Group is a venture fund listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The biotechnology sector returned to favour following has partnerships with departments of twelve leading United Kingdom a period of poor performance triggered by a combination of the universities to commercialise discoveries made by their researchers.
confounding of previous unrealistic expectations and concerns about A notable recent success has been Oxford Nanopore, a currently the impact of healthcare reforms in the United States.
The unlisted company that has developed a highly promising new development of new tools and techniques and greater understanding approach to the analysis of DNA that should dramatically reduce the of the genetic basis of many disorders suggest that the best period cost of gene sequencing.
The share price has reacted favourably to for biotechnology companies may be ahead of us rather than in the announcements made by Oxford Nanopore but we believe that it past and valuations are now much more reasonable than during still represents excellent value given the potential of both Oxford earlier periods of hype and excessive valuations.
We also own a Nanopore and its broader portfolio of investments.
number of direct holdings in this area.
Seadrill is the owner of one of the worlds largest eets of Credicorp is a Peruvian financial conglomerate.
It owns the largest deepwater drilling rigs and vessels and has more of the most modern Peruvian bank, Banco fide Credito del Peru.
It also has insurance and types of equipment than any other company.
Seadrill has benefited brokerage businesses in Peru and has recently announced an from the global trend towards drilling for oil and gas in ever deeper acquisition that will expand its operations into Chile.
It can trace its water and more difficult environments as sources of more accessible origins back to 1889 and has a reputation as a well managed and oil are exhausted.
It has also benefited from the greater focus on prudent institution.
We see considerable potential for loan growth in safety following the Gulf of Mexico disaster as oil companies have Peru and we used the opportunity provided by the election of a been willing to pay more to use the most modern rigs.
radical president to take a holding at a depressed price.
Post the Aggreko is a leading electrical generator and cooling equipment election the business environment proved to be more favourable than rental company.
It operates in more than 100 countries around the many feared and the share price rose.
world and supplies temporary power generating equipment to a EOG Resources is an oil and gas company that pioneered the wide range of different customers including utility companies and production of gas from shale formations using the techniques of organisers of sporting events.
In aggregate, demand for temporary horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing fracking in the United generating equipment displays reasonably steady growth but it is States.
Since then it has successfully applied the same approach to irregular at the level of individual customers and locations.
Aggrekos the production of oil from similar shale formations and its production great skill has been in managing its inventory of equipment, of oil has been rising rapidly.
We had sold out of EOG Resources predicting changes in demand ahead of time and responding several years ago as it and others had been so successful in exibly to unexpected events.
As a result it has exceeded developing new gas elds in the United States that the gas price expectations for sales and earnings for several years in succession.
was in danger of collapsing.
We bought it back in October 2011 OReilly Automotive sells car parts, tools and accessories through a when the share price fell back sharply to its 2005 level despite a network of stores throughout the United States.
Demand for significant increase in its reserves.
The shares were subsequently sold replacement parts and tools from both professional mechanics and at a higher price.
owners who carry out their own repairs is closely related to the Quanta Computer is the worlds largest manufacturer of notebook, average age of cars and this has been rising.
Competition from or laptop, computers.
It makes notebooks for many leading brands, franchised dealers has also diminished following the pruning of sales including Apple.
The notebook market has suffered from the networks in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis and the company explosive growth of tablet computers, notably Apples iPad, which is has also successfully integrated an earlier acquisition in California.
Concerns about the decline of the notebook TJX sells discounted clothing and home furnishings.
It includes the business created an attractive opportunity for us to take a holding in T. K. Maxx and HomeSense chains in Europe as well as T. J. Maxx, a well run and adaptable Taiwanese company that has been Marshalls and HomeGoods in the United States.
Its offering of developing new products rather than standing still in the face of this discontinued designer label products appeals to cost conscious development.
It has established a strong position in bespoke servers shoppers and it has been able to expand during what has been a for use in cloud computing applications and also now manufactures difficult time for many other retailers.
Its notebook sales are also proving more resilient than many had feared and these factors contributed to a rise Samsung Electronics is well-known as one of the worlds leading consumer electronics companies but it is also the worlds largest in the share price.
manufacturer of some of the most important types of computer Largest negative contributors to performance: memory chips and a significant manufacturer of microprocessor logic Sino-Forest is a Chinese forestry company listed in Canada.
It is a key supplier to Apple as well as a competitor to it in shares collapsed in value following a report from a short seller that mobile phones and tablets.
Its significant investment in research and publishes reports under the name Muddy Waters.
The specic development, manufacturing capacity and brand advertising make it allegations in the initial Muddy Waters report related to a formidable competitor and should help to keep it at the forefront of overstatement of the value of the companys forestry assets in China developments in the industry.
and irregularities in its relationships with intermediaries, but did not THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 7
