MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW The Biotech Growth Trust is an investment trust that invests in Largest positive contributors to performance: emerging biotechnology companies, most of which are listed in the IP Group is a venture fund listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The biotechnology sector returned to favour following has partnerships with departments of twelve leading United Kingdom a period of poor performance triggered by a combination of the universities to commercialise discoveries made by their researchers.
confounding of previous unrealistic expectations and concerns about A notable recent success has been Oxford Nanopore, a currently the impact of healthcare reforms in the United States.
The unlisted company that has developed a highly promising new development of new tools and techniques and greater understanding approach to the analysis of DNA that should dramatically reduce the of the genetic basis of many disorders suggest that the best period cost of gene sequencing.
The share price has reacted favourably to for biotechnology companies may be ahead of us rather than in the announcements made by Oxford Nanopore but we believe that it past and valuations are now much more reasonable than during still represents excellent value given the potential of both Oxford earlier periods of hype and excessive valuations.
We also own a Nanopore and its broader portfolio of investments.
number of direct holdings in this area.
Seadrill is the owner of one of the worlds largest eets of Credicorp is a Peruvian financial conglomerate.
It owns the largest deepwater drilling rigs and vessels and has more of the most modern Peruvian bank, Banco fide Credito del Peru.
It also has insurance and types of equipment than any other company.
Seadrill has benefited brokerage businesses in Peru and has recently announced an from the global trend towards drilling for oil and gas in ever deeper acquisition that will expand its operations into Chile.
It can trace its water and more difficult environments as sources of more accessible origins back to 1889 and has a reputation as a well managed and oil are exhausted.
It has also benefited from the greater focus on prudent institution.
We see considerable potential for loan growth in safety following the Gulf of Mexico disaster as oil companies have Peru and we used the opportunity provided by the election of a been willing to pay more to use the most modern rigs.
radical president to take a holding at a depressed price.
Post the Aggreko is a leading electrical generator and cooling equipment election the business environment proved to be more favourable than rental company.
It operates in more than 100 countries around the many feared and the share price rose.
world and supplies temporary power generating equipment to a EOG Resources is an oil and gas company that pioneered the wide range of different customers including utility companies and production of gas from shale formations using the techniques of organisers of sporting events.
In aggregate, demand for temporary horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing fracking in the United generating equipment displays reasonably steady growth but it is States.
Since then it has successfully applied the same approach to irregular at the level of individual customers and locations.
Aggrekos the production of oil from similar shale formations and its production great skill has been in managing its inventory of equipment, of oil has been rising rapidly.
We had sold out of EOG Resources predicting changes in demand ahead of time and responding several years ago as it and others had been so successful in exibly to unexpected events.
As a result it has exceeded developing new gas elds in the United States that the gas price expectations for sales and earnings for several years in succession.
was in danger of collapsing.
We bought it back in October 2011 OReilly Automotive sells car parts, tools and accessories through a when the share price fell back sharply to its 2005 level despite a network of stores throughout the United States.
Demand for significant increase in its reserves.
The shares were subsequently sold replacement parts and tools from both professional mechanics and at a higher price.
owners who carry out their own repairs is closely related to the Quanta Computer is the worlds largest manufacturer of notebook, average age of cars and this has been rising.
Competition from or laptop, computers.
It makes notebooks for many leading brands, franchised dealers has also diminished following the pruning of sales including Apple.
The notebook market has suffered from the networks in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis and the company explosive growth of tablet computers, notably Apples iPad, which is has also successfully integrated an earlier acquisition in California.
Concerns about the decline of the notebook TJX sells discounted clothing and home furnishings.
It includes the business created an attractive opportunity for us to take a holding in T. K. Maxx and HomeSense chains in Europe as well as T. J. Maxx, a well run and adaptable Taiwanese company that has been Marshalls and HomeGoods in the United States.
Its offering of developing new products rather than standing still in the face of this discontinued designer label products appeals to cost conscious development.
It has established a strong position in bespoke servers shoppers and it has been able to expand during what has been a for use in cloud computing applications and also now manufactures difficult time for many other retailers.
Its notebook sales are also proving more resilient than many had feared and these factors contributed to a rise Samsung Electronics is well-known as one of the worlds leading consumer electronics companies but it is also the worlds largest in the share price.
manufacturer of some of the most important types of computer Largest negative contributors to performance: memory chips and a significant manufacturer of microprocessor logic Sino-Forest is a Chinese forestry company listed in Canada.
It is a key supplier to Apple as well as a competitor to it in shares collapsed in value following a report from a short seller that mobile phones and tablets.
Its significant investment in research and publishes reports under the name Muddy Waters.
The specic development, manufacturing capacity and brand advertising make it allegations in the initial Muddy Waters report related to a formidable competitor and should help to keep it at the forefront of overstatement of the value of the companys forestry assets in China developments in the industry.
and irregularities in its relationships with intermediaries, but did not THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 7 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW back up the headline claims that the entire company was a fraud.
regulatory regimes thus stretching management resources and their An investigation ordered by the companys independent directors operations in China have been disappointing.
The final straw was a failed to get to the bottom of the murky world of forestry rights and change in the regulatory environment in Australia that will raise costs transfers in China and establish the truth of the matter.
This in turn led substantially and at that point we sold the holding.
to the company being unable to le accounts on time and so Eldorado Gold is a Canadian gold mining company with breaching covenants on its bonds.
The shares have been suspended operations in a number of countries the most important of which are from trading and the value of the holding has been written off in its in China and Turkey.
In common with our other gold mining entirety as it is unlikely that the equity holders will receive anything in holdings, it has massively underperformed the price of gold, failing a liquidation involving the re sale of assets.
to rise with it to its record high in September 2011 and then falling Research in Motion is the maker of the Blackberry smart phones by far more than the price of gold in the subsequent correction.
The popular with both Chief Executives and urban rioters.
It has been size of the holding increased when it acquired one of our other gold losing market share to Apples iPhone and Android based smart mining holdings, European Goldelds, largely for shares and has phones produced by companies such as Samsung Electronics in been reduced since the year end.
North America but it has continued to grow rapidly in many other Samsung Heavy Industries is a leading Korean shipbuilder with a markets, including some of the most populous and rapidly growing particularly strong position in sophisticated drill ships needed for oil countries of the world.
Our investment case was premised on this exploration in extremely deep water.
It is also one of the leading growth outside North America and the United Kingdom continuing to producers of very large container ships.
Demand in both of these be driven by a combination of network effects from the Blackberry segments has been strong, in line with our investment case, but messenger system, superior battery life and reception and low management fear that their competitive advantages are eroding handset cost in markets where these are not subsidised by network rapidly and this is leading to questionable attempts to diversify the operators.
The company seems to have badly misjudged the business.
The holding was sold during the year.
introduction of a new operating system and failed to introduce Renhe develops and operates underground shopping centres in features to attract and retain customers in a world dominated by Chinese cities.
It has a unique business model that involves building Apple and Android.
The shares were sold during the year.
defence shelters that double up as shopping malls.
This enables Aixtron is a German manufacturer of equipment which is mainly Chinese cities to full government requirements for bomb shelters used to make light emitting diodes LEDs.
LEDs are used in a variety while giving Renhe prime sites for only the cost of construction.
The of products but the most important are televisions, computer displays company sells the units in these centres to wealthy private investors and low-energy lighting.
Demand for low energy lighting in who are attracted to the rental yields available and this provides particular should result in a demand for a large amount of new LED nancing for further expansion.
These investors are feeling the effects manufacturing capacity.
China has ambitious plans to introduce of the slowdown in the Chinese property market and some of them low energy lighting and this resulted in a big rise in demand for are nding it difficult to pay for their purchases.
This came to a sudden stop when it became clear that the loans made to purchase the units and there is a risk of Chinese buyers had more machines than they had trained operators downward spiral which could threaten the viability of the company.
and progress in other markets has been limited by the high cost of We therefore sold the holding.
While these are likely to be temporary factors, as IAM Gold is a Canadian gold mining company with assets in a changes are driven by legislation, we are concerned that the number of regions including West Africa and the Americas.
In management has blamed all of the shortfall in demand on these addition to experiencing the same underperformance of the gold factors while it appears that competition is also a factor, both from price exhibited by our other gold mining holdings it has also fallen their main established competitor and from potential new entrants.
short of expectations operationally and has indicated that it is As a result we sold the holding.
looking to make a major acquisition.
In the light of these operational Digital Garage is a Japanese internet incubator company.
Its main failings and questionable strategy the holding was sold.
assets are cash and quoted investments, including a large stake in Jain Irrigation Systems is an Indian company that sells microJapans leading price comparison website, plus stakes in Twitter irrigation systems to the countrys farmers.
Indian agriculture is very Japan and Twitter Inc, the US unquoted parent company.
The share inefficient, farmers can make significant productivity gains by price is influenced by changing perceptions of the value of the stake installing micro-irrigation systems and there are government subsidies in Twitter and tends to be somewhat volatile.
In the previous year it to encourage its adoption.
Jain has found it necessary to provide was one of the largest positive contributors to performance but it credit to its customers as subsidies are slow in coming and the reversed almost all of those gains for a sterling investor in the last benets to farmers cash ow only materialise at the time of the next year, not helped by raising capital without giving a convincing harvest.
This has created a working capital problem for the reason.
The bulk of the holding had been sold at the year end Dart Energy is an Australian oil and gas company that extracts gas leaving only an insignicant rump.
It was spun out of Arrow Energy when this was taken over by Shell and Petrochina and had been for a while a successful investment.
They have possibly over expanded by Gerald Smith acquiring coal bed methane assets in countries with widely differing Baillie Gifford & Co 15 June 2012 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2012
