CHAIRMANS STATEMENT At the year end holdings of equities amounted to 104.6% of By printing money and engaging in a range of unconventional shareholders funds and holdings of equities and bonds together to policies, central banks have bought time for other participants to put 112.0% but when the effects of holding options and selling futures their houses in order.
Companies operating outside the financial are taken into account the effective gearing was equivalent to 93% sector seem to have generally used this breathing space well but of shareholders funds.
many banks remain undercapitalised and overleveraged.
It is far from clear that politicians will instigate necessary but unpopular Discount and Buybacks reforms in Europe, Japan or the United States and, even if they do, The discount at fair value widened to 11.6% from 9.9% over the that the public at large will accept them.
So, notwithstanding the course of the year.
The Board considers the level of discount and has attractions of many individual investment opportunities, significant authorised the repurchase of shares when this will be of benefit to risks remain of a systemic nature.
This is reected in our lack of continuing shareholders as well as being in the interest of those gearing and desire to maintain some protection against a significant shareholders who may need to sell some or all of their shares.
fall in markets rather than instead of in the selection of individual investments, where the focus remains on potential returns rather than During the year to 30 April 2012 15.3m was spent on the perceived defensive characteristics.
There is sufficient excitement in repurchase of 4,640,000 shares.
Since the power to buy back our portfolio of investments without adding gearing.
shares was first granted in 1999, 131.8m shares have been bought back and cancelled, representing 34% of the share capital at the AGM start of that period.
The Board will continue to buy back shares if I hope shareholders will come to the Annual General Meeting, suitable opportunities appear.
which will be held on 7 August 2012 at 11.00am at the Hotel Outlook Russell see map on page 49.
Our manager will give a short presentation and there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Companies are generally enjoying high levels of profitability and balance sheets are strong.
Interest rates are low and expected to stay low for the foreseeable future.
Overall growth in the global economy is reasonable and technological breakthroughs such as the unlocking of gas and oil from shale prove that innovation can overcome supposed limitations to growth.
If current levels of profitability can be sustained, shares in most markets around the James Ferguson world look reasonably valued, especially when compared to the 15 June 2012 prospective returns from government bonds.
Corporate bonds are also priced to offer a decent premium over government bonds and cash.
If we could end the list of factors likely to affect future investment returns here the outlook would appear rosy.
Unfortunately, the mirror image of the healthy corporate balance sheets can be found in the form of unsustainable public debt burdens and budget deficits not only in Europe and the United Kingdom but also in the United States.
The financial system is also far from healthy in these major economies and, as we saw both in 2008 and on a smaller scale in 2011, problems in one part of the world economy tend to be rapidly transmitted through the global banking system with adverse effects even on those countries with more robust public nances, low levels of household debt and high sustainable growth rates.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 5
