History dictates that currency debasement is always the end result for persistent printing of money because all respect, integrity and trust in the paper it is written on are eventually lost.
Such economic vandalism must stop, and soon, if credibility is to be restored to the Western financial system.
Thankfully not all nations displayed such economic irresponsibility.
Prudent fiscal and monetary policy management enabled numerous countries Bruce Stout in Asia and Latin America to prosper.
Financed by abundant Senior Investment Manager domestic savings and strong direct investment inflows, long term competitive fundamentals continued to improve.
Here, traditional macro-economic management prevailed, ensuring Background positive longer term stability for rising real incomes, Not worth the paper it is written on.
The derogatory consumption and share of global output.
Such trends again inference of such diction translates into most languages proved beneficial for overall investment returns.
A university degree awarded without passing exams, a licence granted where standards are not Unperturbed by uncertainty and potentially destabilising met or a certificate of excellence when only mediocrity debt dynamics, stock markets generally thrived on the rising prevails are familiar symptoms of the same disease.
All wave of global liquidity.
Regionally, Asia recorded the largest compromise integrity and ultimately erode trust.
gains in Sterling terms as investors poured money into Unfortunately such universal recognition of basic common perceived growth assets.
Somewhat ironically this occurred sense remained distant from Western politicians and against a backdrop of slowing GDP growth for many Asian policymakers as they intensified their efforts to convert their economies, but with market returns of 25%, 23% and currencies into confetti.
For, without doubt, the process of 18% from Singapore, Hong Kong and China respectively, quantitative easing, or printing money in straight-talking hope triumphed over reality.
Artificial suppression of US and vernacular, dominated the economic landscape over the past UK bond yields forced savers to seek out higher returning twelve months.
Extolling the virtues of fiscal prudence and assets, contributing to above average returns of 11% and economic austerity, Central Banks conducted the rhetoric of 10% from North America and UK equities.
The quality resolve and restraint, but behind the scenes the monetary underlying European equity returns was not great as rising printing presses provided the orchestral support for evolving liquidity fuelled speculation that many of Europes most events.
Seemingly neither concerned nor embarrassed by heavily indebted companies stood better chances of survival.
flooding financial markets with extra liquidity, government Preferring to hold quality companies in defensive businesses balance sheets deteriorated further.
Effectively paralysed by cost relative performance, but solid capital gains enhanced political campaigning in a Presidential election year, overall returns.
Domestic stock market strength in Japan was American policymakers watched impotently as outstanding largely offset by currency weakness, resulting in yet another liabilities reached record highs and external funding options disappointing year for Japanese returns in Sterling terms.
The issuing entity of US government debt, The 3.3% gain proved one of the lowest in the world.
Total namely the US Federal Reserve, increasingly became the only return diversity in Latin America witnessed one of the widest purchaser of US government debt.
Sustainable, improving domestic experimentation with unorthodox monetary policy also macro-economic fundamentals in Mexico undoubtedly prevailed in the UK, and in Japan where policymakers flooded contributed to the domestic markets rise of 24%, whereas their domestic economy with billions of extra Yen.
Even slowing global growth and periodic rising risk aversion German resolve was ultimately broken.
Devoid of proven pressurised Brazilian equities to decline -4% in Sterling terms.
policy measures to address escalating insolvency concerns Latin Americas overall regional return of under 3% proved over member states, the European Central Bank finally very disappointing relative to strong prevailing corporate reneged on previous promises and joined the global gang of fundamentals.
Growing social resentment towards austerity and reluctance to implement unpopular debtPerformance reduction policies lay behind such softening attitudes of The Net Asset Value Total Return for the year to 31 Western Finance Ministers.
As the pain of deleveraging December 2012 with net dividends reinvested was 14.0% within democracies increasingly threatened political tenure, compared with a return on the benchmark of 11.4%.
A full the easy option was embraced.
2012 witnessed worrying attribution analysis is given on page 19 which details the acceptance to go down this path for the debt-infested various influences on portfolio performance.
In summary, of developed world.
By year end, unorthodox policy in the form the 175 basis points before expenses of performance above of quantitative easing was being trumpeted as the New the benchmark, asset allocation added 2 basis points and Orthodoxy.
For any rational observer, such arrogance invokes Murray International Trust PLC 9 Managers Review continued stock selection contributed 173 basis points.
Structural traditionalists sought solace in others discomfort, but as effects relating to the fixed income portfolio and gearing, net deleveraging gathered momentum, Europes problem of borrowing and hedging costs, added a further 84 basis increasingly became the UKs problem.
Given the similarity points of positive relative performance.
of debt-related structural weaknesses that exist, this was hardly surprising.
Anaemic growth, declining living standards, USA high unemployment, bloated fiscal deficits and crippled banking systems are just some of the less salubrious In the operational and policy vacuum that accompanies a US characteristics Britain shares with its fellow Europeans.
Presidential election year, fundamental economic Unfortunately, all contributed to an undistinguished year for improvement is usually unlikely.
From this perspective, the the UK economy.
From an historical perspective, it proved past twelve months did not disappoint.
Eight years have very concerning indeed.
UK base interest rates remained elapsed since US house prices peaked and started falling yet close to zero, the lowest level since the Bank of Englands recovery remained as elusive as ever.
Unemployment inception in 1694, some 319 years ago.
Reflecting a stagnant remained stubbornly above eight per cent for the fourth economy, characterised by exhausted monetary policy and consecutive year and real income growth contracted to its crippling debt-servicing obligations, responsible savers lowest level in a decade.
Orthodox economic policy continued to be punished by the previous profligacy of remained paralysed and redundant.
Adding insult to injury, the largest trade deficit for excessive monetary and fiscal abuse, the worlds biggest decades provided evidence of slower export demand from debtor nation edged closer towards insolvency as politicians Europe and inelasticity of rapidly rising energy imports.
That repeatedly shirked budget responsibilities.
Procrastination Sterling stayed strong as external imbalances intensified was ruled as gridlock prevailed, keeping investors on edge a mystery.
The much publicised crusade to restore fiscal throughout.
The Achilles heel of fiscal sustainability centred fundamentals yielded marginal improvements on yearly on dwindling sources of foreign capital which previously budget imbalances but the UK Plcs overall balance sheet financed debt liabilities amassed over forty years of running expanded further.
Total outstanding debt reached excessive budget and current account deficits.
As ten year US unprecedented levels, negatively impacted by the Monetary Treasury bond yields declined to all time historical lows of Policy Committees obsession with printing money.
1.5%, financing from surplus foreign capital dried up.
Businesses struggled in such hostile conditions.
Over fifty Without domestic savings to plug the gap, the Federal High Street retailers declared bankruptcy as trading Reserves Hobsons choice was to become buyer of last conditions deteriorated.
Like vultures patiently waiting for a discarded carcass, erosion from fierce international price competition and the rating agencies looked set to savage US credit households endured a torrid time as real disposable incomes worthiness.
In the event, further downgrades were not were squeezed by higher food, energy and travel costs.
Unfortunately, in the absence of Without growth, which for the beleaguered UK economy any fiscal retrenchment or consensual political will to resolve remains unforthcoming, an uncertain future in unfamiliar fundamental structural economic imbalances, greater territory darkens investment prospects going forward.
uncertainty dominates the outlook going forward.
Can Portfolio exposure emphasised companies with extensive America achieve meaningful fiscal adjustment without overseas earnings and growth potential, but overall plunging the economy into recession?
Will the $16.4 trillion cautiousness towards future prospects prevented any debt ceiling be raised to accommodate such fiscal largesse?
Can US sovereign debt withstand further downgrades without having a materially negative impact on domestic Europe interest rates?
Most important, how hard will such fiscal malaise impact growth, employment, confidence and US Previously labelled the epicentre of global systemic financial corporate profitability over the next few years.
Patience is risk, the Eurozone surprised many sceptics by surviving intact wearing thin and time is most certainly not on Americas for another twelve months.
As sensational escape acts go, side.
US investment exposure remained focused on truly peripheral Europes performance was nothing short of Harry international companies with significant earnings growth Houdini-esque in proportions.
Domestic bond markets in potential overseas.
Within a North American regional Spain, Portugal and Greece began the year discounting context, a new position in Potash Corporation of imminent default, yet somehow managed to survive.
Their Saskatchewan, the worlds leading natural fertilizer company, saviour proved to be a radical shift in direction of European was built up throughout the year.
German resilience crumbled as nonconventional bailout measures were introduced, completely UK contradicting previously held beliefs of thrift and prudence.
Over one trillion Euros of synthetic liquidity was created Economic inertia dominated the UK financial backdrop through quantitative easing and unleashed upon the financial throughout 2012.
Basking in smugness at Europes pain, system.
Designed to buy time for dysfunctional banks and 10 Murray International Trust PLC lending and consumption.
Commodity exports of iron ore insolvent sovereign debtors, such policy capitulation carried and precious metals suffered from softening international with it the passport to moral bankruptcy, yet dissenting demand, but fuelled by capital spending projects for the voices were few and far between.
Disorderly default was Football World Cup in 2014 and Olympics in 2016, avoided, fears over Eurozone collapse subsided and some infrastructure investment remained robust.
Bouts of currency degree of functionality was restored to credit markets.
But at weakness and periodic, politically-induced risk aversion what cost to the credibility of European policymakers and prevented positive financial returns in Sterling terms from the promises they make?
Whilst technocrats fought the fires Brazilian equities over the period but prospects are threatening systemic financial meltdown, Rome, Madrid, improving.
Solid wage growth, near record employment Lisbon and Athens sometimes literally burned.
An levels, historically low interest rates and greater availability intensification of strikes, social unrest and violence reminded of credit suggest pro-cyclical forces are poised to gather the watching world that punitive austerity does not sit momentum.
Should the government adopt a more comfortably with democracy.
Deep social wounds reopened conciliatory attitude towards partially state-owned business as unemployment reached record levels.
Demands for less interests, the picture may become even brighter.
Either way, austerity and prolonged debt-servicing payment terms scope exists for corporate Brazil to surprise on the upside in gathered momentum as union leaders, industrialists, 2013 in terms of earnings and dividends.
Exposure was added academics and even the IMF publically voiced concerns over to existing positions in Vale, one of the worlds lowest-cost the severity of budget cuts.
Clearly more imaginative thinking was, and still is, required on sustainable debt commodity producers, and Petrobras, Brazils largest oil reduction over much longer timescales if economic progress company.
Strategic portfolio diversification through exposure is to be restored.
Does democracy possess such patience?
to Latin America will remain a valued component of overall We will see.
Not surprisingly confidence and sentiment investment strategy going forward.
towards Europe endured a torrid, roller-coaster ride as tensions ebbed and flowed.
Market strength was significantly Japan and Asia impacted by low quality financials recovering from the brink Uncertainty from enormous social and economic dislocations of extinction, so European portfolio performance lagged associated with the tsunami twenty four months ago still broader benchmarks.
This was of little concern, since reverberated around Japanese society in 2012.
The structural strategic focus was and will continue to be, on high quality plight of Japans deflationary economy deteriorated further companies such as Roche, Novartis and Nestl where following a brief period of respite from rebuilding and arguably macro-economic instability in Europe is less likely reconstruction.
Economic growth declined, incomes and to be felt.
prices declined and exporters squealed as continued currency strength curbed their international competitiveness.
Latin America Sustainable corporate profitability proved problematic to With so much of the world suspended in macro-economic project against a backdrop of inflated comparisons with purgatory, it is comforting to reflect on a region where 2011s rebound.
Corporate dividends remained essentially macro-economic orthodoxy prevails.
In Latin America, active unchanged as companies contemplated an onerous and fiscal policy, active monetary policy and the credit cycle opaque outlook.
Towards year end the Bank of Japan yielded remained alive and well.
Confidently negotiating a to popular demands for action by flooding financial markets Presidential campaign and change of government in July, with increased liquidity through further debt monetisation Mexican economic activity never missed a beat throughout.
Such blatant policy manipulation in pursuit Guided by strong, independent Central Bank management, of a weaker Yen proved popular and successful in the short economic growth remained above trend, inflation stayed well term, but carries with it great risk.
Rising supply concerns under control, foreign exchange reserves climbed to record coupled with rising bond yields could potentially destabilise highs and sovereign bond yields trended lower.
Financial the Japanese bond market.
Given Japans enormous market fiscal year returns showed the Mexican peso up 4% outstanding public sector debt, funding risk from domestic against Sterling and a 62% total return from portfolio savings could increasingly distort financial markets in future.
Never as flamboyant nor extravert as many of its The scarcity of Western economic growth prompted many Latin American neighbours, Mexico again delivered a investors to focus on the East.
Interpreting changing growth predictable result that the highly indebted developed world dynamics in China and India dominated macro-economic could only dream of.
Potential energy sector reforms, analysis, often to the detriment of progress being made proposals for a Free Trade Agreement with Brazil and elsewhere.
Rising real incomes and consumption growth kept transparent corporate earnings and dividend growth support Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia growing at rates not interesting future investment opportunities.
In Brazil, both witnessed in the West since the 1950s!
Sovereign wealth monetary and fiscal policy remained in accommodative funds expanded from surplus savings, sovereign credit quality mode.
The downward descent of interest rates continued improved throughout the region and currencies remained unabated, improving the outlook for capital investment, bank Murray International Trust PLC 11 Managers Review continued competitive.
The only real fly in the ointment was lower than expected corporate profit and dividend growth.
Many Asian companies experienced margin pressure from intensely competitive global pricing.
Weaker export markets in Europe and the United States negatively affected volumes, causing constraints on revenue growth.
Asias strict adherence to pay-out ratios on net earnings meant lower dividends from those companies worst affected.
Despite this, equity markets rose strongly, based on increased liquidity and expanding valuations.
Whilst partially justifiable on the basis that markets tend to anticipate better profits ahead, Asian equities are no longer cheap on an absolute or relative basis.
The challenge for this year will be to secure both quality earnings and dividend growth at attractive prices.
The worst of all is the corruption of the best.
When sentiment towards an asset class becomes universally one dimensional, the dangers associated with change become extreme.
To conventional wisdom it seems irrelevant that the United States and the UK possess the worst debt-related fundamentals ever in their history.
To conventional wisdom these countries are perceived as the safest of safe havens, so never have their bond prices been so high and their bond yields so low.
Yet never have they printed so much money with such blatant disregard for its integrity, nor possessed such hideously over-indebted fundamentals.
What happens when such conventional wisdom of being perceived as the best wakes up to the reality of actually being amongst the worst?
There is no precedent within fixed income history to assess the likely damage, but significant sums of money will be lost.
Quite simply, sovereign bonds in the developed world appear ludicrously expensive relative to cripplingly negative fundamentals, yet no-one seems to care.
A lethal cocktail of unparalleled levels of global debt and unparalleled global money printing, shaken and stirred by numerous financial indicators at multi-century highs lows, suggests a global fixed income hangover is fast approaching.
Perhaps the toughest investment strategy to implement going forward is how to preserve capital in a world of rising bond yields.
That is the challenge for this year and beyond.
Towards this end, gross assets will remain predominately exposed to equities, with continued emphasis on high quality companies.
Balance sheet strength to fund internal growth and reward shareholders with increasing dividends remains extremely important for companies seeking to protect themselves from prevailing macro-economic hostilities.
Such strategic exposure will remain at the core of capitalising on investment opportunities going forward.
Bruce Stout Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited Investment Manager 26 February 2013 12 Murray International Trust PLC
