Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the A final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 13.0p per Ordinary share was paid on 16 May 2012.
Interim December 2012. dividends of 9.0p each were paid on 16 August 2012, 15 November 2012 and 18 February 2013 making a total Business Review distribution to Ordinary shareholders of 46.9 million.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend for the year A review of the Companys operations is given in the ended 31 December 2012 of 13.5p per Ordinary share Corporate Summary on pages 2 to 6, the Chairmans payable on 16 May 2013 to holders of Ordinary shares on Statement on pages 7 and 8 and the Managers Review on the register at close of business on 5 April 2013. pages 9 to 12.
This includes a review of the business of the Company and its principal activities, likely future Whenever a cash dividend is paid on the Ordinary shares, a developments of the business, recommended final dividend bonus issue of B Ordinary shares is made to the holders of B and details of the issue of new shares during the year by the Ordinary shares.
In connection with the final dividend the Company.
The major risks associated with the Company are Directors will make a corresponding capitalisation issue of B detailed in the Corporate Summary on pages 3 to 6 and in Ordinary shares credited as fully paid.
This capitalisation note 19 to the financial statements.
Details of the risk issue will be equivalent in asset value to the final dividend management objectives and policies are provided in the now recommended on the Ordinary shares but excluding any Corporate Governance Statement internal controls report on tax credit thereon.
Subject to the approval of shareholders of page 34.
Further details on how the portfolio is managed to the final dividend, definitive certificates in respect of the achieve the risk management policies and objectives are capitalisation issue will be posted on 16 May 2013. disclosed in The Investment Process, Philosophy and Style Fractional entitlements will be sold for the benefit of B on page 22.
The Key Performance Indicators for the Ordinary shareholders.
The new B Ordinary shares will rank Company including NAV and share price information are equally with the existing B Ordinary shares.
11 to approve the final dividend will be The current Directors are K J Carter, J D Best, P W proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Dunscombe, A C Shedden, Lady Balfour of Burleigh and M Campbell and were the only Directors who served during the The Net Asset Value per Ordinary and B Ordinary share at 31 year.
Political and Charitable Donations Annual General Meeting The Company has not made any political or charitable The Notice of Annual General Meeting is contained on pages donations in the year 2011 - nil.
Principal Activity and Status Discount Management Policy and Special The Company is an investment company in accordance with Business at Annual General Meeting Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and carries on Share Buybacks business as an investment trust.
In common with most At the Annual General Meeting held on 26 April 2012, investment trusts, the Company has no employees.
The shareholders approved the renewal of the authority Company is registered in Scotland with number SC006705.
permitting the Company to repurchase its Ordinary shares.
The Company has been approved by HM Revenue & The Directors wish to renew the authority given by Customs as an investment trust for the purposes of Section shareholders at the previous Annual General Meeting.
The 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the year ended 31 principal aim of a share buyback facility is to enhance December 2011.
The Directors are of the opinion that the shareholder value by acquiring shares at a discount to Net Company has conducted its affairs for the year ended 31 Asset Value, as and when the Directors consider this to be December 2012 so as to be able to continue to obtain appropriate.
The purchase of shares, when they are trading at approval as an investment trust under Section 1158 of the a discount to Net Asset Value per share, should result in an Corporation Tax Act 2010 for that year, although approval increase in the Net Asset Value per share for the remaining for that year would be subject to review were there to be an shareholders.
This authority, if conferred, will only be enquiry under the Corporate Tax Self Assessment regime.
exercised if to do so would result in an increase in the Net Asset Value per share for the remaining shareholders and if it Results and Dividends is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Any The total gain attributable to equity shareholders for the purchase of shares will be made within guidelines established year amounted to 138.8 million.
Murray International Trust PLC 25 Directors Report continued an aggregate nominal amount of 3,102,599 equivalent to from time to time by the Board.
It is proposed to seek 12,319,524 Ordinary shares and 90,871 B Ordinary shares or shareholder authority to renew this facility for another year 10% of the Companys existing issued share capital at 26 at the Annual General Meeting.
February 2013, the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report.
Such authority will expire Under the Listing Rules, the maximum price that may be paid on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or on 30 on the exercise of this authority must not be more than the June 2014, whichever is earlier.
This means that the authority higher of i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the will have to be renewed at the next Annual General Meeting.
middle market quotations for a share taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 business days When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 561 of the immediately preceding the day on which the share is Companies Act 2006 provides that existing shareholders purchased: and ii the higher of the last independent trade have pre-emption rights and that the new shares must be and the current highest independent bid on the trading offered first to such shareholders in proportion to their venue where the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price existing holding of shares.
However, shareholders can, by which may be paid is 25p per share.
special resolution, authorise the Directors to allot shares otherwise than by a pro rata issue to existing shareholders.
It is currently proposed that any purchase of shares by the Special Resolution No.
13 will, if passed, also give the Company will be made from the capital reserve of the Company.
The purchase price will normally be paid out of Directors power to allot for cash equity securities up to an the cash balances held by the Company from time to time.
aggregate nominal amount of 3,102,599 equivalent to 12,319,524 Ordinary shares and 90,871 B Ordinary shares or Special Resolution No.
14 will permit the Company to buy 10% of the Companys existing issued share capital at 26 back shares and to hold the shares bought back as treasury February 2013, the latest practicable date prior to the shares rather than cancel them immediately.
The benefit of publication of this Annual Report, as if Section 561 of the the ability to hold treasury shares is that such shares may be Companies Act 2006 does not apply.
This should give the Company greater flexibility in nominal amount of share capital which the Directors are managing its share capital and improve liquidity in its shares.
seeking the authority to allot pursuant to Resolution No.
The Company would only sell on treasury shares at a This authority will also expire on the date of the 2014 Annual premium to net asset value.
When shares are held in General Meeting or on 30 June 2014, whichever is earlier.
treasury, all voting rights are suspended and no distribution This authority will not be used in connection with a rights either by way of dividend or by way of a winding up is issue by the Company.
permitted in respect of treasury shares.
If the Directors believe that there is no likelihood of re-selling shares bought The Directors intend to use the authority given by back, such shares would be cancelled.
12 and 13 to allot shares and disapply preemption rights only in circumstances where this will be Special Resolution No.
14 in the Notice of Annual General clearly beneficial to shareholders as a whole.
As such, issues Meeting will renew the authority to purchase in the market a will only be made where shares can be issued at a premium maximum of 14.99% of shares in issue at the date of the of 0.5% or more to Net Asset Value.
At present, shares are Annual General Meeting amounting to 18,466,967 Ordinary available under the savings plans operated by the Manager.
shares and 136,216 B Ordinary shares as at 26 February In circumstances where the share price of the Company 2013.
Such authority will expire on the date of the 2014 stands at a premium of 0.5% or more to Net Asset Value, it Annual General Meeting or on 30 June 2014, whichever is may be advantageous for the Company to allot new shares earlier.
This means in effect that the authority will have to be directly to participants in the savings plans or to other renewed at the next Annual General Meeting or earlier if the prospective purchasers.
Such issues would only be made at authority has been exhausted.
prices greater than Net Asset Value, and would involve no dilution for existing shareholders.
The issue proceeds would During the year ended 31 December 2012 and up to the date be available for investment in line with the Companys of this Report no share repurchases have taken place.
No issue of shares will be made which would effectively alter the control of the Company without Issue of Shares the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
In terms of the Companies Act 2006 the Act the Resolution No.
13 will also disapply pre-emption rights on Directors may not allot unissued shares unless so authorised the sale of treasury shares as envisaged above.
Once again, by the shareholders.
12 in the Notice of the pre-emption rights would only be disapplied where the Annual General Meeting which will be proposed as an treasury shares are sold at a premium to Net Asset Value of Ordinary Resolution will, if passed, give the Directors the not less than 0.5%.
necessary authority to allot the unissued share capital up to 26 Murray International Trust PLC The Directors consider that the authorities granted above are In accordance with the recommendations of Principle 3 of in the best interests of the shareholders taken as a whole and the AICs Code of Corporate Governance that the Directors recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of the of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual reresolutions, as the Directors intend to in respect of their own election by shareholders, all the members of the Board will beneficial holdings of Ordinary shares amounting in retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will aggregate to 82,215 shares, representing approximately offer themselves for re-election with the exception of Ms 0.07% of the Companys issued share capital as at 26 Campbell.
Ms Campbell was appointed during the year and February 2013. she retires in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company at the Annual General Meeting and, being Share Capital eligible, offers herself for re-election.
An appropriate resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The issued Ordinary share capital at 31 December 2012 amounted to 121,283,242 Ordinary and 899,997 B Ordinary No contract or arrangement significant to the Companys shares.
Details of the changes in share capital during the year business and in which any of the Directors is interested has are provided in note 14 to the financial statements.
On 18 subsisted during the year.
February 2013 the issued B Ordinary share capital increased to 908,713 B Ordinary shares following the capitalisation The interests of the Directors in the Ordinary share capital of issue of 8,716 B Ordinary shares in lieu of the third interim the Company Directors do not have any beneficial interests dividend.
Between 31 December 2012 and the date of this in the B Ordinary share capital were as follows: report, a further 1,912,000 new Ordinary shares were issued for cash at a premium to the prevailing net asset value.
31 December 2012 1 January 2012 Beneficial Beneficial Share Interests K J Carter 15,000 10,000 At 31 December 2012 the following share interests in the Lady Balfour of Burleigh 1,300 1,300 Company above 3% had been notified: J D Best 47,500 47,500 P W Dunscombe 3,850 1,350 Ordinary % of A C Shedden 9,132 8,576 shares of Ordinary M Campbell 5,338 - 25p capital Or subsequent date of appointment Brewin Dolphin 11,413,664 9.3 Appointed 27 April 2012 Speirs & Jeffrey 8,630,777 7.0 Aberdeen Asset Managers 8,413,025 6.8 Mr A C Sheddens beneficial holding increased to 9,227 Savings Plans non disretionary Ordinary shares by the acquisitions of 18, 59 and 18 Rathbones 6,548,975 5.3 Ordinary shares on 22 January 2013, 19 February 2013 and 22 February 2013 respectively.
With the exception of these Investec 5,933,627 4.8 further disclosures, the above holdings were unchanged at 26 Alliance Trust Savings 4,281,739 3.4 February 2013, being the nearest practicable date prior to Legal & General 3,738,559 3.0 the signing of this Annual Report.
B Ordinary % of B Directors Fees shares of Ordinary 25p capital A report on the Directors Remuneration is set out on pages Speirs & Jeffrey 244,223 26.9 37 and 38.
Manager and Company Secretary There have been no significant changes to the above information notified between 31 December 2012 and 26 Investment management services are provided to the February 2013.
Company by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Company secretarial, accounting and administrative services are Directors provided by Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
The Directors who held office during the year under review For the year ended 31 December 2012, the management and together with their interests are shown below.
With the secretarial fees payable to the Manager were calculated and exception of Ms Campbell all the Directors held office charged on the following basis: throughout the year under review.
an investment management fee payable to the Manager, Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, of 0.5% per annum of Murray International Trust PLC 27 Directors Report continued the value of total assets, less unlisted investments and all Directors and Officers Insurance current liabilities excluding monies borrowed to finance the The Company purchases and maintains liability insurance investment objectives of the Company, averaged over the covering the Directors and officers of the Company.
A fee of 1.5% per annum is charged Companys Articles of Association provide an indemnity to on the value of unlisted investments.
The investment the Directors out of the assets of the Company against any management fee is chargeable 30% against revenue and liability incurred in defending proceedings or in connection 70% against realised capital reserves.
with any application to the Court in which relief is granted.
Included in the charge of 0.5% above is a secretarial fee of ISA Status 100,000 per annum which is chargeable 100% to revenue.
The Company intends to manage its affairs so as to be a fully qualifying investment for the stocks and shares component In addition, the Manager is entitled to a performance fee on of an ISA.
the following basis: Going Concern a fee of 5% of the first 2% of any outperformance of the Companys net asset total return over that of its In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils benchmark: guidance on Going Concern and Liquidity Risk issued in a fee of 10% of any additional outperformance against the October 2009 the Directors have undertaken a rigorous benchmark.
review of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The total amount of the fee earned by the Manager in any one year comprising the basic management fee and the Borrowing facilities of JPY8.225 billion are scheduled to be performance fee is capped at 0.8% of the average value of repaid in June 2013.
As part of the going concern review the the Companys total assets less current liabilities.
Any Directors have requested that the Manager initiate performance fee is paid in equal instalments over a four year discussions with potential lenders in order to agree the terms period with any future underperformance offset against the of a replacement loan facility.
At this stage it is too early to fee payable.
finalise the terms, although the Company expects to receive acceptable terms closer to the expiry date.
The Companys No fees are charged in the case of investments managed or assets consist of a diverse portfolio of listed equity shares advised by Aberdeen Asset Management Group.
The and bonds which in most circumstances are realisable within a very short timescale.
If acceptable terms are not management agreement may be terminated by either party forthcoming, any outstanding amounts will be repaid on the expiry of one years written notice.
On termination through the proceeds of sales from the Companys portfolio.
the Manager would be entitled to receive fees which would otherwise have been due up to that date.
The Directors are mindful of the principal risks and uncertainties disclosed on pages 3 to 6 and have reviewed The Board considers the continued appointment of the forecasts detailing revenue and liabilities and the Directors Manager on the terms agreed to be in the interests of the shareholders as a whole because the Aberdeen Asset believe that the Company has adequate financial resources Management Group has the investment management, to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable secretarial, marketing and administrative skills required for future and at least 12 months from the date of this Annual the effective operation of the Company.
Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
Corporate Governance Creditor Payment Policy The Statement of Corporate Governance forms part of this Directors Report and covers the Companys compliance with The Companys payment policy is to agree terms of payment The UK Corporate Governance Code and is shown on pages before business is transacted, to ensure suppliers are aware 30 to 35. of these terms and to settle bills in accordance with them.
The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year Audit Committee end 2011 - none.
Details of the Audit Committee are contained in the Financial Instruments Statement of Corporate Governance under the heading Audit Committee on page 32.
The Companys financial instruments comprise its investment portfolio, cash balances, loans and debtors and creditors that arise directly from its operations such as sales 28 Murray International Trust PLC and purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The and rigorous process involving large and medium-sized audit main risks that the Company faces arising from its financial firms which culminated in presentations from the shortlisted instruments are disclosed in note 19 to the financial firms, the Board, on the recommendation of the Audit statements.
Committee has resolved to recommend to shareholders the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP at the forthcoming Accountability and Audit Annual General Meeting.
Each Director confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, The auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, has expressed its willingness there is no relevant audit information of which the to continue in office.
9 to re-appoint Ernst & Companys auditor is unaware, and he or she has taken all Young LLP as the Companys auditor will be put to the the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order forthcoming Annual General Meeting, along with Resolution to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information No.
10 to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that During the year the auditor received 26,000 VAT in information.
relation to non-audit services, being the review of the B Ordinary share capitalisation issue calculations, agreed upon Disclosure & Transparency Rules DTRs procedures in respect of the Half-Yearly Report and advice in The following further information is disclosed in accordance connection with overseas withholding tax reclaims.
with the Companies Act 2006 and DTR 7.2.
6: By order of the Board of Murray International Trust PLC The Companys capital structure and voting rights are summarised in note 14: Details of the substantial shareholders in the Company are Aberdeen Asset Management PLC listed on page 27: Secretary The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of 40 Princes Street, Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Edinburgh EH2 2BY Association and are summarised on page 37: 26 February 2013 Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association and powers to issue or buy back the Companys shares requires a special resolution to be passed by shareholders: There are: no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no agreements which the Company is party to that might affect its control following a takeover bid: There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
Directors Conflicts of Interests The Companies Act 2006 requires that a Director of the Company must avoid a situation in which he has, or might have, an interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the interests of the Company.
In the event that a conflict should arise the other Board members would consider that conflict and recommend whether or not each potential conflict should be authorised.
The Board confirms that, as at the date of this Report, the Directors do not have any conflicts of interest which might require to be approved by the Board or otherwise recorded in the Companys Register of Conflicts.
Independent Auditor Subsequent to the period end the Audit Committee conducted a tender for audit services.
The Companys policy is to conduct a regular review of its audit arrangements and the last tender had taken place in 2004.
Following a detailed Murray International Trust PLC 29
