Marketing Strategy Murray International Trust PLC contributes to the Marketing Public Relations Programme run by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited The Manager undertakes to brief journalists, write regularly AAM, on behalf of a number of investment trusts under through placed articles and ensure Company results and any its management.
The Companys contribution which is corporate activity are brought to public attention.
matched by AAM is 579,000 plus VAT for the year ending 31 August 2013.
The marketing arrangements are reviewed Shareholder Services on an annual basis by the Board.
AAM runs an investment help desk for retail enquirers and investors.
Enquirers or investors will be sent any relevant The purpose of the Programme is to communicate effectively literature on request and have queries answered with existing shareholders and gain more new shareholders, immediately.
The Marketing Programme is under the thus improving liquidity and thereby enhancing the value and direction of AAMs Group Head of Brand who has extensive rating of the Companys shares.
AAMs experience has also experience in the marketing and communications of shown that well-targeted marketing of the Companys investment products.
He is supported by a team of marketing investment merits through packaged products, whether professionals.
singly, or in conjunction with other trusts run by AAM, can be a cost-effective way of gaining new investors.
Internet The Marketing Programme includes the following: Murray International Trust PLC has a dedicated website: www.
This allows web users to access information on the Companys share price performance, Investor Relations Programme capital structure, stock exchange announcements and AAM runs an investor relations programme to existing and monthly reports.
The site is continuously being evaluated for prospective institutional investors in investment trusts.
month, institutional investors and prospects receive a Managers report on the Company that includes detailed Investors in the Share Plan and ISA can now use AAMs performance analysis.
secure system to view their valuations and transact on their Plan accounts.
Direct Response Advertising The Manager advertises the packaged product availability of The Board is committed to a close monitoring of the the Company in selected national press as well as the Marketing Programme.
The Aberdeen Group Head of Brand specialist financial titles.
provides a written summary quarterly to the Board.
Direct Mail If you have any questions about the Company, the Manager Periodic mail shots of information packs inviting named or performance, please telephone our Investor Services addressees to respond is a low-cost method of building Department on 0500 00 00 40 free when dialling from a UK landline.
Alternatively, internet users may e-mail us on awareness and investor databases.
com or write to us at 10 Queens existing holders of other AAM investment trusts as well as Terrace, Aberdeen AB10 1YG.
known buyers of investment trusts.
The information on pages 62 and 63 has been approved for the Newsletter purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets The Bulletin newsletter, an informed commentary on Act 2000 by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited which is markets and investment trusts managed by AAM, is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
62 Murray International Trust PLC How to Invest in Murray International Trust PLC Direct held in the Plan.
Under current legislation, investments in ISAs can grow free of capital gains tax.
Investors can buy and sell shares in Murray International Trust PLC directly through a stockbroker or indirectly through ISA Transfer a lawyer, accountant or other professional adviser.
Alternatively shares can be bought directly through You can choose to transfer previous tax year investments to Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children, Aberdeens us which can be invested in Murray International Trust PLC Investment Trust Share Plan and Investment Trust ISA.
while retaining your ISA wrapper.
The minimum lump sum for an ISA transfer is 1,000 and is subject to a minimum per Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children trust of 250.
Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited AAM runs an Investment Note Plan for Children the Childrens Plan which covers a number of investment companies under its management Please remember that past performance is not a guide to the including Murray International Trust PLC.
Stock market and currency movements may cause in the Childrens Plan, including parents, grandparents and the value of shares and the income from them to fall as well family friends.
All investments are free of dealing charges on as rise and investors may not get back the amount they the initial purchase of shares, although investors will suffer originally invested.
the bid-offer spread, which can, on some occasions, be a significant amount.
Lump sum investments start at 150 per As with all equity investments, the value of investment trusts trust, while regular savers may invest from 30 per month.
purchased will immediately be reduced by the difference Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently between the buying and selling prices of the shares, the 0.5% on entry.
There is no market makers spread.
restriction on how long an investor need invest in the Childrens Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend Investors should further bear in mind that the value of any participation by instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In tax relief will depend on the individual circumstances of the common with other schemes of this type, all investments are investor and that tax rates and reliefs, as well as the tax held in nominee accounts.
treatment of ISAs may be changed by future legislation.
Aberdeens Investment Trust Share Plan Keeping You Informed AAM runs a Share Plan the Plan through which shares in For internet users, detailed data on Murray International Murray International Trust PLC can be purchased.
There are Trust PLC, including price, performance information and a no dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, although monthly fact sheet is available from the Trusts website investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some www.
co. uk and the TrustNet website occasions, be a significant amount.
Alternatively you can call start at 250, while regular savers may invest from 100 per 0500 00 00 40 free when dialling from a UK landline for month.
Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty trust information.
There is no restriction on how long an investor need invest in a Literature Request Service Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend participation by For literature and application forms for the Managers instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In common with investment trust products, please contact: other schemes of this type, all investments are held in nominee accounts.
Investors have full voting and other rights Telephone: 0500 00 40 00 of share ownership.
com Stocks and Shares ISA For information on the Investment Plan for Children, Share An investment of up to 11,280 can be made in the tax year Plan, ISA or ISA Transfer please contact: 2012 2013 and 11,520 in the tax year 2013 2014.
Aberdeen Investment Trust Administration The annual ISA administration charge is 24 VAT, PO Box 11020 calculated annually and applied on 31 March or the last Chelmsford business day in March and collected soon thereafter either Essex, CM99 2DB by direct debit or, if there is no valid direct debit mandate in Telephone: 0500 00 00 40 free when dialling from a UK place, from the available cash in the Plan prior to the landline distribution or reinvestment of any income, or, where there is insufficient cash in the Plan, from the sale of investments Details are also available on www.
co. uk Murray International Trust PLC 63
