Corporate Summary The Company responsible for the level of gearing in the Company and reviews the position on a regular basis.
Any borrowing, Murray International Trust PLC the Company is an investment trust traded on the London Stock Exchange and is except for short-term liquidity purposes, is used for a constituent of the FTSE Actuaries All-Share Index.
Some investment purposes or to fund the purchase of the 25,000 of its shareholders are private investors.
Murray Company's own shares.
Total gearing is not in normal International Trust PLC offers the advantages of exposure to circumstances to exceed 30% of Net Assets with cash world markets.
The Company is invested in a diversified deposits netted against the level of borrowings.
At the year portfolio of international equities and fixed income securities.
end there was net gearing of 10.1% calculated in accordance with AIC guidance and particular care is taken to AIC ensure that any bank covenants permit maximum flexibility The Company is a member of the Association of Investment of investment policy.
Changes to Investment Policy Benchmark Any material change to the investment policy will require the The Companys benchmark is a composite index made up as approval of the shareholders by way of an ordinary resolution to 40% of the FTSE World UK Index and 60% of the FTSE at a general meeting.
The Company will promptly issue an World ex-UK Index.
announcement to inform the shareholders and the public of any change of its investment policy.
Investment Objective The primary aim of the Company is to achieve a total return Delivering the Investment Policy greater than its benchmark by investing predominantly in Day to day management of the Companys assets has been equities worldwide.
"Within this objective the Manager will delegated to Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited ""AAM"" or seek to increase the Companys revenues in order to the ""Manager""."
The Manager invests in a diversified range of maintain an above average dividend yield.
international companies in accordance with the investment Investment Policy objective.
Asset Allocation The investment manager, Bruce Stout, has responsibility for The Companys assets are invested in a diversified portfolio portfolio construction across all regional segments.
Working of international equities and fixed income securities spread closely with the relevant underlying fund management across a range of industries and economies.
The Company's teams in each case, portfolio construction is an interactive investment policy is flexible and it may, from time to time, process.
The Manager utilises a Global Equity Buy List hold other securities including but not limited to indexwhich is constructed by each of the specialist country linked securities, convertible securities, preference shares, management teams.
This list contains all buy and hold unlisted securities, depositary receipts and other  for each management team, which are related securities.
The Company may invest in derivatives for then used as the investment universe.
Stock selection is the the purposes of efficient portfolio management.
The major source of added value.
Companys investment policy does not impose any geographical, sectoral or industrial constraints upon the Top-down investment factors are secondary in the Managers Manager.
portfolio construction, with diversification rather than formal controls guiding stock and sector weights.
Market It is the investment policy of the Company to invest no more capitalisation is not a primary concern.
than 15% of its gross assets in other listed investment companies including listed investment trusts at the time of A detailed description of the investment process and risk purchase.
The Company currently does not have any controls employed by the Manager is disclosed on page 22.
A investments in other investment companies.
comprehensive analysis of the Companys portfolio is disclosed on pages 15 to 21 including a description of the Risk Diversification twenty largest investments, the portfolio of investments by The Manager actively monitors the Companys portfolio and value, attribution analysis, distribution of investments and attempts to mitigate risk primarily through diversification.
The Company is permitted to invest up to 15% of its investments by value in any single stock at the time of At the year end the Companys portfolio consisted of 50 purchase.
The Manager is authorised by Gearing the Board to hold between 50 and 150 stocks in the The Board considers that returns to shareholders can be portfolio.
enhanced by the judicious use of borrowing.
The Board is 2 Murray International Trust PLC History million or 10.1% of Net Assets with cash deposits netted against the borrowings.
The Company currently hedges Murray International Trust PLC started its life in 1907 as The most of the foreign currency exposure in respect of the Scottish Western Investment Company Limited.
The Scottish liabilities attached to its borrowings.
The Companys Western of the early days was very highly geared but it was borrowing facilities are further detailed in note 13.
Financial mainly invested in bonds, though the international spread covenants contained within the relevant loan agreements resembled todays, with countries such as Argentina, China, provide, inter alia, that borrowings shall at no time exceed Japan, Canada and many others appearing in the portfolio.
40% of Net Assets and that the Net Assets must exceed Although the range of currencies was much smaller, multi 400 million.
The Net Assets were 1,192.2 million at 31 currency or even gold-backed bonds were commonplace, as December 2012. many of the eras bond certificates show.
If any of the financial covenants were to be breached, the The big move into equities came after the 1930s slump, lenders would be entitled, following the serving of notice to when bond defaults forced the purchase of higher yielding the Company, to declare the loans and all accrued interest, equities to fund the costs of the Companys gearing.
The fees and other sums owed under the agreements to be Managers were not slow to spot an opportunity, but it immediately due and repayable.
started as Hobsons choice, and was only later hailed as brilliant foresight.
Duration In 1929 just under 20% of the assets were in equities, in The Company does not have a fixed life.
1940 38%, in 1948 51% of the assets, which were still only 2.65 million.
After deducting the preference shares which Principal Risks and Uncertainties were repaid in 1999 and debentures, the Company was General effectively over 100% geared into equities by the start of the An investment in the shares is only suitable for investors who great post war boom.
are capable of evaluating the merits and risks of such an investment and who have sufficient resources to be able to After a number of amalgamations, the Company emerged as bear any losses which may arise therefrom which may be a generalist investment trust.
However, there was an excess equal to the whole amount invested.
Such an investment of trusts with a similar broad remit, so towards the end of should be seen as long term in nature and complementary to the 1970s the Board defined the investment brief more narrowly as the achievement of growth in income and capital existing investments in a range of other financial assets.
Changes in economic conditions including, for example, Symbolised by the name change from Murray Western to interest rates and rates of inflation, industry conditions, Murray International Trust PLC in 1984, the focus has since competition, changes in the law, political and diplomatic been on a relatively high yielding portfolio of equities in a events and trends, tax laws and other factors can well diversified mix of world markets.
substantially and adversely affect the value of investments and therefore the Company's performance and prospects.
In 2008 the Board circulated to all shareholders a short booklet to commemorate the centenary of the incorporation Past performance of the Company, and of investments of the Company on 18 December 1907.
Further copies are managed by the Manager, is not necessarily indicative of available on the website or from the Company Secretary.
Capital Structure The Shares The Companys issued share capital as at 26 February 2013 consisted of 123,195,242 Ordinary shares of 25p 99.3% of The market value of, and the income derived from, the shares the total share capital and 908,713 B Ordinary shares of 25p can fluctuate and, notwithstanding the Board's discount and 0.7% of the total share capital.
The difference between the premium control policy, may not always reflect the Net rights of the B Ordinary shareholders and those of the Asset Value per share.
There can be no guarantee that any Ordinary shareholders is contained in the glossary on page appreciation in the value of the Company's investments will 64. occur and investors may not get back the full value of their investment.
No assurance can be given that any sale of the Total Assets and Net Asset Value Company's investments would realise proceeds which would At 31 December 2012, the Company had Total Assets of be sufficient to repay any borrowings or provide funds for 1,343.8 million and a Net Asset Value per Ordinary and B any capital repayment to shareholders.
Shareholders will bear Ordinary share of 975.8p.
See definition on page 64 the rewards and risks of the success or otherwise of the Company's investments.
Borrowings The borrowings are all drawn down in Japanese Yen and at 31 December 2012 represented the equivalent of 146.0 Murray International Trust PLC 3 Corporate Summary continued of an issuer of bonds or in general economic conditions may The market value of the shares, as well as being affected by impair the ability of the issuer to make payments of principal their Net Asset Value, also takes into account their dividend and interest or may cause the liquidation or insolvency of an yield and prevailing interest rates, supply and demand for the issuer.
There can be no assurance as to the levels of default shares, market conditions and general investor sentiment.
and or recoveries that may be experienced with respect to Borrowings bonds.
Debt instruments held by the Company may be The Company may incur borrowings for investment affected by changes in market sentiment or changes in purposes.
Whilst the use of borrowings should enhance the interest rates that will, in turn, result in increases and total return on the shares where the return on the decreases in the market value of those instruments.
When Company's underlying assets is rising and exceeds the cost of interest rates decline, the value of the Company's borrowing, it will have the opposite effect where the investments in fixed rate debt obligations can be expected to underlying return is falling, further reducing the total return rise and, when interest rates rise or are expected to rise, the on the shares.
As a result, the use of borrowings by the value of those investments can be expected to decline.
Company may increase the volatility of the Net Asset Value and market price per share.
To the extent that the Company invests in sub-investment grade securities, the Company may realise a higher yield than There is no guarantee that any borrowings of the Company the yield offered by investment grade securities, but would be refinanced on their maturity either at all or on investment in such securities involves a greater volatility of terms that are acceptable to the Company.
price and a greater risk of default by the issuers of such securities, with potential loss of interest payment and Dividends principal.
Sub-investment grade securities will be subject, in The Company will only pay dividends on the Ordinary shares the judgment of a ratings agency, to uncertainties in terms of and a capitalisation issue for B Ordinary shares to the their performance in adverse conditions and will be extent that it has profits including available reserves speculative with respect to an issuer's capacity to meet available for that purpose, which will largely depend on the interest payments and repay principal in accordance with its amount of income which the Company receives on its obligations.
There can be no assurance that an issuer will not investments and the timing of such receipt.
The amount of default or that the Company will be able to recover its dividends payable by the Company may fluctuate.
investments in defaulted fixed interest debt instruments.
If under UK law or accounting rules and standards applicable As bond investments of the Company mature, it may be to the Company, there were to be a change to the basis on difficult for the Company to obtain replacement investments which dividends could be paid by companies, this could have having similar financial characteristics.
a negative effect on the Company's ability to pay dividends.
Market Price Risk Investment Objective and Strategy The fair value of equity and other financial securities held in There is no guarantee that the Company's investment the Company's portfolio fluctuates with changes in market objective will be achieved.
Prices are themselves affected by movements in currencies and interest rates and by other financial issues The Company may from time to time invest in other listed including the market perception of future risks.
As a consequence of these investments, the Company may itself be indirectly exposed Foreign Currency Risks to gearing through the borrowings from time to time of The Company's investments are principally in overseas these other investment companies.
The Company accounts for its activities and policy of not investing more than 15% of its gross assets in reports its results in pounds sterling.
The Company currently other listed investment companies.
The Net Asset Value, hedges most of the foreign currency exposure in respect of which is a factor in determining the market value of the the liabilities attached to its borrowings.
Where the shares, will be linked to the underlying share price Company does not hedge its currency exposure, which is performance of any such other investment companies.
currently the case with the investment portfolio, the movement of exchange rates may have a favourable or Debt Instruments unfavourable effect on the gains and losses experienced on The Company invests in fixed interest investments issued by investments and the income derived from investments which corporate bodies and sovereign issuers.
Bonds are subject to are made or realised in currencies other than pounds sterling.
credit, liquidity and interest rate risks and in the event of a default there is a risk that the Net Asset Value may be adversely affected.
Adverse changes in the financial position 4 Murray International Trust PLC taxation on its capital gains.
Any breach of the tests that a Charges to Capital company must meet to obtain approval as an investment The Company currently deducts part of the management trust company could lead to the Company being subject to charge from capital.
This increases distributable income at tax on capital gains.
the expense of capital growth, which will either be eroded or constrained.
The maintenance of a high level of dividend may Tax and Accounting also diminish capital values.
Any change in the Company's tax status or in taxation Discount and Premium Control Policy legislation or accounting practice could affect the value of The Company operates a discount and premium control the investments held by the Company, affect the Company's policy.
The operation of the discount control element of this ability to provide returns to shareholders or alter the post-tax policy could lead to a significant reduction in the size of the returns to shareholders.
Representations in this document Company over time, which would increase the Company's concerning the taxation of investors are based upon current total expense ratio and prejudice the ability of the Company tax law and practice which are subject to change.
to pay satisfactory levels of dividend to shareholders.
While the Company intends to issue new shares and to resell shares Any change in accounting standards may adversely affect the held in treasury at a small premium to the Net Asset Value value of the Company's assets in its books of account or per share where demand exceeds supply, this will be restrict the ability of the Company to pay dividends.
dependent upon the Company being able to issue new shares and to resell shares held in treasury at a premium, on market Regulatory conditions generally at the relevant time, upon shareholders The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive will in general meeting conferring appropriate authorities on the begin to be implemented from July with it being fully Board to issue further shares and, where required under the implemented in the UK by July 2014.
The Directive may have Prospectus Rules, upon a prospectus having been approved significant consequences for the Company and all similar by the Financial Services Authority and published.
The ability investment companies which might materially increase of the Company to operate the discount control policy will compliance and regulatory costs.
The Directive is subject to depend on the Company being able to purchase its own further implementation guidance, and the Board will shares, which will be dependent upon shareholders in general continue to monitor the progress and likely implications of meeting conferring authority on the Board to purchase its the Directive.
The Directors will seek renewal of this authority from shareholders annually and at other times should this Reliance Upon The Manager prove necessary.
However, there can be no guarantee that The ability of the Company to successfully pursue its requisite shareholder approvals will be obtained.
investment policy is significantly dependent upon the expertise of the Manager and the principal members of its In accordance with the Listing Rules, the extent of each buymanagement team.
The Company does not currently have back authority which will be sought by the Company from employees or own any facilities and depends on the Manager shareholders in general meeting will be limited to 14.99% of for the day to day management and operation of its the Company's issued share capital as at the date on which business.
The loss of any of the Manager's management such authority is granted.
In order to continue purchasing its team could reduce the Company's ability to pursue own shares once any such authority has been exhausted, the successfully its planned investment policy.
Company would be required to seek a renewal of such authority from shareholders in general meeting.
Reliance Upon Third Party Service Providers The Company has no employees and the Directors have all The ability of the Company to purchase its own shares will been appointed on a non executive basis.
The Company is be subject to the Companies Act 2006 and all other therefore reliant upon the performance of third party service applicable legislation, rules and regulations of any providers for its executive function.
In particular, the government, regulatory body or market applicable to the Manager and the Secretary will be performing services which Directors or the Company and, in particular, will be are integral to the operation of the Company.
The failure by dependent on the availability of distributable reserves.
any service provider to carry out its obligations to the Company in accordance with the terms of its appointment Cessation of Investment Trust Status could have a materially detrimental impact on the operation The Company attempts to conduct its business so as to of the Company and could affect the ability of the Company satisfy the conditions for approval as an investment trust to pursue successfully its investment policy.
under Part 24 Chapter 4 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
In respect of each accounting period for which approval is granted, the Company will be exempt from United Kingdom Murray International Trust PLC 5 Corporate Summary continued Fluctuations In Operating Results trust shares.
These may be scams which attempt to gain The Company may experience fluctuations in its operating personal information with which to commit identity fraud or results from period to period due to a number of factors, could be boiler room scams where a payment from an including changes in the values of investments made by the investor is required to release the supposed payment for their Company, changes in the amount of distributions, dividends shares.
or interest paid in respect of investments in the portfolio, changes in the Company's operating expenses, and general These callers do not work for Aberdeen and any third party economic and market conditions.
Such variability may lead making such offers has no link with Aberdeen.
Aberdeen to volatility in the market price of the shares and cause the never makes these types of offers and does not cold-call Company's results for a particular period not to be indicative investors in this way.
If investors have any doubt over the of its performance in a future period.
veracity of a caller, they should not offer any personal information, end the call and contact Aberdeens investor Share Dealing and ISA Status services centre using the details provided under the Corporate Services heading on this page.
Shares in the Company can be bought in the open market through a stockbroker.
They can also be purchased through Suitable for Retail Aberdeen savings schemes and fully qualify for inclusion within tax-efficient ISA wrappers see page 63.
The Companys shares are designed for private investors in the UK including retail investors, professional-advised Management Agreement Summary private clients and institutional investors who seek income The Company has an agreement with Aberdeen Asset and capital growth from investment in global markets and Managers Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Aberdeen who understand and are willing to accept the risks of Asset Management PLC, for the provision of management exposure to equities.
Private investors should consider services for a fee, as detailed in the Directors Report on page consulting an independent financial adviser who specialises 27 and in note 3 on page 46. in advising on the acquisition of shares and other securities before acquiring shares.
Investors should be capable of Websites evaluating the risks and merits of such an investment and www.
co. uk should have sufficient resources to bear any loss that may www.
The maintenance and integrity of the Murray International Trust PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Furthermore, legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions Company Secretary Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Email: company.
co. uk Customer Services Telephone: 0500 00 00 40 open Monday - Friday 9am - 5pm free when dialling from a UK landline Email: inv.
com Investor Warning The Board has been made aware by Aberdeen Asset Management Aberdeen that some investors have received telephone calls from people purporting to work for Aberdeen, or third parties, who have offered to buy their investment 6 Murray International Trust PLC
