Information About the Manager Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited tightly constructed to provide the greatest scope for outperformance within the agreed risk parameters.
The Companys Manager is Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, a subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, For Murray International Trust PLC, regional allocation of whose group companies as at 31 December 2012 had funds in line with guidelines set by the AAM Investment approximately 193.4bn of assets under management.
It Strategy Committee is the first stage of the portfolio manages assets on behalf of a wide range of clients including construction process.
At this stage, house views on specific 43 investment companies and other closed-ended funds, global sectors are also taken into account.
which had combined total assets of over 9.5bn.
Established themes and trends are considered within the The Manager has its headquarters in Aberdeen and invests process of country allocation, which is also influenced by globally, operating from over 30 offices in 26 countries.
Its analysis of key data covering macroeconomic and monetary investment teams are generally based in the markets or factors, value and performance.
regions in which they invest: in the UK its main investment centres are in London and Edinburgh.
Country selection is driven overall by short and medium term estimates of macroeconomics, politics and liquidity, and the Bruce Stout and the Global Equity Team market implications of those.
Bruce Stout and Aberdeens Global Equity team are responsible for managing the Murray International Trust PLC.
Stock Selection The investment management team is responsible for the The investment management team led by Bruce Stout, has construction of global equity portfolios.
Bruce Stout is a responsibility for portfolio construction across all regional senior investment manager on the Global equities team.
Working closely with the relevant underlying desks Bruce joined Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited or acquired in each case, portfolio construction is an interactive process.
companies in 1987 and has held a number of roles including The Manager utilises a Global Equity Buy List which is investment manager on the emerging markets team.
constructed by each of the specialist country desks.
This list contains all buy and hold recommendations for each desk, The Investment Process, Philosophy and Style which are then used as the investment universe.
If a stock no Long term investment success demands a clear focus and a longer meets the criteria to be included on the Buy List, it is sound structure.
The Aberdeen Asset Management Group sold within 30 days.
This process enables the investment AAM has as its primary objective in managing Murray manager to better reflect top down themes that emerge International Trust PLC the delivery of consistent from the global equity strategy and investment themes outperformance against the benchmark based on the meetings that take place monthly.
concept of seeking growth at a reasonable price.
Risk Controls To achieve this, a disciplined investment process has been Integral to the investment process is regular provision, by a developed.
However, to meet the different performance specialised team, of performance and risk analysis data to objectives mandated for specific funds, there is built in ensure that funds are operated within the terms of their flexibility.
Key decisions are implemented consistently across all funds As well as market price risk inherent in all portfolio and portfolio risk limits are set and closely monitored.
A investment, Murray International Trust is also exposed to risk continuous watch is kept over critical factors that influence from movements in foreign exchange rates and changes in investment decisions, so that when views change, action is interest rates.
Market price risk is managed by strict taken swiftly and decisively to reposition portfolios.
adherence to parameters set for portfolio construction.
The foreign exchange risk involved may be hedged by the use of Asset Allocation forward currency contracts.
Interest rate risk lies with the Based on the guidelines set by the AAM Investment Strategy portfolio holdings of fixed income securities and on-call Committee, and after consultation with relevant AAM area deposits.
Additionally, the Company has entered into an specialists, the investment management team at Aberdeen interest rate swap agreement to fix Yen 8.225 billion.
A led by Bruce Stout, recommends asset allocation to the detailed risk profile of the Company is given in note 19 to the Board.
There is a top down influence to establish the financial statements economic overview and to identify potential investment themes.
The approach is highly focused and portfolios are 22 Murray International Trust PLC
