FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 AND PERIOD ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2011 ANNUAL REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT CONTINUED Corporate Governance Statement continued c The Board continued Tenure The Board has adopted a policy on tenure that is considered appropriate for an investment company.
The Board does not believe that length of service, by itself, leads to a closer relationship with the Investment Manager or necessarily affects a Directors independence.
The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that the Board is well balanced and will be refreshed from time to time by the appointment of new Directors with the skills and experience necessary to replace those lost by Directors retirements.
Directors must be able to demonstrate their commitment to the Company.
The Board seeks to encompass relevant past and current experience of various areas relevant to the Companys business.
The Board will further consider succession planning and the possibility of appointing an additional director to aid succession planning by the end of 2013.
Diversity The Board considers that its members have a balance of skills and experience which are relevant to the Company.
The Board supports the recommendations of the Davies Report and believes in the value and importance of diversity in the boardroom but it does not consider it is appropriate or in the interests of the Company and its shareholders to set prescriptive targets for gender or nationality on the Board.
Performance evaluation The work of the Board as a whole and of the Board Committees was reviewed by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee in November 2012, by means of an internal questionnaire.
The Company Secretary collated the results of the questionnaires and the consolidated results were reviewed and discussed by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
No areas of concern were identified as a result of this review.
In addition, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee reviewed the performance of the Chairman in his role.
The Chairman reviews each individual Directors contribution.
A further internal review will take place in 2013, with an external facilitator to be engaged in 2014.
Board Committees The Board has established an Audit Committee, Management Engagement Committee and a Remuneration and Nomination Committee with defined terms of reference and duties.
The terms of reference for each committee can be found on the Companys website www.
Audit Committee The Company's Audit Committee meets formally at least twice a year for the purpose, amongst other things, of considering the appointment, independence and remuneration of the auditors and to review the Company's annual accounts and interim reports.
Where non-audit services are to be provided by the auditor, full consideration of the financial and other implications on the independence of the auditors arising from any such engagement will be considered before proceeding.
The Audit Committee comprises each of the Directors.
Richard Battey, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, acts as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
It is deemed appropriate that the Chairman, William Frewen, serves on the Audit Committee as he is an independent non-executive director.
The principal duties of the Audit Committee are to consider the appointment of external auditors, to discuss and agree with the external auditors the nature and scope of the audit, to keep under review the scope, results and cost effectiveness of the audit and the independence and objectivity of the auditors, to review the external auditors' letter of engagement and management letter and to analyse the key procedures adopted by the Company's service providers.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness of the audit provided by  CI LLP, and is satisfied with the auditors independence.
