DIRECTORS REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT CONTINUED Future Developments continued On 14 January 2013, the Board of the Company announced the consideration of raising additional capital through an issue of C Shares.
On 21 March 2013, the Board of the Company announced that the Company had raised gross proceeds of approximately 363 million approximately $550 million by means of a Placing and Offer for Subscription of C Shares.
On 26 March 2013, 363,549,886 Sterling C Shares started trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
In accordance with the Companys Prospectus dated 19 February 2013, once the net proceeds of the C Shares are substantially fully invested, the C Shares will be converted into Ordinary Shares and subsequently admitted to the premium segment of the Official List together with the existing Ordinary Shares.
The conversion of the C Shares will be no later than 25 September 2013.
Going Concern In the opinion of the Directors, the Company is able to meet its liabilities as they fall due because it has adequate cash resources.
Given the nature of the Companys business, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, these consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Life of the Company The Company does not have a fixed life.
However, under Article 51 of the Articles of Incorporation, the Directors will convene an extraordinary general meeting of the Company on or before the third anniversary of Admission and at such Meeting shall propose an Ordinary Resolution that the Company continues its business as a closed-ended investment company.
If a Continuation Resolution is passed, the Directors are required to convene a further extraordinary general meeting to propose a further Continuation Resolution on or before the sixth anniversary of Admission.
Thereafter, the Directors shall convene a general meeting to propose a further Continuation Resolution on or before the anniversary of the date on which the previous Continuation Resolution is passed.
If a Continuation Resolution is not passed, the Directors shall put proposals to shareholders for the restructuring or reorganisation of the Company.
Also as per the Articles of the Company, under the discount control mechanism, if, as at 31 December 2012, or as at 31 December in any subsequent calendar year, the Shares of a particular class have, on average over the last three calendar months of the relevant calendar year the Discount Calculation Period, traded on London Stock Exchange at a discount in excess of 5% of the Net Asset Value per Share of that class, the Directors will, subject to any legal or regulatory requirements, implement a redemption offer the Redemption Offer pursuant to which each holder of Shares of the relevant class shall be offered the opportunity to redeem up to 50% of their Shares of such class.
The shares did not trade at a discount on average over the three-month period between 1 October 2012 and 31 December 2012.
Performance Measurement and Key Performance Indicators In order to measure the success of the Company in meeting its objectives and to evaluate the performance of the Investment Manager, the Directors take into account the following performance indicators: Returns and NAV - The Board reviews and compares at each meeting the performance of the portfolio as well as the NAV, income and share price of the Company: and Discount premium to NAV - At each Board meeting, the Board monitors the level of the Companys discount or premium to NAV.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2012 and period ended 31 December 2011 11
