FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 AND PERIOD ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2011 ANNUAL REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT CONTINUED Management, Registrar, Administration, Custody and Company Secretary Arrangements Investment management services are provided to the Company by Neuberger Berman Europe Limited, which has delegated certain of its responsibilities and functions to the Sub-Investment Manager, Neuberger Berman Fixed Income LLC.
The management fee is calculated and accrued daily at a rate equivalent to 0.75% of NAV per annum.
The management fee is paid quarterly in arrears.
No performance fee is payable by the Company to the Investment Manager.
The Investment Management Agreement may be terminated by either party, but in certain circumstances, the Company would be required to pay compensation to the Investment Manager of six months management charges.
No compensation is payable if notice of termination of more than six months is given.
Administration, Custodian and Company Secretarial services are provided to the Company by BNP Paribas Fund Services Guernsey Limited.
Registrar services are provided by Capita Registrars Guernsey Limited.
Related Party Transactions The contracts with Neuberger Berman Europe Limited and the Directors are the only related party transactions currently in place.
Other than fees payable in the ordinary course of business, there have been no material transactions with these related parties, which have affected the financial position or performance of the Company in the financial year.
Further details on related party transactions can be found under Note 4.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board also monitors the investment limits and restrictions set out in the Companys investment objective and policy.
The principal risks that have been identified and the steps taken by the Board to mitigate these are as follows: Investment activity and performance An inappropriate investment strategy may result in under performance against the Companys objectives.
The Board manages these risks by ensuring a diversification of investments.
The Investment Manager operates in accordance with the investment limits and restrictions policy determined by the Board.
The Directors review the limits and restrictions on a regular basis and the Administrator monitors adherence to the limits and restrictions every month and will notify any breaches to the Board.
The Investment Manager provides the Board with management information including performance data and reports, and the Corporate Brokers provide shareholder analysis.
The Directors monitor the implementation and results of the investment process with the Investment Manager at each Board meeting and monitor risk factors in respect of the portfolio.
Investment strategy is reviewed at each meeting.
Level of discount or premium A discount or premium to NAV can occur for a variety of reasons, including market conditions or to the extent investors undervalue the management activities of the Investment Manager or discount their valuation methodology and judgement.
While the Directors may seek to mitigate any discount to NAV per Share through the discount management mechanisms set out in the Prospectus, there can be no guarantee that they will do so or that such mechanisms will be successful and the Directors accept no responsibility for any failure of any such strategy to effect a reduction in any discount or premium.
