DIRECTORS REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT CONTINUED Corporate Governance Statement continued d Internal controls Communications with Shareholders continued The Board believes that the Annual General Meeting provides an appropriate forum for investors to communicate with the Board, and encourages participation.
The Annual General Meeting will be attended by the Directors.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Chairman of the Board, the Audit Committee, the Management Engagement Committee and the Remuneration and Nomination Committee at the Annual General Meeting.
Details of proxy votes received in respect of each resolution will be made available to shareholders at the meeting and will be posted on the Companys website following the meeting.
The Annual and Interim Reports, the Interim Management Statements and a monthly fact sheet are available to all shareholders.
The Board considers the format of the Annual and Interim Reports so as to ensure they are useful to all shareholders and others taking an interest in the Company.
In accordance with best practice, the Annual Report, including the Notice of the Annual General Meeting, will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
2013 Annual General Meeting AGM The following information is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own independent financial advice from a stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant, or other financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in the Company, please send this document, together with any accompanying documents, as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
However, such documents should not be distributed, forwarded or transmitted in or into the United States, Canada, Australia or Japan or into any other jurisdiction if to do so would constitute a violation of applicable laws and regulations in such other jurisdiction.
The AGM will be held in Guernsey on 19 June 2013 at 10:15 GMT.
The notice for the Annual General Meeting sets out the ordinary and special resolutions to be proposed at the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
Explanation of the resolutions Ordinary Resolutions Resolution 1: Annual Report and Financial Statements The Directors are required to present to the meeting the Annual Report and Financial Statements and the Directors Report and Auditors Report in respect of the financial year.
Shareholders will be given an opportunity at the meeting to ask questions on these items before being invited to receive and consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Resolution 2: Remuneration report Shareholders are requested to ratify the Directors Report on Remuneration, which is set out on page 25 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2012 and period ended 31 December 2011 21 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 AND PERIOD ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2011 ANNUAL REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT CONTINUED Explanation of the resolutions continued Resolutions 3 to 5: Election, and appointment of Directors In accordance with Principle 3 of the AIC Code, as a FTSE 250 company, all Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Resolution 3 is for the re-election of Mr William Frewen, who was elected as a Director at the first annual general meeting of the Company and is required under the AIC Code to stand for annual re-election.
Resolution 4 is for the re-election of Mr Richard Battey, who was elected as a Director at the first annual general meeting of the Company and is required under the AIC Code to stand for annual re-election.
Resolution 5 is for the re-election of Mrs Sandra Platts, who was elected as a Director at the first annual general meeting of the Company and is required under the AIC Code to stand for annual re-election.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee carried out a Board evaluation in November 2012.
During this evaluation the performance and commitment of the Directors standing for re-election was reviewed and reported to the Board.
The Board believe that the current Directors should continue to be Directors as they bring wide, current and relevant business experience that allows them to contribute effectively to the leadership of the Company.
Biographical details for the Directors are shown on the Board of Directors section of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Resolutions 6 and 7: Re-appointment and remuneration of the auditors In accordance with sections 257 and 259 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 as amended, shareholders are required to approve the appointment of the Companys auditors each year to hold office until the next annual general meeting of the Company and to give Directors the authority to determine the auditors remuneration.
 CI LLP has expressed their willingness to continue as auditors to the Company.
Special Resolutions Resolution 8: Repurchase of the Companys Shares Resolution 8 seeks to renew the Companys authority to buy back its Ordinary Shares.
The authority under this resolution is limited to the purchase of a maximum of up to 9,425,020 U. S. Dollar Shares and 61,540,331 Sterling Shares or, if less, such other number of Ordinary Shares that is equal to 14.99% of each class of Ordinary Shares in issue at the date of the passing of this resolution.
The minimum price exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 1 pence 1 cent as applicable.
The maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an Ordinary Share of any class shall be the higher of a an amount equal to 105% of the average middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share of the relevant class as derived from and calculated by reference to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary Shares of such class are purchased: and b the higher of A the price or the last independent trade: and B the highest current independent bid for an Ordinary Share of the relevant class on the London Stock Exchange at the time the purchase is carried out.
The Company may cancel or hold in treasury any Ordinary Shares bought back under this authority.
The Company does not currently hold any treasury shares.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or on a date which is 18 months from the date of the passing of this resolution whichever is earlier and it is the present intention of the Directors to seek a similar authority annually.
