DIRECTORS REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT CONTINUED Investment Objective The Companys investment objective is to provide its shareholders with regular dividends, at levels that are sustainable, whilst preserving the capital value of its investment portfolio, utilising the investment skills of the Investment Manager and the SubInvestment Manager.
Investment Policy To pursue its investment objective, the Company invests mainly in floating rate senior secured loans issued in U. S. Dollars, Sterling and Euros by North American and European Union corporations, partnerships and other business issuers.
These loans are at the time of investment often non-investment grade.
The Company considers debt instruments to be non-investment grade if, at the time of investment, they are rated below the four highest categories by at least two independent credit ratings agencies or, if unrated, are deemed by the Investment Manager to be of comparable quality.
The Company generally seeks to focus on loans of issuers that the Investment Manger believes have the ability to generate cash flow through a full business cycle, maintain adequate liquidity, possess an enterprise value in excess of senior debt and have access to both debt and equity capital.
The Company also makes investments in senior bonds on an opportunistic basis if the Investment Manager believes that such investments are attractively valued, up to a maximum in aggregate of 20% of the Net Asset Value at the time of investment, provided that no more than 10% of Net Asset Value may be invested in unsecured senior bonds at the time of investment.
Financial Review At 31 December 2012, the Net Assets of the Company amounted to $726,059,303.
The Net Asset Value of the U. S. Dollar Ordinary share amounted to $83,205,616 and the Net Asset Value per U. S. Dollar Ordinary share was $1.0007.
The Net Asset Value of the Sterling Ordinary share amounted to 395,493,478 $642,853,687 and the Net Asset Value per Sterling Ordinary share was 0.9952 $1.6177.
Details on individual share class returns are under Note 9.
Gearing and Derivatives The Company does not normally employ gearing or derivatives for investment purposes.
The Company may, from time to time, use borrowings for share buy backs and short-term liquidity purposes.
The Directors will restrict borrowing to an amount not exceeding 20% of the Net Asset Value at the time of drawdown.
Derivatives may be used for foreign exchange hedging purposes.
Dividends The Company pays dividends to Shareholders equal to the cash income it receives less its running costs paid in that year, subject to the solvency test prescribed by Guernsey law.
Distributions are made by way of interim dividends with respect to each calendar quarter.
Dividends are paid in the currency of the class of shares in respect of which the dividend was declared.
The Board and the Investment Manager will target an annualised yield per share in the region of 5% based on dividends and NAV over the period.
The Articles of Incorporation also permit the Directors, in their absolute discretion, to offer a scrip dividend alternative to Shareholders when a cash dividend is declared from time to time.
In the event a scrip dividend is offered, an electing Shareholder is issued new, fully paid up shares or shares reissued from treasury pursuant to the scrip dividend alternative, calculated by reference to the higher of i the prevailing average mid-market quotation of the shares on the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange over five trading days: or ii the Net Asset Value per Share, at the relevant time.
The scrip dividend alternative is available only to those Shareholders to whom shares might lawfully be marketed by the Company.
The Directors' intention is not to offer a scrip dividend at any time that the shares trade at a material discount to the Net Asset Value per Share.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2012 and period ended 31 December 2011 9
