Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Directors Report The Directors of Cairn Energy PLC registered in Scotland with Company Details of outstanding awards over ordinary shares in the Company held by No.
SC226712 present their Annual Report for the year ended the Directors or any members of their families are set out in the Directors 31December 2012 together with the financial statements of the Group Remuneration Report on pages 80 and 81. and Company for the year.
These will be laid before the shareholders at the AGM to be held on Thursday 16 May 2013.
None of the Directors has a material interest in any contract, other than a service contract, with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Results and Dividend Details of the Directors service contracts are set out in the Directors The Group made a profit after tax of US$72.6 million Remuneration Report on page 73.
Share Capital Subsequent events that have occurred after the Balance Sheet date The issued share capital of the Company is shown in Note 6.1 of the Notes as at 31 December 2012 are included in Note 7.1 of the Notes to the to the Financial Statements.
As at 18 March 2013, 603,260,800 ordinary 231 Financial Statements.
shares of pence each have been issued, are fully paid up and are 169 quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The rights attaching to the ordinary Principal Activities and Business Review shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
There are no The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings is the special control rights in relation to the Companys shares and the Company exploration for and development and production of oil and gas.
Details of the is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may development of the Groups business during the year and the information result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be found in the Strategic Review and Operational Review sections on pages 1 to 49 of Voting Rights this document, which are deemed to form part of this report by reference.
The following paragraph details the position in relation to voting rights set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
However, the Company Details of Cairns offices and Cairns advisers are given at the end of this recognises that best practice is now to hold a poll on all shareholder Annual Report.
Therefore, it is the Companys current practice to hold a poll and it is committed to doing so going forward.
Change of Control All of the Companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, to a change of control and full details of these plans are provided in the at a general meeting or class meeting, on a show of hands, every member Directors Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 83.
Generally, outstanding present in person and every duly appointed proxy entitled to vote shall options and awards will vest and become exercisable on a change of have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy control, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, if applicable, and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every share held by him her.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior member who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose, a directors employment, each of the Executive Directors is also entitled seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the to compensation pursuant to their service contracts.
Full details of the register of members in respect of the joint holding.
Under the Companies relevant provisions are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report Act 2006, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a on page 73.
There are no agreements providing for compensation to member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and employees on a change of control.
to speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise that take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a change of control the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A corporation which is a member of the Company may authorise one or more individuals to act as its representative or representatives at any Corporate Governance meeting of the Company, or at any separate meeting of the holders of The Companys Corporate Governance Statement is set out on pages any class of shares.
A person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise 55 to 65 and is deemed to form part of this report by reference.
the same powers on behalf of such corporation as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company.
Directors The names and biographical details of the current Directors of the Company are given in the Board of Directors section on pages 50 and 51.
The beneficial interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown below: As at As at As at 31 December 31 December 18 March 2011 2012 2013 Simon Thomson 900,841 367,103 367,103 Dr Mike Watts 2,864,926 1,144,652 1,144,652 Jann Brown 665,873 284,088 284,088 Sir Bill Gammell 3,317,473 596,331 596,331 Todd Hunt 182,800 72,012 72,012 Iain McLaren 20,000 7,878 7,878 Dr James Buckee 58,314 34,636 36,728 Jackie Sheppard 0 0 0 The shareholding figures set out on the left as at 31 December 2012 take account of the share Alexander Berger 0 0 0 capital consolidation of 13 for 33 ordinary shares which took place on 6 February 2012.
52 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Continued Restrictions on Voting Transfer of Shares No member shall, unless the Directors of the Company otherwise Subject to any procedures set out by the Directors in accordance with determine, be entitled in respect of any share held by him her to attend the Articles of Association, all transfers of shares shall be effected by or vote at a general meeting of the Company either in person or by proxy instrument in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form if any call or other sum presently payable by him her to the Company in acceptable to the Directors of the Company.
The instrument of transfer respect of shares in the Company remains unpaid.
Further, if a member shall be executed by, or on behalf of, the transferor and except in the case has been served with a notice by the Company under the Companies of fully paid shares by, or on behalf of, the transferee.
The transferor shall Act 2006 requesting information concerning interests in shares and has be deemed to remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name failed in relation to any shares to provide the Company, within 14 days of the transferee is entered in the register of members of the Company.
of the notice, with such information, the directors of the Company may determine that such member shall not be entitled in respect of such The Directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any shares to attend or vote either in person or by proxy at any general reason therefor, refuse to register a transfer of any share which is not a meeting or at any separate general or class meeting of the holders of that fully paid share unless such share is listed on the Official List of the UK class of shares.
Proxy forms must be submitted not less than 48 hours or Listing Authority and traded on the London Stock Exchanges main market such shorter time as the Board may determine excluding, at the Boards for listed securities.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer discretion, any part of any day that is not a working day before the time of a share in uncertificated form where the Company is entitled to refuse appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting or, in the or is excepted from the requirement under the Uncertificated Securities case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after it was demanded, not less Regulations 2001 to register the transfer and they may refuse any such than 24 hours or such shorter time as the Board may determine before transfer in favour of more than four transferees.
The Directors may also the time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
refuse to register any transfer of a share on which the Company has a lien.
Variation of Rights The Directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any Whenever the share capital of the Company is divided into different reason therefor, refuse to register a transfer of any share in certificated classes of shares, all or any of the special rights attached to any class may, form unless the relevant instrument of transfer is in respect of only one subject to statute and unless otherwise expressly provided by the rights class of share, is duly stamped or adjudged or certified as not chargeable attached to the shares of that class, be varied or abrogated either with the to stamp duty, is lodged at the transfer office or at such other place consent in writing of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal as the directors may determine, is accompanied by the relevant share value of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction of a special certificate s and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer and is in shares of that class.
At every such separate general meeting, the quorum favour of not more than four transferees jointly.
If the Directors refuse shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy at least one-third to register a transfer, they shall, as soon as practicable and in any event in nominal value of the issued shares of the class.
These provisions also within two months after the date on which the transfer was lodged with apply to the variation or abrogation of the special rights attached to the Company in the case of a share in certificated form or the date on some only of the shares of any class as if the shares concerned and which the operator-instruction as defined in the Uncertificated Securities the remaining shares of such class formed separate classes.
The rights Regulations 2001 was received by the Company in the case of a share in attached to any class of shares shall, unless otherwise expressly provided uncertificated form or in either case such longer or shorter period if any by the terms of issue of such shares or the terms upon which such shares as the Listing Rules may from time to time permit or require, send to the are for the time being held, be deemed not to be varied or abrogated transferee notice of the refusal.
by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with, or subsequent to, the first mentioned shares or by the purchase by the Company of its own shares.
Major Interests in Share Capital As at 31 December 2012 and 18 March 2013, the Company had received notification that shareholdings of 3% and over were as set out in the table below.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53 Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Directors Report Continued Charitable and Political Donations AGM 2013 The Company has a Charities Committee which is responsible for The AGM of the Company will be held in the Castle Suite of The distributing the Companys charitable donations to selected charities Caledonian, a Waldorf Astoria Hotel, Princes Street, Edinburgh EH1 2AB within an overall annual budget.
There are currently ten members at 12 noon UK time on Thursday, 16 May 2013.
The resolutions to be of the Charities Committee with alternates comprising a broad range proposed at the AGM are set out and fully explained in the Circular of employees from across the organisation.
The Chief Executive is not containing the Notice of AGM which has been posted to shareholders a member of the Charities Committee.
together with this Annual Report.
During the year, the Company made various charitable contributions in the Recommendation UK totalling US$748,565 2011: US$756,148.
Contributions in the UK are The Board considers that all of the resolutions to be considered at made to a variety of charitable organisations whose areas of operation and the AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders activities are aligned with Cairns.
In addition, the Group provides funding as a whole and unanimously recommends that you vote in favour of all to various charitable initiatives outwith the UK.
Further details of these can of the proposed resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of their be found in our Corporate Responsibility Report, which is available on the own beneficial shareholdings.
By order of the Board No political donations were made and no political expenditure was incurred during the year.
Creditor Payment Policy and Practice Duncan Wood It is Cairns payment policy to ensure settlement of suppliers services Company Secretary in accordance with the terms of the applicable contracts.
In most 18 March 2013 circumstances, settlement terms are agreed prior to business taking place.
Trade creditors of the Company at 31 December 2012 were equivalent to 5.78 days purchases, based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers to the Company during the year.
Financial Instruments The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company are detailed in Appendix 2 of the Financial Statements.
Appointment and Replacement of Directors The Companys Articles of Association provide that directors can be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution, or by the Board.
The Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment and replacement of directors.
Further details of the rules governing the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 55 to 65 and in the Companys Articles of Association.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, UK legislation and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board.
The directors currently have powers both in relation to the issuing and buying back of the Companys shares and are seeking renewal of these powers at the forthcoming AGM.
Articles of Association Unless expressly specified to the contrary therein, the Companys Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
The Company adopted new Articles of Association following approval of these by shareholders at the AGM held on 17 May 2012.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors The directors of the Company who held office at 31 December 2012 confirm that, as far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
In making this confirmation, the directors have taken appropriate steps to make themselves aware of the relevant audit information and that the Companys auditors are aware of this information.
54 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012
