Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Who We Are An experienced leadership team Cairn Energy is led by Chief Executive, Simon Thomson.
Simon is supported on the executive leadership team by Mike Watts and Jann Brown.
2 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Mike is Deputy CEO with responsibility The team at Cairn has a demonstrable track record for exploration and new ventures.
of creating, capitalising, realising and returning Jann is Managing Director and Chief Financial value for shareholders.
In delivering this, we have Officer, with responsibilities including Finance, retained an absolute focus on protecting our people Human Resources, Corporate Responsibility, Corporate Affairs and Company Secretariat.
and respecting the communities and environments where we operate.
Simon, Mike and Jann have worked together as a team for more than a decade.
Together they played instrumental roles in discovering, developing, realising and returning Phil Dolan, who is Director of Operations, appropriate to their geographical focus as well value from Cairns business in South Asia.
More responsible for engineering, supply chain and as dedicated functional support.
The senior recently they led the Company in delivering the operational Health, Safety, Environment management reporting to the Executive Team two years of safe operations offshore Greenland and Quality function.
is allocated into two groups the Management and have secured multiple corporate and asset Team and the Corporate Team.
In the last year these have included The areas we have chosen for our exploration Team responsibilities include day-to-day the Statoil farm-in to one of Cairns blocks focus include the frontier basins along the management of the delivery of the approved offshore Greenland and two corporate Atlantic Margin and in the Mediterranean, as business plan and work programmes.
The acquisitions that will help provide sustainable well as targeting new plays within the more Corporate Team responsibilities include access production and cash flow to fund the Groups mature UK and Norwegian North Sea and to capital markets, market reporting and exploration programmes.
Reflecting this communications, corporate governance and focus and recognising the different geographies reputational matters.
Other key members of the leadership team, who and synergies within those areas, Cairns have been with the Group during its key period organisational structure is divided into three The team at Cairn has a demonstrable track of growth in the last 25 years, are: regional units where the Groups priority projects record of creating, capitalising, realising and are located: the Mediterranean and North Africa: returning value for shareholders.
In delivering Paul Mayland, who is the newly appointed Chief the North Atlantic Margin: and UK and Norway.
this, we have retained an absolute focus on Operating Officer responsible for regional The geographical areas are run by Regional protecting our people and respecting the operations, as well as the commercial and legal Directors who have extensive experience and communities and environments where we functions of the Company.
the appropriate skills to deliver safe and efficient operate.
Wherever we operate and at any operations.
They are further supported by qualified stage of the oil and gas project lifecycle our Richard Heaton, who is focused on new venture teams with relevant industry and international focus remains on safety both in terms of opportunities and exploration in his role as experience and expertise in drilling, HSE Health, people and the environment.
Exploration Director and Head of New Ventures.
Safety and Environment and exploration Organised to Deliver Simon Thomson Executive Team North Atlantic Mediterranean Exploration & UK & Norway Margin & North Africa New Ventures HSE, Engineering & Operations Functional Support Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3 Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information 2012: A Year of Building Momentum Quarter One Quarter Two January to March 2012 April to June 2012 Q1: Q2: Value returned Building a to shareholders balanced portfolio The first quarter of the year saw investors In April, Cairn agreed to buy a private benefit from our operations in India, as we Norwegian company with exploration, returned $3.5bn to shareholders.
appraisal and pre-development assets in the UK and Norwegian North Sea.
This cash return, which followed By building and operating This added significant drilling The transaction also brought the sale of a 40% stake in significant developments, activity to Cairns existing Cairn one of the most CIL to Vedanta Resources plc, including the longest continuously exploration and appraisal experienced exploration teams was additional to the $1bn heated pipeline in the world, programme, with nine wells in the North Sea and marked an returned in 2007 following the Cairn displayed its ability to meet drilled in the UK and Norway important step forward in Cairns IPO of CIL.
The resulting reduced operational challenges with in 2012, of which two were goal of creating sustainable cash equity base offers greater world-leading expertise and successful including the flow from development assets potential for transformational an absolute focus on safety.
potentially significant Skarfjell that will fund future exploration capital growth through discovery.
It also brought with it both in frontier and mature basins.
In Q1 2012, Cairn also entered a 15% stake in the Catcher area.
into a farm-down agreement In June, the Group sold a further Through oil and gas discoveries with Statoil ASA for the Pitu block 3.5% of its shareholding in CIL and subsequent appraisal, in the Baffin Bay Basin west of for US$370 million realising development and production, Greenland.
Statoil, whose Arctic further cash to fund future Cairn demonstrated in South experience makes it a strong growth opportunities.
Asia its ability to deliver material partner, acquired a working growth in conjunction with interest of 30.625% in the highly its partners.
prospective Pitu block, with Cairn retaining exploration operatorship of the asset.
Discover more: Operational Review Discover more: Operational Review P2549 P2549 4 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Quarter Three Quarter Four July to September 2012 October to December 2012 Q3: Q4: Building a business Expanding new business opportunities Cairn added to its portfolio with further The UK 27th licence round in the North Sea exploration interests elsewhere including saw Cairns successful application for eight the UK and Morocco through a second potential licences covering 13 blocks.
corporate acquisition of an independent oil and gas exploration and production company, with pre-development interests in the UK North Sea.
This acquisition provided an During this period, Cairn also In December, Cairn commenced The Groups applications operated position in licences secured further operated frontier 3D seismic acquisition offshore for exploration permits in the for the Juby Maritime blocks exploration acreage in Morocco Morocco over the Juby Maritime Cyprus and Trinidad & Tobago offshore Morocco 37.5% and through a farm-in to the Foum Block II, where previous oil Licensing Rounds were, more exploration prospects to the Draa blocks 50%.
Cairn will discoveries have been made and however, unsuccessful.
2 existing exploration programme operate all of its 8,900km also commenced the preparation in the UK and Norwegian sectors interests in Morocco with a first of an Environmental Impact As Cairn prepared for its planned of the North Sea.
well targeted for Q4 2013, Assessment EIA for drilling exploration and appraisal subject to Government of operations offshore Morocco.
programme in 2013, the Group In addition, the acquisition Morocco approval.
continued to examine and evaluate increased Cairns interest in the Also in December Cairn multiple new business options.
Catcher area to 30%, provided a In September, Cairn sold a entered into an Exploration 25% interest in the Kraken field further 8% of its shareholding Study Agreement ESA with and a 6% interest in the Mariner in Cairn India for $915m, the Government of Malta.
Collectively these fields and currently has a residual ESA covers an initial two year are anticipated to be key shareholding of 10%, worth period with geological studies, contributors to the UKs future $1.1bn at the year end.
reprocessing of existing and production from the North Sea.
acquisition of new 2D seismic data and limited capital works.
Discover more: Operational Review Discover more: Operational Review P2549 P2549 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5
