Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Working Responsibly Safety is our overriding priority Our aim, as an independent oil and gas exploration and development company, is to do a job the world needs as safely as we can.
According to the International Energy Agency, global energy demand is expected to grow by over a third by 2035, with oil and gas making up a large proportion of the energy mix.
Cairn plays a role in meeting that need by identifying, developing and realising energy reserves for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Our overriding priority is to do this safely, responsibly and inclusively, in keeping with the commitments spelled out in our Business Principles and the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact.
Risk management Plans for 2013 In order to minimise potential impacts, we Throughout 2013, we will assess potential HSE apply rigorous due diligence, comprehensive and social impacts and develop management risk management and have in place extensive plans for reducing these impacts in preparation occupational health, safety, security and for a projected multi-well, multi-year offshore environmental collectively referred to as drilling programme commencing in late 2013 Corporate Responsibility or CR management and in the Pitu block in Greenland in 2014. systems and supporting procedures and guidelines.
Internally, our focus in 2013 will be providing refresher training for our updated HSE procedures Our track record of safe and efficient operations and our new HSE Culture Framework and and business integrity are pivotal to maintaining integrating high-priority lessons learned into our licence to operate.
We aim continually to the way we do business.
In order to encourage improve our performance and our systems strong CR leadership, we have established ten and procedures for CR contractor management, HSE leading performance indicators and targets human rights and anti-bribery and corruption for 2013. were all updated during 2012, as we describe in our CR report Operating with Integrity.
For further insights please refer to our CR report Operating with Integrity.
Extensive Activities during 2012 details on our CR approach and performance, During 2012, our exploration activities were reported against the Global Reporting Initiatives focused on marine operations in Greenland B level, are also available on our website and a seismic survey in Morocco, which at www.
It is also began in late December 2012.
We applied our in keeping with international standards AA 1000 established risk management procedures and AS and has undergone moderate assurance are pleased to report that there were no injuries by sustainability consultancy Environmental or environmental incidents relating to these Resources Management ERM.
2013 Exploration Throughout 2013 we will assess potential social In August 2012, we carried out a consultation and environmental impacts and develop plans tour in the area of the Pitu block in North in preparation for projected offshore drilling in West Greenland, which was designed to help Morocco starting in late 2013 and in the Pitu block in Greenland targeting 2014. understand the local area and its people before we undertake the full Social Impact Assessment SIA for a drilling programme which is targeted for 2014.
14 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Taking a long term view We complement our technical skill with social and environmental expertise at every stage of the project life cycle Cairns entrepreneurial culture helps us move quickly to secure opportunities and realise value, while never compromising the safety of our people and the environment.
When working with local communities, however, our thinking is long term.
The diagram below offers an overview of how we manage our social and environmental impacts from the beginning to the end of the oil and gas exploration and production life cycle.
Due diligence Prequalification Exploration seismic Site surveys Before making an acquisition, When the decision to apply for Following entry into an exploration Site surveys are carried out to gain applying for an exploration licence an exploration licence has been licence, we carry out seismic more detailed information on the or farming-in to an existing project, made, we supply the necessary surveys to develop a picture area where an exploration well may we carry out an extensive risk documents to the relevant of geological structures below be drilled and to confirm that the screening process including authorities.
Typically this includes the surface and to help identify selected drilling location is safe and assessing whether there are information about our legal status, whether they may contain environmentally viable.
The process potential health and safety, social, financial capability, technical hydrocarbons.
Each seismic survey normally involves low impact human rights, political, security competence and how we plan is preceded by an environmental, sampling and seismic surveys and and environmental impacts and to manage health, safety and social or human rights impact may not require a separate EIA.
identifying approaches to managing environmental risks and contribute assessment EIA, SIA, HRIA these risks.
or all three, depending on the circumstances and whether the seismic survey is onshore or offshore.
Exploration drilling Appraisal drilling Development Production Exploration wells are drilled to If promising amounts of oil and Once a prospect is shown to be A variety of options are available determine whether reservoirs with gas are confirmed from exploration technically and commercially viable, for the production of oil and gas.
It can also be drilling, field appraisal is used to a development plan is prepared During this phase, which can last accompanied by a step-change in establish the size and characteristics and submitted to the relevant many decades, regular reviews are activity and visibility to the local of the discovery and to provide authorities for approval.
This made of social and environmental population.
For example, offshore technical information to allow the includes a rigorous assessment performance to ensure that impacts exploration can involve a drilling rig, optimum method for recovery of of all the potential risks and will identified in the impact assessments supply vessels and helicopters for the oil and gas to be determined.
include a major EIA, SIA or HRIA are being mitigated, to satisfy transporting personnel.
Exploration The potential social and covering a time frame of between project finance providers or to fulfil drilling is preceded by an EIA and environmental impacts associated 10-30 years.
The plan will also the requirements of community SIA to understand potential impacts with appraisal drilling are similar detail benefits to local communities development programmes.
and to identify steps to reduce to those for exploration drilling.
through providing employment and these to acceptable levels.
supplier opportunities and will Limited community development propose how to manage potentially programmes may also be put challenging impacts such as an in place at this time, such as influx of construction workers support to educational or local from outside the local community.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15 Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Working Responsibly Continued Mapping our priorities A robust process helps us to identify and assess topics that matter most to our stakeholders and our business Our business activities and resulting impacts develop and change, so it is important to refresh our CR priorities on a regular basis.
At the end of 2012, we held a workshop for Cairns Primary issue #1: Primary issue #2: senior management to examine and map on a materiality matrix the existing and emerging Protecting Accident CR topics affecting our business, from the perspectives of internal or external stakeholders people prevention who are interested in or potentially affected by The protection of peoples The prevention of major accidents our business.
health and safety The output from this process depends on which activities are under way or planned, and the stage they have reached in the exploration and production life cycle.
For example, following the disposal of the majority shareholding in CIL, the Company no longer has material producing assets or activities onshore, so CR issues such as land acquisition are not as important an issue as they were in previous years.
The outcome of this process informs updates Primary issue #3: Primary issue #4: to policies, annual CR objectives and how we communicate our CR approach and performance.
Prevention Sustainable of spills development The prevention of spills and The sustainable development reducing the impact of effluents of resources in the Arctic and waste Primary issue #5: Primary issue #6: Honesty and Positive integrity impact Assuring all our relationships Providing a positive impact are characterised by honesty to local communities as a result and integrity of our activities 16 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Social and environmental activities Case Study.
Consultation tour in Pitu At the end of 2012, the process identified In preparation for potential drilling during Among the concerns raised were the effects six priority CR topics that are important 2014 in the Pitu block in the Baffin Bay area, of oil spills, seismic disturbance to whales to our business and stakeholders.
They are: during 2012 Cairn carried out a tour of three and fish and education for young people.
towns and five settlements between Ilulissat h The protection of peoples health and Qaanaaq on the northwest coast of Using these insights, we plan to complete and safety Greenland to help understand the local area the SIA by the end of 2013, with public h The prevention of major accidents and its people.
The tours purpose was hearings expected to be held in early 2014. h The prevention of spills and reducing to explain the drilling cycle and gather the impact of effluents and waste information to inform the formal Terms h The sustainable development of resources of Reference for the SIA study, while at in the Arctic the same time listening to the views and h Assuring all our relationships are any concerns of the local communities.
characterised by honesty and integrity h Providing a positive impact to local In response to comments raised by some communities as a result of our activities stakeholders about the statutory consultation and public hearing process in 2010, we started early to give people time to understand the issues and promote participation in the consultation process.
Building of docks, use of local labour and development of English skills were identified as local priorities.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 W e s e e k t o c o n t i n e u l a p l i l c y n i i r m P p r g o Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Working Responsibly Continued Our responsible approach Living our core values of building respect, nurturing relationships and acting responsibly informs and guides our activities across the business Addressing defined risks and uncertainties, Spills, effluents and waste record all waste generated by our activities, including the key issues identified through the Preventing spills is critically important and a key and manage it according to detailed and process described in the previous section, is a feature of Cairns risk mitigation programme.
approved plans and recycle, where possible.
core objective of our governance standards, CR Preventative measures are included within the Any hazardous waste is treated and disposed Management System CRMS and procedures.
design of wells and equipment, the implementation of separately through approved sites.
We provide a full description in the report of operational controls and through alignment Operating with Integrity and on our website with our principal contractors.
Our in the Arctic approach to managing our most important The chemicals used in drilling fluids on Exploring for and developing hydrocarbon issues is summarised below.
exploration wells are selected according to a resources in the Arctic is not new.
Exploration stringent system to ensure safe use and to limit and development wells have been drilled in Priority CR topics their impact on the environment.
Our waste this region since the 1920s.
We recognise Health and safety levels vary from year to year depending on our the responsibility associated with oil and gas In our business, health, safety and security level of exploration activity.
We identify and exploration and development in frontier areas and the well-being of people comes first and Cairn is committed to operating safely and acting Our Business Principles properly at all times.
Our main focus in 2013 will be minimising the risks to people and environment during the planning and execution of our drilling programme.
In support of this objective, we will be providing refresher training Behaving Behaving on the updated CRMS, rolling out the HSE Responsibly Responsibly Culture Framework and implementing a to People Towards the communications programme to enhance the Environment visibility of HSE across the organisation.
The We develop the We avoid, wherever HSE Leadership Team have also introduced potential of our people possible, negative impacts ten HSE leading performance indicators and on the environment and biodiversity targets that are aligned with the delivery of these objectives.
We foster a We will prevent, Preventing major accidents workplace that or where that is not respects personal practicable, minimise Avoiding accidents is our top priority and we Core dignity, is nonemissions to air, implement rigorous risk management processes Principle discriminatory and water and land during the planning and subsequent execution provides fair rewards We behave of activities.
Should a crisis arise during the honestly, fairly and operations, contingency procedures are ready We provide a healthy, We will operate to with integrity for deployment to protect lives and to safeguard safe and secure minimise our carbon the environment.
working environment and water footprint Behaving Responsibly to Society We seek to make a positive social impact in every area in which we work We respect the rights and acknowledge the aspirations and concerns of the communities in which we work 18 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 n v i e h o c r u a r r b e u v s O i n e s s p e r f o r m a n c e Social and environmental activities Case Study Public consultation in Spain and Morocco and are highly informed about the risks of Before each new programme of activities, In 2012, a PCDP was completed and exploration and drilling in any location where we prepare a Public Consultation and implemented in anticipation of future we operate.
Avoiding risks and applying every Disclosure Plan PCDP that identifies activities offshore Valencia, Spain.
practicable means to minimise danger to human the stakeholders involved and sets out In Morocco, Cairn began stakeholder life and the environment are central to our way appropriate engagement strategies.
Our mapping prior to scoping out a PCDP of working.
Group Consultation and Disclosure Plan in 2013.
Framework follows the guidelines of the IFC, We respect the right of sovereign governments which are widely regarded as best practice.
to award licences to explore, drill and develop in their territory.
Our track record and experience The PCDP process allows stakeholders to demonstrate that we are equipped to deliver voice concerns and share their aspirations for these activities both safely and without what exploration will bring to their community.
Honesty and integrity Cairns ability to secure licences and to deliver operations effectively depends on transparent relationships with governments, communities, partners and suppliers globally and our commitment to robust governance standards, and living by them is critical.
Behaving honestly, fairly and with integrity supports our overarching principle of seeking to continually improve our business performance.
Cairn always aims to pay the right amount of tax, at the right time within the right jurisdiction.
The Company has adopted a tax policy that ensures it does not enter into artificial tax avoidance schemes.
Remuneration is dealt with in detail in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 66 of this report.
Positive impact for local communities Strong relationships, based on mutual trust and respect, are crucial to Cairns ongoing business success and we aim to deliver lasting value to all our stakeholders, a key group being communities.
We actively engage and consult with our local stakeholders with the aim of managing the different interests and expectations associated with our activities as effectively as we can.
During exploration drilling or development activities, we implement steps to support skills development in local communities by using contractors who employ local labour wherever possible.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19 Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Working Responsibly Continued Focus on performance Being transparent about accomplishments and challenges supports our drive for continuous improvement Our activities, and therefore our impacts, Behaving responsibly in all Progress against fluctuate significantly depending on where we 2012 CR Objectives our business relationships are in the exploration and production life cycle.
Complete anti-bribery & corruption ABC Last year, we set ourselves 15 CR objectives and Currently our operations are limited to refresher training and monitor its implementation by December 2012 had fully completed all of exploration activities, which are periodic in them with the exception of the following which 4.
Enhance HSE CR communications to external nature, and participation in pre-developments stakeholders are in progress: in the UK sector of the North Sea operated by h Completing two remaining actions arising 5.
Implement updated contractor management other companies.
Therefore, quantitative targets procedures from the 2011 internal audit of the CR such as Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions goals Management System are not currently applicable to our business h Finalising and implementing updated Behave responsibly towards activity.
We do, however, focus on continuous society and communities induction processes for new staff and improvement in the way we plan and manage contractors 6.
Provide training in updated human rights activities to minimise the potential for harm procedures h Incorporating detailed guidance for climate to people and the environment.
Selected CR change management into the project performance data is included in this section and Behave responsibly towards delivery process.
in the separate report Operating with Integrity.
our people Full performance statistics, progress reports on CR objectives for 2013 7.
Implement management and other staff our 2012 CR Objectives and our 2013 CR training programmes Approach to managing health, Objectives are available in the CR section of our safety and environment 8.
Roll-out the HSE Cultural Framework and website at www.
enhance CR communications to staff 1.
Complete development of the updated Group CR Management System and provide training Behave responsibly towards in its use the environment 2. Review and update CR Policies & Business Principles 9.
Update our approach to climate change 10.
Refresh our approach to biodiversity Focus on exploration activities 20 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Social and environmental activities Case Study.
Environmental Impact Assessment in Morocco In 2012 we completed an EIA in Morocco h Providing marine 2012 and 2013 CR-related Group Key Performance ahead of a 3D seismic survey in December mammal observers Indicators KPIs and Targets 2012 and January 2013.
Observers provide a look out to detect the In addition to CR objectives, Cairn has in place possible presence of marine mammals both financial and non-financial KPIs which The EIA suggested ways to mitigate impacts near the vessel and record their behaviour.
on marine fauna and users of the sea to h Incinerating waste are used to monitor progress in delivering the Companys strategy see pages 25 to 29. negligible levels by: In order to avoid any form of pollution or contamination of the marine environment, The 2012 and 2013 Group KPIs include a number of KPIs and targets designed h Reducing noise waste is incinerated on board.
In addition, to achieve operational excellence, enhance Seismic acoustic sources that can the seismic vessel has a system for HSE and minimise environmental incidents.
potentially impact on fish and marine sorting solid waste and another for waste mammals are reduced using a technique water treatment.
This means the power of h Avoiding nuisance to A significant number of other CR KPIs are used to monitor performance and are fully reported the acoustic source is increased over other marine users on our website at www.
com 20 minutes to the maximum required.
In order to avoid possible interference responsibility.
Starting up at low power allows fauna with fishing and navigation, recommended to leave the area.
measures include issuing information h Shutting down when necessary notices about the seismic programme, In order to protect marine mammals making ongoing contact with boats in the against physical damage, the seismic area and making use of support vessels survey is interrupted if a marine mammal to liaise with fishing boats and other users.
is observed within a radius of 500 metres from the sound source.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Working Responsibly Continued A year for renewal While quiet in operational terms, 2012 gave us the opportunity to revisit and strengthen our Corporate Responsibility Management System in preparation for active deployment in future operations Our Business Principles Corporate Responsibility Management System CRMS The CRMS helps to ensure that our exploration and development work is undertaken We regularly review and update our Business in line with our Business Principles and policies.
Principles, which are based on our core values of building respect, nurturing relationships Cairn Group CRMS and acting responsibly the 3Rs in line with developing stakeholders expectations and Vision Core Values Business Principles CR Policies our own changing commitments.
In August 2012 we issued an update to our Business Principles, influenced by: h Our HSE Culture Framework h Becoming a signatory of the UN Global Compact in June 2012.
This commits us to align our operations and strategy with the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption h Updating our anti-bribery and corruption Act Plan policies and procedures h Refreshing our procedures to ensure the business meets new Performance Standards issued by the International Finance Corporation IFC, the investment arm of the Performance World Bank.
We also acted upon the findings Standards from a gap analysis of our CR approach against the international standard ISO26000 Gated Project Guidelines for Social Responsibility Delivery Process Standard Operating The current version of the Business Principles Framework can be downloaded from the Cairn website.
Check Do Guidance and Implementation Tools internal and external 22 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Aligned with international standards such Country and company-level anti-bribery and People come first as ISO26000 and International Association of corruption risk screening forms an important part We support the principles in the Universal Oil and Gas Producers OGP industry guidance, of our decision making process when entering Declaration of Human Rights and the United the CRMS provides the processes and tools new investment opportunities or negotiating Nations Global Compact.
Our rights aware to characterise and manage CR requirements with potential partners.
We work through approach is aligned with the Guiding Principles and risks wherever we operate.
a process of risk identification and assess on Business and Human Rights: Implementing whether any identified potential issues are the United Nations Protect, Respect and In 2012, the key factors behind this review were: not manageable, in which case we will consider Remedy Framework.
h Changes to the organisation and carefully whether to continue our involvement.
responsibilities in 2012 During 2013, we will deliver refresher training Taking human rights to heart means living h Lessons learned from its implementation on our approach to anti-bribery and corruption, our core values of respect, relationships and over the last few years and the effectiveness of our anti-bribery responsibility.
Acting on them in our work h Adoption of the HSE Culture Framework and corruption management system will requires following our Human Rights Guidelines.
h New IFC and industry guidance be regularly monitored.
We know its the right thing to do and it helps safeguard business continuity by reducing We work to a gated Project Delivery Process Partners in excellence security risks to our people and operations.
PDP that requires projects to be progressed A key 2012 objective was to update our through a number of stages.
At the end of CR Contractor Management Procedure and Our Human Rights Guidelines were updated each stage we assess whether it is appropriate Guidance and incorporate this into the PDP.
in 2012 and training will be undertaken to proceed to the next.
In 2012, the PDP and Good progress was made in 2012 the tender during 2013. supporting material were installed on the process has been mapped and key areas where Group e-platform and rolled out to practitioners.
HSE plays a major role have been identified.
Anti-bribery and corruption Training throughout 2013 will continue to During 2013 new procedures to enhance Our anti-bribery and corruption procedures embed the CRMS and we plan to check its consideration of HSE in the tender process guide our own behaviour and clarify our effectiveness by carrying out a follow-up will be issued and senior management expectations of partners and suppliers.
internal audit in Q2 2013. engagement on HSE matters stepped up They have been audited by our third party with key contractors.
We see this as an internal auditor and upgraded both in line important part of building stronger relationships with their recommendations and taking into with our business partners and contractors, account lessons learned from 12 months of and crucial to our ongoing success.
Gifts in business can be a grey area, and our gifts and hospitality register adds transparency and reduces the risk of conflicts of interest during tendering processes.
The CRMS Document Hierarchy Mandatory Vision Core Values Business Principles CR Policies Performance Standards PS Gated Project Delivery Process Standard Operating Framework Standard Operating Procedures Guidance and Implementation Tools Internal and External Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Working Responsibly Continued HSE Cultural Framework HSE objectives LPIs and KPIs Cairn believes that an Cairn believes that an excellent HSE and CR The HSE Leadership Team, chaired by Jann excellent HSE and CR culture comes from successfully building Brown, Managing Director and Chief Financial on learning and experience across the Officer CFO, has taken a number of steps to culture comes from Group to drive continuous improvement.
embed HSE into the business including ensuring successfully building that everyone in a leadership position has at In 2012, we wanted to ensure HSE awareness least one HSE-related objective in their personal on learning and experience was translating into expected behaviours.
performance objectives and introducing 10 HSE across the Group Together with The Keil Centre, an independent leading performance indicators and targets organisation specialising in safety culture aligned with the new HSE Culture Framework.
to drive continuous assessment and human factors analysis, Their purpose is to support the delivery of the improvement.
we conducted workshops to gauge prevailing leadership behaviours and other objectives that attitudes across the business on their Safety underpin Cairns approach to HSE.
In recognition of the importance given to These workshops identified a number of areas the delivery of the HSE performance, the where awareness could be strengthened, for Remuneration Committee has assigned a 10% example, in recognising risks and communicating weighting in the Group 2013 KPIs to the delivery our CR approach and performance.
As a result, of the 10 HSE leading performance indicators a new HSE Culture Framework has been and a further 5% weighting to delivery of safety developed to keep HSE at the forefront.
The and environmental targets in the 2013 operated new Framework, together with our updated programmes see KPI section on pages 25-29.
CRMS, will be rolled out during 2013.
The outcome against the Group 2013 KPIs is used in assessing the annual discretionary cash bonus scheme.
Total Recordable Lost Time Injury Greenhouse Gas Injury Rate TRIR Frequency LTIF Emissions TRI per million hours LTI per million hours Tonnes 1,589 0.00 0.00 280 1 2 657 7.34 3.67 166,266 269 1.76 0.43 447 1.81 0.60 151,181 479 1.68 0.42 602 0.64 0.64 24,891 1.75 0.45 421 553 0.00 0.00 29,399 2.68 0.55 522 489 Cairn Cairn 1 2 Direct OGP benchmark OGP benchmark Indirect Scope 2 1 2 OGP benchmark is not yet available for 2012 OGP benchmark is not yet available for 2012 Air Travel Scope 3 Our performance emissions relate to the consumption of fuel.
Our performance over the last five years for Our safety performance over the period has been selected safety and environmental indicators are good and in line with the industry, except for in presented above.
More detailed CR performance 2011 when there were seven injuries on marine information is presented on our website at vessels and at the shore base.
Over were updated for the lessons learned from the five year period, our main operated activity these accidents and while our operations were has been the drilling programmes offshore limited in 2012, we had no injuries.
Greenland in 2010 and 2011, for which the GHG 24 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012
