Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Board of Directors Executive Directors Name and Title Simon Dr Mike Jann Sir Bill Thomson Watts Brown Gammell Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive Managing Director Non-Executive Chairman 48 57 and CFO 57 60 Sir Bill Gammell holds a BA in Simon Thomson was appointed Mike Watts is Deputy CEO and Jann Brown holds an MA from Biography Chief Executive in July 2011. has over 32 years experience in Edinburgh University and a Economics and Accountancy Prior to becoming Chief the oil industry.
He was formerly diploma in accounting from from Stirling University and Executive, he had been Legal the CEO and Managing Director Heriot Watt University.
Jann has over 30 years experience and Commercial Director since of the Amsterdam listed Holland joined Cairn in 1998 after a in the international oil and 2006.
Simon originally joined Sea Search, which was acquired career in the accountancy gas industry.
In 2006, he was Cairn in 1995 and holds an by Cairn in 1995, and where he profession.
Jann is vice awarded a knighthood for services to industry in Scotland.
LLB Hons from Aberdeen was the architect of the South president of the Institute of University and a Diploma in Asia strategy.
Mike previously Chartered Accountants of Legal Practice from Glasgow held senior technical and Scotland and a member of the University.
management roles with Premier, Chartered Institute of Taxation.
Simon was appointed to the Mike was appointed to the Jann was appointed to the Sir Bill founded Cairn and was Term of Office Board in November 2006 as Board in 1997 and became Board in November 2006 as appointed to the Board as Chief Legal and Commercial Director Deputy Chief Executive in Finance Director and became Executive on its initial listing in and became Chief Executive March 2009.
In July 2011 he stood in July 2011. in July 2011. down from that role and became non-executive Chairman, following consultation with shareholders.
Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Independent Simon is a non-executive Mike is a non-executive director Jann was appointed a Sir Bill is a director of Glasgow External director of Grahams The Family of SOCO International PLC.
non-executive director and chair 2014 Limited and was appointed Appointments Dairy Limited and is a director of the audit committee of Troy chairman of Genius Foods of the Winning Scotland Income & Growth Trust plc in Limited in March 2012.
She is also a member of the 30% Executive Pipeline Action Group.
Simon is a member of the Mike is a member of the Group Jann is a member of the Sir Bill is chair of the Nomination Committee Nomination Committee and Risk Management Committee.
Governance Committee and Committee and a member of Membership attends the Remuneration attends the Audit Committee by the Governance Committee.
She is also a member He is also Chair of the Group of the Group Risk Management Risk Management Committee.
As detailed in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 61, the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee has been split into two separate committees the Nomination Committee and the Governance Committee with effect from March 2013.
50 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Non-Executive Directors Todd Iain Dr James M. Jacqueline Alexander Hunt McLaren Buckee Sheppard QC Berger Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 60 62 66 57 47 Alexander Berger is Chief Todd Hunt has 40 years Iain McLaren has significant Dr James Buckee has more M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC experience in the oil and gas experience in the oil and gas than 40 years experience in Jackie Sheppard was Executive Officer of Oranjeindustry.
He is President and sector.
He is a Chartered the oil and gas industry having previously Executive Vice Nassau Energie B. V. a private joint owner of Atropos Accountant and was formerly gained extensive international President, Corporate and Legal Dutch exploration and Exploration Company and Senior Partner for KPMG experience with Shell, Burmah at Talisman Energy Inc. a post production company based Atropos Production Company in Scotland.
He was appointed she held for 15 years from 1993 in Amsterdam.
Alexander based in Dallas, Texas.
President of Talisman Energy Inc to 2008.
She holds a BA from holds a Masters degree in Petroleum Engineering form in 1991 and CEO in 1993 and the Memorial University of held both posts until retiring Newfoundland, BA and MA Delft University and an MBA from Talisman in 2007. in Jurisprudence from Oxford from Rotterdam School of University and LLB from McGill Management.
Jackie was admitted to the Law Society of Alberta Canada in 1982 and was appointed Queens Counsel for the Province of Alberta in 2008.
Todd was appointed as an Iain was appointed as an Jim was appointed as an Jackie was appointed as an Alexander was appointed as independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive an independent non-executive director in May 2003. director in July 2008. director in January 2009. director in May 2010. director in May 2010.
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Todd is President and joint Iain is chairman of Investors Jim is non-executive chairman Jackie is a director of Emera Alexander is Chief Executive owner of Atropos Exploration Capital Trust and a director of of EnQuest PLC.
He is also a Inc, a public Canadian based Officer of Oranje-Nassau Company and Atropos Baillie Gifford Shin Nippon Trust, director of Rodinia Oil Corp. international energy generation, Energie B. V. Production Company.
Scottish Enterprise and Mitra PetroFrontier Corp. Black Swan transportation and distribution Energy Limited.
He is also Energy Inc. Magma Global Ltd. company.
She is a founder a past President of the Institute and KERN Partners Ltd. and director of two privately of Chartered Accountants financed upstream oil and gas of Scotland.
exploration companies, Marsa Energy Inc. and Black Swan Energy Inc. Jackie is also chairperson of the Research and Development Corporation of Newfoundland and Labrador, a Crown Corporation.
Todd is a member of the Iain is the chair of the Audit Jim is a member of the Jackie is chair of both the Alexander is a member of the Remuneration Committee, Committee and a member Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee, Nomination Nomination Committee and of the Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee.
Committee and Governance Governance Committee.
and Group Risk Management Committee.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51
