Key Performance Indicators How we measure and monitor our progress Cairn has in place both financial and non-financial key performance indicators KPIs which are used to monitor progress in delivering the Companys strategy.
2012 was a transitional year, as the process of Cairns 2012 KPIs covered nine principal areas building the portfolio moved with some speed.
within the three core strategic objectives of Following the sale of the Groups majority delivering a sustainable business, maintaining shareholding in CIL and return of cash to a balanced portfolio with significant growth shareholders, the strategy of targeting and potential and achieving operational excellence.
realising value from exploration success was More details on the 2012 KPIs and performance set out in the Business Plan.
The Groups 2012 are presented in the following tables.
KPIs were, as a consequence, reflective of the early stage in the value creation cycle, rather than the more traditional KPIs for oil and gas Exploration and Production E&P companies such as production or operating cost targets, which the Board currently considers are not relevant as a measure of the Groups performance.
A balanced portfolio 2012 was a transitional year, as the process of building the portfolio moved with some speed.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25 Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Key Performance Indicators Continued 2012 KPIs Delivering a Sustainable Business Realise cash from Cairn Preserve cash Grow the reserves India shareholding for investment and resources base Delivery of the Groups strategy required The process of re-building the portfolio Growing the reserves and resources base realising part of our shareholding in CIL included evaluation of a significant number to provide a basis for future growth is a for re-investment in other opportunities.
All investments key element of the Companys strategy.
must fit with Cairns strategy and meet Our target was to discover or acquire 2C our investment criteria, before they are contingent resources and or 2P reserves approved, with a full approval process for in excess of 50 mmboe net to Cairn.
an investment over US$5 million, for which Investment Proposals are prepared.
Measurement The target was simple: the value on the Investments Proposals present the outcome Resources and reserves figures evaluated Balance Sheet at the end of the year must of a rigorous analysis of the opportunity by internal technical specialists and verified exceed that at the start plus value realised and the risks to delivery and are signed by independent consultants.
A register was maintained of fully signed off Investment Proposals presented to the Executive Team and Board.
Risk management The performance of the CIL business and Cairn has in place rigorous due diligence Growing the resource and reserves base the need for reinvestment capital is closely processes through which the risks required acquiring assets or companies monitored in order to mitigate the risk of associated with an investment opportunity with undeveloped resources or reserves.
monetising the shareholding at the wrong are identified, evaluated, actions to manage Rigorous technical and commercial time or price.
the risks determined and the outcome evaluations were completed to mitigate included in the Investment Proposal.
the risk of paying an acquisition cost in excess of market value.
2012 performance Two tranches of CIL shares were sold Investment Proposals representing 100% The target was exceeded.
The target of investments over US$5 million in 2012 Two acquisitions were made which provided was exceeded.
were prepared and approved by the pre-development, appraisal and exploration Executive Team and Board.
Discover more: Financial Review on P3840 assets.
Following the acquisitions and Discover more: Financial Review on P3840 approval of the Mariner FDP at the end of 2012, the addition to the Groups proven plus probable 2P reserves was 16 mmboe at end 2012.
2C resources were added through our interests in the Catcher and Kraken developments.
Discover more: Operational Review on P3037 26 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2012 KPIs Continued Maintaining a Balanced Portfolio Reducing exposure Rebuilding the portfolio in Greenland Maturing new prospects In order to deliver the strategy and provide Following the return of cash to shareholders, The 2012 work programme included the growth, the Business Plan required exposure to frontier exploration in Greenland maturing new prospects that meet Cairn's accessing new business and commercial was brought into line with the revised equity investment criteria, either organically, opportunities with further exploration in base of the Group.
This required delivering through farm-ins or new licence awards.
both frontier and mature basins, appraisal, commercially attractive farm-out development and production opportunities.
arrangements whereby an industry partner contributes funding and knowledge towards future investment requirements and operations in Greenland, whilst maintaining Cairns gearing to success.
Measurement The target for 2012 was to access a The value of an interest in the Pitu block The outcome of technical and commercial minimum of one asset opportunity within was based on the technical and commercial evaluations of exploration opportunities four of the five portfolio classes in the interpretation of the prospectivity and are documented in a prospect and lead Business Plan through acquisition, swaps, full cycle economics.
inventory, which is verified by independent applying for new acreage, farm-ins and consultants.
The potential values of these other forms of portfolio management.
prospects are also included in the Company valuation reports.
Risk management Cairn has in place rigorous due diligence Internal peer review and evaluation by Internal peer review and evaluation by processes through which the risks independent consultants were the main independent consultants were the main associated with an investment opportunity means through which the potential risk of means through which the potential risk are identified, evaluated, actions to manage inaccurate assessment of the prospectivity of inaccurate assessments are mitigated.
the risks determined and the outcome and value of the Pitu block were mitigated.
included in the Investment Proposal, Statoil were selected as the preferred which are signed by Heads of Function who partner given their knowledge of exploring are responsible for assuring the content of for and developing fields in Arctic conditions the evaluation.
2012 Performance The acquisitions of Agora and Nautical added: Transaction concluded with Statoil through Two acquisitions were made which provided which they acquired a 30.625% interest in pre-development, appraisal and exploration h High potential exploration opportunities the Pitu block.
The 2012 target was exceeded through in Morocco and Malta the completion of technical evaluations on Discover more: Operational Review on P3037 h Near term exploration, appraisal and the existing acreage in Greenland and Spain pre-development opportunities in the and through the two acquisitions, which UK & Norway sectors of the North Sea added prospects in the UK & Norway sectors Additionally a significant interest 50% and of the North Sea and offshore Morocco.
operatorship was acquired in the Foum Draa Discover more: Operational Review on P3037 permit offshore Morocco during 2012.
Applications for exploration permits with frontier exploration opportunities offshore Cyprus and Trinidad & Tobago were unsuccessful.
Discover more: Operational Review on P3037 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27 Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Key Performance Indicators Continued 2012 KPIs Continued Achieving Operational Excellence Delivery of 2012 operated To minimise injuries and work programme Groups approach to HSE environmental incidents To complete the 2012 operated work HSE is at the centre of all that we do.
Our goal is for zero injuries or environmental programme on time, on budget, to the To further enhance the Groups approach incidents in our operations.
In our 2012 defined quality standards and without to HSE risk identification and management, Group KPIs we set the following two safety injuries or environmental incidents.
the HSE Leadership Team targeted five and environmental performance targets on main areas: our operated activities: h Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR target h Approach and management systems of less than 2.0 TRI million hours h Culture, responsibilities and behaviours h No oil spills h Integration into business processes h Performance measurement and leading indicators h Performance review and lessons learned Measurement Progress against project plans and budgets Progress made on this action plan was regularly HSE performance is monitored through a is closely monitored and reported to the monitored by the HSE Leadership Team.
A rigorous Executive Team and Board.
approach is taken to identifying, reporting and investigating safety and environmental incidents and the outcomes are recorded in an audited database and reported regularly to the Executive Team and the Board.
Risk management Cairn employs a gated Project Delivery Delivering good HSE performance and Our Corporate Responsibility Management Process to ensure operated work mitigating the risks of injuries requires System, processes and procedures are programmes are planned, sanctioned and constant attention to applying and seeking embedded throughout the organisation and implemented in accordance with Cairns improvements to HSE approaches, systems, all health, safety, security, environmental policies, standards and procedures.
The HSE Leadership and societal risks are proactively identified, Team was established in 2011 to lead this evaluated and mitigation measures process of continual improvement.
determined during the planning phase and the controls are subsequently rigorously implemented during the operational phase.
2012 Performance Operated activities in Greenland and Morocco 75% of the actions on the HSE Leadership There were no injuries or spills during in 2012 were completed on schedule, under Team plan were completed during 2012 and our 2012 operated activities which took budget, to the desired quality and with no remaining actions are included in 2013 plans.
place in Greenland and Morocco.
Discover more: Working Responsibly on P1424 Discover more: Working Responsibly on P1424 Discover more: Working Responsibly on P1424 28 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2013 Group KPIs The 2013 Group KPIs in the table below have been set by the Board based on the Groups current portfolio and prospects and on delivery of the strategy and objectives as set out in the Business Plan: Purpose 2013 KPI Delivering a Sustainable Business Preserve cash for investment.
h Conclude asset swap or divestment of asset s that do not fit the strategy h Maintain access to liquid reserves plus a cushion at all times to meet planned funding commitments h Ensure that overheads remain within the approved 2013 budget Maintaining a Balanced Portfolio Grow the reserves and resources base Progress exploration and appraisal activities in the UK and Norway sectors of the North Sea to provide the funding for future growth that will add net 2C resources in excess of 30 mmboe and cash flow.
Progress four or more independent high impact exploration prospects with overall target risked net resource 100 mmboe, approved for drilling in 2013 2014 Work with the Operator and other JV partners to progress Catcher and Kraken developments to FDPs thereby moving 2C resources to 2P reserves Discover potentially commercial hydrocarbon resources through drilling high potential operated exploration or appraisal well s in 2013 Achieving Operational Excellence Successfully complete operated 2013 Complete 2013 operational activities on schedule, under budget, to the desired quality and with work programmes.
no injuries or environmental incidents To minimise injuries and environmental incidents on 2013 operated activities: h Total Recordable Injuries Rate TRIR target of less than 2.0 TRI million hours h No oil spills Continue to enhance the Groups approach Achieve targets for ten HSE leading performance indicators across the areas of: to HSE risk identification and management.
h Awareness raising of HSE management systems and procedures h Engagement with contractors h Communication of HSE approach and performance h Risk assessment and management Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29
