Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Industry Overview by Dr Julian Fennema from Heriot-Watt Universitys Energy Academy This, however, was partially compensated for reserves by 14% over the last decade, but last by declining production in the North Sea and year this region represented 60% of the increase, continued political uncertainty in South Sudan, led by Mozambique.
Furthermore eight of the top Yemen and Syria.
ten largest discoveries in the world for 2012 were in offshore East Africa and only one of these was The aggregate expansions in supply halted the oil, the other two discoveries were in Brazil.
recent surge in crude price, where Brent crept up by $0.50 cents to average $111.7 bbl in 2012.
The national oil companies NOCs, to date, Whilst this was a lower increase than the have reported only relatively small volumes previous years surge of $30 it was a new record discovered during 2012, representing only a average price.
Looking beyond the annual quarter of the total discovered as opposed to average the policy effect is once again visible the decade average of a half.
The NOCs, acting in the rebound in oil prices seen in the second either as gatekeepers to the private sector or Political uncertainty half of the year, from a low of below $90 bbl in in direct competition as producers, currently The slowdown in global economic growth seen June, as the expectation grew that policymakers account for approximately 90% of total reserves in the previous year continued into 2012, from in the major consuming economies would adopt and 75% of current production.
The key aspect, over 5% in 2010 to 3.9% and then 3.2% in 1 an expansionary policy and boost the demand therefore, of the new frontier areas being 2012.
Political and policy uncertainty in the for oil products.
The fide-linking of North explored, such as East Africa, is the relatively major advanced economies, with the United American and European energy markets, seen favourable terms of access for the international States and Japan both holding elections and the previously in gas, was reinforced by a widening oil companies IOCs, allowing them to hold Euro area continuing to wrestle with imbalances price differential between the main US marker equity stakes in reserves and to generate a within its single currency, restrained the recovery, crude WTI and that for Europe, driven by the stable stream of revenue through production, resulting in a fall of economic growth to 1.3% significant expansion of US production rather than relying on service contracts yielding in 2012 from 1.6% the previous year.
This weakness accompanied by midstream bottlenecks with a fee per barrel.
impacted, in turn, the performance of the the result that WTI prices in 2012 were lower emerging economies, many still focused on than the previous year.
M&A portfolio and an export-led growth strategy that relies on cash management a currently absent growth in demand from Exploration activity Upstream M&A activity recovered from the the advanced economies.
These economies, deepwater dominates doldrums of 2011 to fractionally above its 2010 therefore, also continued to slow, posting The exploration spend remained resilient, with level, with total transactions in excess of $284 average growth rates of 5.1% against 6.3% 4 all companies spurred on by the maintenance billion recorded through 2012.
The major driver in 2011. of a high oil price.
This, in turn, generated of this recovery was the market for production significant cost inflation, eroding much of the assets producing, appraisal or discovered The aggregate growth, whilst weakening, was greater than 10% increase in nominal spending.
where this had, in turn, been the story of the sufficient to boost the demand for oil products 2 The result of this expenditure was mixed, with previous years slump.
Over $180 billion of by 1%, to 89.8 MB d, but this remained a story discovered volumes currently reported at more assets changed hands through 2012 and of two divergent performances.
Declining 3 than 25 billion boe with the potential to be represents one of the key themes that demand in OECD economies in North America revised upwards by another 10-15%.
This was developed over the year.
and Europe led to a 2% drop in demand, but this in excess of the ten-year average but lower than was counteracted by the industrial powerhouses the previous two years.
Another conflicting For the smaller, exploration-oriented companies in the Asia-Pacific region where demand grew message on exploration performance is the this market represents an important route by 5% and outside the OECD by 3%.
After the relative volumes of oil and gas, where the last for raising capital, particularly given the lack year of supply disruptions in 2011, 2012 saw decade has seen a nearly equal split between of credit available in the financial markets.
This a more constant provision to the market over the two, but so far for 2012 oil accounts for then generates the cash flow to fund exploration the year, averaging 90.9 Mb d. This represented only 30% of reported volume.
in the expectation of adding further value, and an increase of 2.5 Mb d 2.3% over the previous perhaps again disposing of the asset.
This is year, met mainly by an annual average increase A major driver of the discovered volume of exemplified by the presence of the mid-cap in OPEC production of 1.9 Mb d to 37.6 Mb d. gas is the continued performance of the new companies such as Anadarko, and the relative Non-OPEC supply also expanded, to 53.3 Mb d, deepwater play off the east coast of Africa.
absence of the super majors, in the East African and the US booked its largest annual increase Sub-Saharan Africa overall has increased global basins discussed above.
790 kb d since crude production began in 1859.
IMF, World Economic Outlook Update, January 2013.
The fide-linking of North American and European energy 2.
IEA Oil Market Report, February 2013.
A barrel of oil equivalent boe is the quantity of gas markets, seen previously in gas, was reinforced by a with the same energy content as one barrel of oil, widening price differential between the main US marker allowing direct comparison of the size of oil and gas fields.
crude WTI and that for Europe, driven by the significant 4.
Ernst & Young Global Oil and Gas Transactions Review 2012. expansion of US production accompanied by midstream 5.
US production expansion is sourced from tight formations, already experienced in the gas markets bottlenecks with the result that WTI prices in 2012 were and now influencing the oil supply, whereas Canadian expansion is derived from the oil sands, supported lower than the previous year.
by a mixture of higher prices and technological advancements.
48 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Not all National Oil Companies, however, These factors will restrict the rise in oil price the appraisal and exploration assets of the are located in resource-rich countries and the in the short term but the relative importance Company, which generates some future international reach, and deep pockets, of these of these economies declines, however, as the cashflow.
Companies at different stages in was once again visible in the M&A markets as population growth and rapid industrialisation terms of the balance between these two they sought to ensure access to the resources of the non-OECD countries drive the markets therefore are at different phases of a valuation required for domestic growth.
This took the form over the longer term.
Projections attribute cycle, where as strategies shift and production both of acquisitions in the asset market but also almost all the expansion of energy demand to moves closer the discounted value of expected in the corporate market, such as the $15 billion the emerging economies of China, India and cashflows rises.
These cashflows can then takeover of Canadian Nexen by Chinese the Middle East, estimated to experience a be reinvested in exploration acreage with the CNOOC, as they seek to access personnel 2.5% annual growth rate in energy consumption intention of creating more production assets, 6 and technology as well as resources.
The supply response to this is also and associated revenue, into the future.
centred in the non-OECD, accounting for By contrast the supermajors are adjusting over three-quarters of the increase in world Dr Julian Fennema portfolios in response to the changing energy production.
Energy Academy, competitive environment brought about by the Heriot-Watt University rise of the NOCs and the mid-cap independents.
Despite the long term potential of the sector, When competing against the strategic resource the oil and gas sector as a whole has requirements of certain NOCs the cost of capital underperformed against the stock market benefits are insufficient, demonstrated by in recent years for very diverse reasons.
Thailands PTT outbidding Shell for Cove Energy These include the above demand fragility, in July 2012, and the exploration success in price uncertainty and strategic reorientation frontier areas of smaller firms demonstrate that by supermajors, but also other factors such as economies of scale are less relevant, both areas the cost uncertainty generated by the Macondo where historically they derived competitive accident in 2010 and concerns about access advantage.
Therefore the supermajors are to reserves.
reorienting portfolios to deliver what they can do better than the others, undertaking large Through 2012 this relative performance projects with significant technological challenges continued as the FTSE Oil and Gas Index lost such as the Arctic but also leveraging technical 11.4% over the year against gains booked by expertise by collaborating with NOCs on the both the aggregate FTSE 100 and 250 indices projects that are not state-exclusive.
This sectoral performance, where the decline in oil price Future trends through the first half of 2012 drags the sector The short term outlook suggests an oversupply lower, again masks divergent performance, to the market, mainly due to the North American depicted below against a Cairn Energy production expansion from unconventional peer group.
5 sources but also reductions in political uncertainty elsewhere bringing established Two principal drivers of the relative valuations production back to the market, set against of the sectoral peer group are the existing a background of weak demand growth in the production, generating a current cashflow, advanced economies.
and the future production incorporated into Share price performance January 2012 to February 2013 GBp 1.3 1.2 1.1 1.0 0.9 0.8 Heriot-Watt University is one of the UKs leading universities for 01 12 02 12 03 12 04 12 05 12 06 12 07 12 08 12 09 12 10 12 11 12 12 12 01 13 02 13 business and industry and has a reputation for innovative education, enterprise and leading edge research.
Energy research is a core activity and through the pan-university Energy Cairn Energy FTSE UK Oil & Gas Index Premier Tullow Academy, research excellence ranges from solar energy and energy-focused materials through to energy economics, use, policy and logistics.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49
