GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 1 5 The Group Executive Committee comprises the Group Chief Executive, Julian Roberts, the Group Finance Director, Philip Broadley, and six other members of senior executive management of the Group.
A. F. C. A. M. C. T. Group Chief Executive since September 2008.
Also a member of the Nomination Committee and a nonexecutive director of Nedbank Group Limited, Nedbank Limited and Old Mutual Life Assurance Company 2 6 South Africa Limited Julian Roberts joined Old Mutual in 2000 as Group Finance Director, moving on to become CEO of Skandia following its purchase by Old Mutual in 2006.
Before joining Old Mutual, he was Group Finance Director of Sun Life & Provincial Holdings plc and, before that, Chief Financial Officer of Aon UK Holdings Limited.
3 7 Group Finance Director since November 2008.
Also a member of the Board Risk Committee and a nonexecutive director of Old Mutual US Holdings Inc. the parent company of US Asset Management Philip Broadley was Group Finance Director of Prudential plc from 2000 to 2008, having previously been a partner in Arthur Andersen from 1993 to 2000.
He has been Chairman of the 100 Group of Finance Directors, was a founding member and trustee of the CFO Forum of European Insurance 4 8 Company Finance Directors, and was a member of the IASBs Insurance Working Group.
He is a member of the Code Committee of the UK Takeover Panel and of the Oxford University Audit and Scrutiny Committee.
A. J. D. President and Chief Executive Officer, US Asset Management Peter Bain is President and Chief Executive Officer of US Asset Management, the USbased international asset management business of Old Mutual plc.
He has more than two decades of experience leading and advising firms in the investment management industry.
Previously he was a Senior Executive Vice President at Legg Mason, Inc. where he held leadership positions from 2000 to 2009.
Most recently he served as Head of Affiliate Management and Corporate Strategy there, with responsibility for overseeing the firms investment managers.
Prior to that, he was Chief Administrative Officer, responsible for the firms overall administration and operations.
22 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Where we are going How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business 4 Mike Brown 46 B. Com.
Chief Executive, Nedbank Group Chief Risk Officer Mike Brown has been Chief Executive of Nedbank Group Sue Kean has been Chief Risk Officer since January 2011, Limited since March 2010.
He was previously the Chief having joined Old Mutual in July 2010 as Head of Governance Financial Officer of Nedbank Group and Nedbank Limited & Regulatory Compliance.
She has over 25 years experience from November 2004.
Prior to that, he headed Property in insurance and financial services.
She previously worked at Finance at Nedbank and before that he was an executive Friends Provident and Aviva in a variety of risk and regulatory director of BoE Limited.
She also spent time at the Financial Services Authority, and held positions in relation to Solvency II on industry bodies such as the Chief Risk Officer Forum and the European insurance 5 Ian Gladman 48 B.
A. trade body, the Comit Europen des Assurances CEA.
Group Strategy Director Ian Gladman has been Group Strategy Director since 8 Don Schneider 55 B.
He had previously worked at UBS Investment Group Human Resources Director Bank for 16 years, most recently as CoHead of Financial Institutions, EMEA, covering a wide range of UK and European Don Schneider has been Group HR Director since May 2009. insurance companies, banks and asset managers.
He was He was previously Senior Vice President and Head of Human previously Head of Corporate Finance, South Africa for Resources for the Global Wealth Management Division of UBS from 1998 to 2001, during which time he led the local Merrill Lynch.
Prior to that, he headed HR for their Global UBS team advising Old Mutual on its demutualisation and Markets and Investment Banking Division.
He also advised Nedbank on a number of joined Merrill Lynch in 1997 as Head of International Human assignments and BoE on its acquisition by Nedbank.
Prior to Resources, based in London, where he was responsible for joining UBS, he worked at Goldman Sachs and at JP Morgan.
all HR activities outside the US.
Prior to that, he worked for Morgan Stanley for 13 years and held a variety of senior HR roles in both New York and London.
Chief Executive Officer, LongTerm Savings and Chairman, Old Mutual South Africa Paul Hanratty has been CEO of LongTerm Savings since March 2009 and Chairman of Old Mutual South Africa OMSA since September 2009.
He has been with OMSA since 1984.
He is a fellow of the Institute of Actuaries and has held a number of roles at Old Mutual, including Head of Product Development, General Manager Finance and Actuarial, and Head of the Retail business of OMSA.
He joined the Board of OMSAs life business in 2003 and became Managing Director of OMSA in 2006.
