OUR MARKETS Demographics A high-level overview Demographic trends in our largest markets support our business.
Populations are growing and, in most cases, also of the drivers in our key living longer.
For example, in the UK average life expectancy was 72 years markets in Africa, the 1 1 in 1970, had risen to 80 years by 2010 and continues to rise.
In sub-Saharan Africa, average life expectancy increased 1 1 UK and across the globe from 51 years in 2003 to 54 years in 2010.
South Africa was a rare exception to this pattern: average life expectancy was 1 1 52 years in 2010, slightly down from 53 years in 1970.
South Africas population grew 10% to 51 million between 1 2003 and 2011.
Over the same period, the population in 1 sub-Saharan Africa increased 22% to 876 million.
The proportion of the working age population also increased over this period.
In western Europe the number of retirees continued to increase, with the over-65 population of the 1 European Union rising from 16.3% in 2003 to 17.6% in 2011.
At the same time, living standards and expectations have also increased.
In our more mature markets people will spend longer in retirement and, as a result, will need a higher level of pension savings to fund their desired standard of living and healthcare costs.
In emerging markets, growing economic empowerment is driving demand for a broad range of protection, savings and investment products.
Global macro-economics Emerging economies are achieving higher GDP growth rates than developed economies.
GDP per capita in both South Africa and sub-Saharan Africa more than doubled between 1 2003 and 2011, with annual GDP growth in sub-Saharan 1 Africa above 4% in seven out of the eight years.
As emerging markets develop, average incomes rise and the APE sales split by region at requirement for financial services evolves from simple funding December 2012 and transactional products to more sophisticated protection and savings products.
Our strategy is to shape our offering Emerging Markets 46% to fit the wider macro-marketplace.
UK 25% Lower interest rates and slower growth in the European and Europe 29% US markets mean people will have to save more to meet their target levels of retirement income.
Our capabilities in longterm savings products, particularly pensions, position us well to help them.
Government and public sector support All numbers exclude Finland.
Ageing populations and rising health expectations are reducing the extent to which governments can afford to meet their Assets under management by region at social commitments, specifically on pensions and healthcare.
Increasingly, individuals will need to fund their own provision.
December 2012 Emerging Markets 43% Regulatory change Financial services have faced increased regulatory intervention UK 30% over the past few years and we expect this to continue.
Europe 27% We have anticipated and prepared for many of the regulatory changes ahead, including Solvency II in Europe and Solvency Assessment and Management in South Africa, and the changes in the UK arising from the Retail Distribution Review.
We believe that some of our competitors are finding these Includes OMAM UK from Q2 2012 developments more challenging.
1 Source: World Bank 12 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 What we do How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business 1 Old Mutual in Africa South Africa 1 51m population Customers 5.1 million M&F market position #2 Kenya Malawi Namibia 1 1 1 42m population 15m population 2m population Market position Life: #9, AM: #1 Market position Life: #1, AM: #1 Market position Life: #1, AM: #1 Customers 97,000 Customers 83,000 Customers 259,000 M&F market position #2 Swaziland Botswana Zimbabwe 1 1 1 1m population 2m population 13m population Market position Life: #2 M&F market position #4 Market position Life: #1, AM: #1 Customers 23,000 Customers 862,000 M&F market position #1 M&F market position #3 1 Source: 2011 populations per World Bank data.
Source: All other data based on Old Mutual estimates.
Our South African operations Impact on Old Mutual The powerhouse of our African business is South Africa, These themes all provide opportunities for Old Mutual.
We are where we have a long heritage and strong and trusted well positioned in our markets, have the products that consumers brands.
Old Mutual South Africa is one of the largest need, and have built effective distribution channels for them.
financial service providers in South Africa, with just over Our two most profit-generative markets are Africa and 5 million individual retail and corporate customers.
It provides Emerging Markets, and the affluent markets of our individuals, businesses, corporates and institutions with Old Mutual Wealth business.
long-term savings, protection and investment solutions.
Mutual & Federal is our short-term insurer in South Africa, Our African operations providing a full range of products to commercial and There are around 200 million households in sub-Saharan domestic customers.
Old Mutual is also the majority 1 Africa.
This population is increasingly urbanised, much like shareholder in Nedbank, one of South Africas four Asia in the recent past.
largest banking groups by assets.
McKinsey has forecast that by 2020 more than half of South Africa accounts for 74% of our IFRS adjusted operating African households will have discretionary income, rising profit, before tax and after non-controlling interests and 21% from 85 million households to almost 130 million in 2020. of funds under management.
This represents a considerable opportunity and we aim to attract a proportion of that income into savings.
Our work The demographics of South Africa are very favourable for on financial education and literacy in the region supports future growth in financial services.
Large numbers of people this goal.
are coming into the economic system and the consumer markets are growing rapidly.
Life Insurance S-Curve 14 South Africa 12 Hong Kong 10 United Kingdom 8 Japan South Korea 6 Singapore India 4 Australia China Malaysia United States Indonesia 2 Sri Lanka Vietnam Thailand 0 Philippines GDP per capita $ Source: Swiss Re 2010 : Bernstein analysis 13 Life GWP GDP OUR MARKETS continued 2010 Public Pension Spending as % of GDP IMF 14% 12% 10% 8% 6% 4% 2% 0% Source: IMF: Bernstein analysis Our South African long-term savings business has a strong Nedbank operates across Africa through its own operations market share in both the retail affluent and mass foundation within the Southern African Development Community and its cluster businesses.
It also has a substantial corporate segment alliance with the Ecobank Group, which has a presence in and is the largest asset manager in South Africa.
more African countries than any other bank.
The EcobankNedbank alliance is the largest banking network in Africa, South Africa has a well-established banking industry, with more than 1,500 branches in 35 countries.
We have maintaining sound and traditional banking practices within created an opportunity for shareholders to participate in a well-managed and regulated environment.
Nedbank the Africa growth story through its rights to acquire 20% positions itself as a bank for all, providing relevant banking in Ecobank Transnational Incorporated ETI.
services to the broader population.
During the year Nedbank Retail increased its client base by 12% and Business Banking Mutual & Federals operations in Africa are broadly aligned added 775 new transactional banking clients: all the other to Old Mutuals long-term savings operations.
This allows both clusters continued to deepen client relationships, especially Mutual & Federal and Old Mutual to leverage each others with the previously disadvantaged communities.
Nedbank distribution networks and creates cost and revenue synergies.
increased its staffed outlets by 80 and added a further 476 We see increasing scope for Mutual & Federal and Old Mutual ATMs during the year.
Emerging Markets to work together more closely.
For example, we are in the process of acquiring a property and casualty The countrys short-term market experienced a marked business in Nigeria which will be run alongside the newly softening in rates for personal lines of business and a acquired life licence.
significant level of localised catastrophe losses.
To reduce the impact of rate softening on its underwriting margin at Case Study this stage of the underwriting cycle, Mutual & Federal focused on cost containment and managed growth in policy numbers, particularly through its direct channel iWyze and underwriting Managing your money management agencies.
In South Africa, we ran more than 1,500 financial education workshops Our operations in the rest of Africa in 2012, reaching over 57,000 people.
Our flagship programme Elsewhere in Africa, Old Mutuals long-term savings On the Money helps people with limited financial resources to learn and operations are based in countries with urban populations practice responsible financial behaviour in an accessible and practical that have higher per-capita GDP albeit at levels well below format.
We have successfully shared our expertise across the Group, those of Europe, the US and developed Asian markets but expanding this programme into Colombia, Mexico, Kenya, Namibia, as yet relatively low spend on insurance.
We currently have Zimbabwe, Swaziland and Nigeria in 2012. more than 1.3 million customers in these countries and are the market leader in many cases.
We believe these markets For more information on the Groups Responsible offer significant growth opportunities which we are well Business activities see pages 10-11. placed to capture.
Our largest business by profits and funds under management is in Namibia, but we recently acquired a life licence in Nigeria, which has a very large population, and have long-established businesses in Zimbabwe and Kenya.
14 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Italy France Ukraine Austria Portugal Greece Poland Finland Belgium Japan Germany Norway Sweden Denmark Russia Spain Brazil Turkey United Kingdom Netherlands United States Canada New Zealand Ireland Australia Malaysia Mexico China Saudi Arabia India South Africa Indonesia Korea What we do How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business UK and Europe the biggest markets, but emerging markets are attractive Market attractiveness for cross-border providers bubble size represents relative market size in APE 35% Middle East 30% LatAm Africa 25% 20% N Asia 15% Continental SE Asia Europe 10% 5% UK 0% 0.0% 5.0% 10.0% 15.0% 20.0% 25.0% Forecast market growth %pa Source: NMG Consulting global BQM programmes and analysis of cross-border provider financial statements.
Two decades ago the investment market for UK retail Affluent markets of customers was predominantly served by with-profits products Old Mutual Wealth International sold largely by IFAs.
These products tended to be difficult for Our International business serves clients in the UK, South Africa customers to understand and charges were opaque.
They and the rest of the world who want to invest internationally.
offered customers a limited form of guarantee but, in general, These are typically internationally mobile professionals and sub-optimal investment performance.
Unlike most of our UK others seeking investment security, portability or choice.
peers, we do not have a large with-profits book.
Moving on from with-profits, the market has evolved through unit-linked We are usefully differentiated from competitors by products offering more transparency and investment the geographic diversification of our footprint and our choice to multi-manager solutions offering a wider range related client base.
Accessing a wide range of international of investment options from a broader choice of providers.
markets, including emerging markets, allows us to take full But all these remain essentially product driven.
advantage of shifting economic dynamics around the world.
The international markets served by Old Mutual Wealth The past decade has seen the emergence of fund platforms International show good potential for further growth, focused on supporting adviser business models.
These have especially in emerging markets.
brought better value for customers through features such as aggregated reporting, removal of upfront fund manager We operate through long-term relationships with financial charges and free switching.
The platform market has grown intermediaries.
Our current business is focused on the strongly and continues to do so.
There are currently over Far East, Middle East, Latin America, South Africa and Europe 25 platforms in the UK market, with the four largest accounting including the UK.
We aim to increase our capabilities and for around three-quarters of total platform assets.
We continue the strength of our offering in these markets.
To this end, we to hold a strong market position as a leading platform started to roll out our new-generation, e-enabled investment focused on profitable retail business.
As at December 2012 platform, Wealth Interactive, and launched several new 1 our market share was 20%.
products in key markets during 2012.
The importance of IFAs in the UK market reflects the large The Old Mutual Wealth International business model allows us number of consumers who seek the help of financial planning to generate strong revenue flows from the assets we manage.
Regulation such as the Retail Distribution Review RDR This results in attractive profitability and returns on equity.
has emphasised the need for advisers to focus on helping As demand for international investments grows, increasing customers to make the right choices for their personal competition from both cross-border and onshore providers circumstances and financial goals.
The RDR has also required is putting pressure on margins.
Although operating in multiple advisers to clearly define their business models and make regulatory environments is more complex than single-market choices regarding the parameters of the advice that they onshore operations, we believe it will remain an attractive offer, be it whole-of-market or based on a narrower range part of our overall business proposition: enhancing it through of products and or providers.
Our proposition is to support product innovation, technology enablement and expanded the variety of different business models that will exist in the distribution is a core part of our strategy.
future by offering IFAs and their clients appropriate tools and client-focused investment solutions through our investment UK platform.
Launched at the end of 2012, our RDR-ready Our UK activity is largely unit-linked investment business proposition already meets requirements due at the end of distributed through independent financial advisers IFAs.
2013 so while our competitors develop and implement their We recently expanded our protection and asset management compliance solutions, we can focus fully on providing capabilities by combining the asset management activities capital-light investment solutions that meet customer needs.
of Skandia Investment Group and Old Mutual Asset Managers UK.
1 Source: Q4 2012 Fundscape Platform Report 15 Relative APE margin OUR MARKETS continued More and more IFAs are using platforms Forecast Growth in the UK Platform Market, AUM bn Proportion of IFA business on-platform in future % 2015 2015 2014 2014 2013 2013 2012 2012 2011 2011 2010 2010 2009 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 Source: Sanford Bernstein 2012 Source: Investment Trends Survey 2012 Customer demographics create opportunities for advisers and product providers 1 UK population projections growth forecast millions 2010 to 2018 Growth 75 17% 60 : Looking to maximise income to help subsidise retirement: 60-74 solutions for inheritance planning & income drawdown 10% are critical 45-59 45-59 : Looking for products that maximise capital growth 9% to finance large outgoings eg childrens university fees 30-44 1% 15-44 : Looking to make mortgage decisions and for pension 15-29 and investment solutions: large buyers of finance advice -1% 0-14 1% 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 1 Source: Navigant Office for National Statistics, 2010 based projections The past few years have also seen changes in other United States distribution channels.
The bank channel continues to hold a We run a US-based asset management business through significantly lower share of the retail investment market in the nine boutique firms affiliates.
These offer a diverse range UK than elsewhere in Europe.
The strains of the global financial of investment strategies and products to a wide range of crisis and changing regulation under the RDR have prompted institutional investors around the globe.
We have completed a number of banks to cut or close their financial adviser arms.
the process of focusing our affiliates on institutional clients in Meanwhile, non-advised direct channels are widely 2012, with the disposal or transfer of affiliates during the year.
predicted to grow but have not yet reached material scale.
The effect of this has been to improve operating margin and the continuing business reported positive net client cash flows We foresee consolidation in the future, assuming the in the period.
commoditisation of the business model experienced in similar markets such as Australia and the US.
Some smaller players Non-US clients currently account for 35% of funds under leave the market, with the remaining participants potentially management FUM 31 December 2011: 33%.
International capturing a disproportionate share of market growth.
equity, emerging markets, global equity and global fixed Our strong market share, long-standing relationships with the income products account for 52% of FUM 31 December IFA community and competitive proposition position us well 2011: 50%.
to take advantage of such industry trends as they unfold.
2012 saw favourable market conditions return in H2, contributing to positive market performance for the year as a whole.
Investors continued to favour fixed income, emerging markets equity and alternatives products over US equities in 2012.
16 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Where we are going WHERE WE ARE GOING I n this section, we describe the next stage of our strategic journey How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business Contents Annual review 18 Group Executive Committee 22 Summary of our strategy past and future 24 Our strategy going forward 2013 2015 26
