DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS 2012 proved to be a significant year for the Company and its We continue to aim Board, with major steps being taken to achieve the various targets that we had announced in 2010.
The Board monitored the progress that was being made against those targets closely to meet investors throughout the year, which was the final year of the original three-year restructuring plan presented to shareholders.
Our ever-increasing particular focus during the first half was on ensuring that the sale of our Nordic business was completed successfully and expectations in the that the proceeds were deployed through a mixture of returns to shareholders by way of a Special Dividend and repayment of Group debt.
areas of best practice The Board and the Group Audit Committee continued to and governance monitor the Groups financial position, reviewing monthly financial information and considering the Groups full-year and interim results announcements so as to ensure that they presented an accurate and appropriate picture of the Groups affairs.
In line with recommendations emanating from last years externally facilitated Board effectiveness review, we refined the content of the Boards monthly financial reports.
Attention was paid to ensuring that Board and Committee members were receiving the right amount and type of information that would best enable them to obtain assurance about the state of the Groups finances, risk management and culture through a proactive marshalling of Board and Committee materials.
We also continued to take a close interest in the management of the run-off of liabilities under the closed book of business at Old Mutual Bermuda, which we were pleased to note showed a satisfactory and improving trend.
On the strategic front, we received presentations on our South African businesses plans to expand into the rest of Africa, on Old Mutual Wealths repositioning for the post-RDR world and on Nedbanks readiness for Basel III, among other topics, and we continued to devote a significant amount of Board time to discussing longer-term strategic options for the Group as a whole.
The Board again received feedback from the annual survey of Group culture and values, which helped to show where improvements had been achieved and where work still needed to be done.
We see this as a crucial tool for monitoring and, where necessary, initiating change in the prevailing ethos of our businesses, which is so important for a customer-focused financial services group like ours.
The Company continues to seek to widen skills and diversity at Board level and we are pleased that Danuta Gray has joined us with effect from 1 March 2013.
In the regulatory area, we received further briefings on the prospective impact on the Group of Solvency II, including the consequences arising from the likely postponement of the implementation date for this new solvency regime.
We also regularly reviewed the status of relationships with our regulators.
Looking forward, I am focused on ensuring that the Board continues to have the necessary skills and capacity to deal with the issues that face the Group and that we meet investors ever-increasing expectations in the areas of best practice and governance.
Patrick OSullivan Chairman 84 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 How we govern our business How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business acknowledgement of its separately-listed and regulated What is the Companys approach status, which sits alongside that agreement.
As the Companys primary listing now known in the UK as a Old Mutual views good governance as a vital ingredient premium listing is on the London Stock Exchange, this report in operating a successful business, so that it can provide mainly addresses the matters covered by the UK Corporate assurance to shareholders, customers and regulators that Governance Code, but the Company also has regard to the Groups businesses are being properly managed governance expectations in other territories where its shares and controlled.
The Companys major South African subsidiaries Our Group Operating Model is based upon a are subject to applicable local governance expectations, strategic controller model steered from our Head Office.
including those contained in King III and, in the case of Its objectives are: Nedbank Group Limited, the Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited.
To establish clear principles of delegation and escalation designed to provide appropriate levels of assurance about Throughout the year ended 31 December 2012 and in the the control environment, while retaining flexibility for our preparation of this Annual Report and these Accounts, the businesses to operate efficiently Company has complied with the main and supporting principles and provisions set out in the UK Corporate To set out a clear and comprehensive governance Governance Code as described in the following sections of framework, with appropriate procedures, systems and this Report.
The Companys compliance with UK Corporate controls, facilitating the satisfactory discharge of the Governance Code provisions C1.1, C2.1, C3.1 to C3.7, and duties and obligations of regulated firms, directors and the statement relating to the going concern basis adopted in employees within the Group preparing the financial statements set out at the end of this To provide a clear articulation of Old Mutual plcs section of this report, have been reviewed by the Companys expectations as shareholder of business unit boards auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, in accordance with guidance when exercising their powers as set out in their published by the UK Auditing Practices Board.
respective constitutions To take due account of the regulatory requirement that Who serves on the Board?
boards of regulated entities maintain proper controls The Old Mutual Board currently has 12 members, two of over the affairs of their respective businesses whom are executive and 10 of whom are non-executive.
To protect the interests of the Groups various All of the current directors, except for Nku Nyembezi-Heita stakeholders including its shareholders, creditors, who joined the Board in March 2012 and Danuta Gray policyholders and customers.
who joined the Board from 1 March 2013, served throughout the year ended 31 December 2012.
Eva Castillo served as a The governance relationship with the Groups majority-owned non-executive director throughout 2012, but resigned, subsidiary, Nedbank Group Limited, recognises the latters because of the burden of other commitments, as a director own governance expectations as a separately-listed entity on and as a member of the Board Risk, Nomination and the JSE Limited and the fact that it has minority shareholders.
Russell Edey The Company entered into a relationship agreement with and Lars Otterbeck will both retire from the Board at the end Nedbank Group Limited in 2004 setting out the Companys of the AGM in May 2013, resulting in a continuing requirements and expectations as its majority shareholder.
The text of that relationship agreement is available on the Companys website.
Nedbank has also now adopted the The table below sets out the Boards membership in Group Operating Model, subject to certain waivers in more detail.
Committee memberships from March 2013 Current Date of original Date current term as Group Audit Board Risk Remuneration Nomination Role Name and nationality appointment term ends director Committee Committee Committee Committee 3rd NED Russell Edey UK June 2004 May 2013 final year Chair 3rd NED Reuel Khoza SA Jan 2006 Jan 2014 2nd year 3rd NED Lars Otterbeck Swedish Nov 2006 May 2013 final year Bongani Nqwababa 1 NED SA April 2007 April 2013 2nd NED Mike Arnold UK Sept 2009 Sept 2015 2nd Chair Patrick OSullivan CHAIR Irish Jan 2010 Jan 2016 2nd Chair NED Roger Marshall UK Aug 2010 Aug 2013 1st Chair SID Alan Gillespie UK Nov 2010 Nov 2013 1st NED Nku Nyembezi-Heita SA March 2012 March 2015 1st NED Danuta Gray UK March 2013 March 2016 1st CEO Julian Roberts UK Aug 2000 CFO Philip Broadley UK Nov 2008 1 On 28 February 2013, the Board approved the extension of Bongani Nqwababas engagement for a further year from 1 April 2013.
85 DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS continued What is the Boards role and how does it operate?
Separately from the formal Board meeting schedule, the The Boards role is to exercise stewardship of the Company Chairman holds meetings with the other non-executive within a framework of prudent and effective controls that directors, without any executives being present, to provide enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets a forum for any issues to be raised.
He also conducts an the Companys strategic aims, reviews whether the necessary annual one-to-one performance evaluation of each of the financial and human resources are in place for it to meet its other non-executive directors, with any resulting action points objectives and monitors management performance.
It is kept being reported to the Nomination Committee.
informed about major developments affecting the Group Informal meetings among the non-executive directors, through the Group Chief Executives and Group Finances without the Chairman or any executive being present, are also monthly reports and holds regular strategy sessions at facilitated by the Company.
Among the activities carried out which high-level strategic matters are discussed.
The Group at such meetings is the annual review of the Chairmans own Operating Model sets out matters that are specifically reserved performance under the aegis of the Senior Independent for Board decision and protocols that govern escalation of Director, who also obtains such input as he considers issues to it and delegation of powers from it in a manner that appropriate from the executive directors.
is designed to ensure clarity about where responsibility for decision-making lies.
The assignment of responsibilities between the Chairman, Patrick OSullivan, and the Group Chief Executive, In accordance with the Group Operating Model, the Board Julian Roberts, is documented so as to ensure that there has delegated its executive powers to the Group Chief is a clear division between the running of the Board and Executive, with power to sub-delegate, and also to the executive responsibility for running the Companys business.
In his co-ordination and stewardship The responsibilities of Patrick OSullivan as Chairman include of the Group, the Group Chief Executive is advised by the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects Group Executive Committee, a consultative management of its role and setting its agenda: ensuring that adequate time committee, whose current members are described elsewhere is available for discussion of all agenda items in particular in this Annual Report.
The Board has also delegated specific strategic issues, ensuring that the directors receive accurate, responsibilities for certain matters to Board committees.
timely and clear information: ensuring effective communication The principal Board committees have responsibility for with shareholders: promoting a culture of openness and Nomination, Remuneration, Group Audit and Board Risk debate by facilitating the effective contribution to the Board matters, in line with their respective terms of reference.
of non-executive directors in particular: and ensuring The Board receives reports from these committees on the constructive relationships between the executive and subjects that they have covered.
The matters addressed by non-executive directors.
the principal Board committees in 2012 are outlined under the heading What are the standing Board Committees and In the absence of exceptional circumstances, non-executive how have they operated during the year?
below and, for the directors including the Chairman serve a maximum of nine Remuneration Committee, in the Remuneration Report.
This maximum period of tenure now operates on the basis of two three-year terms, followed by up to three While the Board currently includes only two executive directors, further one-year terms.
The renewal of non-executive all members of the Board have regular contact with the other directors engagements for successive terms is not automatic senior executive management including the most senior and the continued suitability of each non-executive director executives of the main business units of the Group through is assessed by the Nomination Committee before renewal their periodic participation in Board meetings, other briefing of their appointment takes place.
sessions by the senior executives and Board visits to the locations where the Groups main businesses are based.
The What did the Board do during 2012?
Board also receives minutes of the proceedings of the Group The Chairmans introduction to this section describes some Executive Committee, which help to keep it informed about of the main matters that were addressed by the Board during the discussions that are taking place between the Group the year.
In addition to those and the regular updates on the Chief Executive and the heads of the Groups main businesses Groups results, the Group Chief Executives report on recent and of Group central functions such as Risk, Strategy and significant developments and major projects around the Human Resources.
Group, and reports from Board committee chairmen, the following table sets out some more details of the Boards The executive element of the Board is balanced by an other activities at its scheduled meetings during 2012. independent group of non-executive directors.
The Board as a whole approves the strategic direction of the Group, scrutinises the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives, and monitors the reporting of performance.
Procedures are in place to enable Board members to satisfy themselves about the integrity of the Groups financial information and to ensure that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and sustainable.
Non-executive directors on the Remuneration Committee are responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the executive directors, other members of the Group Executive Committee and certain other senior members of staff.
Members of the Nomination Committee have a primary role in recommending the appointment and, where necessary, removal of executive directors.
86 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 How we govern our business How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business Date of meeting Location Topics covered Pre-year-end review of results and the Annual Report and Accounts for 2011 OMSAs and Nedbanks Update on the disposal of our former Nordic business and approval of the related shareholder circular offices in Sandton, January 2012 Johannesburg Update on strategy and progress against Group targets Review of the preliminary results for 2011 Approval of the Annual Report and Accounts for 2011 Recommendation of the final dividend for 2011 March 2012 London Feedback from the 2011 Board effectiveness review Approval of the Q1 Interim Management Statement Update on Group strategy May 2012 London Presentations on the Groups Long-Term Savings LTS and LTS asset management businesses Briefing on the use of risk management tools and data in strategic decision-making July 2012 London Strategy discussions Review of the interim results Old Mutual Wealth's August 2012 offices in Southampton Declaration of the interim dividend for 2012 Presentation on Old Mutual Wealths European operations September 2012 London Board briefing on the Internal Model for Solvency II November 2012 London and by telephone Approval of the Q3 Interim Management Statement Review and approval of the Group business plan for 2013-15 Discussion of Group strategy Presentations by OMSA, Nedbank and Mutual & Federal on their business and strategy plans for 2013-15 OMSAs and Nedbanks December 2012 offices in Cape Town Presentation by Nedbank on its readiness for Basel III How are people selected to join the Board?
The terms and conditions of engagement of each of the Plans for refreshing and renewing the Boards composition non-executive directors are available on the Companys are managed by the Nomination Committee so as to ensure website.
These include details of the expected time commitment that changes take place without undue disruption and that involved which each of the non-executive directors has there is an appropriate balance of experience and length accepted.
Other significant commitments of potential of service.
This Committee also considers, in making appointees are considered by the Nomination Committee recommendations, the independence of candidates and their as part of the selection process and are disclosed to the suitability and willingness to serve on other committees of the Board when recommendation of an appointment is submitted.
The current Board composition is considered by the Non-executive directors are also required to inform the Nomination Committee to be suitable for the requirements Board of any subsequent changes to such commitments, of the Groups business.
However, such matters continue to which must be pre-cleared with the Chairman if material.
be kept under active review, having regard to scheduled retirements of non-executive directors and the Groups future strategy.
87 DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS continued What is the Companys approach to of the Board carried out by the Group HR Director.
were collated and reported back to a session of the Nomination In September 2011, we issued a statement in response to the Committee which all other members of the Board were also Davies Report on Women on Boards in which we set a target invited to attend at the end of January 2013. of increasing female representation on the Board to at least The review concluded that: two members by the end of 2013 and to at least three members by the end of 2015.
The Company has already appointed The Board and its committees had operated satisfactorily Eva Castillo in February 2011, Nku Nyembezi-Heita in during the year, with a generally appropriate mix of skills March 2012, and Danuta Gray from March 2013, although represented on each of them and good levels of Eva Castillo has now resigned from the Board from the end information and discussion, well facilitated by their of February 2013 because of her other commitments.
Based respective chairmen upon our Board as it will be after this years AGM assuming The Company, in seeking new non-executive directors to no further changes prior to then, we would have two women join the Board, should consider people with additive out of ten continuing directors, ie 20% female representation.
experience in areas such as IT, the retail sector and doing business in the rest of Africa At senior executive levels, women now hold approximately 15% of roles, slightly up on previous years, and make up 20% Efforts should be made to expand the Boards interaction of the executive succession pipeline.
We continue to take with executive management further down the structure in active steps through a variety of initiatives to encourage order to help with evaluating succession planning for female members of staff around the Group to progress to senior roles.
These include our participation in the Who will be standing for re-election at this FTSE100 Cross-Company Mentoring Programme, in which years AGM?
our Chairman mentors a senior woman from another All of the directors save for the two who are retiring will organisation and a CEO from another company mentors one stand for election or re-election at the 2013 AGM.
The Board of our female executives.
We provide sponsorships to attend recommends that they each be elected or re-elected as womens leadership programmes at premier business schools directors at the AGM.
Biographical details of all of the directors such as INSEAD, have an active Womens Network in the UK are contained in the Board of Directors section of this Annual and have other related initiatives in other parts of the Group.
Report and further details of the basis upon which the Board Are the non-executive directors independent?
has assessed the performance, and recommends the election Eight of the nine current non-executive directors other than or re-election of the directors concerned are set out in the the Chairman Mike Arnold, Russell Edey, Alan Gillespie, explanatory notes in the AGM circular.
Danuta Gray, Roger Marshall, Bongani Nqwababa, Nku Nyembezi-Heita and Lars Otterbeck are considered Are directors required to hold shares by the Board to be independent within the criteria set out in in the Company and what are their the UK Corporate Governance Code, ie they are independent current interests?
in character and judgement and have no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to The Remuneration Committee has established guidelines affect, their judgement.
The other non-executive director, on shareholdings by executive directors of the Company.
Reuel Khoza, is not considered independent because of his Under these, the Group Chief Executive is expected to build chairmanship of the Groups majority-owned subsidiary, up a holding of shares in the Company equal in value to at Nedbank Group Limited, and the business relationships least 200% of his annual base salary within five years of between Aka Capital, in which he owns a stake, and Nedbank.
appointment: the equivalent figure for other executive directors is 150% of their annual base salary.
Both Julian Roberts Who is your Senior Independent Director?
and Philip Broadley are currently fully compliant with these Alan Gillespie has been the Senior Independent Director guidelines.
The Board has considered whether to adopt since May 2011.
The Senior Independent Director is available a shareholding requirement for non-executive directors, to shareholders if they have concerns that are unresolved but does not consider this to be appropriate.
after contact through the normal channels of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance Director or where Details of the directors interests including interests of their such contact would not be appropriate.
The Senior connected persons in the share capital of the Company Independent Directors contact details can be obtained from and its quoted subsidiary, Nedbank Group Limited, at the the Group Company Secretary: martin.
beginning and end of the year under review are set out in the following tables, while their interests in share options and How is the Boards performance reviewed?
restricted share awards are described in the section of the The Board conducts a review of its performance on an Remuneration Report entitled Directors interests under annual basis.
These reviews are now carried out by an employee share plans.
There have been no changes to any external expert at least every three years in line with the UK of the interests in the first table below between 31 December Corporate Governance Code.
The review is designed to 2012 and 1 March 2013.
Danuta Gray does not currently address the balance of skills, experience, independence and have any interests in any of the Groups listed shares.
knowledge of the Groups businesses on the Board, its diversity including gender, how the Board works together as a unit, and other factors relevant to its effectiveness.
Following the externally facilitated review that took place through IDDAS in 2011, the review for 2012 was conducted through an online questionnaire whose contents were co-ordinated with the prior years process, supplemented by a series of thorough one-to-one interviews with each member 88 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 How we govern our business How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business Old Mutual plc Number of ordinary shares Nedbank Group Limited 3 1 of 11 7p each Number of shares At 31 December 2012 Mike Arnold 11,134 2 Philip Broadley 513,434 Russell Edey 21,875 2,604 Alan Gillespie Reuel Khoza 14,774 Roger Marshall 45,000 Bongani Nqwababa Nku Nyembezi-Heita Patrick OSullivan 91,319 Lars Otterbeck 2 Julian Roberts 1,385,889 Former director Eva Castillo resigned on 28 February 2013 Old Mutual plc Number of ordinary shares Nedbank Group Limited of 10p each Number of shares At 1 January 2012 or date of appointment as a director, if later Mike Arnold 12,725 2 Philip Broadley 412,178 Russell Edey 25,000 2,604 Alan Gillespie Reuel Khoza 3,174 Roger Marshall 40,000 Bongani Nqwababa Nku Nyembezi-Heita appointed from 9 March 2012 Patrick OSullivan 104,365 Lars Otterbeck 2 Julian Roberts 1,128,633 Former director Eva Castillo 1 The numbers for 31 December 2012 reflect the 7-for-8 share consolidation that took place in April 2012.
2 These figures do not include rights to restricted shares that have not yet vested, which are described in the Remuneration Report.
listed company, subject to prior clearance by the Board and the How are directors conflicts of directorship concerned not being in conflict or potential conflict interest managed?
with any of the Groups businesses.
Neither Julian Roberts nor Processes are in place for any potential conflicts of interest Philip Broadley currently holds any external non-executive to be disclosed and for directors to avoid participation in any directorships of other publicly quoted companies.
decisions where they may have any such conflict or potential conflict.
The Companys procedures for dealing with What are the standing Board Committees directors conflicts of interest continued to operate effectively and how have they operated during during 2012. the year?
No director had a material interest in any significant contract The Board has a number of committees to which various with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
matters are delegated in accordance with their respective Additional details of various non-material transactions terms of reference.
The Board also establishes committees on between the directors and the Group are reported on an an ad hoc basis to deal with particular matters.
In doing so, aggregated basis, along with other transactions by senior it specifies a remit, quorum and appropriate mix of executive managers of the Group, in Note G3 to the Accounts.
Further information on the principal standing committees of the Board is set out on the The executive directors are permitted to hold and retain following pages.
for their own benefit fees from one external non-Group non-executive directorship but not a chairmanship of another 89 DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS continued Group Audit Committee The provision for Bermuda guarantees see Note A3 Members and dates of appointment to the to the Accounts.
The committee has reviewed, and is committee or its predecessor committee, the comfortable with, the process for determining that Group Audit and Risk Committee : Roger Marshall provision, which reflects the surrender behaviour at Chairman 2010, Mike Arnold 2009, Russell Edey those five-year anniversary dates that have fallen due so 2004, Alan Gillespie 2010, Bongani Nqwababa far of customers holding policies that contain potentially 2007.
Danuta Gray has joined from March 2013. onerous guarantees.
The eventual liability under policies Secretary and date of appointment: containing such guarantees will depend on future events, Martin Murray 1999. most significantly market developments, policyholder behaviour and the level of hedging undertaken.
All members of the Group Audit Committee are independent Note A3 to the Accounts also highlights the range non-executive directors.
The chairman, Roger Marshall, is a of possible outcomes.
chartered accountant with a wide range of recent and current Reports received from the internal audit function, including relevant financial experience.
All members of this committee the results of key audits and other significant findings are expected to be financially literate and to have relevant relating to the Groups control environment, and the financial experience.
adequacy of managements responses and the timeliness Roger Marshall has submitted the following report on behalf of resolution.
The committee also reviewed Group Internal of the Group Audit Committee.
Audits response to an externally facilitated effectiveness exercise and endorsed its plans for adapting its future The committee met eight times during 2012.
The increased structure and working methodologies in response to this.
number of meetings, when compared to the prior year, did Reports by the Risk Management and Compliance functions.
not reflect greater issues with the Groups results, but was rather intended to enable the Committee to review the The operation of the Groups external audit, including: preliminary results for 2011 and interim results for 2012 audit plans for the year, key audit risks identified by external earlier in the process, with a confirmatory meeting following audit, changes in key external audit staff, arrangements closer to their date of release.
for day-to-day management of the audit relationship, the auditors arrangements to identify, report and manage The main matters addressed by the committee included: any conflicts of interest, the nature and overall extent of Significant accounting and actuarial issues affecting the non-audit services provided by the external auditors, the IFRS and MCEV financial statements.
The committee external auditors engagement letter for the year and fee reviewed the accounting policies adopted by the Group proposal, and any major issues that arose during the course and considered the approach to, and valuation of, assets of the audit and their resolution.
As in prior years, the and liabilities, including the key actuarial assumptions committee received an evaluation of the auditors underpinning insurance liabilities.
The committee considers effectiveness after the audit for 2011 had been completed, that the most significant areas of judgement in preparing with input from the business units as well as from the 2012 accounts were: stakeholders at Old Mutual plc itself.
Actions taken to resolve control risks of which the The accounting treatment of the disposal of committee became aware, including progress with the Skandia Nordic Financial Controls Initiative.
This included receiving reports Actuarial assumptions relating to mortality at from subsidiary management as appropriate.
Old Mutual South Africa Tax, litigation and contingent liabilities affecting the Group.
The appropriate level of tax provisions In addition, I sit on the Board Risk Committee, while the chairman of that committee also sits on the Group Audit Loan loss provisions at Nedbank and committee, so that the activities of the two committees can be Old Mutual Finance closely co-ordinated and, if appropriate, the two committees Impairment of the carrying value of goodwill see can meet in joint session to discuss matters that are of common Note F1 to the Accounts.
The committee reviewed the interest.
I also liaise as appropriate with the chairman of the assumptions used to justify no impairment to goodwill Remuneration Committee so as to ensure that I am able to this year and was comfortable with them.
In particular, draw to his attention any aspects of the Groups results or the committee reviewed the carrying value of goodwill controls that the Group Audit Committee feels ought to be and other intangibles relating to the Old Mutual Wealth taken into account in setting levels of remuneration for the businesses in continental Europe, now that certain executive directors and other senior executives.
countries are operating a closed book model.
The The committee also reviewed the Groups whistle-blowing committee agreed that the projected future cash flows arrangements.
These enable employees of the Group and from these businesses supported the carrying value of others to report complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal these intangibles, even though the carrying value would controls, auditing issues and related matters.
They can do this be unlikely to be realised on the open market given in confidence, using a dedicated hotline operated by an current market conditions.
Any reports are investigated and escalated to the committee as appropriate.
Efforts are made to educate staff around the Group about the existence of the whistle-blowing facility and to help them detect the signs of possible fraudulent or improper activity.
90 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 How we govern our business How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business The section later in this Report headed Who are the Stress and scenario testing, focusing on particular Companys auditors and how much are they paid?
contains economic and business scenarios and their potential information on our policy on auditor independence and impact on the Groups finances non-audit fees and the committees recommendation that Risks arising from material corporate transactions being KPMG Audit Plc should be reappointed as the Companys considered by the Group.
In addition to its regular meetings, the committee held two As a committee, we hold private meetings with the external full-day workshops to enable discussions to take place on auditors once a year or more often, if requested by the a wide range of issues relating to risk management within auditors to review key issues.
As chairman of the committee, the Group.
I also have regular interaction with the external auditors and In connection with the finalisation of the Groups annual the Group Internal Audit Director, as well as with the chairmen results, the committee submitted a report prepared by the of subsidiary audit committees and the Group Finance Chief Risk Officer to the Remuneration Committee commenting Director, and I have a continuing programme of visits to the on managements observance during the year of the risk Groups major subsidiaries arranged, so that I can remain appetite metrics agreed by the Board.
abreast of issues as they arise during the year.
The committee also undertook a review of its terms The committee can confirm that it received sufficient, reliable of reference.
and timely information from management during the year to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
As Roger Marshall has indicated in his report on the activities of the Group Audit Committee, I also sit on the Group Audit Board Risk Committee Committee and am therefore able to raise matters at either Members and dates of appointment to the committee as appropriate.
committee: Mike Arnold Chairman 2010, Philip Broadley 2010, Reuel Khoza 2010, Roger Marshall During 2012, either Roger Marshall or I personally attended 2010, Lars Otterbeck 2010.
Other member, until the risk and audit committees of each of the major the end of February 2013: Eva Castillo.
Nku subsidiaries of the Group and we have ongoing dialogue Nyembezi-Heita has joined from March 2013. with the independent directors who chair those subsidiaries Secretary: Colin Campbell succeeded Martin Murray committees.
I shall continue to attend these meetings in 2013 as Secretary to the committee in August 2012. in order to remain close to any major risk issues that may arise during the coming year.
Mike Arnold has submitted the following report on behalf of the Board Risk Committee.
Now that the Groups risk framework has been established, we intend to evolve the operation of the committee further The committee met eight times during the year.
The committee will revert to a more normal level Officer and the Group Internal Audit Director attended each of four meetings annually, but I will receive more frequent meeting and the Group Chief Actuary attended seven of the updates through my meetings with the Chief Risk Officer meetings.
The external auditors were also invited to attend and the Group Chief Actuary.
Nomination Committee The committee received a report at each of its meetings Members and dates of appointment to the during 2012 from the Chief Risk Officer in which any changes committee: Patrick OSullivan Chairman 2010, to the Groups risk profile were identified and discussed.
Mike Arnold 2010, Russell Edey 2005, We also reviewed the risk appetite metrics operated by the Alan Gillespie 2010, Reuel Khoza 2010, Group and recommended to the Board some changes to Roger Marshall 2010, Bongani Nqwababa 2010, the criteria to be used by the business units for their business Lars Otterbeck 2010, Julian Roberts 2008. planning over the three-year period 2013 to 2015.
Other member, until the end of February 2013: During the year, the committee devoted significant time to Eva Castillo 2011.
Danuta Gray and Nku the financial risks in relation to Old Mutual Bermuda and the Nyembezi-Heita have joined from March 2013. hedging and other mitigating actions taken to reduce these Secretary and date of appointment: risks.
The committee also reviewed the stress and scenario Martin Murray 1999. testing used to support the Boards decisions on capital The Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the management in the context of the Special Dividend and the Board in relation to the appointment of directors, the structure repayment of debt.
of the Board and membership of the Boards main standing In addition, during our meetings in 2012, we focused on: committees.
It also reviews development and succession plans for the most senior executive management of the Group and The Groups preparations for Solvency II certain appointments to the boards and standing committees The adoption of a revised Group-wide internal capital of principal subsidiaries in line with the Group Operating model which takes account of the Solvency II requirements Model.
It is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, Patrick as they currently stand, recognising that there are continued OSullivan, and a majority of its members are independent delays in reaching final agreement on aspects of non-executive directors.
Solvency II across Europe The committee seeks to ensure that its process for identifying Assessments of the Groups capital and solvency position candidates for recommendation to the Board as new The content and suitability of the Groups suite of directors is formal, rigorous and transparent.
Vacancies risk policies generally arise in the context of either planned renewal of the Regulatory risks arising as a result of business activities, Board, replacing directors who are due to retire, or adjusting in particular the Groups regulatory environment and the Boards balance of knowledge, skills, independence or compliance status diversity.
In identifying candidates, appropriate regard is 91 DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS continued paid to ensuring that they will have sufficient time available in Remuneration Committee the light of their other commitments to discharge their duties Members and dates of appointment to the as directors of the Company.
committee: Russell Edey Chairman 2007, Alan Gillespie 2010, Bongani Nqwababa 2010, In light of the fact that two of the existing non-executive Lars Otterbeck 2010.
Other member, until the end directors Russell Edey and Lars Otterbeck would be stepping of February 2013: Eva Castillo 2011.
Danuta Gray down at the AGM in May 2013, the Committee agreed at its has joined from March 2013.
Secretary: meeting in August 2012 to start a process for identifying Paul Forsythe succeeded Martin Murray as potential replacements, with the search to focus on Secretary to the committee in August 2012. candidates with a proven track record as a chief executive and strong general management experience.
As the Groups A full description of the role of the Remuneration Committee strategy is reliant on strong IT systems, the ability to interact and of its activities during 2012 is contained in the with customers online and a strong retail customer focus, Remuneration Report.
experience in the IT and or retail areas were deemed Other committees additional desirable skills.
There are a number of executive committees which assist the MWM Consulting an independent executive search and Group Chief Executive with the day-to-day management of board advisory consulting firm was appointed to lead the the Group.
These include the Group Executive Committee search, building on work that they had completed previously mentioned earlier in this report, the Group Executive Risk for the Board.
The search commenced in earnest in Committee, whose responsibilities are described in the Risk September 2012, with submission of a long list, which was and Capital Management report earlier in this document: subsequently reduced to a shortlist of six candidates who and the Group Capital Management Committee, whose role were selected for interview.
is, among other things, to agree capital allocations within certain limits or make recommendations to the Board Danuta Gray was deemed the most suitable candidate and regarding any allocations beyond such limits and to approve it was agreed that she should attend the Board meeting the capital plan of the Group as part of the annual businessin December, when she could meet the remaining Board planning process.
members and observe the Board and committee meetings.
Her candidature was duly endorsed and her appointment What was the Boards attendance record confirmed in February 2013, effective from 1 March 2013. during 2012?
It was also agreed that she would become a member of the Group Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
The table below sets out the number of meetings held and individual directors attendance at meetings of the Board and its principal committees based on membership of those committees, rather than attendance as an invitee during 2012.
Board scheduled Group Audit Board Risk Remuneration Nomination Attendance record and ad hoc Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 11 8 8 5 6 1 Mike Arnold 11 11 8 8 8 8 5 6 2 Philip Broadley 10 11 7 8 Russell Edey 11 11 8 8 5 5 6 6 Alan Gillespie 10 11 8 8 5 5 6 6 Reuel Khoza 11 11 8 8 6 6 Roger Marshall 10 11 8 8 8 8 6 6 3 Bongani Nqwababa 10 11 6 8 3 5 5 6 4 Nku Nyembezi-Heita 6 7 Patrick OSullivan 11 11 6 6 Lars Otterbeck 10 11 8 8 5 5 6 6 Julian Roberts 11 11 6 6 Former director 5 Eva Castillo 9 11 5 8 4 5 4 6 1 Mike Arnold missed one Nomination Committee meeting because of a close family illness.
2 Philip Broadley missed one Board and one Board Risk Committee meeting because of a close family bereavement.
3 Bongani Nqwababa missed a number of Board and Committee meetings during 2012 because of conflicting executive commitments in his role as Finance Director of Anglo American Platinum Limited.
4 Nku Nyembezi-Heita missed one Board meeting during 2012 because of conflicting executive commitments in her role as Chief Executive of ArcellorMittal South Africa.
5 Eva Castillo missed a number of Board and Committee meetings towards the end of 2012 because of conflicting executive commitments in her new role as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Telefnica Europe.
These other commitments led to her resigning from the Board with effect from 28 February 2013.
92 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 How we govern our business How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business The quality of internal and external reporting Who are the Companys auditors and how Compliance with applicable laws and regulations, much are they paid?
and with internal policies on the conduct of business.
KPMG Audit Plc have been the Companys auditors since the The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather Company was originally listed in 1999.
Arrangements have than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the Groups been made, in conjunction with KPMG Audit Plc, for business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, and appropriate audit director rotation in accordance with the not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
requirements of the UK Auditing Practices Board.
The current audit engagement director in the UK, Philip Smart, assumed The Groups actions to review the effectiveness of the system this role in April 2011. of internal control include: The Group Audit Committee regularly keeps under review the An annual review of the risk assessment procedures, question of whether to put the Companys audit engagement control environment considerations, information and out to tender and takes into account the results of an internal communication and monitoring procedures at Group report on satisfaction with the prior years audit processes, as level and within each business unit.
This review covers all well as benchmarking data, in doing this.
The Company has material controls, including financial, operational and not entered into any contractual restriction preventing it from compliance controls and the risk management systems considering a change of auditors.
Based upon a review of A certification process, under which all business units are and feedback from the 2011 audit, the Group Audit Committee required to confirm that they have undertaken risk remains satisfied with KPMG Audit Plcs performance and did management in accordance with the Group risk framework, not feel it was necessary or appropriate to consider a tender that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of for the 2012 or 2013 audit engagement.
internal controls, that internal policies have been complied During the year ended 31 December 2012, fees paid by with and that no significant risks or issues are known which the Group to KPMG Audit Plc, the Groups auditors, and have not been reported in accordance with policy its associates totalled 12.4 million for audit services Regular reviews of the effectiveness of the system of 2011: 13.7 million and 5.1 million for tax, assurance internal control by the Group Audit Committee, which and other non-audit services 2011: 3.4 million.
In addition receives reports from Group Internal Audit.
The committee to the above, Nedbank Group paid a further 4.2 million also receives reports from the external auditors, KPMG 2011: 4.4 million to Deloitte in respect of joint Audit Plc, which include details of significant internal audit arrangements.
control matters that they have identified during the course of their work.
Detailed guidelines have been approved by the Group Audit Committee as part of the Groups policy on non-audit These activities are in addition to the regular risk services and a summary of the applicable provisions can be management activities which are performed on an ongoing found in the Corporate Governance section of our website.
basis as described in more detail in the Risk and Capital Management section elsewhere in this document.
KPMG Audit Plc have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors to the Company and, following a The certification process described above does not apply to recommendation by the Group Audit Committee to the certain joint ventures where the Group does not exercise full Board, a resolution proposing their reappointment will management control.
In these cases, Old Mutual monitors be put to the AGM in May 2013. the internal control environment and the potential impact on the Group through representation on the board of the What is the Companys internal entity concerned.
The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing control during and at the end of the year.
Our annual internal the significant risks faced by the Group has been in place for control assessment has not highlighted any material failings.
the year ended 31 December 2012 and up to the date of We remain committed to having a robust internal control approval of this Report.
The process accords with the Turnbull environment across the Group.
guidance set out in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Combined Code What steps are you taking to monitor the quality being the previous version of what is now the UK Corporate of the Groups financial controls?
Governance Code and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
In order to improve the quality of the Groups financial reporting controls, the Board launched a Financial Controls How is internal control monitored and reviewed?
This initiative has implemented and The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of embedded a Group-wide framework of financial controls.
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, while the Management assessed the effectiveness of this framework implementation of internal control systems is the responsibility at 31 December 2012, based on the criteria described in of management.
Executive management has implemented Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the an internal control system designed to help ensure: Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of Treadway Commission, and concluded that it was effective.
The effective and efficient operation of the Group and its Management has reported its progress in implementing this business units by enabling management to respond framework to the Group Audit Committee at regular intervals appropriately to significant risks to achieving the Groups since 2009, and that committee has supported the Board business objectives in concluding that it can rely upon the operation of these The safeguarding of assets from inappropriate use or from controls as part of its review of internal control effectiveness loss and fraud and ensuring that liabilities are identified referred to above.
and managed 93 DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS continued The Company has a small, dedicated IR team based in What is the role of Group Internal Audit?
South Africa and London which runs the Groups international Group Internal Audit GIA is responsible for providing IR programmes.
The team consists of experienced capital independent, objective assurance on the adequacy and market professionals as well as finance professionals who effectiveness of Old Mutuals systems of governance, risk have transferred from other parts of Old Mutual.
The team management and internal control to the Board and executive works closely with the media relations, responsible business management and, in doing so, helps enhance the controls and public affairs teams of the Group and businesses units, culture within the Group.
The work of GIA is focused on the and reports to the Director of External Communications.
areas of greatest risk, both current and emerging, to Old Old Mutuals investor base is very diversified in terms of both Mutual as determined by a comprehensive, risk-based investor style and geographic location and the Company has planning process.
The Group Audit Committee approves the over 400,000 retail shareholders.
annual internal audit plan and any subsequent material The focus of our IR strategy during the year has been to amendments to it and also satisfies itself that GIA has improve dialogue with investors and sell-side analysts, adequate resources to discharge its function which the Board providing them with briefings and educational support, so as is able to confirm is the case for 2012-13. to enable them to obtain a better understanding of the There are internal audit teams in each of our major Groups operations.
The heads of internal audit in the Groups 2012 % shareholding wholly-owned subsidiaries report directly to the Group Internal Audit Director GIAD.
The GIAD reports functionally US including Canada 10.29 to the Chairman of the Group Audit Committee and UK 17.00 administratively to the Group Finance Director.
The GIAD South Africa institutional 32.73 attends all meetings of the Group Audit Committee, and has unrestricted access to the Group Chief Executive and to the South Africa retail, policy Chairman of the Board, as well as open invitations to attend and BEE holders 13.51 any meetings of the business unit Audit Committees, the Board Europe and Risk Committee and the Group Executive Risk Committee.
Rest of the World 20.67 Miscellaneous 5.80 Internal audit teams across Old Mutual use a single audit methodology which meets the standards set by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
Issues raised by internal audit during the 2011 course of its work are discussed with management, who are responsible for implementing agreed actions to address the US including Canada 10.69 issues identified within an appropriate and agreed timeframe.
UK 18.39 South Africa institutional 33.69 Formal reports are submitted by the GIAD to each meeting of the Group Audit Committee, summarising the results of South Africa retail, policy internal audit activity, managements progress in addressing and BEE holders 14.42 issues and other significant matters.
Europe and Rest of the World 18.53 An assessment of the effectiveness of GIA is carried out Miscellaneous 4.28 periodically by external advisers.
The most recent assessment was carried out in the second half of 2012 and concluded that GIA was fit for purpose in meeting the current assurance During 2012, we continued to target smaller institutional needs of the Group.
investors and those who manage funds for high net worth retail clients and charities in both Europe and South Africa How does the Company conduct its with a view to further diversifying the Companys shareholder relations with shareholders and analysts?
We also increased our communication and engagement The Company gives high priority to regular, clear and direct with the investment community, attending 11 investment communication with its shareholders, institutional investors conferences during the year, in both Europe and South Africa.
and sell-side analysts by means of a proactive Investor The Company conducted a number of investor presentations Relations IR programme.
The programme aims to facilitate during the year for investors willing to travel to London, Cape communication with the global investment community, in both Town and Johannesburg.
The most extensive of these was a the equity and debt spheres, and to keep investors updated whole-day session on the Old Mutual Wealth business in on the Companys performance in accordance with the UK London, which was also webcast live.
Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Educating international investors on the Groups operations The IR team also participates in programmes to identify best in South Africa and in the rest of Africa has been an area international IR practice and to promote such practice of significant focus in the last three years.
To facilitate this, actively to its investor base.
we have organised a number of visits for investors to our South African operations.
We expect to continue this in 2013.
This educational process also involves educating buy-side investors in South Africa on the Groups international operations and the operational environment in these markets.
94 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 How we govern our business How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business The IR team also supported the execution of the Groups corporate actions, including most importantly the sale of the The following are the major IR educational events that Groups Nordic business and the resulting Special Dividend we have organised over the last four years: paid to shareholders.
November 2012 O ld Mutual Wealth roadshow Currently 18 sell-side analysts from Europe and South Africa in South Africa actively publish research on the Company.
Sell-side analysts November 2012 O MEM roadshow in London are encouraged to cover the Company to provide their opinion to investors on the Groups valuation, its performance October 2012 Investor field trip to South Africa and the business environment in which it operates, and also to October 2012 I nvestor presentation on make meaningful comparisons with peers.
During the year, Old Mutual Wealth in London two new research analysts initiated coverage on the stock, one based in the UK and one with dual coverage from the May 2012 P resentation to investors and analysts UK and South Africa.
on Old Mutual Asset Management The Chairman makes contact with major investors and meets October 2011 OMIGSA presentation on alternative them as required.
The Senior Independent Director is also asset classes and panel discussion available for interaction with shareholders.
August 2011 E merging Markets presentations The Board is updated regularly by the IR team on issues to investors arising from communications with the investment community.
In addition to this, independent surveys are commissioned July 2011 R oadshow on Old Mutual Wealth regularly to provide the Board with the views of major in South Africa investors on the Companys management and performance.
April 2011 P resentation to investors on Emerging Markets Copies of all investor presentations and, where appropriate, transcripts are posted on the Companys website so that they October 2010 L ong-Term Savings Showcase are accessible to shareholders generally.
London webcast When are Annual General Meetings September 2010 S A Finance Minister and Minister of Mineral Resources AGMs held?
presentation London The Board uses the AGM, which is held at the Companys November 2009 N edbank showcase head office in London in May each year, to comment on the London webcast Groups trading performance during the first quarter.
Shareholders also have the opportunity to ask questions of June 2009 P resentation on the outlook for the Board.
The AGM is webcast and a record of the South Africas political and economic proceedings is also made available on the Companys landscape London dial-in website shortly after the end of the meeting.
All items of formal business at the AGM are conducted on a poll, May 2009 S kandia UK showcase London rather than by a show of hands.
The Companys registrars, and Johannesburg Computershare Investor Services, ensure that all validly submitted proxy votes are counted, and a senior member of The table below shows the five-year track record of improving Computershares staff acts as scrutineer to ensure that votes the Groups relationship with sell-side analysts and investors cast are properly received and recorded.
Each substantially separate issue at the AGM is dealt with by a separate resolution and the business of the AGM always 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 includes a resolution relating to the receipt and adoption of the Report and Accounts.
The chairmen of the Group Audit, Total number Board Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are of events 421 336 254 238 191 available at the AGM to answer any questions on the matters Total with covered by those committees.
executives 233 243 179 199 170 The notice of AGM is sent out to those shareholders who have During 2012, IR meetings were held with investors in the UK, elected or are entitled to receive physical documents in time South Africa, North America and continental Europe, involving to arrive in the ordinary course of the post at least 20 working 193 individual institutions.
In 2012, we met with each on average days before the date of the meeting.
2.2 times compared to 1.8 times in 2011, demonstrating an increasing intensity of contact with institutions.
The majority of meetings involved the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director or another member of the senior management team, although greater use was made of group meetings in order to improve efficiency and provide more institutions with access to management and also to increase the efficient use of managements own time.
95 DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS continued Has the Company granted indemnities What are the Groups employment policies?
The Groups employment policies reflect our belief that to its directors?
motivated and talented individuals are critical to our ability The Company has entered into formal deeds of indemnity to achieve our business objectives.
We recognise the value in favour of each of the directors.
A specimen copy of the that a diverse workforce brings and believe that it should indemnities is available in the Corporate Governance section reflect the diversity of the markets in which we operate.
We promote the fair and consistent treatment of all our employees and encourage equal opportunities and diversity What is the Companys policy on making across the Group.
While local employment policies and procedures are The Company has signed up to the Prompt Payment Code in developed by each business according to its own the UK.
Under this, the Company undertakes: circumstances, employees are recruited, retained, developed and rewarded solely on the basis of their suitability for the To pay suppliers on time, within the terms agreed at the job, without discrimination in terms of race, religion, national outset of the contract, without attempting to change origin, colour, gender, age, marital status or sexual payment terms retrospectively, and without changing orientation, subject always to employment equity practice on length of payment for smaller companies considerations in South Africa.
on unreasonable grounds To give clear guidance to suppliers, providing suppliers Did you make any political donations with clear and easily accessible guidance on payment during 2012?
procedures, ensuring there is a system for dealing with The Group made no EU or other political donations during complaints and disputes which is communicated to the year.
suppliers, and advising them promptly if there is any reason why an invoice will not be paid in line with the agreed terms What final dividend is being recommended To encourage good practice by requesting that lead and what is your dividend policy?
suppliers encourage adoption of the code throughout their own supply chains.
The Board is recommending a final dividend for 2012 of 5.25p per share or its equivalent in other applicable currencies.
The total outstanding indebtedness of the Company and its This equates to 2.5 times IFRS AOP earnings cover.
A scrip service company subsidiary, Old Mutual Business Services dividend alternative is not being made available in relation Limited to trade creditors at 31 December 2012 amounted to this dividend.
to 6.6 million, corresponding to 37 days payments when averaged over 2012.
Further information on the final dividend for 2012 is contained in the Shareholder Information section of this document.
What charitable contributions did the From 2013 onwards, the Board intends to pursue a Company make in 2012?
progressive dividend policy consistent with our strategy, The Group made a wide range of significant donations to having regard to overall capital requirements, liquidity charitable causes and social development projects during and profitability, and targeting a dividend cover of at least 2012, as described in more detail in our Responsible Business 2.25 times IFRS AOP earnings.
Interim dividends will Report for 2012, which is available on our website.
The continue to be set at about 30% of the prior years full Company, its subsidiaries in the UK, and the Old Mutual ordinary dividend.
Bermuda Foundation collectively made charitable donations of 149,000 during the year 2011: 216,000.
For the Group How many shares are in issue?
as a whole, the equivalent figure was 13.4m 2011: 14.2m The Companys share capital is divided into ordinary shares excluding Nordic.
The issued share capital at 31 December 2012 was 559,214,849.60 divided into 4,893,129,934 Where can I find a description 3 ordinary shares of 11 7 pence each 2011: 580,104,127.70 of the Companys approach divided into 5,801,041,277 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
During 2012, 5,415,005 ordinary shares of 10p each were issued under the Companys employee share option schemes A description of the Groups environmental impact and at an average price of 0.6424 pence each and a further management during the year is contained in our Responsible 3 21,986,215 ordinary shares of 11 7 pence each were issued Business Report for 2012, which is available on our website.
under those schemes at an average price of 0.4039 each.
The pre-existing ordinary shares of 10p each were consolidated, on a 7-for-8 basis, in April 2012, following the disposal of our Nordic business and to reflect the payment of the Special Dividend out of the proceeds of sale.
As reported in last years Annual Report, 239,434,888 ordinary shares of 10p each formerly held in treasury were cancelled with effect from 13 January 2012.
96 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 How we govern our business How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business At 31 December 2012, shareholder authorities were in force Who are currently the Companys enabling the Company to make market purchases of, and or largest shareholders?
to purchase pursuant to contingent purchase contracts relating to each of the overseas exchanges on which the At 31 December 2012, the following substantial interests in Companys shares are listed, its own shares up to an voting rights had been declared to the Company in aggregate of 486,692,500 shares.
No shares were bought accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: back by the Company during 2012 or during the period up to 1 March 2013.
31 Dec 2012 % of Number of voting Out of the 4,893,129,934 shares in issue at 31 December voting rights rights 2012, 161,366,539 shares were beneficially held by African Cevian Capital 359,405,008 7.35 life and asset management subsidiaries of the Company.
Public Investment Corporation Under UK company law, these shares cannot be voted while of the Republic of South Africa 268,811,081 5.49 they are beneficially owned by subsidiaries of Old Mutual plc.
Sanlam Investment Management Pty Limited 255,514,951 5.22 The total number of voting rights in the Companys issued BlackRock Inc 238,981,311 4.88 ordinary share capital at 31 December 2012 which includes Legal & General Group PLC 152,095,032 3.11 the shares beneficially held by the African life and asset management subsidiaries was 4,893,129,934.
Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa Limited 148,380,709 3.03 In the period 1 January to 1 March 2013, 215,880 further shares were issued by the Company under its employee share Between 31 December 2012 and 1 March 2013, there have schemes at an average price of 0.628 each.
No shares were been no new notifications of disclosable interests by other bought back during that period.
As a result, the Companys shareholders, but the Company has received notifications of issued share capital at 1 March 2013 was 559,239,521.60 the following changes to the above interests: 3 divided into 4,893,345,814 ordinary shares of 11 7 pence each.
The total number of voting rights at that date was % of also 4,893,345,814.
Notification Number of voting Event date date voting rights rights How can I find out about the rights BlackRock Inc 18 1 13 22 1 13 244,654,440 5.00 and obligations attaching to the BlackRock Inc 31 1 13 1 2 13 241,440,319 4.93 BlackRock Inc 1 2 13 5 2 13 245,074,793 5.01 Companys shares?
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys Can you confirm that the Company ordinary shares are those conventional for a publicly listed is a going concern?
UK company, and a summary of them along with certain other information relating to dividends, directors and The Groups business activities, together with factors likely amendments to the Companys Articles of Association is to affect its future development, performance and position available in the Corporate Governance section of the in the current economic climate, are set out in the sections Companys website.
The Companys current Articles of of this Annual Report entitled What we do and Association are also available there.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity Does the Company have any significant position and borrowing facilities are described in the section agreements involving change of control?
of this Annual Report entitled How we have performed.
The following significant agreement to which the Company is In addition, Note E1 to the Accounts includes the Groups a party contains provisions entitling counterparties to exercise objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital termination or other rights in the event of a change of control and sets out details of the principal risks related to financial of the Company: instruments and insurance risks including market, credit and liquidity risks as well as their sensitivities.
1,200 million Revolving Credit Facility the Facility dated 21 April 2011 between the Company, various syndicate The preceding sections of the Annual Report referred to banks the Banks and Banc of America Securities Limited above also explain the basis on which the Group generates as agent the Agent.
If a person or group of persons acting and preserves value over the longer term and the strategy for in concert gains control of the Company, the Company delivering the objectives of the Group.
The FGD surplus must notify the Agent.
The Agent and the Company will capital and cash flow are stress tested and are within the negotiate with a view to agreeing terms and conditions limits described in the Risk and Capital Management section.
acceptable to the Company and all of the Banks for As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is in continuing the Facility.
If such negotiations fail within a strong financial position and is well placed to manage its 30-days of the original notification to the Agent by the business risks successfully.
Company, the Banks become entitled to declare any After making enquiries, the Board of Directors has a outstanding indebtedness repayable by giving notice to reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have the Agent within 15 days of the 30-day period mentioned adequate resources to continue in operational existence for above.
On receiving notice for payment from the Agent, the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the Company shall pay the outstanding sums within three the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
business days to the relevant Bank s. 97 DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS continued Has all relevant information been disclosed to the auditors?
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report on Corporate Governance and other matters confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors were aware of that information.
Governing law The sections of this Annual Report under the headings Where we are going, How we have performed, Our risks and this Directors Report on Corporate Governance and other matters, collectively comprise the directors report for the purposes of section 463 1 a of the Companies Act 2006.
The Remuneration Report set out in this Annual Report is the directors remuneration report for the purposes of section 463 1 b of that Act.
English law governs the disclosures contained in and liability for the directors report and the directors remuneration report.
By order of the Board Martin Murray Group Company Secretary 1 March 2013 98 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
