business model Our customers Our business model Creating trusted relationships with our customers is at the heart of everything we do.
We aim to help them achieve their is simple.
We harness lifetime financial goals through our savings, protection and investment products.
the resources and skills Customers buy our products either directly or through an intermediary such as an independent financial adviser.
we have across the This generates inflows of cash.
At the same time we make payments to our customers, returning their money in line with our promise.
This generates outflows of cash.
Our aim is that, Group into our long-term in any period, our net flow inflows less outflows should be positive.
This increases our overall funds under management.
savings, protection, What we do banking and investment Our skills and resources enable us to excel in two key areas: Banking, savings, protection and businesses to drive value investment products We provide our customers with appropriate and tax-efficient for shareholders and investment products, and protection products offering life assurance and disability benefits.
Protection business is particularly important to our emerging markets businesses: other stakeholders for example, we provide products to help our customers save for their own and their familys funerals which has significant cultural importance in many of the countries we Our five strategic priorities serve.
Our banking services include personal and corporate lending, transactional banking and savings accounts.
Develop the customer proposition and experience Fund management 2.
Deliver high performance in all business units In our long-term savings, protection, banking and investment 3.
Share skills and experience across the Group business we look after and grow our customers money, 4.
Build a culture of excellence offering financial security against single or multiple events.
For example, we provide for them in retirement through 5.
Simplify our structure to unlock value pensions and annuities and help them to save for their childrens education.
Customers funds and their value For more information on the Groups Strategy see can rise or fall with the underlying markets.
Where We Are Going on pages 18-28.
Value for our stakeholders We earn fees on the funds we manage and on the financial products we sell.
This, combined with tight expense management, generates profits and cash.
Cash generated is used both to invest in future growth and to reward our shareholders.
We also deliver value in its wider sense.
Our international operations generate employment, investment and tax revenues around the world.
The relationships we form with our customers, our employees, governments, regulators and community groups are vital to the success of our business.
We are committed to operating in a responsible way, making decisions that take account of the impact on those around us.
Long-term need for our products Our markets are characterised by resilience and stability.
Despite volatility in the world economy or the equity and currency markets, the basic need of consumers around the world to save for critical life events and retirement does not change particularly against a backdrop of reduced government and employer capacity to provide these services.
6 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 What we do How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business Business model Customers Skills and resources Retail Institutional People Customer numbers over 14 million Sales Payments Product development What we do Values Banking Protection Saving Investments products IT & administration Funds under management Capital allocation Profits & cash Stakeholders Distribution Shareholders Employees Risk management Governments & governance Bondholders Communities Knowledge and experience RoE: 13% 7
