board of directors 1 7 1 Patrick osullivan 63 irish M. Sc.
B. S. F. C. A. Ireland Chairman of the Board since January 2010.
Also chairs the Nomination Committee Prior relevant experience Vice Chairman of Zurich Financial Services 2007-2009, where he had specific responsibility for its international businesses including those in South Africa.
Prior to that, he had been Group Finance Director and CEO, General Insurance and Banking, of its UKISA division.
He has also 2 8 held positions at Bank of America, Goldman Sachs, Financial Guaranty Insurance Company a subsidiary of GE Capital, Barclays BZW and Eagle Star Insurance Company.
External positions held Chairman of the Shareholder Executive in the UK, non-executive director of Man Group plc and Deputy Governor of the Bank of Ireland.
A. F. C. A. M. C. T. Group Chief Executive 3 9 Please see Group Executive Committee on page 22 of this Report for further information.
3 Philip Broadley 52 British M. A. F. C. A.
Group Finance Director Please see Group Executive Committee on page 22 of this Report for further information.
Independent non-executive director since September 2009.
4 10 Chairman of the Board Risk Committee and a member of the Group Audit and Nomination Committees Prior relevant experience Principal Consulting Actuary and Head of Life practice at the consulting actuarial firm Milliman 2002 - 2009.
Prior to that, he had been the senior partner at the practice from 1995.
He is a past Member of Council and Vice Chairman of the Institute of Actuaries, past Chairman of the International Association of Consulting Actuaries and past member of 5 11 the Board of Actuarial Standards.
External positions held Non-executive director of Financial Information Technology Limited and Scottish Equitable Policyholders Trust Limited.
5 russell edey 70 British F. C. A.
Independent non-executive director since June 2004.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Group Audit and Nomination Committees.
Having now served on the Board for nearly nine years, Mr Edey will retire 6 12 at the AGM in May 2013 Prior relevant experience Chair of Anglogold Ashanti Limited 1998-2010.
Prior experience as a member of the boards of a large number of listed UK companies.
His career began in the Finance Division of the Anglo American Corporation of South Africa Limited in Johannesburg.
He joined Rothschild in 1977 and was Head of Corporate Finance from 1991 to 1996.
External positions held Chairman of Avocet Mining Plc and a non-executive director of a number of companies in the Rothschild Group.
82 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 How we govern our business How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business 6 Alan Gillespie 62 British CBE, B.
D. 9 roger Marshall 63 British B. Sc.
Senior Independent Director since May 2011, having joined Independent non-executive director of the Company and the Board as an independent non-executive director Chairman of the Group Audit Committee since August 2010. in November 2010.
Also a member of the Group Audit, He is also a member of the Board Risk and Nomination Nomination and Remuneration Committees Committees Prior relevant experience Prior relevant experience Partner at Goldman Sachs New York from 1990, with Former audit partner in , where responsibility for corporate finance and mergers and he led the audit of a number of major groups, including acquisitions in the UK and Ireland.
He jointly led the firms Zurich Financial Services and Lloyds TSB.
financial services practice in Europe and in 1996 established External positions held Goldman Sachs presence in South Africa.
After retiring from Chairman of the Accounting Council, a Director of the Goldman Sachs in 1999, he became Chief Executive of Financial Reporting Council and a non-executive director the Commonwealth Development Corporation in the UK.
of Genworth Financials European insurance companies.
In 2001 he became Chairman of Ulster Bank, a subsidiary of Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
10 Bongani Nqwababa 46 south African B. Acc.
External positions held Independent non-executive director of the Company since Senior Independent Director of United Business Media plc and April 2007.
Also a member of the Group Audit, Nomination Chairman of the Economic & Social Research Council and of and Remuneration Committees the International Finance Facility for Immunization IFFIm.
Prior relevant experience 7 danuta Gray 54 British B. Sc.
Finance Director of the South African electricity utility group, Independent non-executive director appointed from 1 March Eskom Holdings Limited, from 2004.
She will also become a member of the Group Audit, he had been Treasurer and CFO of Shell Southern Africa.
Nomination and Remuneration Committees External positions held Prior relevant experience Finance Director of Anglo American Platinum Limited since Chairman of Telefnica O2 in Ireland until December 2012, 2009.
Chairman of the South African Revenue Services having previously been its Chief Executive from 2001 to 2010, Receiver of Revenue Audit Committee.
and she remains a consultant to Telefnica in Germany.
Prior to that, she was a Senior Vice President for BT Europe in 11 Nku Nyembezi-Heita 52 south African Germany, where she gained experience in sales, marketing, B. Sc.
A. customer service and technology and in leading and Independent non-executive director of the Company since changing large businesses.
She previously served for seven March 2012.
She will become a member of the Board Risk years on the board of Irish Life and Permanent plc and was and Nomination Committees from March 2013 also a director of Business in the Community.
Prior relevant experience External positions held Former non-executive director of Old Mutual Life Assurance Non-executive director, chairman of the Remuneration Company South Africa Limited 2010-2012, a position she Committee and a member of the Audit Committee of relinquished upon taking up her role at plc level.
Former Chief Aer Lingus plc and also a non-executive director and member Officer of Mergers & Acquisitions for the Vodacom Group of the Remuneration Committee of Paddy Power PLC.
and Chief Executive Officer of Alliance Capital.
External positions held 8 reuel Khoza 62 south African Eng.
Chief Executive Officer of ArcelorMittal South Africa since Non-executive director of the Company since January 2006 2008.
Non-executive director of the JSE Limited.
and Chairman of Nedbank Group since May 2006.
Also a member of the Board Risk and Nomination Committees 12 Lars otterbeck 70 swedish Dr. Econ.
Prior relevant experience Independent non-executive director since November 2006, His previous appointments include Chairmanship of Eskom also a member of the Board Risk, Nomination and Holdings Limited and non-executive directorships of Glaxo Remuneration Committees.
Following the Groups disposal of Wellcome SA, IBM SA, Vodacom, the JSE, JCI, Standard Bank its Nordic business during 2012, Mr. Otterbeck will retire from Group and Liberty Life.
the Board at the AGM in May 2013 External positions held Prior relevant experience Chairman of Aka Capital, which is 25% owned by Old Mutual Prior to joining the Board, Mr Otterbeck held various senior South Africa.
Non-executive director of Nampak Limited, business positions in Sweden, including as President and CEO Protea Hospitality Holdings Limited and Corobrik Pty of the Swedish mutual pension insurance company, Alecta, Limited.
Fellow and President of the Institute of Directors of from 2000 to 2004.
External positions held Non-executive director of Skandia Liv.
Further details of the assessment of the individual Board members contribution to the Board and its Committees during 2012 and of the reasons for shareholders to support those standing for election or re-election at the 2013 AGM are contained in the explanatory notes accompanying the relevant resolutions in the shareholder circular relating to that meeting.
