The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Board of directors Robert G Dench Chairman Age 62 Bob Dench joined the Group as a non-executive director in September 2004 and was appointed Chairman in February 2007.
During an extended career with Barclays he held a number of senior positions in the UK and overseas, leaving in 2004.
He is also a non-executive director of AXA UK plc and Chairman of AXA Ireland Limited.
Nigel S Terrington Chief Executive Age 52 Nigel Terrington joined the Group in 1987 and became Chief Executive in June 1995, having held the positions of Treasurer and Finance Director.
Prior to Paragon, he worked in investment banking.
He is Deputy Chairman of the Council of Mortgage Lenders and is also a member of HM Treasurys Home Finance Forum.
He has previously held the positions of Chairman of the Intermediary Mortgage Lenders Association, Chairman of the Finance and Leasing Association FLA Consumer Finance Division and a Board member of the FLA.
He is an associate of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
Nicholas Keen Finance Director Age 54 Nick Keen joined the Group in May 1991 and became Finance Director in June 1995 having previously held the position of Treasurer.
Prior to joining the Group he worked in Corporate Banking, Treasury and Capital Markets.
He is Chairman of the Paragon Credit Committee.
John A Heron Director of New Business Age 53 John Heron joined the Group in January 1986.
Mr Heron joined the Board in 2003 and is responsible for the development of all the Groups new business operations.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers and Chair of the CML buy-to-let panel.
He is a Board member of the Intermediary Mortgage Lenders Association, having previously held the position of Chair.
John was also previously Deputy Chairman of the CML.
Richard J Woodman Director of Corporate Development Age 47 Richard Woodman was appointed to the Board as Director of Corporate Development in February 2012.
He was also appointed Managing Director of Idem Capital Limited.
He joined the Group in 1989 and has held various senior strategic and financial roles, latterly as Director of Business Analysis and Planning.
More recently he has taken a lead role in the Groups strategic development and, in particular, in the portfolio acquisition programme through Idem Capital.
He is a member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
12 Board of Directors The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Edward A Tilly Non-executive director Age 69 Ted Tilly was appointed as a non-executive director in April 2008.
Mr Tilly was the senior independent director of Retail Decisions PLC from January 2000 until January 2007.
He has held a number of directorships including Chairman of Barclays Life Assurance Company Ltd from 1999 to 2003.
Prior to this he was Chairman and Chief Executive of GE Capitals European insurance division.
He was with the Legal & General Group for nearly 30 years where he held a number of senior positions including Director Life and Pensions and Director International.
He is Paragons Senior Independent Director.
Alan K Fletcher Non-executive director Age 62 Alan Fletcher was appointed as a non-executive director in February 2009.
Mr Fletcher has considerable experience in financial services, including pension fund trusteeship and investment fund management.
He was Chairman of Neville James Holdings prior to its acquisition by Challenger International of Australia, following which he was Sales and Marketing Director of Challenger Group Services and a director of Challenger Life UK from 2002 to 2003.
He has been non-executive Chairman of Hyperama plc since 2000 and was Chairman of the professional training company, Fresh Professional Development, from 2003 to 2010.
He was a member of the General Synod of the Church of England between 2007 and 2010.
He has been a member of the Church of England Pensions Board since 2009 and is also a member of its Investment Committee and has been appointed Chairman of the Housing Committee from 1 January 2013.
He is Chairman of the Paragon Remuneration Committee.
Peter J N Hartill Non-executive director Age 63 Peter Hartill was appointed as a non-executive director in February 2011.
He is a Chartered Accountant, is currently non-executive Chairman of Deeley Group and a non-executive director of Scott Bader Limited.
Previously, he spent 40 years with Deloitte, becoming a senior audit partner and a business advisor with experience across a wide range of industries and business issues.
Speci cally he has considerable experience in acquisitions and disposals, capital raising, risk control and corporate governance in the financial services sector.
He is Chairman of the Paragon Audit and Compliance Committee.
Fiona Clutterbuck Non-executive director Age 54 Fiona Clutterbuck was appointed as a non-executive director in September 2012.
She is currently the Head of Strategy and Corporate Development at the Phoenix Group and is also a non-executive director of WS Atkins plc and brings to the Board a substantial level of corporate finance experience, having previously held the positions of Managing Director and Head of Financial Institutions Advisory at ABN AMRO Investment Bank, Managing Director and Global Co-Head of Financial Institutions Group at HSBC Investment Bank and Director at Hill Samuel Bank Limited.
