24 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Conflicts of Interest A Director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or has the potential to conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Articles of Association the Articles of the Company give the Directors authority to authorise potential conflicts of interest and there are safeguards in place which will apply when Directors decide whether to do so.
First, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors can impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Directors have declared any potential conflicts of interest to the Company.
Any potential conflicts of interest are entered into the Companys register of potential conflicts, which is reviewed regularly by the Board.
The register of potential conflicts of interest is kept at the Registered Office of the Company.
The Directors will advise the Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of any potential conflicts of interest.
The Manager Investment Management Agreement Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML is appointed Manager, Administrator and Company Secretary under an agreement dated 20 February 1996 and subsequently amended on 27 December 2001.
This agreement is terminable by either party giving not less than one years notice.
Under the agreement, the Manager receives a management fee of 0.1875% per quarter of the Companys funds under management.
A performance-related fee is payable to the Manager annually in arrears if the Companys performance exceeds that of the FTSE All-Share Index, including any brought forward underperformance.
The performance-related fee is equal to 10% of the value of any outperformance, but may not exceed 0.75% of the value of the Companys net assets at the relevant performance fee calculation date which is usually the Companys balance sheet date.
The Managers Responsibilities The Manager is generally responsible for the day-to-day investment management activities of the Company, seeking and evaluating investment opportunities and analysing the results of investee companies.
The Manager has full discretion to manage the assets of the Company in accordance with the Companys stated Investment Policy as determined from time to time by the Board and approved by shareholders.
The Manager also advises on currency and borrowings.
The Manager provides full company secretarial and administration services ensuring that the Company complies with all legal, regulatory and corporate governance requirements and attending on the Directors at Board meetings and shareholders meetings.
The Manager also maintains records of the Companys investment transactions and portfolio and all monetary transactions, from which the Manager prepares annual and half-yearly financial statements and interim management statements on behalf of the Company and various statistical reports and information throughout the year.
Assessment of the Investment Manager The performance of the Manager in the roles of investment manager, company secretary and administrator is subject to continual review by the Board and an annual review of the management contract is undertaken by the Management Engagement Committee.
The Board has formally reviewed the Managers performance and, taking into account the long-term performance of the portfolio, the other services provided by the Manager and the risk and corporate governance environment in which the Company operates, the Board considers that the continuation of the management contract is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee comprises Antony Hardy, Bill Alexander and Vivian Bazalgette, all of whom are independent Directors.
The Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee is Bill Alexander.
The Management Engagement Committee has written terms of reference which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
The terms of reference are reviewed as and when
