26 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Share Capital Capital Structure At the year end the Companys share capital included 213,816,850 ordinary shares and 16,987,622 subscription shares.
During the year 491,203 ordinary shares were issued at 218.94p each following an exercise of subscription shares and 2,425,143 ordinary shares were issued for cash at an average price of 252.80p.
There were no further issues or repurchases of ordinary shares since the year end.
No shares were bought back during the year and no shares were held in treasury during the year or at the year end.
The Companys Articles of Association allow an issue of B shares to take place should conditions permit.
There are no B shares in issue.
Restrictions There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of ordinary and subscription shares in the Company, no special rights with regard to control attached to said securities, no agreements between holders regarding their transfer known to the Company, and no agreements which the Company is part to that might affect its control following a successful takeover bid.
There are restrictions on the transfer of B shares by shareholders located in the US, which make it more difficult for a US person to resell B shares in many instances.
On 31 August the subscription date 2012 and 2013, subscription shareholders have the right to convert all or any of their subscription shares into fully paid ordinary shares of 10p each on the basis of one ordinary share for every subscription share so converted at a price of 218.94p per share.
Not earlier than 56 days or later than 28 days before each subscription date, the Company will give notice in writing to subscription shareholders reminding them of their subscription rights and providing the appropriate information required for conversion.
The holders of the subscription shares are not entitled to any right of participation in the profits of the Company but, in the event of a corporate action such as a takeover offer on a winding up resolution, will normally be treated as though subscription rights have been exercised.
On a return of capital on liquidation or otherwise the assets of the Company shall be applied, pari passu with any payment to the holders of the ordinary shares, in repaying to the holders of the subscription shares a sum equal to the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid up on the subscription shares held by them respectively.
The holders of the subscription shares are not entitled to any further right of participation in the assets of the Company.
Voting At a general meeting of the Company every ordinary shareholder has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each ordinary share held.
Subscription shareholders have the right to receive notices of general meetings and to attend, speak and vote at a general meeting only if a resolution is to be proposed abrogating, varying or modifying any of the rights or privileges of the subscription shares and then only on such resolution.
Wherever the holders of the subscription shares are entitled to vote at a general meeting, every subscription shareholder has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each subscription share held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or present in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
Substantial Shareholders Details of the substantial shareholders of the Company are disclosed on page 27.
Repurchase Powers The Boards current powers to repurchase shares and proposals for their renewal are disclosed on page 27.
