PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 satisfactory report on the Managers internal operations from the Managers Compliance and Internal Audit Officers.
The Committee has reviewed and accepted the Managers Whistleblowing policy under which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties or irregularities in relation to the Company.
The Committee has reviewed the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 with the Manager and Auditor at the conclusion of the audit process.
The Committee has recommended approval by the Board of an audit fee of 25,000, exclusive of expenses and VAT.
The committee has considered and is satisfied with the objectivity and the independence of the Auditor.
Non-audit fees for the year to 31 March 2012 were 4,000 and related to compliance with the debenture covenants and the debenture trust deed.
The Committee does not believe that this has impaired the Auditors independence and objectivity.
Stewardship The Board considers that the Company has a responsibility as a shareholder towards ensuring that high standards of Corporate Governance are maintained in the companies in which it invests.
To achieve this, the Board does not seek to intervene in daily management decisions, but aims to support high standards of governance and, where necessary, will take the initiative to ensure those standards are met.
The principal means of putting shareholder responsibility into practice is through the exercise of voting rights.
The Companys voting rights are exercised on an informed and independent basis.
The Companys stewardship functions have been delegated to the Manager.
The Manager has adopted a clear and considered policy towards its responsibility as a shareholder on behalf of the Company.
As part of this policy, the Manager takes steps to satisfy itself about the extent to which the companies in which it invests look after shareholders value and comply with local recommendations and practices, such as the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A copy of the Managers Policy on Corporate Governance and Stewardship can be found at www.
Relations with Shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Board and the Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with shareholders is through the annual and half-yearly financial reports, which aim to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys activities and its results.
This information is supplemented by the publication of interim management statements, monthly factsheets and the NAV of the Companys ordinary shares, which is published daily via the London Stock Exchange and the Managers website.
A presentation is made by the Manager following the main business of the AGM each year.
Shareholders have the opportunity to communicate directly with the Directors at the AGM.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
It is the intention of the Board that the annual financial report and the notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide twenty working days notice of the AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the AGM are invited to do so, either on the reverse of the proxy card, via the Managers website or in writing to the Company Secretary at the address given on page 12.
At other times the Company responds to queries from shareholders on a range of issues.
There is a regular dialogue with individual major shareholders to discuss aspects of investment performance, governance and strategy and to listen to shareholder views in order to develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
General presentations to both institutional shareholders and analysts follow the publication of the annual financial results.
All meetings between the Manager and major shareholders are reported to the Board.
Shareholders can visit the Managers website in order to contact the Directors, Manager and Company Secretary, access copies of annual and half-yearly financial reports, interim management statements, shareholder circulars, factsheets, Stock Exchange announcements, schedule of matters reserved for the Board, terms of reference of Board Committees, Directors letters of appointment, the Companys share price and any proxy voting results.
