PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Corporate Governance Principles The UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules require listed companies to disclose how they have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, as issued by the Financial Reporting Council in May 2010, were applicable in the year under review.
The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of Corporate Governance and is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
The Board of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the incorporated relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, except as set out below.
The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive: executive directors remuneration: the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc, being an externally managed investment company.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The terms of reference for the Board and the Audit Committee are reviewed and updated periodically to bring them in line with latest best practice and to ensure compliance with the AIC Code.
The Companys Corporate Governance procedures are considered regularly by the Board and amended as necessary.
The Board The Board comprises five non-executive Directors, four of whom are considered independent.
Bob Yerbury is a Senior Managing Director of Invesco Ltd and a Director of IAML and, in accordance with the AIC Code, as a recent employee, is not considered independent.
The Board has considered the continued appointment of Sir Martyn Arbib and Antony Hardy in light of their having served on the Board for over nine years and has concluded that they continue, both collectively and individually, to be effective and make valuable contributions to the Board.
Notwithstanding their length of service, the Board consider that they each remain independent, a view which has been demonstrated by their actions on behalf of the Company and their other business interests.
Chairman The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of the role.
The Chairman is Bill Alexander, a non-executive and independent Director who has no conflicting relationships.
Senior Independent Director In his role as Senior Independent Director, Antony Hardy provides a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors if necessary.
He also provides a channel of communication for shareholders where contact through the Chairman or Company Secretary have failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
