14 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2012 The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Report for the year ended 31 March 2012, which incorporates the Business Review and Corporate Governance Statement.
BUSINESS REVIEW Business and Status The Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 2 February 1996 as a public limited company under the Companies Act 2006 the Act registered number 3156676.
It is an investment company as defined by section 833 of the Act and operates as an investment trust within the meaning of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 CTA and the Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
HM Revenue & Customs has approved the Companys status as an investment trust in respect of the year ended 31 March 2011, subject to their being no subsequent enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so as to enable it to maintain such approval.
Life of the Company The Companys Articles of Association require that with effect from 2006 and every five years thereafter, the Company will propose an ordinary resolution to approve the continuation of the Company as an investment trust.
The next occasion on which the Company must propose a similar ordinary resolution will be at the 2016 AGM.
Investment Objective The Companys investment objective is to provide shareholders with capital growth and real growth in dividends over the medium to longer term from a portfolio of securities listed mainly in the UK equity and fixed interest markets.
Investment Policy The Company invests mainly in UK equities and equity-related securities of UK-listed companies.
The Manager seeks to identify and invest in companies that offer a combination of good capital growth prospects with the ability to increase dividends over time.
The Manager may also invest up to 10% of gross assets in fixed income securities and up to 20% of gross assets in non-UK listed securities.
The Manager manages a portfolio that reflects his convictions and best ideas.
The Manager does not set out to manage the risk characteristics of the portfolio relative to the FTSE All-Share Index benchmark index and the investment process may result in potentially very significant over or underweight positions in individual sectors versus the benchmark index.
The size of weightings will reflect the Managers view of the attractiveness of a security and the degree of conviction.
If a security is not considered to be a good investment, then the Company will not own it, irrespective of its weight in the benchmark index.
The Manager controls the stock-specific risk of individual securities by ensuring that the portfolio is always appropriately diversified.
In-depth and continual analysis of the fundamentals of investee companies allows the Manager to assess the financial risks associated with any particular security.
The Directors believe that the use of borrowings gearing can enhance returns to shareholders and the Company will use borrowings in pursuing its investment objective.
Investment Limits The Board has prescribed limits on the Investment Policy, the most significant of which are the following: the Company will not invest more than 12% of its gross assets in any single investment: the Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in other listed investment companies: the Company will not invest more than 20% of its gross assets in non-UK listed securities: the Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in fixed interest securities: and borrowings may be used to raise equity exposure up to a maximum of 25% of net assets at the time of purchase where it is appropriate.
All of the above investment limits are taken at the time of acquisition.
