06 INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT Market Review A total return of 1.4% by the FTSE All-Share Index over the 12 months masked some major swings in sentiment and significant stock market volatility.
The optimistic mood in which markets had started 2011 diminished as the year progressed and global events, particularly the Eurozone sovereign debt and banking crisis, dominated UK stock market sentiment.
The three months ending September 2011 witnessed the worst quarterly performance by the index since 2002.
The stock market saw a strong recovery into the end of 2011, driven by a significant shift in policy by the European Central Bank ECB, which announced its longer-term refinancing operation LTRO.
This provided liquidity to the banking system and was seen as removing the near term risk of a major European banking crisis.
The pattern continued into 2012, as the UK stock market rose following improved economic news from the US along with a second round of LTRO from the ECB.
The last month of the period, however, saw optimism waning and some profit taking, as doubts re-emerged about the strength of the global economic recovery and the longer term resolution of the Eurozone debt crisis.
Portfolio Strategy and Review The Companys net asset value, including reinvested dividends, rose by 8.4% during the period, compared to a rise of 1.4% by the FTSE All-Share Index.
Against such a turbulent stock market backdrop, the positioning of the Company provided a healthy positive absolute return while also mitigating a large amount of the volatility, thereby protecting capital.
Positive contributions to performance came from a spread of the funds largest investments in companies that have historically exhibited dependable earnings and dividend growth.
The tobacco sector, in particular, continued to deliver outperformance.
The holdings in British American Tobacco, Imperial Tobacco and Reynolds American delivered returns in excess of 30% over the 12 months, as investors again focused on the sectors reliable characteristics and cash flow.
The Company is heavily invested in the pharmaceutical sector, which also performed well over the year.
This was particularly the case for the holding in GlaxoSmithKline, which announced a 15% increase in its share buy-back during the year as well as confirming that 10 new drugs are likely to be filed for regulatory approval in 2012.
This announcement surprised the market, which had given up on the industrys ability to discover new drugs.
The Companys holdings in two European pharmaceuticals Roche and Novartis, also helped performance and gained additionally from the strength of the Swiss franc.
While the performance of AstraZeneca was poorer by comparison, but the total return from the holding still exceeded that of the index over the 12 months.
The holding in BT again delivered positive returns.
As well as pleasing the stock market with news that its roll-out of high speed broadband is progressing faster than expected, the company announced that it had reached an agreement with its pension scheme trustees on a reduction plan for the schemes deficit.
This should allow BT greater flexibility to increase future returns to shareholders.
The relative performance of the Company also benefited from its zero weighting in the large mining sector.
This sector fell sharply over the 12 months as concerns over the outlook for global economic growth weighed on metal prices and profit forecasts.
Newsflow over the period from the Companys major holdings was mostly positive.
This was not, however, the case for Tesco.
The companys trading update and profit warning suggested that too much confidence had been placed in the businesss ability to cope with the economic headwinds and also a realisation that some of the companys investment decisions of recent years have not created the value originally envisaged.
For example, the programme to build much larger stores to cope with an expanding product range has coincided with a more rapid consumer migration to internet shopping.
There was also disappointing news from the investment in Chemring the company announced that unexpected delays in customer orders would hit full year revenues and profits.
A negative impact on performance came from the holding in Homeserve, the share price of which fell sharply on news last October that, following an independent review, the company had decided to suspend part of its sales operation pending a re-training of its telephone sales staff.
Both holdings have been retained, the PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07 share prices are now reflecting more pessimism than the recent news flows and are looking undervalued.
In terms of portfolio activity, it is noteworthy that overall activity was limited as the managers views on the UK stock market and the wider economy were largely unaltered.
The position in Tesco was sold for the reasons outlined above.
The holdings in Altria, Balfour Beatty and Daily Mail & General Trust were also sold.
New investments were made in Doric Nimrod Air Two, Filtrona, Lancashire Holdings, Novartis, Regus, Rolls Royce and TalkTalk Telecom.
Outlook In many respects the recent performance of the UK stock market has borne a strong similarity to the early months of last year.
It is likely that these similarities will continue for the foreseeable future as there remains a high correlation between equity market returns and Government stimulus measures in the form of Quantitative Easing or Central Bank liquidity schemes.
The market will remain extremely sensitive to changes in the future direction of this kind of stimulus.
Ultimately these measures are likely to be seen as only symptomatic relief of the problems rather that addressing the cause: an excess of debt across the developed world.
However, it has become increasingly clear that the equity asset class in this environment is highly attractive relative to bonds or cash, notwithstanding the extra volatility which accompanies it.
Through this period of Government stimulus, the underlying performance of the companies within the market has begun to polarise, whereby companies with specific characteristics have become more highly valued.
The most valued characteristics include earnings reliability, financial strength, sustainable growing dividends and geographic diversification.
The portfolio has the advantage of the relative strength of the UK stock market towards companies that exhibit these features both within the largest companies and increasingly within the mid-caps as well.
The fund will also continue to take advantage of overseas equities which fit these criteria.
This theme remains in place as it is likely that the re-rating of these stocks will be maintained against a backdrop of little or no growth in the economies of the developed world, due to the intractable nature of the debt problem in these economies and the glacial pace at which incumbent governments are acting.
It may well be the case that, given the volatile nature of equity markets in the short term, a higher proportion of the shareholders return will be received in the form of income.
However, the risk of owning these stocks is low and the inherent nature of markets means that undervalued companies delivering a sustainably growing level of dividend income will not remain unnoticed forever.
Mark Barnett Investment Manager 7 June 2012
