22 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The Board reviews financial reports and performance against forecasts, stock market indices and the Companys peer group.
In addition, the Manager and Custodian maintain their own systems of internal controls and the Board and Audit Committee receive regular reports from the Internal Audit and Compliance teams of the Manager.
Formal reports are also produced on the internal controls and procedures in place for custodial, company secretarial, investment management and accounting activities, and these are reviewed annually by the Board.
The control systems are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss and to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The Directors consider that these procedures enable the Company to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Accountability and Audit The Directors responsibilities for the Companys accounting records and financial statements are set out on page 29.
The Independent Auditors Report appears on pages 32 and 33.
Going Concern The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
In 2011, the Directors were released from their obligation to convene a meeting in 2012 at which a special resolution for the reconstruction of the Company would be proposed.
The Directors consider this is the appropriate basis as they have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being taken as 12 months after the signing of the balance sheet.
In considering this, the Directors took into account the diversified portfolio of readily realisable securities which can be used to meet funding commitments, and the ability of the Company to meet all of its liabilities and ongoing expenses from its assets.
The Directors also considered the revenue forecasts for the forthcoming year and future dividend payments in concluding on the going concern basis.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is composed of Antony Hardy, Bill Alexander and Vivian Bazalgette, all of whom are independent Directors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Antony Hardy.
Audit Committee members consider that collectively they are appropriately experienced to fulfil the role required.
The Audit Committee has written terms of reference which are reviewed as and when appropriate and clearly define its responsibilities.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, including its role and authority, are available for inspection at the AGM, at the Registered Office of the Company and on the Managers website.
The Audit Committee is responsible to the Board for reviewing each aspect of the financial reporting process: the systems of internal control and management of financial risks: the audit process: relationships with the Auditor: the Companys processes for monitoring compliance with laws and regulations: its code of business conduct: and for making recommendations to the Board.
It is responsible for making recommendations to the Board in respect of the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the auditor and for the terms of their audit engagement.
The committee is also responsible for reviewing the Managers whistleblowing arrangements.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year to review the internal financial and non-financial controls, to approve the contents of the draft annual and half-yearly financial reports and to review the Companys accounting policies.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviews the Auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, the quality of the services of all the service providers to the Company and, together with the Manager, reviews the Companys compliance with financial reporting and regulatory requirements.
The Audit Committee considers the likelihood of a withdrawal of the Auditor from the market and noted that there are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external auditor.
At each meeting, representatives of the Managers Internal Audit and Compliance teams are present.
Representatives of Deloitte LLP, the Companys Auditor, attend the Audit Committee meeting at which the draft annual financial report is reviewed.
The Companys internal financial controls and risk management systems have been reviewed with the Manager against risk parameters approved by the Board.
The Audit Committee has also received a
