20 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Board Balance Directors have a range of business, financial and asset management skills and experience relevant to the direction and control of the Company.
Brief biographical details are shown on page 11.
Appointment, Re-election and Tenure of Directors The Directors are responsible for reviewing the size, structure and skills of the Board and considering any necessary changes or new appointments.
No Director has a formal contract of employment with the Company.
Directors terms and conditions of appointment are set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company, on the Managers website and will be available at the AGM.
The Board has formulated a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the selection and appointment of any new Director to the Board.
In accordance with the UK Code of Corporate Governance, at every AGM all Directors shall retire and offer themselves for re-election.
The Board confirms that the performance of the Directors continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Board therefore recommends to shareholders their support for resolutions 2 through to 6 relating to the Directors seeking re-election.
The Articles will be available at the AGM and can be inspected at the registered office address of the Company.
Board, Committee and Directors Performance Appraisal The Company has in place a system of performance evaluation which is undertaken by the Board annually.
Since the year end, the Directors have undergone an appraisal process to evaluate the performance of the Board as a whole, of the respective Committees of the Board and of individual Directors.
The results of the appraisal process were deemed fully satisfactory and the Board confirms that the performance of the Directors continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role and responsibilities.
Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings All the Directors are considered to have an excellent attendance record at Board and Committee Meetings of the Company.
The following table sets out the number of scheduled meetings held during the year and the number of meetings attended by each Director or member of each Committee.
In addition, Directors also attended a number of ad-hoc meetings as required between scheduled meetings.
MANAGEMENT AUDIT ENGAGEMENT BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEETINGS MEETINGS MEETINGS Number of meetings 5 2 1 Bill Alexander 5 2 1 Sir Martyn Arbib 5 n a 1 Vivian Bazalgette 5 2 1 Antony Hardy 5 2 1 Bob Yerbury 5 n a n a Directors Remuneration The Board as a whole reviews Directors remuneration on a regular basis.
Details of the Companys policy on Directors remuneration and of payments to Directors are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 30 and 31.
Board Responsibilities The Directors have a duty to promote the success of the Company taking into consideration the likely consequences of any decision in the long-term, the need to foster the Companys business relationships with its Manager and advisers, the impact of the Companys operations on the community and the environment, the desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct and the need to act fairly as between stakeholders of the Company.
