PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 In order to promote the success of the Company, the Board directs and supervises its affairs within a framework of effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board has been established.
The schedule is reviewed annually to ensure compliance with the latest regulatory requirements, best practice and the AIC Code and is available for inspection at the AGM, at the registered office of the Company and on the Managers website.
The main responsibilities of the Board include: setting policies and standards, ensuring that the Companys obligations to shareholders and others are understood and complied with, approving accounting and dividend policies, managing the capital structure, setting long-term objectives and strategy, assessing risk, reviewing investment performance, approving loans and borrowing, approving recommendations presented by the Companys respective Board Committees, controlling risks and the ongoing assessment of the Manager.
The Board also seeks to ensure that shareholders are provided with sufficient information in order to understand the risk reward balance to which they are exposed by holding their shares, through the portfolio details given in the annual and half-yearly financial reports, interim management statements, fact sheets and daily NAV disclosures.
The Board is committed to the prevention of corruption in the conduct of the Companys affairs and, taking account of the nature of the Companys business and operations, has put in place procedures that the Board considers adequate to prevent persons associated with it from engaging in bribery for and on behalf of the Company.
Supply of Information To enable the Directors of the Board to fulfil their roles, the Manager ensures that all Directors have timely access to all relevant management, financial and regulatory information.
On being appointed to the Board, Directors are fully briefed as to their responsibilities and are continually updated throughout their term in office on industry and regulatory matters.
The Manager and the Board have formulated a programme of induction training for newly appointed Directors.
They have also put arrangements in place to address ongoing training requirements of Directors which include briefings from key members of the Managers staff and which ensure that Directors can keep up to date with new legislation and changing risks.
The Board meets on a regular basis at least four times each year.
Additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Regular contact is maintained between the Manager, the Company Secretary and the Board between formal meetings.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda, which includes a review of the investment portfolio with reports from the Manager on the current investment position and outlook, strategic direction, performance against stock market indices and the Companys peer group, asset allocation, gearing policy, cash management, revenue forecasts for the financial year, marketing and shareholder relations, corporate governance, regulatory changes and industry and other issues.
There is an agreed procedure for the Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take legal advice at the Companys expense up to an initial cost of 10,000 having first consulted with the Chairman.
Company Secretary The Board has direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Invesco Asset Management Limited, which is responsible for ensuring that the Board and Committee procedures are followed, that applicable rules and regulations are complied with and is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
The Company Secretary is also responsible to the Board for ensuring timely delivery of information and reports, that the statutory obligations of the Company are met and acts as a contact for all shareholders.
The appointment and ongoing assessment and review of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Companys systems of internal financial and non-financial controls internal controls designed to safeguard shareholders investments and the Companys assets, which have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of this report.
The Companys internal controls and risk management systems have been reviewed with the Manager against risk parameters approved by the Board.
