PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 25 appropriate to ensure compliance with the latest regulatory requirements, best practice and the AIC Code.
They will be available for inspection at the AGM, the Registered Office of the Company and on the Managerss website.
The Management Engagement Committee meets annually to review the investment management agreement with the Companys Manager and to review the services provided by the Manager and Company Secretary.
A statement of IAMLs responsibilities as Manager, Administrator and Company Secretary of the Company and the assessment of the Manager and Company Secretary by the Management Engagement Committee can be found on page 24.
Social and Environmental Policies As an investment trust company with no employees, property or activities outside investment, environmental matters, employees and social and community issues have limited application.
The Manager considers various factors when evaluating potential investments.
Some are financial ratios and measures, such as free cash flow, earnings per share and price to book value.
Others are more subjective indicators which rely on first hand research: for example, quality of management, innovation and product strength.
While a companys policy towards the environment and social responsibility is considered as part of the overall assessment of risk and the suitability of the company for the portfolio, the Manager does not necessarily preclude an investment being made on environmental and social grounds alone.
The Company is able to supply documents or information to shareholders in electronic form e. g. by email or by means of a website.
This delivers environmental benefits through the reduced use of paper and of the energy required for its production and distribution.
Directors Directors Disclosable Interests The interests of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company at 31 March 2012 follow.
2012 2011 ORDINARY SUBSCRIPTION ORDINARY SUBSCRIPTION ORDINARY SHARES SHARES SHARES SHARES SHARES Bill Alexander 10,000 10,000 Sir Martyn Arbib 12,000 1,000 12,000 1,000 Vivian Bazalgette 10,000 10,000 Antony Hardy 11,000 1,000 11,000 1,000 Bob Yerbury 10,000 10,000 There were no changes in the above interests between 31 March 2012 and 7 June 2012.
Deed of Indemnity Under the terms of a Deed of Indemnity between the Directors and the Company, a Director may be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all costs, charges, expenses, losses and liabilities which he may sustain or incur in or about the discharge of his duties or the exercise of his powers or discretions as a Director of the Company.
This includes any liability incurred by a Director in disputing, defending, investigating or providing evidence in connection with any actual or threatened or alleged claims, demands, investigations or proceedings whether civil or criminal, and any settlement thereof.
A Director may also receive funding of any expenditure incurred in connection with any such liability.
A Director will continue to be indemnified under the terms of the indemnity notwithstanding that he may have ceased to be a Director of the Company.
However, a Director will not be entitled to be indemnified for any liability to the Company, for fines payable to regulatory authorities, for defending any criminal proceedings in which he is convicted or in defending any civil proceedings bought by the Company in which judgment is given against him.
The indemnity does not apply to the extent that a liability is recoverable from any insurers, if it is prohibited by the Act or otherwise prohibited by law, if it relates to tax payable on remuneration or other benefits received, or if a liability arises from an act or omission of the Director which is shown to have been in bad faith.
The Deed of Indemnity is available for inspection at the AGM and at the registered office at any time.
