PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11 DIRECTORS Bill Alexander CBE Chairman of the Main Antony Hardy Chairman of the Audit Board and of the Management Engagement Committee and Senior Independent Director Antony Hardy was appointed to the Board on Committee 2 February 1996.
He is Investment Adviser to Bill Alexander was appointed to the Board on Essex County Council Pension Fund and South 28 March 2006 and as Chairman on 19 July Yorkshire Pension Fund.
He is currently Non-Executive Chairman number of endowed charities and trusts, of Wigborough Ltd.
He was previously a Director of Sableknight Limited and was Chairman of Xansa plc and Chief Executive previously Investment Manager of the Church of RWE Thames Water plc, and also held Commissioners for England.
non-executive appointments at RMC plc, GB Airways Ltd, Laporte plc and The Henley Bob Yerbury Festival Limited.
Bob Yerbury was appointed to the Board on 4 December 2008.
His investment career spans Sir Martyn Arbib over 40 years, having led the North American Sir Martyn was appointed to the Board on team at Invesco Perpetual for 14 years, becoming 6 February 1996.
He was the founder and Chief Investment Officer in 1997 and Chief Chairman of Perpetual plc, which became part of Executive Officer in 2004.
He handed over his the Invesco group on 7 December 2000, and left CEO and CIO responsibilities in September 2008 the company in 2002. and June 2010 respectively, continuing as a Senior Managing Director of Invesco Ltd.
He Vivian Bazalgette holds an MA in Mathematics from Cambridge Vivian Bazalgette was appointed to the Board on University and qualified as an Actuary at Equity & 21 May 2007.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Law Life Assurance Society.
He is a Fellow of the Henderson High Income Investment Trust plc and Institute of Actuaries FIA.
He is a NonExecutive Director of St. James Place plc and Chairman of its Investment Committee and is also an adviser to BAE Systems Pension Fund and to the Nuffield Foundation.
He is currently a Governor of Dulwich College and a member of All Directors are non-executive.
the advisory Board of Greenwich Hospital.
He previously held the position of Chief Investment All Directors are considered independent except Officer of M&G between 1996 and 2000 and, for Bob Yerbury, who is employed by Invesco following the takeover of M&G by Prudential, Perpetual.
was Chief Investment Officer of Prudential from 2000 to 2002.
Member of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Management Engagement Committee.
