 until we can again be fullyinvested or even geared!
and reap the double-digit returns we long for?
Stocks would be considerably lower were central banks not keeping stock prices artificially .
, stockmarketshave gone sideways during the past year.
Savers have not been rewarded for taking risk and hence our cautious strategy has paid off, for now, although we are likely to lag short term rises in the market should further .
No wonder governments are looking to extricate themselves from an intractable problem by leaning on central bankers to pull their inflationary strings.
But our greatest concern is that the European challenges that have dogged markets since early 2010 are merely the dress rehearsal for the main event a US fiscal crisis.
While the UK and Europe have at least tried to tame their budget deficits, the United States has pushed ever harder on the fiscal accelerator.
Stock markets swooned last August when they got a shock preview of what might happen should the brakes be applied.
Following the public disagreement in , %inseventrading days.
Gold divides opinion among investors but, for us, the precious metal remains a .
Fromour perspective, little has changed and portfolio turnover of our equities was less than 10%.
Stock market valuations are not compelling.
Historical earnings may be misleading as they have been flattered by two decades of self-destructive credit growth.
Recent history, like past performance, is no guide to the future.
Tescos woes provided further evidence of the challenges facing the UK economy.
Its track record of looking after its shareholders is outstanding and it has paid a dividend, uninterrupted, for the past 110 years.
Investors undervalue these virtues, especially the lack of geopolitical risk.
, LudwigvonMises: ,  fail, sooner or later, when the monetary systems of those nations pursuing this course will break down completely.
The purchasing power of the monetary unit will break down more and more until, finally it disappearscompletely.
Our task of preserving Personal Assets shareholders wealth is unlikely to get any easier in the near future.
