 CONTINUED holding in an individual company will represent more than 15% by value of the Companys investments at thetimeofacquisition.
The Companys portfolio will have a high UK content.
Depending on circumstances, however, the , .
 predominantly in the UK, overseas exposure for the Company may range between 50% of total assets and zero.
The Company is prepared to make use of both gearing and liquidity, the former by using either  morelikely .
 to be overvalued, the Company may either hold part of its resources in cash, cash equivalents which may, , includegold ,  way of reducing its equityexposure.
The Companys gearing will not exceed 50% of shareholders funds.
In exceptional circumstances, the Companys liquidity could be as high as 100% of shareholders funds.
The Company may from time to time hold fixed interest or index-linked securities and make use of currency hedging.
The Company may also invest in other investment trusts, especially as a way of gaining exposure to a geographical or industrial area in which the Company preferred not to invest directly.
DIVIDENDPOLICY The Company aims to pay as high, secure and sustainable a dividend as is compatible with maintaining its investment flexibility.
Dividends are paid in July, October, January and April of each year.
It is the Directors intention that the dividend paid by the Company will continue to grow in real terms over the longer term relative to both the Retail Price Index and the Consumer Price Index and it is the Directors ,  previousone.
 Investment trusts have long suffered from volatile discounts to net asset value.
Thiscanput those investing regularly through investment plans at a disadvantage, because they may find themselves buying shares at a sizeable premium which almost certainly will not be sustained and which will therefore .
In view of the disadvantages to shareholders of such discount and premium fluctuations, the Companys .
 The Board believes that the principal risks to shareholders, which it seeks to mitigate through continual review of its investments and through shareholder communication, are events or developments which can , including, forinstance, inflationordeflation,  .
