Portfolio Analysis Investment Managers Report 13 Cloud computing is gaining significant traction networking are signicantly increasing anticipate greater volatility going forward, hardware utilisation rates.
Application although we believe that this dynamic is 18x consolidation and the shift towards SaaS substantially captured by undemanding Expected wireless data will likely come at the expense of incumbent equity valuations particularly as compared trafc growth between software vendors and IT services companies to cash and bonds.
2011 and 2016 responsible for legacy applications while Turning to technology, we believe that the creating rare uidity in the database market.
new cycle is likely to enter a more disruptive Not only does the transition away from phase as the growth in each of our core enterprise computing diminish the value of themes increasingly comes at the expense incumbency, new opportunities in the Cloud of incumbent technologies and vendors.
This are almost always associated with lower is entirely consistent with previous periods pricing and a rental model.
On the client side, of economic uncertainty that have been smartphone and tablet growth will continue associated with rapid adoption of new to change user behaviour while undermining technologies.
While this new cycle should PC applications such as printing, end-point disproportionately benefit small and mid-cap security, operating systems and ofce companies without legacy exposure, productivity suites.
Faced with the prospect top-down concerns have resulted in of significant disruption, M&A activity looks investors seeking refuge in inexpensive set to continue at a frenzied pace even mega-cap stores of wealth leading to a though success is hardly guaranteed significant crowding out of smaller evidenced by declining year on year licence companies.
Fortunately we were alive to this revenue growth at Automony and the risk and opted to slow the process of moving departure of Mike Lynch so soon after more materially away from our benchmark, HP acquired it for 6.7bn.
In the developed world a decision signalled in our half-year report.
the PC market already Conclusions With markets signicantly below their 2012 appears to be in decline It looks inevitable that equity markets highs, small-cap technology stocks having are going to have to continue climbing a given up all of their FY10 outperformance formidable wall of worry over the coming and with the new cycle likely to become year.
While we do not claim expertise in signicantly more disruptive, we believe now Dell has bought more macroeconomic analysis, we continue to is an appropriate time to increase our small than 25 non PC trust in our remarkable alignment of mid and next-generation exposure, a process companies since 2007 interests with policymakers who are every which we have begun.
Naturally this involves bit as keen to avoid worst case outcomes.
us moving further away from the benchmark, As such we remain hopeful that the global which will invariably result in greater volatility The Cloud is likely economy will once again muddle through in our relative performance prole.
However, a to cause disruption despite myriad challenges.
However, the less benchmark sensitive approach is entirely across the technology current situation in Europe is unlikely to consistent with our long held view that new universe by delivering prove the last echo of the credit crisis, cycles are rarely good for incumbents.
a highly automated, as multi-year deleveraging will invariably elastic form of result in further growth scares in the years computing at vastly ahead.
Therefore investors should Ben Rogoff lower prices Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS 14 Manager Por Port tf fol olio io A A s R n ne a ap l ly y o s sr is is t and T Th he e Por Inter new tf c o ne y licle o t A and up nada the lyste: is mas T Th he e s Inter adoption Internet net and and of I the the T mas mass s adoption adoption of of I IT T Technology Impact w ITS HAPPENING AGAIN.
Dramatic improvements in the cost and performance of the Internet have been critical in driving its adoption, a pattern that played out earlier in the aviation industry.
The combination of complexity and cost meant that early passenger Advances in bre optics, transport and air travel remained the preserve of the wealthy and the patient.
routing technology have dramatically However, technology advances such as cabin pressurisation and the increased the speed of the Internet jet engine signicantly improved the speed, reliability and cost of air while reducing the cost of carrying trafc.
Not only did more powerful jet engines allow aircraft to travel Broadband and 3G mobile connections have faster but they also enabled them to carry larger payloads.
This also transformed the Internet user experience presaged the introduction of wide bodied aircraft such as the Boeing by providing always on connectivity.
747 which achieved three times greater hourly productivity than the Boeing 720B introduced a decade earlier.
Advances in avionics also helped reduce the size of the ight crew from five to just two by 170x eliminating the need for a navigator, ight engineer and a third pilot.
Improvement in the speed of the Internet IMAGE: Pilot walking past aircraft jet engine, Grant V. Faint backbone since the mid 1980s 100Gb s Data rates of new Internet backbone products shipping today P Po olar lar C Ca ap pi it ta al l T Te ec ch hn no ol lo og gy y T Tr rus ust t p pl lc c A Annual nnual R Re ep po or rt t & & F Fi inan nanc cial ial S St tat ate em me en nt ts s f fo or r th the e ye year ar e en nd fide ed d 3 30 0 A Ap pr ri il l 20 2012 12 Managers Report and Portfolio Analysis The new cycles update: The Internet and the mass adoption of IT 15 15 THE NEW CYCLE UPDATE: THE INTERNET AND THE MASS ADOPTION OF IT Cheap and plentiful bandwidth, aided by the proliferation of smartphones and tablets has enabled the Internet to become truly ubiquitous.
This process bears close resemblance to the post-war experience of the aviation industry Last year we discussed how Cloud autopilot and articial horizon, as his computing was allowing the IT industry to company Rand later Sperry Rand later $26,400 transition towards a mass production model.
developed the UNIVAC line of mainframe Cost of return fare With reference to other industries that had computers which went on to achieve early from San Francisco previously made this transition automotive, computing notoriety when it successfully to Hong Kong in 1937 agriculture and construction we argued that predicted an Eisenhower landslide during standardisation, automation and the Internet the 1952 Presidential election in which deliver mechanisms which would likely Adlai Stevenson was widely expected to transform the IT industry.
Since then the two industries have consider how cheap and plentiful bandwidth, enjoyed a symbiotic relationship, which at aided by the adoption of smartphones, times has signicantly advanced each tablets and a plethora of new applications others cause.
For instance, a booming has enabled the Internet to become truly computing market in the 1970s provided the ubiquitous.
This process bears close genesis of the idea behind FedEx the need resemblance to the post-war experience of to manage high value parts which the aviation industry, which was transformed facilitated build to order businesses like by technological advances and changes in the Dell Computer.
Today the Internet The overlapping competitive landscape that drove the mass continues to redene the airline and the histories of the adoption of air travel.
overall travel industry by driving higher aviation and load factors while reducing distribution technology industries The overlapping histories of the aviation costs by disintermediation of travel agents.
began in earnest after and technology industries began in earnest WWII as Cold Warafter WWII as Cold War-related defence Early iterations of both aviation and the related defence spending accelerated the development Internet were cumbersome and costly, spending accelerated of solid state electronics used to control which limited their appeal.
In the case the development of propulsion systems in missiles and later, of aviation, early commercial ight was solid state electronics the US space programme.
This not only characterized by small, slow aircraft advanced the trend towards miniaturisation whose range was limited by the amount that led to the development of integrated of fuel they could carry on take off.
To circuits ICs in the 1970s but also spawned overcome the lack of airports, a short lived The growth of avionics a nascent computing industry around San solution was provided by seaplanes ying improved almost all Franciscos Bay Area, primarily serving the boats but these required ight crews to aspects of air travel needs of Los Angeles aviation industry.
be proficient in areas as diverse as seaplane and helped accelerate Companies such as Hewlett Packard, anchorage, over-water navigation, aircraft the computing cause Teledyne and others long forgotten such repair and marine tides.
as Bendix, Sylvania and Litton Industries The combination of complexity and prospered amid rising demand for electronic Early iterations of cost meant that early passenger air travel products.
Thus the growth of aviation both aviation and remained the preserve of the wealthy a electronics, or avionics improved almost the Internet were return fare from San Francisco to Hong all aspects of air travel speed, cost, safety cumbersome and Kong in 1937 would have cost $26,400 in and helped accelerate the computing costly, which limited todays money and the patient a ight cause.
A good example of this was the role their appeal from London to Tokyo in 1953 took played by Lawrence Rand, inventor of the Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS 16 Portfolio Analysis The new cycle update: The Internet and the mass adoption of IT THE NEW CYCLE UPDATE: THE INTERNET AND THE MASS ADOPTION OF IT continued Technological improvements have had a dramatic impact on the cost performance equation of both aviation and the Internet, by broadening their appeal 74hours.
However, the speed advantage introduced 28.8kb s dial-up modems in the enjoyed over traditional transport modes mid 1990s.
In 2010, 90% of OECD Internet 90% resulted in the birth of a new application subscriptions were broadband always on of OECD Internet airmail.
The Internet also began its life as connections that achieved averaged speeds subscriptions in 2010 the preserve of the few as ARPANET, the of 9.1Mb s in 2011.
Internet speeds continue were broaband packet switched network built for the US to climb: companies such as Innera are Department of Defense in 1969.
Although beginning to ship 100Gb s backbone the Internet expanded as regional products, while average broadband speeds networks became interconnected using are expected to quadruple by 2016.
Mobile TCP IP Transmission Control Protocol broadband speeds are also set to increase Internet Protocol, it remained primarily signicantly over the next few years as new an academic network.
As with early standards 4G 802.11ac are rolled out.
aviation, initial applications such as le Advances in technology have also played a transfers and remote login were significant role in lowering the cost of air constrained by speed and cost, while travel.
More powerful jet engines not only the Internets limited reach meant it had allowed aircraft to travel faster, they also little relevance beyond academic or IT enabled them to carry larger payloads.
However, in a remarkable Combined with airframe improvements, repeat of the aviation experience, one this presaged the development of larger early application electronic mail aircraft epitomised by the introduction of e-mail dramatically increased the the Boeing 747 in 1969.
The Jumbo carried The combination of appeal of the Internet, contributing 400 passengers and achieved three times complexity and cost greatly to its future development.
greater hourly productivity than the meant that early Technological improvements have had a Boeing 720B introduced a decade earlier passenger travel dramatic impact on the cost performance resulting in sharply lower unit costs per remained the preserve equation of both aviation and the Internet seat.
Larger aircraft also helped drive of the wealthy and the by broadening their appeal.
The modern improvements in fuel efficiency as fuel patient.
The Internet era of air transportation began with burned per seat today is 70% less than also began its life as the jet-powered airliners that increased the that of early jets.
Advances in avionics preserve of the few as speed, reliability and comfort of air travel.
also lowered costs by reducing the size ARPANET, the packet By 1965 the airline industry had captured of the ight crew from five to just two: switched network built 95% of the transatlantic travel market.
navigation systems eliminated the need for for the US Department Technological advances have also had a a navigator, jet engines no longer required of Defense in 1969 dramatic impact on Internet speeds.
In 1986, in-ight adjustment making obsolete the the Internet backbone the principal data ight engineers role while ight control routes between large interconnected and collision avoidance systems removed The modern era of networks operated on lowly 56kb s links.
the need for a third pilot.
Other significant air transportation began Today, advances in bre optics, transport cost reductions came from improved with jet-powered and routing technology means that much utilisation load factor and fleet airliners that increased of the Internet backbone runs at 10Gb s. standardisation.
Many of these factors the speed, reliability and Internet access speeds have also increased are remarkably similar to those currently comfort of air travel dramatically since the likes of US Robotics driving the transition towards Cloud Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 Managers Report and Portfolio Analysis The new cycles update: The Internet and the mass adoption of IT 17 Deregulation in both the airline and telecommunications industries resulted in a dramatic increase in competition computing.
Larger datacentres are able Telecommunication Act 1996 introduced to deliver vastly cheaper computing by competition into the local loop which $1.3tr adopting technology such as virtualisation resulted in an explosion of new telecom Capital investment that can dramatically improve server operators, and capital investment reached following telecom utilisation and more computing per unit an incredible $1.3 trillion.
Competitive Local deregulation of labour, evidenced by Facebooks 400:1 Exchange Carriers CLECs spent nearly server to Full Time Employee FTE ratio $100bn trying to compete with the and reports that Apples $1bn datacentre incumbent Regional Bell Operating in North Carolina created just fty jobs.
While nearly two-dozen of these companies failed in the process However, as the US airline industry had echoing the exit of 48 carriers three years been regulated since 1938, the impact of post airline deregulation, they left behind lower costs was not fully felt.
Instead, the significant excess capacity that continued Civil Aviation Board CAB was responsible to weigh on pricing long after their demise.
for controlling routes, competition and prices.
Other aviation markets followed a The combination of technology, competition similar pattern: in the UK, the Civil Aviation and excess capacity following the collapse of Act 1946 ensured that only state carriers the first wave of new entrants post Advances in avionics could operate regular schedules.
Prederegulation resulted in downward pressure also lowered costs by deregulation price based competition in pricing in both industries.
In real terms, air reducing the size of the US only existed in large states such fares have declined by almost 2% per year the ight crew from as Texas, where new carriers such as since 1960 which, due to compounding, has five to just two Southwest Airlines offered intrastate seen them fall by 45% in ination-adjusted service that escaped the CABs reach.
Deregulation of the air UK, competition came primarily from cargo market in 1977 presaged even more charter operators such as Britannia substantial declines in rates freight yields The US airline industry Airways.
The telecommunications industry falling 4.7% on average between 1989 and had been regulated followed a similar pattern, and remained 2009.
The impact of lower prices was since 1938... the impact regulated until 1980s liberalisation ended magnied by post-war increases in standards of lower costs was not British Telecoms monopoly in 1981 ahead of living.
Falling prices have been a consistent fully felt...
The of its privatisation in 1984, the same year feature of the technology industry since its Telecommunications that AT&T was broken-up.
Telecom regulation had acted like a industry followed a dam, holding back cost improvements.
similar pattern... until The Airline Deregulation Act of 1978 Once this had been removed a dramatic 1980s liberalisation allowed airlines to enter or exit markets, impact on pricing occurred: between 1984 expand routes and set their own fares.
This the break-up of AT&T and 1996 deregulation, led to 47 new carriers entering the market long distance voice pricing fell by 62%.
Data The combination of by 1984.
Long distance carriers faced costs have fallen even more sharply, due to technology, competition particularly disruptive competition from the excess capacity post the dot-com bubble and excess capacity likes of Peoples Express and Freddie Lakers and cost reductions in key technology resulted in downward Skytrain service.
Similarly, the break-up of components such as hard drives, where cost pressure pricing in both AT&T led to both MCI and Sprint entering the Gb has fallen on average by 40% per industries long distance telecom market, while the annum.
As a result, the cost per gigabit Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS 18 18 Portfolio Analysis The new cycle update: The Internet and the mass adoption of IT New Entrants ITS HAPPENING AGAIN.
Unencumbered by older infrastructure and legacy business models, new entrants have had a dramatic impact on pricing in both the aviation and telecommunication industries.
The impact of technology improvements were not fully felt in either Like low cost carriers, public Clouds deliver the aviation or telecommunication industries ahead of deregulation.
computing at vastly lower prices due to their However, new entrants post the Airline Deregulation Act 1978 and scale and use of technologies that enable the Telecommunications Act 1996 provided significant downward much higher utilisation rates than most pressure on prices making mass-adoption possible.
In addition to the enterprises can achieve.
additional competition that these new entrants represented, airlines such as Southwest pioneered the low cost carrier model that is today synonymous with the likes of Ryanair.
While bright orange uniforms 62% and knee-high boots may have conveyed a fresh and fun approach to Fall in long distance voice pricing between air travel they belied a fundamentally different delivery model focused 1984 break-up of AT&T 1984 and 1996 on delivering the cheapest possible cost per available seat mile aided telecom deregulation by a non-unionised workforce, standardised fleet and unassigned seating that allowed for rapid turnaround times.
IMAGE: Many thanks to the Southwest Airlines archive for the use of this photograph 400:1 Facebooks server to full time employee FTE ratio Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 Managers Report and Portfolio Analysis The new cycles update: The Internet and the mass adoption of IT 19 THE NEW CYCLE UPDATE: THE INTERNET AND THE MASS ADOPTION OF IT continued The combination of technology, competition and excess capacity post deregulation resulted in downward pressure on consumer pricing in both industries of streaming video has fallen from $193 However, neither the airline or in 2000 to less than three cents by 2010, telecommunications industries have been 126% while monthly web hosting per GB has able to fully capture the value associated Internet trafc growth collapsed from $2.58 to less than 1 100th with this trafc growth.
In the case of CAGR since 1990 of one cent over the same timeframe.
airlines, the industrys maladies are well documented: capital intensity, high xed Lower prices have driven dramatic increases costs, unionised workforces and their in both airline and Internet trafc.
Between dened benefit pensions, and oil sensitivity 1950 and 2000, worldwide passenger magnied by debt as assets are often growth compounded at a remarkable 7.0%, collateralised.
These factors have resulted with newer aviation segments such as in some truly spectacular losses, with 170 international travel and US air cargo airlines having entered bankruptcy since revenue growing faster still.
However, in light of the airline Internet trafc has expanded even faster, industrys travails the emergence of driven by users US subscribers grew from successful low cost carriers LCCs such as 20m in 1996 to 245m in 2011 and a 54-fold Southwest Airlines 1967 and Ryanair 1985 increase in time spent online.
While incumbents combination has seen global e-commerce successfully repelled the first wave of new reach an estimated $10 trillion in 2010 while entrants post regulation, they did so by global Internet trafc has recorded a CAGR developing hubs and computer reservation of 126% since 1990.
More recently, cheaper systems that gave them an advantage.
and more pervasive mobile Internet usage Although the top ten airlines accounted for has become a significant contributor to 95% of the US market by 1992, this had been overall growth due to the adoption of achieved via consolidation, while their smartphones and tablets.
These smaller, structural deficiencies remained lighter devices have signicantly improved Lower prices unaddressed.
In contrast, Southwest the reach of the Internet in the same way have driven dramatic Airlines and Ryanair have remained focused that regional jets and hub and spoke increases in both on delivering the cheapest average seat mile networks allowed the airline industry to airline and Internet ASM possible, highly reminiscent of signicantly expand its served market post trafc  IaaS from a deregulation.
They have also contributed public Cloud: a no frills service raw greatly to the ubiquity of their respective computing with unassigned seating networks, whose value is proportional to Smart phones multi-tenanted on a standardised fleet the square of the number of connected and tablets have servers operating out of secondary users of the system Metcalfes Law.
In signicantly improved airports own datacentres.
These structural practice this network-effect helps explain the reach of the advantages allowed the LCCs to generate why Apple enjoys 85% of the high-end Internet in the same profits for much of aviations lost decade smartphone market today and how the way that regional jets post 9 11 in contrast with the industry that combination of more routes and greater and hub and spoke lost over $50bn.
While an imperfect parallel, frequency of service led to the rise of airline networks allowed the the plight of legacy carriers once the overall commuter markets and the substitution of airline industry to market decelerates or goes into decline is a other transport modes.
signicantly expand useful parable to the risk posed to Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS 20 Managers Report and Portfolio Analysis The new cycle update: The Internet and the mass adoption of IT THE NEW CYCLE UPDATE: THE INTERNET AND THE MASS ADOPTION OF IT continued While airlines have proven largely uninvestable almost every area within the aviation infrastructure market has benefited from trafc growth technology incumbents by a cheaper form trafc ow, so the migration of of computing now that IT budgets are under applications to the Cloud is generating 170 pressure from sub-trend global growth.
demand for technologies that provide Number of airlines application control ADCs, network visibility While airlines have proven largely unentering bankrupty DPI and route WAN optimisation.
investable, almost every area within the since 1978 aviation infrastructure market has benefited While companies that carry, manage and from trafc growth.
Increased trafc has secure trafc are likely to continue to benefit naturally benefited the aircraft market and from ongoing growth, the experience of the its suppliers which enjoyed a 6.5% CAGR aviation market appears to confirm our view between 1975-1985 and a 4.6% CAGR during that new applications made possible by the following decade.
After significant cheap and highly available trafc are likely to consolidation, the airliner market today is a provide the best investment opportunities.
duopoly between Boeing and Airbus, The Kelly Act of 1925, which handed over similar to the duopoly enjoyed by Cisco and airmail service to private operators, resulted The plight of legacy Juniper in core routers devices that in airmail becoming the first commercial carriers once the forward, rather than carry trafc.
The large aviation application, and led to the overall market civil aircraft jet engine market has also been formation of Pan American Airways and decelerates is a useful a big beneciary of increased trafc, aiding other airmail operators.
As is common with parable to the risk key suppliers GE Aviation and Rolls Royce.
new applications, limited initial success posed to technology Growing electronic content that today was followed by dramatic adoption a new incumbents by a accounts for 10% of civil aircraft material ten-day airmail service between Rose Bay, cheaper form of costs have made avionic suppliers such as New South Wales and Southampton resulted computing Honeywell and Rockwell Collins excellent in the volume of mail actually exceeding long-term investments.
Other beneciaries aircraft storage space.
The availability of include companies exposed to the $38.5bn charter airlines made it possible for Vladimir airport infrastructure market, driven by Raitz in 1950 to establish the package After significant trafc growth, secondary airports and holiday industry when he organised a trip consolidation, the emerging market demand for instance, India to Corsica using a non-scheduled ight.
By airliner market today expects to grow its airport count from 80 to chartering an aircraft and lling almost is a duopoly between 500 over the next decade.
The growth in every seat, Raitz signicantly reduced the Boeing and Airbus airports closely resembles the development unit costs of his air transport, which he of Internet datacentres run by the likes of then bundled with accommodation in order Telecity, which allow telecom carriers to not to fall foul of minimum fares set by the The growth in airports hand off or terminate data trafc.
While organised tours were already closely resembles the the threats faced by airports and airlines well-established by Thomas Cook in 1841 : development of that underpin the huge airport security cheap package holidays made possible by Internet datacentres market equally apply to the security Raitzs company Horizon Holidays and run by the likes of software market with shared focus on competitors such as Thomson and Lunn Poly Telecity, which allow perimeter security rewalls and screening delivered low cost travel for the masses.
telecom carriers to technologies IPS.
Just as trafc growth While less than 2% of the British population hand off or terminate drove the need for Air Trafc Control ATC in took overseas holidays in 1952, 2.5m Britons data trafc order to prevent collisions and expedite were taking package holidays abroad by the Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 Managers Report and Portfolio Analysis The new cycles update: The Internet and the mass adoption of IT 21 New applications made possible by cheap and highly available trafc are likely to provide the best investment opportunities end of the 1960s, rising to 11m by the end of to be there overnight belied its impact.
The relaxation of foreign exchange delivering high value inputs at the right time, 250x controls in 1970 marked the apogee for express delivery enabled just in time JIT Increase in intergrated the package holiday industry, which manufacturing a concept pioneered by cargo carriers trafc subsequently became increasingly price Toyota that minimised the interval between in the 20 years after competitive as supply caught up with processes, allowing companies to signicantly deregulation demand.
Soaring oil prices following the 1973 reduce their inventories.
In the 20 years after Yom Kippur war resulted in the bankruptcy of deregulation, integrated carriers like FedEx a number of operators including Horizon and and DHL experienced a 250-fold increase in Clarksons, whose infamous collapse left trafc which had a significant impact on the 49,000 UK holidaymakers stranded overseas.
US inventory to sales ratio and helped reduce However they played a key role in advancing logistic costs from 15.7% of GDP in 1980 a number of new applications such as travel to just 8.3% by 2010.
Express delivery has agencies, bureau fide change and fractional also been an important enabler for the ownership while contributing greatly to technology industry by signicantly reducing mass travel, which resulted in tourism working capital and making possible build becoming the worlds largest single industry to order businesses such as Dell Computer.
Airmail became Echoing the advent of new applications in the first commercial While package holidays helped accelerate the the aviation market, plentiful bandwidth aviation application trend towards mass travel, the advent of and cheap computing have presaged the and led to the the express transportation industry is the development of a number of key Internet formation of Pan most dramatic example of new market applications online advertising, American Airways and creation made possible by cheap and highly e-Commerce, SaaS and social networking other airmail operators available air travel.
While an air cargo described elsewhere in this report.
Superior market had existed since the early days of economics associated with public Clouds commercial aviation, it was fragmented and are likely to drive an additional wave of reliant on use of space in passenger airlines, applications over the coming years.
A number Cheap package holidays which meant that freight depended on of these will build on the success enjoyed by made possible by interlining cooperation between carriers.
SaaS by similarly combining mass scale and Horizon Hoidays Prompted by a booming computer market multi-tenancy with an Internet delivery model delivered low cost and its use of high value parts, Fred Smith that eliminates upfront costs and enables travel for the masses established Federal Express today: FedEx in customers to try before they buy.
In addition 1973 as an integrated air-ground cargo service to Platform as a Service application which introduced the idea of one carrier being development tools and runtime services The advent of the responsible for a piece of cargo from pick-up and Infrastructure as a Service the provision express transportation to delivery.
Once the 1977 Airline Deregulation of raw computer memory, storage and industry is the most Act removed route restrictions that had networking, other applications such as dramatic example of previously limited all-cargo airlines, the desktop, gaming, surveillance and new market creation concept of time definite delivery could translation are likely to be increasingly made possible by cheap become a practical reality.
The simplicity of delivered as services.
Cloud storage is likely and highly available the product summed up in a 1978 advertising to gain further traction as enterprises air travel campaign When it absolutely, positively has increasingly turn to public Clouds to store Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS 22 Portfolio Analysis The new cycle update: The Internet and the mass adoption of IT Mass Adoption ITS HAPPENING AGAIN.
The Internet has driven the mass adoption of IT, just as cheap and accessible air travel helped tourism become the worlds largest single industry by the early 1990s.
The speed and economics of ight were transformed by Cheap and ubiquitous Internet access, together the jet engine resulting in the dramatic adoption of air with the proliferation of smartphones and tablets transportation, the airline industry accounting for 95% of has enabled the mass consumption of technology, transatlantic travel by 1965.
Likewise the advent of charter once the preserve of IT departments and so-called airlines and the package holiday delivered genuine low cost early adopters.
overseas travel for the masses.
While less than 2% of the British population took overseas holidays in 1952, more than 11 million enjoyed package holidays by the end of the 1980s.
25bn Just as hub and spoke networks signicantly expanded the Cumulative downloads from Apples AppStore market for air travel so smartphones have transformed the reach of the Internet which today boasts 2.2bn users that generate 4.7bn Google searches, 526m Facebook visits and consume 98m hours of YouTube video every day.
75% IMAGE: Caorle, Italy The percentage of information today being created by consumers Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 Managers Report and Portfolio Analysis The new cycles update: The Internet and the mass adoption of IT 23 THE NEW CYCLE UPDATE: THE INTERNET AND THE MASS ADOPTION OF IT continued Plentiful bandwidth and cheap computing have presaged the development of a number of key Internet applications data.
At the end of 2011, Amazons Simple c. 900m monthly users each create 90 pieces 15.7% Storage Service S3 Cloud storage service of content every month while uploading stored 762bn objects, nearly tripling during 100m photos per day.
On the consumer side, Cloud storage active users generate 340m Tweets and a to 8.3% offerings from Dropbox and others are likely staggering 1.6bn search queries every day.
Decline in logistic costs to benefit from increased bandwidth speeds The Twitter ecosystem is said to produce as % of GDP between and a proliferation of Internet-enabled eight terabytes of data per day, eight times 1980 and 2012 devices.
Cloud synchronisation, which greater than that produced by the New York automates synchronisation of digital content Stock Exchange.
Massive data sets can also across multiple devices, should also benefit be generated by transactional data Walmart from these same trends.
One other handles more than 1m customer transactions application worthy of mention is the every hour and in the real world due to the so-called Internet of Things made possible proliferation of sensors: a GE90 jet engine by the proliferation of sensors and generates 20 terabytes of operational actuators, cheap connectivity and the information during just one hour of use, Express delivery has adoption of IPv6 which will create sufficient roughly equivalent to all the information also been an important Internet addresses for every device on the held in the Library of Congress.
In addition, enabler for the planet.
While the vision of the physical world vast data sets have been created via technology industry by becoming a type of information system is applications such as Google Earth 70Tb signicantly reducing by nature, more long-term, ubiquitous of raw data, YouTube 45Tb in 2006 and working capital and wireless connectivity is likely to advance the Wikipedia which is fty times bigger making possible build cause of a number of sub-themes including than the Encyclopedia Britannica.
to order businesses home automation and smart metering.
The ability to process this vast data courtesy These new applications will further add of cheap computing, storage and opento the explosion of data that has already source tools has created a significant new Superior economics accompanied increased ubiquity of market, so-called big data which is projected associated with public computing and pervasive applications such to grow at a 40% CAGR from 2010 and will Clouds are likely to as social networking.
According to IDC, the represent a $16.9bn opportunity by 2015. drive an additional amount of information created and Internet companies are among the most wave of applications replicated in 2011 surpassed 1.8 zettabytes aggressive adopters of big data solutions: over the coming years equivalent to 1.8tr gigabytes, growing more Facebook is reportedly powering the worlds than nine-fold since 2006.
Much of this data largest Hadoop analytic data warehouse is being generated naturally through while eBay uses Teradata to process more New applications smartphone the worlds 5 billion mobile than 100 petabytes every day.
While both will further add phones transmit 6 petabytes of data every eBay and Facebook are likely to use their vast to the explosion of month and social media usage, IDC databases to improve recommendations data that has already estimating that 75% of all information is to users, Boeing believes that better jet accompanied increased today created by consumers.
Due to their engine analytics will help them improve ubiquity of computing large user bases, applications such as fuel consumption and optimise fleet and pervasive Facebook and Twitter are generating performance.
While large companies applications such as particularly vast data sets: Facebooks especially Internet ones have been using social networking Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS 24 24 Portfolio Analysis The new cycle update: The Internet and the mass adoption of IT New Applications ITS HAPPENING AGAIN.
Just as the growth in air travel created new market opportunities, so mass adoption of the Internet has spawned a plethora of new applications, including eCommerce and social networking.
While companies that carry, manage and secure trafc Plentiful bandwidth and cheap computing have are likely to benefit from ongoing growth, new applications led to the development of a number of key Internet made possible by widespread adoption often provide the applications.
The superior economics and elasticity best investment opportunities.
This was certainly the case associated with public Clouds are likely to drive a wave in aviation where increased trafc and more mature of new applications over the coming years.
infrastructure created new markets such as airmail, branded hotels and package holidays.
The most dramatic example of this was the experience of Federal Express which established 51,000 the express delivery industry following the deregulation of Number of processor cores recently linked at the air cargo market.
In addition to the 250 fold increase in AWS to create a virtual HPC cluster trafc enjoyed by the integrated carriers during the twenty years post deregulation, express delivery led to the widespread adoption of Just In Time JIT manufacturing.
20Tb This helped fuel a productivity boom by reducing logistic costs from 15.7% of US GDP in 1980 to just 8.3% by 2010.
Amount of data created by a GE90 jet engine in just one hour of use IMAGE: The Hub of Federal Express in Roissy.
Photo by Etienne fide MALGLAIVE Gamma-Rapho via Getty Images P Po olar lar C Ca ap pi it ta al l T Te ec ch hn no ol lo og gy y T Tr rus ust t p pl lc c A Annual nnual R Re ep po or rt t & & F Fi inan nanc cial ial S St tat ate em me en nt ts s f fo or r th the e ye year ar e en nd fide ed d 3 30 0 A Ap pr ri il l 20 2012 12 Managers Report and Portfolio Analysis The new cycles update: The Internet and the mass adoption of IT 25 THE NEW CYCLE UPDATE: THE INTERNET AND THE MASS ADOPTION OF IT continued Dramatic improvements in cost and speed, together with the adoption of mobile computing have made the Internet as ubiquitous as air travel big data applications for some time, 90% of it has been created in the last two the Public Cloud is beginning to enable years alone.
Cloud computing and its mass 18x smaller organisations to access the produced IT has barely begun to scratch the Growth in UK overseas significant and scalable computing required.
surface beyond , travel market between CycleComputing, an Amazon Web Services which augers well given the $241bn 1951 1996 AWS customer that creates high opportunity it is forecast to represent by performance computing HPC clusters in 2020.
Big data is a big deal, as it appears the Cloud, recently linked 51,000 processors to be the application most likely to change from across AWS to test potential cancer business processes in the way that Federal compounds.
According to its CEO, Express did.
Incumbents are unlikely to fare it took just three hours and cost less than well in what is likely to prove the most $15,000 to complete analysis that would disruptive period for the technology sector have required between $20-25m worth of post the PC.
Having repelled the earliest The Twitter ecosystem supercomputing infrastructure.
This idea dot com entrants, legacy technology is said to produce eight of Cloud supercomputing is also being used companies appear in the midst of a period terabytes of data per by Constellation Technologies to process of frenzied M&A, reminiscent of airline day, eight times greater human genome data in order to deliver consolidation that bought a little time for than that produced by personalised medicine.
Just as express incumbents in the mid 1980s.
Unfortunately the New York Stock delivery allowed companies to manage for them, we expect the impact of the new Exchange inventories in real-time, big data together technology cycle to play out in a way similar with in-memory analytics may result in to the experience of the UK travel industry, companies being able to optimise revenue which in real terms tripled in size between The ability to process aspects of their business in real-time.
However all the growth this vast data has occurred in overseas travel, which increased Dramatic improvements in cost and speed, created a significant more than eighteen fold while domestic together with the adoption of mobile new market, so-called travel at-lined for more than four decades.
computing have made the Internet as big data which is ubiquitous as air travel.
With more than projected to grow at 2.2bn users 32% of the worlds population a 40% CAGR from 2010 Ben Rogoff the Internet has become so all-encompassing and will represent a that it is genuinely running out of IP $16.9bn opportunity addresses.
Usage patterns are truly by 2015 staggering 4.7bn Google searches, 526m Facebook visits, and over 98m hours of YouTube video watched every day.
As yet Just as express delivery there are few signs of a slowdown: while it allowed companies to took seven years to sell 20m smartphones manage inventories in it took only 20 months to sell 20m tablets.
real-time, big data may Since its inception in 2008, the Apple app result in companies store has delivered 25bn cumulative being able to optimise downloads.
The Internet is in rude health - revenue aspects of and yet it remains in its infancy given that their business Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS
