Portfolio Analysis Investment Managers Report 05 05 INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT Ben Rogoff The biggest infusion of credit into the European banking system in the Euros history Market review The tragic Japanese tsunami brought the Global equities fell sharply during the first equity rally to an abrupt end, triggering a 2.6% half of the scal year as an early growth contraction in risk appetite that marked Decrease in the scare quickly developed into a proto the start of a risk off period that prevailed FTSE World Index sovereign crisis.
However, decisive if until December.
Characterised by over the year somewhat overdue intervention by the deteriorating macroeconomic data and European Central Bank ECB in December growing social unrest as austerity drove a dramatic recovery in risk assets programmes began to bite, a key measure through April signicantly ameliorating of risk appetite, US ten year Treasuries, saw earlier losses, the FTSE World Index falling yields fall below 3% for the first time since just 2.6% during the year.
Sterling based November 2010, nishing the year at 1.92%.
returns were augmented by the strength Despite a growing need for massive, of the US Dollar 2% and Yen 5% but coordinated intervention to break negative offset by Euro weakness -9%.
Despite a feedback loops, US policymakers appeared more partisan than ever while Germany plethora of seemingly existential challenges, the global economy managed to expand by refused to countenance Eurobond issuance and or QE ahead of scal reform.
Faced with 3.9% in 2011, once again driven by emerging economies 6.2%.
Although China deed worst case outcomes, capital poured into safe havens, leaving volatility at post its critics by growing GDP above 9%, a number of other significant emerging Lehman highs, cross correlation at record levels and global equities at the nadir more economies such as India and Brazil slowed as the combination of tighter monetary than 19% below their April highs.
Rallies from deeply depressed levels in both August policy and lower commodity prices took their toll.
Developed economies also and September proved evanescent until soaring sovereign spreads and a growing decelerated meaningfully during 2011 1.6% reecting the impact of scal funding crisis in Europe presaged massive intervention from the ECB in December.
consolidation, the deepening European sovereign crisis and economic dislocation The ECB commenced the Long Term in Japan following the devastating March Renancing Operation LTRO, which 2011 tsunami.
Fortunately corporate allowed banks to apply for unlimited earnings continued to materially outpace quantities of three-year ECB loans at an the global economy S&P 500 earnings interest rate of 1%.
Quickly understood growing in excess of 14% in 2011, aided by to be quantitative easing QE in all Early growth scare additional margin expansion reecting but name, the eventual Euro 1 trillion quickly developed into the diminished position of labour.
take-up represented the biggest infusion a proto sovereign crisis Although equities ended the previous of credit into the European banking scal year at highs, risk appetite had system in the Euros history.
The ECBs already begun to wane in other asset balance sheet expanding by more than Soaring sovereign classes reecting a deepening of the Greek Federal Reserves during QE2.
Moreover, spreads presaged crisis, Chinese policy tightening, US budget it prevented a potential sovereign crisis massive intervention brinkmanship and soaring oil prices.
from developing by prefunding a from the ECB Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS 06 Managers Report and Portfolio Analysis Investment Managers Report INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT continued Technology shares materially outperformed the broader market over the year substantial portion of European bank essentially mirrored its earnings progress.
A collapse in In contrast, the strong performance of 8.3% sovereign yields resulted in a sharp both IBM and Microsoft reected their Increase in Dow Jones rebound in risk assets through our year appeal as inexpensive stores of wealth World Technology end, with global equities posting their epitomised by the revelation in November Index in Sterling strongest first calendar quarter gains that Warren Buffetts Berkshire Hathaway terms over the year since 1998.
During the year, the strongest had built up a 5.4% stake in IBM having regional returns taking into account the previously eschewed the technology impact of foreign exchange movements sector.
The combination of Apples were generated by US stocks due to their strength and the allure of inexpensive perceived safe haven status and aided large-caps resulted in a crowding out of by a stronger Dollar.
Japanese equities riskier assets: small caps trailing their also outperformed as they rebounded large-cap peers by more than 22% as from post-tsunami lows, returns measured by the difference between the augmented by Yen strength.
Unsurprisingly, Russell 1000 and 2000 Technology Indices.
given the re-emergence of sovereign risk, The magnitude of large-cap outperformance European stocks trailed, exacerbated by helped obfuscate the implosion of a number the weaker Euro.
Asian equity markets also of incumbents such as Hewlett Packard underperformed reecting the combination -20%, Nokia -60% and Research in Motion of slower regional growth and diminished -70% as tablet and smartphone growth risk appetite.
began to negatively impact both the Stellar performances Technology Review personal computer PC and traditional from a number of Technology shares materially handset markets.
In addition to those largecap technology outperformed the broader market over incumbents plainly impacted by the new stocks contributed the year, the Dow Jones World Technology cycle, there were a number of tell tale materially to the Index rising 8.3% in Sterling terms.
While acquisitions of next-generation companies sectors relative returns some of the sectors relative strength by legacy vendors.
While the 6.7bn was passive reecting the significant purchase of Autonomy by HP for a 79% outperformance of US equities and a premium in August was undoubtedly the somewhat stronger Dollar, stellar most dramatic attempt at reinvention Apples performance performances from a number of large-cap during the year, there were a number of was all the more technology stocks contributed materially other new-cycle thesis afrming M&A remarkable given the to the sectors relative returns.
This was transactions, particularly in the Softwaredeath of CEO Steve Jobs especially evident in the US where Apple as-a-Service SaaS space as IBM, Oracle 72%, IBM 25% and Microsoft 27% and SAP each acquired next-generation helped large caps as measured by the companies.
The semiconductor space also The combination of Russell 1000 Technology Index gain c. 15% saw further consolidation following the Apples strength and in Sterling terms during the year.
While acquisitions of equipment suppliers Novellus allure of inexpensive Apples performance was all the more Systems and Varian Semiconductor by Lam mega-caps resulted in remarkable given the death of CEO Steve Research and Applied Materials respectively.
a crowding out of Jobs in October, the stocks ascent However, the largest transaction of the year riskier assets Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 Portfolio Analysis Investment Managers Report 07 Our new cycle thesis appeared to come through a difficult year relatively unscathed despite the more challenging backdrop saw Google pay $12.5bn for Motorola in a number of strong individual stock Mobility in order to bolster the intellectual performances including Amazon 22%, 6.5% property IP position of its Android Red Hat 29%, Salesforce.
com 16% and NAV growth operating system.
At the sector level, late Teradata 28%.
Relative performance was over the year cycle areas such as software and IT services also generated by minimal exposure to outperformed while earlier cycle stocks struggling incumbents such as Hewlett trailed.
Weakest performance was reserved Packard, and from M&A activity, with two for networking stocks primarily due to a of our holdings Netlogic Microsystems hiatus in service provider spending and and Demandtec being acquired, each for the alternative energy sector due to the a 57% premium.
Economic Outlook Our performance Although set to decelerate in 2012, we The outperformance of large-cap remain hopeful that the global economy technology stocks created a formidable forecast to grow 3.5%, will continue to relative performance headwind that we muddle through led by developing were unable to overcome, our own net economies with some contribution from asset value rising 6.5% over the year.
In advanced markets despite the likelihood addition to small-cap underperformance, of a recession in Europe.
In the developed relative performance was hindered by world, ination looks well contained modest exposure to the Chinese IT courtesy of slack labour markets and services sector where share prices were slowing growth that all but guarantee particularly weak due to the combination the continuation of remarkably of slowing growth and corporate accommodative monetary policy, the malfeasance.
At the sector level, the Trust Federal Reserve recently reiterating its was negatively impacted by its exposure to commitment to its Zero Interest Rate the semiconductor companies that fared Policy ZIRP until late 2014.
Emerging There were a number poorly due to weakening macroeconomic markets are also likely to benefit from of new-cycle thesis conditions, exacerbated by inventory more accommodative policy as slower afrming M&A adjustments following the Japanese growth and lower food energy prices transactions, earthquake and Thai oods.
Networking have assuaged inationary risk.
The US particularly in the stocks also detracted from performance economy is expected to grow above 2% Software as a Service as service provider capital spending in 2012, due to improvement in labour space during the year decelerated materially during the second markets, consumer confidence and more half of 2011, in part due to a strike at limited headwinds associated with Verizon and AT&Ts failed attempt to government spending and the housing The outperformance acquire T-Mobile.
In terms of positives, our market.
Japan is also forecast to grow of large-cap technology new cycle thesis appeared to come through 2.0% although this recovery appears stocks created a a difficult year relatively unscathed as next largely tsunami-related.
While the formidable relative generation fundamentals proved Eurozone economy is expected to contract performance headwind remarkably robust despite the more by c. 0.3% in 2012 this modest recession that we were unable challenging backdrop.
This was reected belies the likelihood of deeper c. 2% to overcome Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS 08 Portfolio Analysis Investment Managers Report INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT continued We remain hopeful that the global economy will continue to muddle through contractions in both Italy and Spain, administer the necessary medicine.
offset by modest growth in both Germany Additional risks include ination that 3.5% and France.
Fortunately Asia should might jeopardise record low interest Estimated growth remain an economic bulwark over the rates, prevent additional quantitative in global GDP coming year, driven by China and India easing and curtail policy options in China.
which are expected to grow by 8.2% and As in previous years, political risk remains 6.9% respectively.
While the lowering of the most potent exogenous factor: in Chinas annual growth target in March particular the prospect of military action raised the spectre of a potential hard being taken against a recalcitrant Iran landing, easing inationary pressures and the impact this would have on should afford authorities the necessary energy prices.
monetary and scal repower to augment Market Outlook growth if required.
Despite the disappointing start, we remain Clearly risks to this view have increased hopeful that equity markets can generate since the year end, evidenced by soaring positive returns over the coming year European sovereign yields other than although volatility is likely to persist as Germany and sharp price declines across markets attempt to climb a wall of worry the spectrum of risk assets.
While we had of Hadrianic proportions.
While we hoped that the LTRO programmes would continue to believe that the current buy more time for European leaders to top-down challenges are best understood tackle structural issues, the spectre of as echoes rather than repeat performances sovereign default and or Eurozone of the financial crisis investors clearly think collapse have once again taken centre otherwise, evidenced by negative real yields Asia should remain an stage.
Although we cannot tell how the in safe-haven sovereigns and sentiment economic bulwark over current Greek imbroglio will end, we are readings approaching levels commensurate the coming year, driven hopeful that economic sense will prevail with previous market lows excluding by China and India given the massive cost that an exit would 2008 9.
Elevated risk aversion has clearly involve for Greece and the impact it would weighed on equity valuations that today have on peripheral deposits.
Likewise we not only look undemanding versus history remain confident that a broader Eurozone the S&P trading at 12x current year As recent electoral collapse presaged potentially by a Greek estimates but also appear remarkably good setbacks to ruling exit or self-fullling contagion should value versus both cash and bonds: US parties in France and Spain default remains a tail-risk given equity dividend yields surpassing ten year Greece attest, the magnitude of its potential impact US Treasury yields for only the second time policymakers may be estimated at between 5-10% of Euro-area in the last 40 years.
While individual unable to administer GDP, a scenario too awful to seriously investors appear unmoved by this valuation the necessary medicine consider.
However, as recent electoral divergence having withdrawn $68bn from equity mutual funds in 2011, we expect setbacks to ruling parties in France and Greece and to a lesser extent Germany companies to continue to take full Political risk remains advantage of it via bond issuance and share and the UK attest, policymakers may the most potent be unable even if they are willing to repurchases, 2011 proving one of the biggest exogenous factor Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 Portfolio Analysis Investment Managers Report 09 We are mindful of a number of headwinds that could challenge our prognosis nearer term years for corporate buybacks since 1985. continue to provide a relatively positive M&A activity is likely to remain at elevated backdrop for the technology sector by 5.3% levels as companies look to re-deploy excess driving greater focus on productivity.
Forecast for IT cash in order to augment growth, which However, the combination of slower spending growth, should provide additional support to economic growth and the deationary 2011 2016 equities over the coming year.
impact of a new technology cycle is continuing to dampen global technology While confident that the current valuation spending.
IT experts Gartner are dislocation between risk and risk-free assets forecasting growth of just 2.5% in current will resolve favourably in time, we are US Dollars and a 5.3% CAGR between 2011 mindful of a number of headwinds which and 2016.
Unfortunately for IT managers, challenge this prognosis nearer term.
muted budget growth is entirely at odds Although we remain hopeful that the current with computing needs that are increasing European crisis will be contained, the longer inexorably.
According to IDC, the digital the current uncertainty persists the greater universe every electronically stored piece the risk of reexivity.
With second quarter of data is doubling every two years while earnings season approaching, we would IP trafc is expected to grow at a 29% not be surprised to see companies take the CAGR over the next five years.
This opportunity to recalibrate forecasts mismatch is continuing to force a although we suspect that a modest reset significant reallocation of IT budgets in is already partially priced in.
Additional favour of new technologies and vendors risks to consider include negative seasonal that help bridge this gap.
We expect this Elevated risk aversion trends sell in May and the potential for dynamic to accelerate over the coming year has clearly weighed on negative leverage.
Despite these and as a number of key, disruptive themes in equity valuations that other risks, we continue to take succour particular, Cloud and tablet-based today look undemanding from the alignment of our interests with computing appear to have achieved levels versus history those of policymakers who should be every of penetration often associated with rapid bit as keen to not see the global economy subsequent adoption.
This is likely to auger either fall into the abyss, or slip into a a more pernicious period resulting in Japanese-style deationary spiral.
M&A activity is likely signicantly more uneven value creation As such we remain hopeful that European to remain at elevated and elevated M&A activity as incumbents debtor and creditor nations will yet be able levels as companies look attempt to reinvent themselves with even to fashion a solution acceptable to both to redeploy excess cash greater urgency.
We also take significant comfort from recent comments made by Federal Reserve Despite outperforming over the past Chairman Ben Bernanke when he stated that year the sector has continued to fide-rate, With second quarter the FOMC was ready to take additional US technology stocks today trading on earnings season actions if necessary as the current growth 11.8 times forecast next twelve month approaching we would scare is unlikely to prove the last.
This not only compares not be surprised to see favourably versus history the median companies take the Technology Outlook forward PE post 1976 is 15.3x but once opportunity to Assuming that worst case outcomes are the sectors superior balance sheet is recalibrate forecasts avoided, subtrend global growth should Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS 10 Portfolio Analysis Investment Managers Report INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT continued Muted budget growth is entirely at odds with computing needs that are increasing inexorably considered, cash adjusted forward PEs intensies, exacerbated by slowing IT are even more compelling.
While sectorbudget growth and the move from enterprise $1.5tr wide valuations are attered by a number towards Cloud computing.
This was certainly Cash on US company of inexpensive large caps seemingly the case in 2011, which was the third balance sheets threatened by the new cycle, this appears largest year for global technology M&A by to be well understood given the sector is value since 2000.
Just as the acquisition of currently trading at a rare market 3PAR by Hewlett Packard in 2010 made it multiple.
Prospects for a modest re-rating clear that a new cycle had commenced, so over the coming year look reasonable, the increasingly strategic nature of last especially as the sector has begun to years M&A transactions were reected in attract new investors epitomised by premiums that averaged a remarkable 50% Warren Buffets $10.9bn investment in and Cloud-related M&A both private and IBM.
The sector continues to boast the public that rose 244% year on year to strongest aggregate balance sheet $11.7bn.
Given that the largest global accounting for 30% of the $1.5tr cash technology companies boast more than on US balance sheets as compared to $350bn in cash and generate annual cash c. 20% of US market capitalisation and ow in excess of $100bn, the pace of M&A has become intrinsically more profitable should remain at an elevated level IBM as higher margin software Internet reiterating that they intend to spend an companies have grown their share of additional $18bn on M&A by 2015.
This shift, together with the were disappointed that the Trust did not The sector has adoption of less capital intensive business directly benefit from more acquisitions begun to attract new models, has helped ameliorate cyclicality, during the past year, we are hopeful that investors epitomised improve economic returns while helping M&A will continue to provide positive by Warren Buffets the sector generate record cash ows.
tailwinds, disproportionately helping small $10.9bn investment Furthermore technology companies have and mid caps as incumbents continue to in IBM become signicantly better at sharing the retool for the new cycle.
spoils via buybacks and dividends as more New Cycle than half of the Russell 1000 Technology We believe this new technology cycle Technology companies Index constituents reduced their shares continues to be driven by three key themes: have become outstanding on average by 3.8% during Cloud computing, Internet applications and signicantly better 2011.
Similarly it has become the norm for ubiquitous computing mobility.
Gartners at sharing the spoils larger technology companies to pay recent CIO survey supported this view as it dividends, a volte-face epitomised by revealed that mobile technologies and Apples recent decision to reinstate its Cloud computing represent two of the The increasingly first dividend in seventeen years.
top three IT priorities today.
The third strategic nature of In addition to buybacks and dividends, business analytics, of which big last years M&A dataforms part is discussed at length M&A activity is also likely to account for transactions were a significant portion of excess corporate during the thought piece that follows reected in premiums this report.
Cloud computing continues cash cash ow over the coming year that averaged a as competition between incumbents to make significant progress as early remarkable 50% Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 Portfolio Analysis Investment Managers Report 11 The new technology cycle continues to be driven by three key themes objections relating to security and merchandise value to exceed $8bn this disintermediation have eased as CIOs year and online advertising while spawning 244% under massive pressure to deliver more a plethora of new applications made Increase in Cloud with less have begun to embrace the possible by the Cloud and afforded related M&A in 2011 cheaper and more exible computing relevance by mobile computing including associated with this mass production form social Facebook, communications of IT.
The shift towards Cloud architectures Twitter, storage Dropbox and content has been signicantly aided by the synchronisation iCloud.
Increased comfort adoption of virtualisation which today has with the Cloud is also driving the most become pervasive by the end of 2012: 52% significant revolution in database and of workloads units of computing are likely application architectures in twenty years.
Cloud adoption As companies transition towards has also been advanced by the US Federal virtualised environments, they must governments Cloud First Policy designed decide whether to migrate keep or to migrate $20bn of its $80bn annual IT consolidate end of life their existing budget to the Cloud.
This dynamic is likely to one of our holdings Concur Technologies intensify over the coming years as recently when they received a $1.4bn, decisions are made on tier one workloads fifteen year contract to supply Cloud-based that are only 32% virtualised today.
The travel booking and expense management SaaS sector is likely to prove the greatest across all federal agencies.
With 65% of beneciary of this application migration CIOs already using some form of public process forecast to grow by 18% this year Cloud environment we anticipate rapid while incumbent vendors and IT developers adoption over the coming years as the responsible for existing applications provision of IT as a service becomes appear to have the most to lose which increasingly the norm.
57% of workloads helps explain why IBM Demandtec, Oracle will be processed in the Cloud by 2015.
RightNow, Taleo and SAP Successfactors, Gartners recent CIO Ariba have all made acquisitions in the Internet Applications are also likely to survey revealed that SaaS space.
experience continued strong growth over mobile technologies the coming year reecting low penetration Once again ubiquitous computing enjoyed and Cloud computing rates in key application categories such as the most remarkable growth last year represent two of the e-commerce 4.9%, online advertising 17% driven by further smartphone and tablet top three IT priorities and  SaaS.
Having grown 75% in 2010, the hopeful that this growth should prove smartphone market expanded by a further relatively insulated from economic 58% in 2011.
However, the market The shift towards uncertainty, evidenced by US e-commerce coalesced around two key vendors, Cloud architectures growth of 15.4% year on year in Q112 Apple and Samsung, who began to has been signicantly despite the difficult backdrop.
Despite the aided by the adoption smartphone penetration is certainly helping death of CEO Steve Jobs, Apple increased of virtualisation by creating new opportunities in its dominance of the high-end smartphone which today has e-commerce eBay expects its mobile gross market achieving 85% share following the become pervasive Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012 PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS 12 Portfolio Analysis Investment Managers Report INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT continued Ubiquitous computing enjoyed the most remarkable growth last year driven by further smartphone and tablet adoption release of the iPhone 4S.
Similarly netbooks increased 5.6% in 2011, industry Samsung realised a commanding share of growth has become increasingly reliant on 58% Android-based devices that this year are emerging markets that accounted for just Growth in smartphone forecast to account for 61% of the overall over 50% of the PC market last year.
In the market in 2011 smartphone market.
This potential developed world, the PC market already duopoly is likely to put further strain on appears to be in decline as US unit former leaders such as HTC, Nokia and shipments fell 5.9% year on year during Research in Motion and their supply the fourth quarter of 2011 with share gains chains.
While smartphones should enjoy by Apple and Lenovo making life worse still another good year of growth this year for encumbent vendors HP and Dell.
Little 39% overall penetration rates already wonder then that Michael Dell, having only exceed 30% and are substantially higher in recently argued that the idea of a post developed markets.
As such we expect to PC-world was nonsense, appears to have pare our smartphone exposure over the accelerated the acquisition strategy that coming year although we are in no has seen Dell buy more than 25 non PC immediate rush given that the tablet companies since 2007.
Although Windows market represents a significant 8 and the introduction of ultrabooks may incremental opportunity, with units reaccelerate PC units in 2012 3, this forecast to grow from 82m units in 2011 renaissance is likely to prove eeting to more than 400m by 2017.
In addition to as the personal computer continues to both Apple and Samsung and their supply cede ground to more mobile alternatives.
chains, we believe that the most exciting The disruption already being experienced investment opportunities in this space by handset and PC vendors is likely to be relate to new applications made possible repeated across the technology universe by the growing ubiquity of computing such over the coming years as Cloud computing as mobile payments, remote access and gains significant traction.
Just as it took the application delivery.
We are also hopeful skyscraper two decades to begin to alter the that wireless data trafc growth which is skyline, so our sense is that after a number forecast to increase eighteen-fold between of years of being stress-tested by CIOs 2011 and 2016, together with the adoption with relatively unimportant workloads, the of 4G LTE devices will drive a recovery in Cloud is about to change the landscape of Increased smartphone mobile infrastructure spending.
Best understood as the IT penetration is While smartphone and tablet growth industry moving away from complex spawning a plethora of signicantly outpaced the PC industry enterprise computing towards a mass new applications made in 2011, a more important watermark production alternative, the Cloud is likely possible by the Cloud was established last year when total to cause disruption across the technology smartphone and tablet shipments universe by delivering a highly automated, surpassed combined desktop and notebook elastic form of computing at vastly lower The tablet market is PC shipments.
Although rumours of the PCs prices.
Datacentre technologies such as forecast to grow from demise may appear greatly exaggerated virtualisation, tiered storage, solid state 82m units to more than given that worldwide shipments ex drives and, in the future, software dened 400m in 2017 Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012
