STRATEGIC REPORT VANQUIS BANK A WHOLE NEW WORLD In todays world, lack of access to a credit card makes it hard to participate fully in modern life.
Mainstream card issuers exclude borrowers with limited or uneven credit histories.
The Vanquis Bank card brings the flexibility, consumer protection and convenience of a credit card to the non-standard market.
45 FIRST CONTACT STRATEGIC REPORT VANQUIS BANK EXPLAINED ENGAGING WITH OUR CUSTOMERS Vanquis Bank brings the advantages of credit cards to non-standard customers, many of whom are excluded by mainstream card issuers.
We are specialists in the non-standard market.
We lend responsibly to new and existing customers and provide information and support to help them manage their finances.
WHAT MAKES THE VANQUIS BANK CARD DIFFERENT?
Vanquis Bank has much smaller Vanquis Bank will maintain a much credit limits than mainstream card higher level of contact through issuers that match the needs of phone conversations and text non-standard customers.
messages than mainstream card issuers.
In this way, any problems Vanquis Bank will judge a customers can be addressed quickly and longerapplication on the basis of their term problems can be averted.
We will not turn down a customer just because they may have had money troubles in the past which they are now over.
Every new customer receives a welcome pack outlining their rights and responsibilities and offering tips on managing finances and improving their credit rating.
Our website provides detailed advice.
In 2012, 46% of new customers came from online channels, 47% from direct mail and Online applicants get 7% from other channels.
We interview customers by phone before making a final decision.
46 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 TRANSPARENT TERMS APPLYING FOR A CARD BUILDING TRUST PAYMENT CHANNELS STRATEGIC REPORT UK CONTACT CENTRES ANALYTICAL EXPERTISE The 560 staff at our UK contact The senior management team centres at Chatham and Bradford has significant experience in the stay in close contact with our 0.9m financial services sector, particularly customers.
We aim to speak by phone to the credit card industry.
Our key every new customer prior to activating personnel have strong analytical an account.
Our staff are in phone capabilities.
The business has invested contact with each customer on a heavily in scorecard development and regular basis, approximately four underwriting systems.
It supplements times as often as most mainstream standard industry techniques with a card issuers.
ACCOUNT MONITORING We monitor accounts continuously.
LEADING-EDGE TECHNOLOGY Our collections team analyses payment We use state-of-the-art technology and spending patterns to understand through all aspects of the customer the particular circumstances of each experience and life cycle.
We periodically us to identify trends, adapt our business suggest changes in credit limits and quickly and ensure that we can provide interest rates in line with usage and customers with the products and risk levels.
Customers who keep their experience that they require.
accounts in good order can get reduced interest rates.
With our low and grow lending policy, new Payments can be made customers typically receive a online through internet 250 initial credit limit.
We will account servicing eVanquis or then review the account after four directly at www.
co. uk for months for potential credit line all customers.
We will only provide can be made by phone through the credit line increases to accounts Interactive Voice Response system or being managed appropriately.
In with a call centre representative or a no circumstances will we increase standing order or a direct debit can be credit lines of customers who established to make payments on a are behind in making payments.
Customers can also When appropriate, we increase pay over the counter at The credit lines in small, Post Office or a bank, or manageable steps.
47 STRATEGIC REPORT VANQUIS BANK Vanquis Bank has established itself as the leading specialist provider of credit cards to customers in the non-standard segment of the UK market.
Our low and grow approach to extending credit and high levels of customer contact underpin a business model that is generating sound, sustainable returns.
Based on our expertise and success Michael Lenora in the UK, we are now testing the potential of expanding Managing Director, Vanquis Bank into overseas markets.
Vanquis Bank continues to bring the credit.
Customers typically start with a PROFIT BEFORE M benefits of a credit card to people who can credit limit as low as 250.
We then monitor TAX 68.0 find themselves rejected by mainstream performance over time to understand lenders.
Since 2003, we have operated individual customer behaviour before CUSTOMER M in the non-standard market, helping granting responsible increases when NUMBERS 0.9 people on average or below-average its right to do so.
incomes to do simple, everyday things YEAR-END Our interest rates reflect the higher levels M that more mainstream customers take RECEIVABLES 643.3 of default within this market segment.
The for granted, such as supermarket majority of our customers are taken on shopping or making online purchases.
at our representative APR of 39.9% and our We are confident of continuing success default charges are in line with those of the mainstream credit card providers.
In in a market which inherently carries the potential for higher levels of default all other respects, Vanquis Bank customers experience all the features associated because of our extensive experience and VANQUIS BANK WAS NAMED expertise in lending to non-standard with other globally-accepted credit cards.
AS CREDIT TODAY CREDIT customers.
Given the nature of the market, CARD PROVIDER OF THE The high level of contact we enjoy with we lend cautiously and responsibly and YEAR FOR THE FOURTH our customers also distinguishes Vanquis aim to support and inform our customers, YEAR RUNNING IN 2012.
Customers whether they are new to credit or wish excluded by mainstream card issuers to repair their financial history.
appreciate the option provided by Our approach is characterised by our low Vanquis Bank and we provide a higher and grow strategy towards extending level of help and support than the VANQUIS BANK BUSINESS MODEL At Vanquis Bank, we apply our successful non-standard business model to the credit card market.
VANQUIS BANK CREDIT CARD Our credit card products, approach to CUSTOMERS lending and customer relationships are highly adapted to the market we serve.
BETTER RISK MANAGEMENT CORPORATE BUSINESS MODEL FIND OUT MORE ON PAGE 14 A.
B. C. D. SELECTIVE, RESPONSIBILITY SIMPLE, INDIVIDUAL GRADUAL AND TRANSPARENT RELATIONSHIPS AND FLEXIBLE COMPLIANCE PRODUCTS APPROACH BUILT IN RESILIENT, CONSERVATIVE AND CONSUMER VANQUIS FLEXIBLE BUSINESS FUNDAMENTALS CREDIT DIVISION BANK FIND OUT MORE ON PAGE 38 48 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 KEY DIFFERENTIATORS STRATEGIC REPORT Strategy providing customers with the developing our retail deposits appropriate credit limit and no more, Our strategy at Vanquis Bank is to programme to fund up to 90% up deliver sustainable growth and high thereby maintaining relatively high from 80% of our receivables book levels of credit line utilisation to returns with a minimum 30% post-tax with retail deposits in due course: minimise the level of contingent return on equity.
Sustainable growth is maintaining strong financial returns, liability: vital to our strategy as we continue to including a minimum risk-adjusted enhance our reputation as a responsible ensuring that our operations are margin of 30% annualised revenue lender and to put the needs of our efficient and effective across all less impairment divided by average customers first.
aspects of the customer experience receivables.
from identifying and welcoming new To deliver our strategy, we continue We believe the UK business of Vanquis customers, to ongoing customer to focus on: service, collections processes and Bank has the capability to reach between clear credit management objectives dealing fairly with customers who 1.3 and 1.5 million customers with an get into difficulties: to ensure that we maintain stable average balance of around 800 to levels of impairment: 1,000 based on current products and developing our products, distribution distribution channels.
We also believe channels and the markets in which providing customers with a that we have the product, operations, we operate: responsive, high-quality service channels to market and expertise to throughout their time with Vanquis treating our customers fairly and successfully take our business Bank, commencing with the unique ensuring that we comply fully with model overseas.
welcome call to all new customers: all applicable regulation: mainstream lenders from our two As our experience and expertise in serving 2.
High customer contact contact centres in Chatham and Bradford.
this target audience has developed we The relationships with our customers have been able to tailor our products and are much, much closer than those in the OUR BESPOKE APPROACH services to suit the very particular needs mainstream lending market.
We genuinely At Vanquis Bank we have developed of our customers.
Not every lender has value our customers and continue to a bespoke approach to delivering our the capability to serve customers in the develop new propositions to enhance strategy.
This comprises four key strands: non-standard market but we enjoy taking levels of contact.
care of our customers and providing them All of our customers receive a welcome 1.
Focus on our target market with high levels of service and products Vanquis Bank operates exclusively in call as part of the acceptance process which genuinely meet their needs.
this is unique in the UK credit card industry.
the non-standard sector of the credit card market with many of its customers Our success in the UK has convinced us The call provides the opportunity to that we have a business model which gather additional information which is having been refused credit by mainstream lenders, either due to a thin or impaired could be successful in overseas territories.
useful to help manage their account at a Having explored a number of EU territories later date and establish a more personal credit history.
We provide customers with the opportunity to establish a sound into which we can passport our UK relationship.
It is also an important banking licence, we commenced a pilot element of completing our underwriting track record of using credit to meet their desire to build or repair their credit history.
credit card operation in Poland during and we will turn down an application if 2012.
The pilot is still progressing but the we cannot engage in a satisfactory We estimate that 7 million of the current 10 million people in this non-standard results to date show that our product dialogue with a potential customer.
offering and business model are likely to market are the target audience for our Some of our customers are new to credit card product.
bring benefits to non-standard customers credit and so choose to contact us more in overseas markets just like in the UK.
than would be expected in a standard KEY DIFFERENTIATORS A. I NDIVIDUAL RELATIONSHIPS B.
S ELECTIVE, GRADUAL C. S IMPLE, TRANSPARENT PRODUCTS AND FLEXIBLE APPROACH Welcome call for all new customers No teaser rates, no cash back to establish personal contact.
Low and grow approach typically incentives, no balance transfer deals, starting from a 250 credit limit.
just simple clear credit card products.
Selective lending criteria only 24% Representative APR more clearly Online account access and of applications are approved.
Selective credit line increase criteria Customers tell us they understand Early engagement with customers with credit limits increased their statements and that we treat before as they show signs of problems.
Repayment Option Plan allows For around half our customers we customers to freeze their balance D. R ESPONSIBILITY AND COMPLIANCE are their first or only credit card.
and suspend payments when they BUILT IN get into difficulty.
Fact-based, analytical approach to credit issue and extension.
Card and deposit systems outsourced to major industry suppliers.
49 STRATEGIC REPORT VANQUIS BANK lending relationship.
Low and grow consumers, into which we could transport our successful UK business model and centres received approximately 7 million Booking the majority of our accounts on calls, of which around half were answered a small initial credit line is at the core of develop a customer proposition capable of delivering the groups target returns.
by our contact centre staff and the our low and grow strategy.
The initial remainder by our Interactive Voice credit line is typically just 250 and this Our review focused on EU territories as: i there is synergy in consumer finance Response system.
In addition, our agents allows us to observe and understand our called and spoke to customers nearly customers behaviour before granting regulation across the EU: and ii we can passport our UK banking licence and 12 million times.
To aid with account any further lending in a responsible management and to offer alternative and sustainable manner.
Vanquis Bank raise local currency funding in other EU territories.
payment channels, more than 1 million has developed an unparalleled expertise SMS texts were sent each month.
This in lending to the non-standard market in Following our review, Poland emerged high level of contact means that we this way.
We continue to invest in people as the most attractive opportunity for understand our customers and can also and systems that enhance underwriting the following reasons: provide support to customers when capability in both acquiring our customers they are struggling to make payments.
and subsequently allowing credit line Poland has a population of just under increases.
This low and grow approach 40 million, of which approximately 15 We also offer a Gold Service, carrying has allowed the average balance of the million are within our target market: enhanced levels of customer service, portfolio to continue to grow to 790 to over 240,000 of our best customers.
The Polish economy has been 2011: 650 whilst continuing to robust through the global economic High customer contact has helped us improve underlying credit quality.
downturn, being one of the few to maintain some of the best levels of economies not to have entered customer satisfaction in the industry 4.
Collections technical recession: with 9 out of 10 customers saying they Collections are an extremely important would recommend us.
It is always our aim aspect of the business and we continue to The political and regulatory to treat customers fairly and resolve develop new and innovative collections environment in Poland is stable: and strategies designed to help customers quickly any complaints that do arise.
Polish consumers have good attitudes This is reflected in the fact that when stay on track.
Our telephone-based to borrowing and repaying, similar to operations use leading-edge technology complaints do get escalated to the the UK, and the consumer workshops Financial Ombudsman Service FOS, and techniques to maximise efficiency we conducted indicated a demand and cash collected.
Our collections teams they find in our favour over 95% of the for our product.
time, which makes us one of the best are highly trained and our promise kept rate the number of payments actually performers in the industry.
Following the necessary approvals from received from a promise given by a the UK and Polish regulators to passport customer is consistently in excess of our banking licence for the purpose of 70% which we believe is best in class.
issuing credit cards in Poland, we Our employees are trained to manage commenced a pilot credit card operation the accounts of customers that are in Poland in May.
identified as vulnerable and support SHOPPING ONLINE USED For the purposes of the pilot, we are them accordingly.
TO BE SOMETHING THAT largely utilising our UK platform including OTHER PEOPLE DID.
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT our contact centre in Chatham.
In addition, WITHOUT A CREDIT CARD, Our excellent financial performance a small Polish management team is being I COULD NEVER USE SITES has again been delivered against the heavily supported by our UK management LIKE AMAZON OR EBAY.
backdrop of tough economic conditions and employee base.
It is pleasing to NOW I CAN FIND ONLINE in the UK.
At Vanquis Bank, we have an report that the platform in the Polish BARGAINS TOO!
excellent management team supported by pilot operation is operating successfully state-of-the-art systems and processes.
and the early indications are that the Kirstie However, to ensure that we can continue product proposition is being well Vanquis Bank customer to capture the growth potential of our received by customers.
Initial accounts business, both in the UK and overseas, were written through a single regional we have continued to develop our broker but towards the end of the year operations in 2012. this was supplemented by a Polish website, www.
pl, which went live for Poland applications together with a nationwide Vanquis Banks development in the UK broker.
The addition of these two channels over the last 10 years has been a real has seen volumes increase in line with success.
However, it is appropriate that our plans and at the end of 2012 we had we continue to explore potential new 9,000 customers and a receivables book medium-term growth opportunities to of 1.8m in Poland.
Costs for the year supplement the UK business.
As a result, amounted to 3.3m, consistent with during 2011 and the early part of 2012, previous guidance.
we undertook a review of potential We expect to have completed the overseas markets which have a critical pilot by the 2013 half year and to make mass of under-served non-standard a decision on roll-out at that time.
50 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 STRATEGIC REPORT Retail deposit taking funding it will no longer require any compliance committee, all of which are chaired by an independent non-executive The retail deposits programme at intercompany funding.
Vanquis Bank is proving to be a valuable director to provide the appropriate level of challenge and oversight.
source of funding for the business and Additional contact centre capacity provides further diversification of the In order to accommodate our continued It is important that the business has a groups funding base.
The non-branch, growth, we have been further expanding framework which allows it to operate fixed-term retail deposits market in our contact centre in Bradford during as a stand-alone regulated entity and the UK is sizeable with around 70bn 2012.
The contact centre was opened to comply with the groups policies and of cash and renewals being available for towards the end of 2011 and is located procedures as a publicly listed company.
Vanquis Banks within CCDs head office facility and We are continually striving to enhance requirements represents a small operates as a satellite to our original our framework to meet the expanding proportion of this very large pool.
contact centre in Chatham, using exactly needs of our business.
the same IT infrastructure and procedures.
Like our credit card offering, our retail On 1 March 2012, we appointed Jonathan During the year, we have increased our deposit product is designed to be a headcount in Bradford from 40 to 160.
Roe as an independent non-executive straightforward proposition but director following the retirement of Ian At present, our contact centre staff in aimed at a different customer base: Bradford are engaged wholly in new Lindsey, who had been with the business since its inception in 2002.
We thank we issue fixed-rate deposits for fixed account booking and undertaking the terms of either 1, 2, 3 or 5 years we valuable welcome call to new customers.
Ian for his valuable contribution to the development of our business and welcome do not offer instant access savings As a result of our continued strong growth, products: Jonathan who brings with him a wealth of we have agreed to take up further space City experience with Dresdner Kleinwort.
depositors have no right to withdraw in our Bradford office, increasing the Together with the appointment of Iain early other than in the event of death capacity from 230 seats to 340 seats.
Cornish as an independent non-executive or bankruptcy which ensures that we This is in addition to the 400 seats we have director in 2011, Vanquis Bank has a have a stable and fixed maturity profile: at Chatham.
This will accommodate the strong board with significant financial growth at Vanquis Bank for at least the the offer is internet-based through services expertise to continue the next next two years and reinforces the groups exciting stage of its development.
highyield strong links with Bradford.
co. uk: our products are also marketed through Developing our channels to market the best buy tables such as money We are continuing to seek new ways to supermarket.
co. uk attract new customers to Vanquis Bank, and moneysavingexpert.
com: either through our existing channels BEFORE I HAD A VANQUIS of direct mail and internet or through as an FSA-regulated bank, the first BANK CREDIT CARD I WAS partnerships with other organisations.
85,000 of deposits are covered by REALLY NERVOUS ABOUT the Financial Services Compensation During 2012, in partnership with Argos, GOING OVER MY CREDIT we launched an Argos credit card with Scheme: and LIMIT AND FORGETTING TO an APR of 29.9% to Argos customers and MAKE PAYMENTS ON TIME.
the deposit-taking platform is 39.9% to the wider market.
The card has VANQUIS BANKS TEXT outsourced to Newcastle Building a multichannel marketing strategy which REMINDER SERVICE IS Society, the market-leading specialist includes Argos storecard declines, direct BRILLIANT FOR KEEPING in providing a scalable service for mailing to Argos storecard customers and ME ON TRACK!
declines, working with internet affiliates We have continued to develop the retail and search engines and marketing in the Luke Vanquis Bank customer Argos catalogue and in-store leaflets.
deposits programme at Vanquis Bank.
We have attracted around 20,000 new By the end of 2012, our retail deposit customers since the launch of the Argos base had increased to 327m from credit card at a cost per account 140m at the start of the year.
This equivalent to other channels.
represents 51% of Vanquis Banks receivables book.
Our remaining funding We will continue to investigate the source is an intercompany loan from potential for similar co-branded Provident Financial plc, which amounted arrangements with other retailers to 204m at December 2012 2011: 211m.
Governance framework Following agreement with the FSA, Vanquis Bank is now able to fund up Vanquis Bank has a well-established to 90% of its receivables with deposits.
As a This has increased from 80% previously regulated entity, Vanquis Bank operates and confirms the sustainability of a number of the internal control and risk Vanquis Banks self-funded status, management processes typically only subject to any changes in the FSAs held at a group level in many organisations.
In due course, once These include a risk committee, audit Vanquis Bank reaches full retail deposits committee, remuneration committee and 51 STRATEGIC REPORT VANQUIS BANK FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Vanquis Bank generated a profit before tax of 68.0m in 2012 2011: 44.2m as set out below: Year ended 31 December 2012 2011 Change m m % Profit loss before tax: - UK 71.3 44.2 61.3 - Poland 3.3 - n a Total Vanquis Bank 68.0 44.2 53.8 Vanquis Bank - UK Year ended 31 December 2012 2011 Change m m % Customer numbers '000 899 691 30.1 Year-end receivables 641.5 453.4 41.5 Average receivables 537.4 391.2 37.4 Revenue 283.0 213.7 32.4 Impairment 95.9 76.9 24.7 Revenue less impairment 187.1 136.8 36.8 Risk-adjusted margin 34.8% 35.0% Costs 87.4 69.4 25.9 Interest 28.4 23.2 22.4 Profit before tax 71.3 44.2 61.3 Revenue less impairment as a percentage of average receivables for the year ended 31 December.
ID NEVER HAD A CREDIT Vanquis Bank performed very strongly bookings increased by 27.6% to 375,000 CARD BEFORE AND I WANTED in 2012, reporting a result ahead of 2011: 294,000 after applying TO BUILD A CREDIT HISTORY.
Strong underwriting standards that remained VANQUIS BANK HAS BEEN growth in the receivables book, together consistent with 2011.
This represented PERFECT FOR ME THEY KEEP with favourable arrears levels, enabled an acceptance rate of 24% compared IN TOUCH AND HAVENT JUST the UK business to deliver profits of 71.3m with 20% in 2011.
The increase reflects GIVEN ME A MASSIVE CREDIT 2011: 44.2m, up 61.3% on 2011.
The UK a shift in mix towards the direct mail LIMIT.
I FEEL LIKE I KNOW business continued to generate a post-tax channel which carries a higher booking rate WHERE I AM WITH VANQUIS.
return on equity above its target of 30% than the internet channel together with and is generating surplus capital over and more effective pre-screening of Vanessa Vanquis Bank customer above that required to fund its own internet leads and enhanced targeting growth and maintain its regulatory capital of direct mailings.
Surplus distributable capital ended the year at 899,000 2011: 691,000, generated in 2012 amounted to 26.1m, showing year-on-year growth of 30.1%.
The growth in customer numbers, The demand for non-standard credit together with the credit line increase cards remains strong and there has been programme to customers who have no discernible impact from a modest established a sound payment history, increase in marketing activity from generated a 37.4% increase in average competitors.
Vanquis Bank processed receivables and a 32.4% increase in approximately 1.6 million applications revenue.
Returns from the low and during 2012, up from 1.5 million in 2011, grow approach to extending credit as a result of the increased investment remain consistently good and Vanquis in the customer acquisition programme, Bank remains extremely active in particularly direct mail.
New account managing yield and utilisation in order 52 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 STRATEGIC REPORT to generate a strong revenue stream stable, Vanquis Banks overall funding rate conditions, the emergence of competition is expected to reduce by around 100bps and maintaining our minimum targeted whilst maintaining a relatively low level of exposure to undrawn credit lines.
in 2013 as the proportion of funding post-tax return on equity of 30%.
provided by retail deposits increases.
Average utilisation in 2012 was 74%, The future for Vanquis Bank is very bright.
down from 76% in 2011 due to the strong It is a profitable, growing, capitalLOOKING AHEAD booking rate through the final quarter Vanquis Bank has had another excellent generative business and we are making of the year.
year in 2012, with strong growth in good progress in testing whether the Arrears levels have remained stable at customer numbers, receivables and profits.
platform and business model can be record lows for the business during 2012 The business is capital generative and is successfully transported into new markets.
due to the application of consistent contributing to the groups dividend, as Vanquis Bank will continue to be a major underwriting standards and the backdrop evidenced by a 5.0m dividend payment contributor to the future growth in the of a relatively stable employment market.
in March 2012 and the payment of a 15.0m groups dividends and the overall returns The result was that impairment showed dividend in February 2013. provided to shareholders.
a year-on-year increase of just 24.7% We expect 2013 to be a further year of versus a 37.4% increase in average strong growth.
We will continue to invest receivables.
This strong performance in growing the customer base and reflects the improving quality of the receivables.
However, we remain book which is underpinned by tight focused on delivering a post-tax return underwriting of new business and on equity of at least 30% and we will not the effectiveness of credit decisioning seek growth at the expense of diluting embedded in the credit line increase returns.
We are mindful that the programme.
economic environment is likely to remain difficult in the near term.
The risk-adjusted margin of 34.8% in 2012 is little changed from 2011 and has Accordingly, we will maintain the tight underwriting that has served us so well continued to benefit from favourable arrears trends.
The benefit in 2012 over recent years.
from the improvement in arrears levels We will develop our retail deposits during the first nine months of the year programme further and will steadily build was approximately 1.5%.
Arrears levels the proportion of receivables funded by have now have been stable at a record retail deposits throughout 2013.
The low for the business for four months.
actual level of deposit funding we require Accordingly, in the absence of any change will be dependent on the groups funding in the external environment or credit programme and level of headroom on standards, the underlying risk-adjusted its committed facilities.
We do not margin is expected to moderate towards expect it to be necessary to reach our 33% versus the minimum target for the retail deposits permitted funding level business of 30%.
ID GOT MYSELF INTO A BIT OF A of 90% of receivables until at least 2015.
MESS WITH CREDIT IN THE PAST.
Growth in the cost base of 25.9% includes We will complete the pilot of the IM NOW OVER MY PROBLEMS an uplift of 5.4m in the spend on direct Polish credit card operation in the BUT IT WAS TOUGH TO GET mail and other sales and marketing second quarter of 2013 and should have A CREDIT CARD COMPANY activities to support the increase in gathered sufficient data from the test TO ACCEPT THIS.
VANQUIS new account bookings in the year.
to ascertain whether the operation is BANK HAS BELIEVED IN ME Interest costs of 28.4m 2011: 23.2m capable of delivering our target returns.
AND ENABLED ME TO HAVE increased by 22.4% during 2012 compared A CREDIT CARD AGAIN.
Looking beyond 2013, we expect the with the growth in average receivables demand for non-standard credit cards of 37.4%.
This reflects the reduction in Pete in the UK to remain strong.
Based on the Vanquis Bank customer Vanquis Banks blended funding rate demand for our product and the success from 7.9% in 2011 to 7.2% in 2012 due of our customer acquisition programme to the progressive benefit from taking over the last two years, we now believe retail deposits since July 2011.
During that the UK business of Vanquis Bank has the year, Vanquis Banks retail deposit the medium-term potential to grow to base increased to 51% of receivables between 1.3 and 1.5 million customers with from 31% of receivables at the start an average balance of around 800 to of the year, with the remaining funding 1,000.
This is an increase in our previous being provided by Provident Financial assessment of the potential size of the UK plc in the form of an intercompany loan.
business of between 1.0 and 1.2 million Rates of between 2.21% and 4.65% have customers as the business is achieving been paid on retail deposits during the greater penetration of its target market year, which after taking account of the through enhanced marketing strategies.
cost of holding a liquid assets buffer, has The rate of progress towards this resulted in a blended retail deposits rate of potential will be dictated by economic 4.5% in 2012.
