STRATEGIC REPORT CONSUMER CREDIT DIVISION FACE-TO-FACE SERVICE For many people, face-to-face service still plays an important role in todays world of call centres and the internet.
Our home credit customers value the weekly call at their home by their agent to collect their repayment and discuss any further credit needs they may have.
35 FIRST CONTACT STRATEGIC REPORT HOME CREDIT EXPLAINED ENGAGING WITH OUR CUSTOMERS For families on modest incomes, juggling finances can be problematic.
Often with limited ability to save, negotiating peaks and troughs in spending is challenging.
WHAT MAKES HOME CREDIT DIFFERENT?
Provident will lend the small sums Provident will fix the amount to of a few hundred pounds that home be repaid at the time the loan is credit customers require.
We will taken out, allowing customers the lend the 400 a customer wants certainty of knowing exactly how rather than the 4,000 they much has to be repaid.
a home credit loan never rises.
Even when repayments are missed, the Provident will call weekly at amount to be repaid never rises.
customers homes to collect There are no extra charges whatsoever.
repayments and service future credit needs, providing a helpful Provident is interested in customers routine and removing the need for creditworthiness now - not at some expensive trips into town and postal point in the past when they may have charges.
The fact that the call at the been having difficulties.
We know customers home is weekly, helps that it is difficult to have a perfect the many customers who budget credit record and are prepared to weekly rather than monthly.
work with our customers as long as they can afford the repayments on the loan they are applying for.
There are no hidden charges.
The maximum amount to be repaid is clear and fixed at the start, even if a customer misses payments.
Many customers hear about us through a recommendation.
Much of our new business comes from word of mouth, direct mail or is sourced through our network of agents.
We are also recruiting increasing numbers of After receiving customers through a request to call at the online and television customers home, the agent advertising.
will visit to discuss the various products the company offers and make an appointment to call back.
36 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 TRANSPARENT TERMS THE AGENTS VISIT BUILDING TRUST APPLYING FOR A LOAN STRATEGIC REPORT Credit can be of enormous help, but it Many of our customers have incomes DIVERSE, SECURE FUNDING needs to be affordable, manageable which are less predictable than those We have mediumand long-term funding and delivered in the right way.
of borrowers in the mainstream market.
from banks, other lending institutions We allow for that in the way we structure and the public debt market.
At any given Provident Financial is the UKs leading our loans.
There may be weeks when time we maintain substantial headroom community-based provider of credit.
customers cannot afford to keep up on our committed facilities.
We borrow We have been providing small-sum their payments, or need to make a for an average of three to four years and loans tailored to this specialist market lend for an average of less than 12 months.
We will respond since 1880. flexibly to these situations and never This allows us to adapt our lending if external funding circumstances change.
Our home credit service is straightcharge extra fees or interest.
We tailor THE BRANCH NETWORK CREDIT MANAGEMENT our products to suit our customers.
Over 400 branches, providing coverage of We are focused on monitoring cash We lend responsibly.
Detailed undervirtually every postcode in the country, collections which allows us to manage standing of customers circumstances, make us the only home credit provider impairment effectively.
Every week gained from the face-to-face service with nationwide coverage in the UK and we update our risk assessment of every delivered through the agents we engage, Ireland.
We operate through two main customer, using behavioural scoring protects our customers from taking on companies: Provident Personal Credit which assesses customer payment too much credit.
It is in no ones interest and Greenwood Personal Credit.
Local patterns and utilises credit bureau data.
for us to lend to people who cannot branch managers support agents to We can identify trends early on, allowing afford it.
the appropriate action to be taken on lending and collections.
LOCAL AGENTS A network of 9,800 self-employed agents SIMPLE REPAYMENTS An agent will call at the customers advance credit and collect payments in the communities they serve.
Crucially, home to collect the weekly, or in some cases, monthly fixed repayment and agents generate commission primarily on amounts repaid, so it is in their interests when the need arises, consider any further requests for an additional loan.
Many are former customers themselves and generally live in the communities where they operate.
As a result, they are able to build up strong, professional relationships with their customers.
An agent will visit the customer in their own home to conduct affordability and creditworthiness checks, complete the paperwork required, We operate a low and and agree a suitable loan amount, grow policy.
First-time having fully explained the loan terms borrowers typically get and determined it to be suitable.
They will then agree an appropriate Those able to manage their collection routine to suit the repayments become eligible customer and deliver the for larger amounts over loan in the customers home.
37 STRATEGIC REPORT CONSUMER CREDIT DIVISION Chris Gillespie Managing Director, Consumer Credit Division Our home credit business succeeds by offering simple, transparent financial products to customers on average or below-average incomes, some of whom may find it difficult to obtain or manage other forms of credit.
The service is popular for very clear reasons: its individual, friendly and flexible, and is well suited to the needs of our customers.
The home credit business of the HOW HOME CREDIT WORKS PROFIT M Consumer Credit Division CCD is Provident is the UK and Irelands leading BEFORE TAX 125.1 Provident Financials longest running home credit lender operating through CUSTOMER business, stretching back to the companys the Provident Personal Credit PPC and M NUMBERS 1.8 foundation in 1880.
It is the largest home Greenwood Personal Credit GPC brands credit business in the UK and Ireland.
which share a national network of over YEAR-END M Every week, 9,800 local agents visit the 400 branch offices.
PPC and GPC provide RECEIVABLES 870.5 vast majority of our 1.8 million customers, small, unsecured credit, typically for sums around one in 20 UK households, to issue of around 500.
These are delivered to loans and collect repayments.
Even after customers homes by self-employed 130 years, the business continues to agents who then usually call every week, flourish and fill an important need for or in some cases every month, to collect consumers in the UK non-standard repayments.
Unlike other forms of lending, credit market.
home credit includes all the costs up front.
There are no extra charges whatsoever, even if a customer misses a payment.
For those managing on a tight budget, its important to know that the amount to be repaid is fixed at the start and will never go up.
CCD BUSINESS MODEL In CCD, we apply our successful specialist non-standard business model to the home credit market.
PPC GPC HOME CREDIT Our financial products, approach to CUSTOMERS lending and customer relationships are highly adapted to the market we serve.
BETTER RISK MANAGEMENT CORPORATE BUSINESS MODEL FIND OUT MORE ON PAGE 14 A.
B. C. D. SELECTIVE, RESPONSIBILITY SIMPLE, INDIVIDUAL GRADUAL AND TRANSPARENT RELATIONSHIPS AND FLEXIBLE COMPLIANCE PRODUCTS APPROACH BUILT IN RESILIENT, CONSERVATIVE AND CONSUMER VANQUIS BANK FLEXIBLE BUSINESS FUNDAMENTALS CREDIT DIVISION FIND OUT MORE ON PAGE 48 38 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 KEY DIFFERENTIATORS STRATEGIC REPORT Strategy maintaining the quality of the satisfaction and responding to Our strategy in CCD is to be the leading receivables book through sound competitive developments and community-based lender in the UK underwriting, collections and changing customer needs.
and Ireland and to deliver profitable arrears management processes: The non-standard credit market has growth by lending responsibly and continuing to improve the operational become the domain of specialists.
efficiency of the business to manage Many lenders who had over-extended In order to deliver this strategy, costs and unlock further capacity: in previous years have withdrawn from we continue to focus on: the sector and mainstream lenders are ensuring that we comply with not lending to those at the margins of growing customer numbers and applicable laws and regulations: and their lending models.
This presents a receivables through the acquisition providing customers with the right good opportunity for us to serve more of new customers and re-serving products and services in order to customers who are better suited to our good-quality existing customers: maintain our high levels of customer high-service, flexible, small-sum model.
The agents regular visit is not only The part played by the agent supports responsible lending.
Agents are paid convenient for the customer but also acts as a useful reminder to put the money commission primarily on what they collect, not what they lend, so they aside for the repayment.
If customers get into difficulty, they know theyll get have every reason not to lend more than their customers can afford to a sympathetic response from their agent.
The home credit product is one that repay.
Furthermore, they typically visit their customers each week and thereby customers trust and positively want develop an intimate knowledge of their to use which helps to explain why circumstances, which informs their our customer satisfaction rates are lending decisions.
This is good for the consistently high.
92% of customers customer and also allows the business say they are satisfied with the Provident to closely manage impairment.
home credit service, and the vast majority say they would recommend Provident to family or friends.
KEY DIFFERENTIATORS A. I NDIVIDUAL RELATIONSHIPS C. SIMPLE, TRANSPARENT PRODUCTS CHILDREN DONT COME CHEAP AND SOME MONTHS Establish individual contact from Cash or shopping vouchers.
THERE JUST ISNT ENOUGH the outset with the home visit.
Priced appropriately and IN THE POT.
HOME CREDIT Treat customers as individuals.
transparently customers tell HELPS TO SMOOTH OUT us we are clear and offer good THE PEAKS AND TROUGHS.
9,800 agents with excellent Kathryn Fixed weekly repayments that never Home credit customer local knowledge.
Our customers say that we are Social investment in the communities straightforward and trustworthy.
S ELECTIVE, GRADUAL COMPLIANCE BUILT IN AND FLEXIBLE APPROACH Agents are paid primarily based Selective lending criteria only 20% on what they collect and therefore of applications from new customers have every reason not to lend more are approved.
Low and grow approach with loan Lending decisions are made by the sizes starting at only 50. agent in the customers home.
No charge for missing payments.
Rigorous controls and limits overlending.
39 STRATEGIC REPORT CONSUMER CREDIT DIVISION OUR 130-YEAR HISTORY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Throughout 2012, we have continued DEMONSTRATES THAT OUR During 2012, CCD has continued to to identify smaller agencies where the BUSINESS MODEL IS THE develop its processes, systems and agent finds it more difficult to generate RIGHT ONE FOR SERVING OUR operations to improve the efficiency sufficient commission to meet their CUSTOMERS AND GENERATING and effectiveness of the business and expectations.
Many of these smaller PROFITABLE RETURNS FOR to adapt to the increasingly demanding rounds have higher agent turnover which SHAREHOLDERS.
can adversely affect the quality of the agency as well as absorbing important A number of initiatives are underway to management time.
As a result, we have ensure that the business is well-positioned closed around 900 smaller, poorer for sustainable profits growth as and performing agencies and added the when there is an improvement in the good-quality customers from these economic environment.
In contrast, where we identify growth potential Business effectiveness programme which is not being realised we create Our 130-year history demonstrates that new agencies, either by offering to split our business model is the right one for an existing agency where the agent is serving our customers and generating operating at capacity or by creating a profitable returns for shareholders.
We have created 200 such However, as outlined in last years annual agencies in 2012.
As a result, we have report, it is important that we do not reduced agent numbers from around stand still and we seek continuous 10,500 at the end of 2011 to around improvement in everything we do.
The business A major focus during 2013 and beyond now comprises slightly larger and is to grow the business through a potentially more profitable rounds number of interlinked initiatives: enabling agents to increase their commission and enabling us to offer 1.
Expanding our geographic footprint more attractive agencies to agents The home credit business is well spread who have the drive, commitment and throughout the whole of the UK and time to develop those agencies.
However, there are pockets where turn should lead to further improvements our penetration of the addressable market in the financial performance of the is lower than it should be.
These areas business and an even better service to can benefit from a local management our customers.
We believe that we have presence and improved focus.
In 2011 we now largely completed this review and created six new branches and in 2012 we do not expect any further significant have created a further 13, all of which have reduction in the number of agencies.
I DONT THINK I WOULD EVER been at a modest cost.
These were mostly Indeed, as we return the customer base HAVE BEEN ON HOLIDAY IF IT locations where a branch was closed a to growth, we would expect to increase HADNT BEEN FOR PROVIDENT!
number of years ago and consolidated agency numbers.
IT HAS ENABLED ME TO GIVE into an adjacent location.
We are pleased MY CHILDREN THE THINGS with the early progress being made by ii Agent attraction I NEVER HAD.
these newly opened branches, which We have made a number of changes to are being run by highly motivated our agent attraction processes in order Sarah local management.
to engage more highly motivated agents Home credit customer who have more time to spend on their 2.
Modernising our approach with agents agencies and who tend to be breadi Proactive management winners.
Our focus is to attract and engage the right agents to exacting of the agency base standards and to encourage and support The self-employed agent force is an them in operating their agency.
Whilst important part of the home credit business the agency force will continue to be model.
Ensuring that we engage and retain predominantly agents who spend a few good-quality agents is very important in days a week running their agency, there ensuring that we meet our customers is scope for more agents to run their needs, lend responsibly and deliver strong agency on a full-time basis and regard it financial performance.
However, it is also as their main source of income.
Our data very important that we encourage and shows that these agencies perform better.
support agents to build a viable book of customers to ensure that they can generate a level of commission which accords with their aspirations.
40 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 STRATEGIC REPORT WE WILL CONTINUE TO During 2012, the proportion of agents 3.
Product and proposition innovation SEEK NEW WAYS OF SERVING that fell into this full-time category We are committed to product innovation OUR CUSTOMERS WITH THE increased from 14% to 16%.
Irrespective and finding ways to enhance our service to PRODUCTS THEY WANT.
of their time commitments, we ensure customers.
As part of this commitment, that all agents still adopt the same during the second half of 2012 we procedures and retain the important introduced the One Card.
The One Card is characteristics of living in the communities a prepaid card which allows customers they serve and fully understanding their to spend and access offers across some customers circumstances and needs.
60 online and high street retailers.
Each 200 borrowed on the One Card comes iii Agent commission with an extra 10 to spend so the During the last quarter of 2012, the customer gets 210 for the cost of a business announced further enhancements 200 loan.
The extra 10 is funded by the to the agents commission scheme.
The retailer at no extra cost to Provident.
The enhanced scheme stratifies agencies launch of the One Card was supported into three categories based on their by our first TV advertising campaign for performance and rewards agents a number of years, with adverts being with better performing agencies with aired on ITV2 and various freeview and a higher commission rate on collections.
satellite channels throughout the last Performance is assessed every three quarter.
We have recruited approaching months and is based upon five measures, 10,000 new customers since the launch three of which are linked to the quality of the One Card advertising at a cost per of the agency receivables book and acquisition which compares favourably collections performance.
The remaining with other marketing channels.
two measures are linked to the size We relaunched our Shopportunity card of the customer base and ensuring as the Gold Card during 2012.
The Gold high standards of compliance against Card provides customers with a readyregulatory requirements are always loaded plastic card that can be used at a delivered.
The scheme has been introduced range of high street and online retailers during the first quarter of 2013 and is as an alternative to cash in the run-up expected to benefit both sales and to Christmas.
The spend on the card collections performance of agencies.
represents a home credit loan against Importantly, the enhanced commission which agents collect repayments from scheme continues to be based the customers home in the usual way predominantly on what agents collect from the start of the new year.
We and not what they lend, so they have provide the benefits of the card to our every reason to lend responsibly.
RUNNING MY OWN BUSINESS best-quality customers only.
Following increased advertising and promotional CAN MAKE MY INCOME A The numerous initiatives to develop the LITTLE UNRELIABLE.
HAVING activity, combined sales of the Gold underlying strength of the agency force Card and One Card increased to 43m AN UNDERSTANDING AGENT have not impacted our long-established, AND NO EXTRA FEES FOR in 2012, up from 28m in 2011. better-performing agencies.
This is MISSING A PAYMENT HAS evidenced by our agent stability ratio We will continue to seek new ways of MADE ALL THE DIFFERENCE.
a very important metric which measures serving our customers with the products the proportion of agents who have been that they want.
We plan to introduce Mitika engaged by the business for 12 months re-loadable cards in the near future which Home credit customer or more which was 78% at the end of will allow existing customers speedier 2012, compared with 79% at the end of access to cash when they need it.
In addition, we have maintained the may be offered through a closed loop spans of control in the field management arrangement with certain retailers or force which we believe is the right may be open loop through a VISA card.
approach during these tough economic We are also looking into the distribution times.
As a result, we have seen a sound of our loans through the high street collections performance and an increase stores of other product providers.
in commissions generated by the vast majority of agents.
41 STRATEGIC REPORT CONSUMER CREDIT DIVISION IN ORDER TO CONTINUE 4.
Process improvement Strengthening the management team TO SUCCESSFULLY DELIVER ON In order to adapt to the changing In order to continue to successfully OUR BUSINESS EFFECTIVENESS regulatory environment and to improve deliver on our business effectiveness PROGRAMME AND BRING GROWTH efficiency, the business is continually programme and support growth in the BACK TO THE BUSINESS, WE seeking to improve its business processes business, we have strengthened the HAVE STRENGTHENED THE and the way it uses IT.
management team over recent months.
MANAGEMENT TEAM Following the implementation of the In September, Mark Stevens joined the DURING 2012.
EU Consumer Credit Directive in 2011, business as Commercial Director having the process of issuing credit to customers previously held senior roles at Leeds had become more time-consuming.
Building Society, Bradford & Bingley A large proportion of this time was taken and Apax Partners.
His role involves up by the agent and customer filling out developing the product proposition forms with information that we already and distribution, as well as broader hold in our systems.
As a result, during business development.
the latter part of 2012, we modified In November, Sarah Dickins joined CCD as our systems to prepare pre-populated Human Resources Director following a customer agreements based on system successful career spanning over 10 years stored data, which can be easily verified in director and senior management when the loan agreement is made with human resources roles with Asda the customer.
This improvement to our Stores.
Her primary role will be to systems should improve agent capacity drive up the benchstrength of the going forwards and enable greater focus field organisation to support the on responsible lending.
During 2012, we have been developing Very recently, we have announced the extranet systems for both agents and appointment of Andy Parkinson as Director customers.
These are both called My of Field Operations with effect from Provi.
The agent system will allow agents April 2013.
He joins from BrightHouse, to access essential information in their having spent the last six years as Retail own homes or via a mobile device.
He was heavily involved in the this information is currently only available transformation of the performance of in the branch or in paper form.
The that business and the expansion of its customer system will allow customers to store network.
access their account, including payment details and their account balance, enabling them to manage their account better.
It WHEN IT COMES TO will also provide the business with another THINGS LIKE CHRISTMAS marketing channel.
The customer extranet AND BIRTHDAYS, WED FIND IT is expected to go live during 2013.
THEY TAKE THE STRESS OUT OF A POTENTIALLY DIFFICULT SITUATION.
Nick Home credit customer 42 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 STRATEGIC REPORT Supporting Bradford WE ARE BUILDING A STRONG PLATFORM TO DELIVER OUR We are proud of our roots in Bradford, years, means that from the start of the where we have been for over 130 years.
2013 season, the clubs stadium will be STRATEGIC AIMS AND GROW THE PROFITABILTY OF THE BUSINESS Following our move into a new purposeknown as the Provident Stadium and built head office facility in the centre of our Provident Personal Credit brand IN THE FORTHCOMING YEARS.
Bradford in October 2010, we have grown will be featured on the Bradford Bulls our Bradford workforce from just over shirts.
We are proud to support the 700 to nearly 900 employees including Bradford Bulls in achieving success both 160 Vanquis Bank contact centre staff.
for the club and the wider community in To underline our continuing commitment Bradford.
We are particularly happy to to the Bradford area, we announced in be helping to support the Bradford Bulls late 2012 that we have entered into Academy programme which develops a sponsorship agreement with the young talent and has resulted in six of rugby league club, Bradford Bulls.
The the current first team squad coming sponsorship, worth over 1m over four from that programme.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CCD delivered profits of 125.1m in 2012 2011: 127.5m as set out below: Year ended 31 December 2012 2011 Change m m % Customer numbers 000 1,827 1,825 0.1 Year-end receivables 869.6 876.7 0.8 Average receivables 782.7 783.4 0.1 Revenue 696.9 697.1 - Impairment 230.2 223.8 2.9 Revenue less impairment 466.7 473.3 1.4 Revenue yield 89.0% 89.0% Impairment % revenue 33.0% 32.1% Costs 295.4 298.8 1.1 MY CUSTOMERS VALUE THE Interest 46.2 47.0 1.7 FLEXIBILITY OF HOME CREDIT.
IF THEYRE HAVING A TOUGH Profit before tax 125.1 127.5 1.9 TIME, THEY KNOW WE CAN SIT Revenue as a percentage of average receivables for the year ended 31 December.
DOWN TOGETHER AND FIND Impairment as a percentage of revenue for the year ended 31 December.
Jane Home credit agent The first half of the year was characterised year.
A number of initiatives, including the by a heavy focus on collections and an launch of the pre-paid One Card and TV emphasis on sales to good-quality existing advertising, supported this programme.
customers as households faced sharp Nonetheless, the pressure on disposable increases in winter fuel bills.
The sound incomes from food, fuel and utility price performance of the business during this inflation has not abated and sales have period enabled a step-up in sales and been tempered by the cautious behaviour marketing activity during the second half of agents and many customers.
These of the year including greater emphasis on market conditions also dictated the new customer recruitment which has continued application of tight credit proved effective.
As a result, credit issued for ended the year at 1,827,000, level with 2012 as a whole was 2.5% lower than 2011.
2011, having been down 2% at the half 43 STRATEGIC REPORT CONSUMER CREDIT DIVISION Average receivables of 782.7m 2011: REAL PERSONAL FINANCE 783.4m were flat on 2011 and the The collect-out of the Real Personal annualised revenue yield on the receivables Finance receivables book continued to book remained unchanged at 89.0% progress satisfactorily with the receivables 2011: 89.0%, reflecting the consistent book reducing from 2.6m at December mix of business over the last two years.
There was no profit or loss in the year in respect Collections performance remains sound.
of Real Personal Finance 2011: nil.
The ratio of annualised impairment to revenue was 33.0% at December 2012, LOOKING AHEAD little changed from the ratio of 32.8% The focus in 2012 has been on reported in June.
The increase from 32.1% maintaining the quality of the reported at December 2011 primarily receivables book whilst developing reflects the benefit to impairment in the business effectiveness programme.
the second quarter of 2011 from an This will continue to be our focus in 2013. improvement in the arrears profile which We are building a strong platform to resulted from the enhancements made deliver our strategic aims and grow to the agents commission scheme in the profitability of the business in April of that year.
Headline costs fell by 3.4m or 1.1% during The recent strengthening of 2012.
The cost base in 2011 included a the senior management team will one-off amount of 2m associated with enable us to unlock further potential the changes required to implement the in the business, as and when the EU Consumer Credit Directive across economic environment improves.
Underlying costs CCD remains a highly profitable, cashtherefore reduced by 1.4m or 0.5% generative business that provides reflecting a small reduction in agents the bedrock for the groups highcommission costs due to the year-on-year dividend payout ratio.
reduction in credit issued and related collections, together with efficiency gains which have eliminated the impact of inflation on the payroll and expense base of the business.
Interest costs fell by 1.7% as the business I ALWAYS USED TO DREAD benefitted from an average funding rate SEPTEMBER SENDING THE of 7.4% compared with 7.5% in 2011.
KIDS BACK TO SCHOOL WITH EVERYTHING THEY NEEDED WAS A NIGHTMARE.
NOW I HAVE FOUND HOME CREDIT, I CAN BORROW JUST THE AMOUNT I NEED TO COVER EVERYTHING.
Hannah Home credit customer 44 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012
