STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MARKETPLACE At the end of 2012, total outstanding UK personal debt THE NUMBER M OF PEOPLE WHO 10.0 balances stood at 1.422trn.
Most of this total, 1.265trn, MAKE UP THE NONSTANDARD MARKET was secured by mortgages on housing, with the balance CREDIT ISSUED BN of 157bn being unsecured consumer credit.
During 2012, TO THOSE WITH 66.0 LIMITED ACCESS a total of 328bn was lent to UK borrowers, 143bn secured TO CREDIT and 185bn unsecured.
Provident focuses on the non-standard ANNUAL GROUP BN CREDIT ISSUED 1.9 end of the UK credit market in which over 66bn was lent in total during the year.
The UK non-standard credit market hours, whilst experiencing ongoing a particular situation and no more.
remains the domain of specialists.
rising food, fuel and living costs.
Most Therefore, product offers have been Generalists with more mainstream households already dealing with these designed to serve their needs from lending models, which are not really pressures and striving to make ends as little as 50 for a small purchase tailored to the needs of non-standard meet are also now beginning to feel the like a new pair of school shoes, up customers, largely withdrew at the impacts of the governments austerity towards 100,000 where consumers start of the credit crisis, in many measures.
Therefore, regardless of the are offered the right to buy their cases incurring significant costs.
withdrawal of mainstream credit social housing.
There are few signs of any appetite providers, the demand for affordable Affordability is key for those on tight for a return to the market.
Accordingly, credit remains to help smooth over the incomes and therefore the amount of new specialist lenders have entered peaks and troughs inevitable for those time that customers have to repay their the market, supplying a range of in the non-standard market managing loans tends to increase with the size of non-standard credit products.
tight budgets throughout the year.
the loan, from the immediacy of small Non-standard consumers concerned unauthorised overdrafts to a period Consumers undoubtedly continue to feel the pressure on incomes, about getting into too much debt prefer of up to 25 years to pay for a home.
to borrow just what they need for There is also the flexibility of revolving employment and available working TYPICAL LENGTH OF CREDIT TERM AND SIZE OF LOAN FOR NON-STANDARD CREDIT PRODUCTS 150,000 MORTGAGE 75,000 25,000 SECURED ND 2 CHARGE CAR FINANCE 5,000 UNSECURED LOAN 2,500 RENT-TO-OWN 1,000 CREDIT LOG BOOK BILL OF SALE CARD AUTHSHORT-TERM UNSECURED LOAN ORISED 500 OVERMAIL ORDER CREDIT DRAFT HOME CREDIT CASH LOANS PAYDAY LOAN 350 UNAUTHORISED OVERDRAFT 250 150 PAWN SALE & BUY BACK HOME CREDIT 100 SHOPPING VOUCHERS 50 1 month 1-3 months 6 months 1 year 18 months 2 years 3 years 4 years 15 years 25 years None Revolving Cash-based Asset-based Typical contractual term of credit 10 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 Typical loan size STRATEGIC REPORT Therefore, unlike mainstream credit credit such as credit cards and authorised Beyond the basics of price, affordability, overdrafts which give customers the availability and the quality of the customer markets where most repayments are made electronically in an automated ability to repay them as fast as they experience, there is a range of key can when they are able, which is often customer requirements that non-standard way on a monthly basis, non-standard credit customers can also repay in cash, unpredictable given the nature of their products have evolved to cover.
Credit lives, and their relatively tight budgets.
product offerings span the range of at home, via a meter, through going to a specialist or corner store or into a Post The chart on page 10 shows the typical needs for specific items of clothing or length of credit term and size of loan household items to more flexible cash Office or bank.
The chart below shows the typical repayment options and time for non-standard credit products.
amounts for holidays and a range of other uses.
Some models are tied to an required to access credit for nonWhilst new and existing specialist standard credit products.
asset such as a pawned item or car lenders have expanded their target while others are tied to completing a markets and offered new forms of It is the combination of all of these retail purchase such as a new TV.
credit products, the market remains factors into specialist business models underserved and offers good growth Like all consumers, those in the nonthat results in products and offers opportunities for specialist lenders standard credit markets sometimes have that are tailored to the needs of nonwith the skills, resources and business urgent needs such as replacement or standard customers and can generate models well-suited to serving the repair of a broken appliance or car and high levels of customer satisfaction non-standard credit market.
In the sometimes more predictable planned alongside strong shareholder returns.
UK, there is a wide range of different needs such as birthdays, Christmas and Offering a loan of an appropriate lending models and products tailored holidays.
Specialist credit models have size and term to ensure affordability, to the needs and realities of the nondeveloped to serve this range of when the customer wants or needs standard consumer.
requirements from instant mail order it along with an appropriate repayment credit for a purchase to products where Home credit stands out as a highly mechanism backed by a solid business access to the credit can take days or weeks model and operation, helps to win and personal in-home offer with a very after the initial application such as credit long history of customer popularity.
retain customers profitably in noncards and home credit.
Non-standard credit cards are a more degrees of urgency and predictability, recent development offering modern non-standard customers want and need mainstream retail convenience and very different methods by which they can protection to non-standard consumers make repayments, and having the choice for about the last 20 years.
of a range of options is important.
Home TYPICAL REPAYMENT HOME CREDIT collection eg Provident Personal Credit OPTIONS AND and Greenwood Personal Credit TIME REQUIRED Meter RENT-TO-OWN TO ACCESS CREDIT FOR NON-STANDARD Store visit PAWNBROKING, SALE AND BUY BACK CREDIT PRODUCTS BILL OF UNSECURED SALE LOG TERM LOAN BOOK PayPoint MAIL ORDER Payzone Post Office CREDIT CARD eg Vanquis Bank Cheque BRANCH-BASED PAYDAY, SHORT-TERM UNSECURED LOAN Electronic transfer OVERDRAFT CAR MORTGAGE, eg direct debit, debit ND 2 CHARGE, card BRIDGING ONLINE PAYDAY, SHORT-TERM UNSECURED LOAN Cash-based Instant Minutes Hours Days Weeks Months Provident business sectors Asset-based How quickly the customer receives the money after applying for credit 11 How the customer will repay STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MARKETPLACE There is a wide range of credit products competitors and a dramatic shift in the mainstream and branch-based unsecured and credit providers serving the needs of business model from big book printed lenders.
Home credit has been provided in the UK non-standard consumer, most of catalogues and local credit agents to various forms since the nineteenth century which now tend to be specialised in nature.
largely online, more direct repayment and exists today through around 500 offers.
Payday lending is the newest and competitors with its unique home visit By far the largest source of credit is the fastest growing of the non-standard credit model.
Rent-to-own has relatively now well-established sub-prime credit products, again introduced from the USA recently begun to expand on the high card introduced to the UK in the 1990s over the last 10 years but creating hundreds street in its most modern form, and has from the USA by providers such as Capital of local and regional European competitors.
attracted both investment and interest One.
Both approved and unapproved from the USA where a far larger rent-tooverdrafts also provide significant amounts Payday lending operates in two largely own sector runs a slightly different less of credit and are a longer standing product separate channels of similar sizes in the weekly focused model under very supplied in the main by the major UK UK: online and in-store.
banking groups to around half of their on small monthly advances, increasingly customers, with usage focused in the lenders are moving into longer-term Mortgage and secured second charge more non-standard end.
Although long unsecured personal loans for larger lending were, in particular, severely hit established, mail order credit has gone amounts and repayable over up to two by the credit crisis with most larger and through large changes in the last few years, filling some of the large supply overseas lenders withdrawing from the decades driven by consolidation of gap left by the withdrawal of the more market, while domestic lenders have faced TYPICAL CUSTOMER TRAITS, EXAMPLE COMPETITORS AND ESTIMATED RELATIVE ANNUAL UK NON-STANDARD LENDING BY PRODUCT TYPICAL CUSTOMER TRAITS EXAMPLE COMPANIES A.
CREDIT CARDS Employed, salaried, banked Capital One, Barclaycard, with low credit score, renting Vanquis Bank, SAV, Compucredit B.
OVERDRAFTS Around half of all bank Lloyds, HSBC, Barclays, account holders across RBS, Santander all income levels C. MAIL ORDER Wide range, mostly online ShopDirect, Otto, N Brown shoppers, mostly female with brands targeted at C, D and E socio-demographic groups D. PAYDAY LENDING Wide range, banked, debit The Money Shop, card holders, employed, Cheque Centre, Payday UK, A reasonable credit score QuickQuid, Wonga E. MORTGAGES Home owners with Blemain, a range lower credit scores of bridging providers F. HOME CREDIT Mostly employed, hourly paid, Provident Personal Credit, female, renting, low income Greenwood Personal Credit, S&U, Shopacheck, Morses, Mutual, around 500 local operators B G. PAWNBROKING Mostly female, modest Albermarle & Bond, incomes, valuable items to H&T, The Money Shop, pawn usually jewellery Ramsdens C ND H. 2 CHARGE Home owners with Blemain, a range lower credit scores of bridging providers D I.
UNSECURED DIRECT Similar profile to payday loans Pounds-to-Pocket, Cash E REPAYMENT LOANS Converters, Secure Trust Bank, F Lending Stream G H J. RENT-TO-OWN Live within three miles BrightHouse, PerfectHome, I of store, do not own cars, Buy As You View J credit impaired, low income 12 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 STRATEGIC REPORT funding difficulties and intense regulator involved in consumer credit-related Communities Consumer Credit scrutiny, both of which have kept this activities and for ensuring compliance Agreements Regulations 2010, the sector of the market at a small fraction with the CCA.
provisions of the Consumer Protection of the scale it achieved in 2007 despite a Code for Licensed Moneylenders and The groups home credit businesses recent return to growth.
Pawnbroking, the Central Bank Reform Act 2010. within the Consumer Credit Division focused on jewellery, has been an CCD and Vanquis Bank hold consumer established source of credit for centuries.
EU REGULATION credit licences issued by the OFT.
A few decades ago, the fragmented The European Union institutions localised supply began to consolidate in comprising the Commission, Council and Financial Services Authority FSA two major competitors which are listed on Parliament initiate and enact legislation Vanquis Bank also holds a banking licence the UK stock exchange, but more recently which applies to the EU Member States.
and is regulated by the FSA.
The FSAs and more dramatically, overseas entrants The majority of UK legislation now involves regulation of Vanquis Bank covers a number have built far larger store chains with far the implementation of EU legislative of areas, comprising: i code of conduct: ii wider product models moving into a range acts.
A recent example was the treating customers fairly: iii regulatory of credit and second-hand goods offers.
implementation of the EU Consumer capital requirements: iv liquidity These large national store chains have Credit Directive 2008 which took full requirements, including the requirement expanded further into payday lending effect in the UK in February 2011. to hold a liquid assets buffer: and v and short-term unsecured personal loans.
The soaring gold price has generated new income streams and bolstered traditional Provident Financial plc, as the parent FUTURE REGULATORY pawn lending encouraging rapid store company of a regulated bank, is itself growth.
Recent stabilisation in the gold the subject of consolidated supervision LANDSCAPE price has, however, begun to reverse by the FSA and is subject to regulatory Financial Services regulation this trend.
capital requirements and half-yearly The Government has been reviewing reporting to the FSA.
As the chart on page 12 shows, the UK the way financial services are to be non-standard credit market remains regulated.
The outcome will be the The Department for Business, Innovation vibrant and competitive with many creation of three key institutions: and Skills BIS and HM Treasury HMT competing specialists seeking to take the Financial Policy Committee FPC, Although not regulatory in function, policy advantage of the growth opportunities as part of the Bank of England, with recommendations made by BIS and HMT left by the withdrawal of less tailored responsibility for macro-prudential frequently relate to and affect the financial mainstream offers and businesses.
regulation, the Prudential Regulation services sector.
The two departments often Authority PRA, with responsibility for work together on financial services issues.
micro-prudential or firm-specific BIS and HMT jointly consulted recently on CURRENT REGULATORY regulation and the Financial Conduct proposals to restructure the regulatory Authority FCA, with responsibility for regime for financial services.
They also FRAMEWORK conduct of firms and markets regulation.
conducted a joint review of consumer The group is subject to various regulatory On 27 January 2012, the Government credit and personal insolvency during 2011. and supervisory regimes: published a Financial Services Bill which includes provisions enabling the transfer Central Bank of Ireland the Bank Office of Fair Trading OFT and of responsibility for consumer credit The Bank is the licensing authority for the Consumer Credit Act 1974 CCA regulation from the OFT to the FCA, consumer credit in the Republic of Ireland The provision of consumer credit is whilst retaining the existing consumer and Provident Personal Credit Limited, regulated by the rules set out in the rights and protections contained in the a subsidiary within CCD, holds a moneyCCA and the supporting regulations CCA.
The Government has stated that it lenders licence issued by the Bank.
and guidance made under it.
These cover will exercise these powers if, and when, The legislation which is applicable all aspects of credit transactions from it has identified a mode of FCA regulation in the Republic of Ireland includes the advertising to debt recovery.
The OFT that is proportionate for the different Consumer Credit Act 1995, the European is responsible for licensing businesses segments of the credit market.
CURRENT REGULATORY AND POLICY COVERAGE Changes to the regulatory regime introduced by the Financial Services Act 2012 will take effect from 2013 onwards with consumer credit PROVIDENT CENTRAL VANQUIS regulation expected to transfer FINANCIAL CCD BANK OF BANK GROUP IRELAND from the OFT to FCA in 2014.
