110 Governance Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Additional disclosures The following additional disclosures are made in compliance with Post-balance sheet events the Companies Act 2006, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Important events affecting the Company after the end of the and the UK and HK Codes.
financial year are detailed in note I11 on page 314.
Financial reporting Change of control The directors have a duty to report to shareholders on Under the agreements governing Prudential Corporation the performance and financial position of the Group and Holdings Limiteds life insurance and fund management are responsible for preparing the financial statements on joint ventures with China International Trust & Investment pages 147 to 323 and the supplementary information on Corporation CITIC, if there is a change of control of the pages 326 to 362.
It is the responsibility of the auditor to Company, CITIC may terminate the agreements and either form independent opinions, based on its audit of the financial i purchase the Companys entire interest in the joint venture or statements and its audit of the EEV basis supplementary require the Company to sell its interest to a third party designated information: and to report its opinions to the Companys by CITIC, or ii require the Company to purchase all of CITICs shareholders and to the Company.
Its opinions are given interest in the joint venture.
The price of such purchase or sale is on pages 325 and 364. to be the fair value of the shares to be transferred, as determined by the auditor of the joint venture.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair Essential contracts or arrangements view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group.
There are a number of signi cant relationships with third parties, The criteria applied in the preparation of the financial statements which have value to the business.
No single relationship, are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities on however, is considered to be essential to the Group as a whole.
At no time during the year did any director hold a material interest The directors are further required to con rm that the directors in any contract of signi cance with the Company or any report includes a fair review of the development and performance subsidiary undertaking.
of the business, with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties.
Such con rmation is included in the statement Compensation for loss of offi ce of directors responsibilities on page 324 and page 363.
None of the terms of employment of the Companys directors The Chief Financial Of cers overview provides, on pages 68 to includes provisions for payment of compensation for loss of of ce 78, a description of the Groups risk and capital management, or employment that occurs as a result of a change of control.
which includes a description of the Groups liquidity position.
Terms applying on a termination of their of ce are set out in the The Group has considerable internal and external financial Directors remuneration report.
In the US, senior executives resources and the directors believe that the Group is well placed participate on a discretionary basis in a plan which entitles them to manage its business risks successfully.
to compensation, in the event that their employment is terminated or adversely affected as a result of a change of control.
The directors who held of ce at the date of approval of this directors report con rm that, so far as they are each aware, Customers there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys The five largest customers of the Group constituted in aggregate auditor is unaware: each director has taken all the steps that less than 30 per cent of its total sales for each of 2011 and 2012. he or she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish For the year ended 31 December 2012, none of the directors of that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This the Company, their associates or any shareholders of the con rmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Company which have, to the knowledge of the directors of the with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Company, owned more than 5 per cent of the Companys issued share capital had any interest in the Groups major customers.
Going concern After making enquiries the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue their operations for the foreseeable future.
In support of this expectation, the Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, successful performance and position in the current economic climate are set out in the Business review on pages 14 to 67.
The risks facing the Groups capital and liquidity positions and their sensitivities are referred to in the Chief Financial Of cers overview.
Speci cally, the Groups borrowings are detailed in Note H13 on pages 289 to 291, the market risk and liquidity analysis associated with the Groups assets and liabilities can be found in note G2 on pages 269 to 272, policyholder liability maturity pro le by business units in notes D2, D3, D4 on pages 212, 230 and 237 respectively, cash ow details in the consolidated statement of cash ows and provisions and contingencies in Note H14.
The directors therefore have continued to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
