Our services Core services Investment professionals from across our business participate in the investment process.
The outputs of this process are Investment Management derived from our combined expertise and experience and Investment management teams provide investment help to ensure that the investments selected are suitable.
Our management services to our clients with portfolios held in internal performance monitoring and risk control processes discretionary accounts, individual savings accounts ISAs, ensure that the quality of service and fulfillment of client self-invested personal pensions SIPPs and trust structures.
The personal service we offer is underpinned by a well-researched, robust investment process which informs Complementary services our investment managers as they tailor portfolios to individual clients needs.
Banking services Our ethical investment service continually develops its As a licensed deposit taker, we are able to offer our extensive expertise in understanding how financial and clients a range of banking services including currency, ethical issues can be integrated within portfolios to meet payment services, fixed interest term deposits and loans the overall objectives of clients.
Our Jersey office provides our clients access to offshore Financial planning investment management services.
Rathbone Pension & Advisory Services advises clients We also offer a unitised portfolio service to both private on financial planning options, including retirement and investors who wish to invest a lower level of funds than inheritance tax planning.
We also offer the Rathbone SIPP.
would be economically optimal for a full discretionary For clients that do not have a financial adviser, we are able service and to financial advisers with larger groups of clients.
to offer fully-independent financial advice through our chartered financial planners.
Unit Trusts Trust and tax services Rathbone Unit Trust Management offers a range of unit trusts and open-ended investment companies OEICs for Rathbone Trust Company provides advisory and private investors with 1,000 or more to invest.
These are compliance services in relation to taxation, probate and distributed mainly through financial advisers in the UK.
In addition, we offer family office support to clients that stand to benefit from it.
Funds cover the UK stock market, embracing small, medium and large companies to achieve growth and income.
In addition, we manage an ethical bond fund, a strategic bond fund and a global fund which is focused on international opportunities.
Rathbone multi asset funds provide the building blocks for a collective solution for private clients, delivered via our unitised portfolio service.
These funds are also available to investors with as little as 1,000 to invest.
Investment process The Rathbone investment process underpins all of the core services we offer.
It is fundamental to the service we provide, guiding the thinking of our investment managers yet allowing enough flexibility to ensure that our clients individual needs are met.
It is constantly evolving and we continue to invest in the people and resources required to ensure it remains intellectually robust and capable of meeting a variety of needs.
As alternative asset classes and investment products such as hedge funds and structured products have become more We report on the subsidiaries of Rathbone Brothers Plc as follows: accessible and available to individual investors, we have Investment Management Unit Trusts invested significant resource to ensure we can analyse these Rathbone Investment Management Rathbone Unit Trust Management wider options and incorporate them where we deem this Rathbone Investment suitable for our clients.
Management International Rathbone Pension & Advisory Services Rathbone Trust Company Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 9
