Directors Ian Buckley Chairman Title: Head of the Trust, Tax and Pension Advisory Businesses: Mark Nicholls Head of Risk Management Title: Chairman Appointment: 21 December 2001 Appointment: 1 December 2010 Age: 62 Age: 63 Board committees: E Ri Board committees: Re N Ian Buckley qualified as a chartered accountant with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. now KPMG in 1975.
He was chief executive of Smith & Williamson for 10 years Mark Nicholls is a lawyer and corporate financier.
After from 1985 to 1995, and subsequently chief executive of studying law at Cambridge he took articles at Linklaters EFG Private Bank Limited and Tenon Group Plc.
He is before joining S G Warburg in 1976.
He became a director responsible for marketing and is also chairman of the in 1984 and head of investment banking in 1994.
In Groups IT steering committee.
He is also a committee 1996 he joined Royal Bank of Scotland and became head member of Family Assurance Friendly Society and is on the of their private equity group, leaving in 2003 to pursue board of Miller Insurance Services LLP.
He stepped down a plural career.
He is currently chairman of the West from the Board at the end of 2012.
Bromwich Building Society and a non-executive director of Northern Investors Company PLC.
He became chairman following the AGM on 11 May 2011 and is considered to Paul Chavasse be independent.
Title: Head of Investment Management Appointment: 26 September 2001 Age: 48 Executive directors Board committees: E Ri Andy Pomfret Title: Chief Executive Appointment: 1 August 1999 Age: 52 Paul Chavasse started his career working for the institutional Board committees: E N Ri fund management arm of NatWest, which was later merged with Gartmore.
After a period in the private client businesses of NatWest and Coutts, his final role before joining the Group as chief operating officer in 2001 was as head of NatWest Portfolio Management in Bristol.
He became head Andy Pomfret qualified as a chartered accountant with of investment management on 1 March 2012.
Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. now KPMG.
Prior to joining Rathbones in July 1999, he spent over 13 years Andrew Morris with Kleinwort Benson as a corporate financier, venture Title: Head of Investment Management capitalist and latterly finance director of the investment Liverpool and other Northern Offices Appointment: 1 November 2000 management and private banking division.
He became Age: 48 chief executive in October 2004.
He is also a non-executive Board committees: None director of Graphite Enterprise Trust plc and a director of the Association of Private Client Investment Managers & Stockbrokers APCIMS.
He chairs the Groups executive and social and environmental committees.
Andrew Morris has spent his entire working career at Rathbones in private client investment management.
He is chairman of the Groups business continuity and training and competence committees and manages a large number of client portfolios.
He stepped down from the Board at the end of 2012.
42 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 Directors continued Executive directors continued Board committees The principal Board committees are the executive, audit, remuneration, Richard Smeeton nomination and group risk committees.
Title: Head of Investment Management The Board has delegated full authority London and Jersey to the executive committee, subject to Appointment: 1 November 2000 a list of matters which are reserved for Age: 48 decision by the full Board.
The other Board committees: None Board committees have formal terms of reference, which are reviewed and approved by the Board on an annual basis.
These are available on request from the Companys registered office and on the Group website.
Richard Smeeton trained with County Bank and joined E Executive committee Laurence Keen in 1988 prior to its acquisition by Rathbones in 1995.
He sits on a number of the Groups management The purpose of the executive committee is to monitor every and investment committees and also manages a large number aspect of the Group businesses on of client portfolios.
He stepped down from the Board at the a continuing basis and to analyse and end of 2012. plan all business proposals in detail for submission to and consideration by the Board.
The executive committee Paul Stockton meets monthly and more frequently when required.
Title: Finance Director Appointment: 24 September 2008 A Audit committee Age: 47 Full details of its role are set out in the Board committees: E Ri audit committee report on page 61.
Re Remuneration committee Full details of its role are set out in the remuneration report on page 53.
N Nomination committee Paul Stockton qualified as a chartered accountant with Full details of its role are set out in Price Waterhouse now PwC in 1992.
In 1999 he joined Old the nomination committee report on Mutual Plc as group financial controller, becoming director page 63. of finance in 2001 and finance director of Gerrard Limited Ri Group risk committee eight months later.
Following the sale of Gerrard to Barclays Full details of its role are set out in the in 2003, he left in 2005 and has since worked for Euroclear group risk committee report on page 27. in Brussels and as a division finance director of the Pearl Group.
He joined Rathbones in August 2008 and is also a non-executive director of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Commitee membership Executive Audit Remuneration Nomination Group risk Mark Nicholls Andy Pomfret Ian Buckley Paul Chavasse Andrew Morris Richard Smeeton Paul Stockton David Harrel Kate Avery Caroline Burton Oliver Corbett Kathryn Matthews Committee chairman Committee member Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 43 Directors continued Intelligence Service until March 2006.
She is a non-executive Non-executive directors director of TR Property Investment Trust Plc, LV Friendly Society and Blackrock Smaller Companies Trust plc.
David Harrel She stood down as chairman of the remuneration committee Title: Senior Independent Director Appointment: 1 December 2007 on 1 November 2012 when, for UK Corporate Governance Age: 64 Code purposes, she was no longer considered to be Board committees: A Re N independent, having served on the Board for nine years.
She will remain on the audit, nomination and remuneration committees until her retirement from the Board at the AGM on 14 May 2013.
David Harrel was one of the founding partners of Oliver Corbett S J Berwin LLP in 1982, and was made senior partner in 1992.
He relinquished this role in 2006 and is now Title: Non-executive Director Independent a consultant to the firm.
David has a variety of other Appointment: 7 March 2006 appointments.
He is non-executive chairman of Age: 48 Savile Group Plc, a member of the board of the English Board committees: A Re Ri N National Opera and a trustee of the Clore Duffield Foundation.
He became chairman of the remuneration committee with effect from 1 November 2012.
Oliver Corbett is the chief financial officer of LCH.
Clearnet Kate Avery Group Limited.
He is a chartered accountant and worked for SG Warburg, Phoenix Securities later Donaldson Lufkin Title: Non-executive Director Independent and Jenrette and Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, where he Appointment: 6 January 2010 was managing director of investment banking.
He was group Age: 53 finance director of Novae Group plc from October 2003 to Board committees: A Re N November 2012.
He is chairman of the audit committee.
Kathryn Matthews Title: Non-executive Director Kate Avery began her career with Barclays Plc, where she Independent worked for some 18 years, becoming managing director of Appointment: 6 January 2010 Barclays Bank Trust Company and Barclays Stockbrokers.
Age: 53 Board committees: A Re Ri N She subsequently joined Legal and General Group Plc and served on its main board for eight years until January 2009, latterly as group executive director for wealth management.
She also served as a non-executive director with Kelda Group plc until its sale to an infrastructure fund in 2008.
She is Kathryn Matthews has spent her entire career in investment currently chairman of Openwork Holdings Limited and is a management, most recently as chief investment officer, Asia non-executive director of the Newcastle Building Society.
Pacific ex Japan for Fidelity International.
Prior to that, She is standing down from the Board at the AGM on she held senior appointments with William M Mercer, AXA 14 May 2013.
Investment Managers, Santander Global Advisers and Baring Asset Management.
She is a non-executive director of Royal London, Hermes Fund Managers Limited, Aperam, S. A. Caroline Burton Fidelity Asian Values Plc, Montanaro UK Smaller Companies Title: Non-executive Director Independent Investment Trust Plc and J P Morgan Chinese Investment Appointment: 1 November 2003 Trust Plc.
She is chairman of the group risk committee.
Age: 63 Board committees: A Re N Caroline Burton is a highly experienced figure within the asset management industry.
She spent 26 years with Guardian Royal Exchange Plc, where she was executive director in charge of investments from 1990 until 1999.
She was also a director of The Scottish Metropolitan Property Plc until June 2000 and was a member of the service authority for the National Crime Squad and National Criminal 44 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012
