Governance C Cor orpor pora at te e G Go ov five er rn nan anc ce e Capita plc 72 Other statutory and regulatory information Business review and principal activities Board diversity Regarding the continuing debate on the topic of diversity on boards and in Business review particular whether prescribed quotas regarding women on boards are preferable The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the business of or not, approaching 20% of our senior management team and 30% of our Board the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2012 and of the position in 2012 were women.
Capita sees significant business benefit in having access of the Group at the end of the financial year and a description of the principal to the diversity of thinking that comes from people with a wide range of risks and uncertainties facing the Group known as a business review.
The backgrounds at all levels in the Company.
Only by encouraging this diversity purpose of the business review is to enable shareholders to assess how the and by fostering talent throughout the business can the Company expect to Directors have performed their duty under Section 172 of the Companies Act achieve further diversity in senior management and on boards.
Capita established 2006 duty to promote the success of the Company.
The information that fulfils a network of diversity champions across the Group in 2008 and the Companys the requirements of the business review can be found in pages 1 to 57.
Details of training and mentoring initiatives actively support the fostering of talent at all the Groups business goal, strategy and model are on pages 14 and 15. levels in the business across the Companys diverse workforce.
The Board and Events after the Balance Sheet date senior management teams across Capita are fully committed to continuing to foster talent and support those people from all backgrounds who wish There were no events.
However, the Company will also continue to appoint and promote Appointment, re-appointment and removal of Directors people on merit and in line with the skills and attributes identified for each post, including those identified by the Nominations Committee for the Board.
Directors are appointed and may be removed in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company and the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Social and environmental responsibility All Directors are subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting after their Details of how the Group manages its social and environmental responsibilities appointment and to re-election at intervals of no more than three years in can be found on pages 47 to 57 and at www.
accordance with the Code and the Companys Articles of Association.
However, all Directors will retire and will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual Group activities General Meeting in May, in accordance with the Code provision B.
Capita is the leading UK provider of business process management solutions No person, other than a Director retiring at the meeting, shall be appointed or and integrated professional support services to organisations across the public re-appointed a Director of the Company at any General Meeting unless he she is and private sectors.
The Groups 10 chosen markets are: in the public sector recommended by the Directors.
central government, local government, education, health, justice and emergency services and defence, and in the private sector life and pensions, insurance, No person, other than a Director retiring at a General Meeting as set out above, financial services and other private sector.
shall be appointed or re-appointed unless between seven and 35 days notice, executed by a member qualified to vote on the appointment or re-appointment, On behalf of its clients, Capita aims to improve service quality, reduce costs has been given to the Company of the intention to propose that person for of service delivery and enables clients to transform the way that they deliver appointment or re-appointment, together with notice executed by that person of services to their customers.
The services that Capita provides are essential his her willingness to be appointed or re-appointed.
to the smooth running and success of its clients operations.
Capita designs, successfully implements and manages tailored service solutions, ranging across administration, information technology, financial, human resources, property and customer service functions.
Capita maintains leading positions in the majority of its markets due to its scale and ability to draw on this wide base of professional services, detailed market knowledge and extensive business process transformation and change management skills.
Governance Corporate Governance Capita plc 73 A review of the development of the Group and its business activities during Voting rights and share capital the year is contained in the business review on pages 1 to 57.
Our divisional On 20 February 2013, the Company had received notifications that the following operations and financial performance are detailed on pages 31 to 46. were interested in accordance with the DTRs: Profits and dividends % of voting rights as at The Group underlying profit before taxation amounted to 425.6m Number of 20 February Number of Number of 2011: 385.2. m. The Directors recommend a final dividend of 15.6p share Shareholder shares 2013 shares direct shares indirect 2011: 14.2p per share to be paid on 28 May 2013 to ordinary shareholders BlackRock Inc 34,267,189 5.23% 34,267,189 on the Register on 19 April 2013.
This gives a total dividend for the year of 23.5p Invesco Limited 146,923,343 22.42% 146,923,343 per share 2011: 21.4p per share.
Legal & General The employee benefit trust has waived its right to receive a dividend on the shares Group Plc 23,279,554 3.55% 19,081,948 4,197,606 being held within the Trust.
Veritas Asset Management UK Conflicts policy Limited 38,757,504 5.91% 38,757,504 Under the Companies Act 2006, Directors are under an obligation to avoid This figure includes a Contract for Difference CFD for 4,000,402 shares situations in which their interests can or do conflict, or may possibly conflict, 1 15 At 20 February 2013, 668,501,999 ordinary shares of 2 p each have been issued with those of the Company.
In response to the conflicts of interest provisions, and are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
13,248,139 a comprehensive project was undertaken in 2008 to identify and disclose any shares are held in treasury and the total voting rights equates to 655,253,860. conflicts of interest that have arisen or may arise across Capita.
Procedures were During the year ended 31 December 2012, options were exercised pursuant to implemented for evaluating and managing conflicts that have been identified the Companys share option schemes, resulting in the allotment of 839,560 new in a way that ensures that decisions are not compromised by a conflicted Director.
32,329 shares have been allotted under these schemes since In addition, the Companys Articles of Association give the Board the power to the end of the financial year to the date of this report.
0.5% of the issued share authorise matters that give rise to actual or potential conflicts.
The Board reports capital is held within an employee benefit trust for the use of satisfying employee annually on the Companys procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers share options.
of authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that the procedures have been followed.
A policy for ongoing identification and disclosure of conflicts The share price at 31 December 2012 was 755p.
The highest share price in the is in place and is kept under regular review.
period was 781.5p and the lowest was 602p.
The Company renewed its authority to repurchase up to 10% of its own issued The Board has authorised the conflict of Gordon Hurst being a trustee of both share capital at the Annual General Meeting in May 2012.
During the year the the Capita Pension and Life Assurance Scheme and the Capita Group Money Company did not purchase any shares 2011: nil.
Purchase Scheme, and gave specific guidance on this conflict going forward.
Gordon Hurst did not participate in the discussion or vote on the guidance given.
No other conflicts of interest declared were material to the Board.
All conflicts of interest are reviewed on an annual basis by the Board and are revisited as part of the year-end process by the Directors.
None of the Directors of the Company had a material interest in any contract with the Company or its subsidiary undertakings, other than their contracts of employment.
Governance Corporate Governance Capita plc 74 Other statutory and regulatory information Going concern The Group encourages all of its employees to participate fully in the business through open dialogue.
Employees receive news of the Group through: frequent The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future email notices: internal notice board statements: the Group employee intranet, development, performance and position are set out in the business review Capita Connections, and regular email updates on business performance from on pages 1 to 57.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity both Divisional and Group Directors.
Capita Connections enables employees to position and borrowing facilities are described on pages 31 to 35.
In addition, note manage their work more efficiently and to share information within and between 26 to the financial statements on page 116 includes the Groups objectives, business units and employees are encouraged to contribute news, views and policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management feedback.
The Group maintains a strong communications network and objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its employees are encouraged, through its open door policy, to discuss with exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
management matters of interest to the employee and subjects affecting The Group has considerable financial resources together with long term contracts day-to-day operations of the Group.
with a wide range of public and private sector clients and suppliers.
As a Capita has an established employee share plan designed to promote employee consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its share ownership and to give employees the opportunity to participate in the business risk successfully.
future success of the Group.
In keeping with its belief that employees are the After making enquiries, and in accordance with the FRCs Going Concern and Groups most valuable asset, the Group operates employee awards schemes both Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, the Directors have at Group and Divisional level.
These celebrate the core values that embody the a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate organisation and reward employees for service excellence, teamwork, leadership, resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
cost saving and efficiency and charitable support and community engagement.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Payment of suppliers The Company aims to pay suppliers in accordance with the suppliers contract Disabled persons terms.
In 2012 the Company had an average of 41 days purchases 2011: 41 days It is the Groups policy to give full consideration to suitable applications purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
for employment of disabled persons and to ensure that any reasonable adjustments are made to either workplace or job content to accommodate Charitable and political donations a persons disabilities.
Disabled employees are eligible to participate in all career During the year charitable donations amounted to 0.6m 2011: 0.5m.
development opportunities available to employees and will be supported to No political contributions were made.
Further details of the Groups charitable do so.
Opportunities also exist for employees of the Group who become disabled donations and work within the community can be found on pages 56 and 57 and to continue in their employment with any reasonable adjustments being made at www.
or to be retrained for other positions in the Group.
Employee involvement Capita is committed to involving all employees in the performance and development of the Group.
Its approach to employee development offers continual challenges in the job, learning opportunities and personal development.
The Group supports employees through a comprehensive range of key business and management skills and personal development programmes through the Capita Academy and Capita Manager Academy.
At the same time our businesses provide business specific training for all employees relevant to their role.
In addition the Group supports the achievement of professional qualifications including a range of National Vocational Qualifications.
Governance C Cor orpor pora at te e G Go ov five er rn nan anc ce e Capita plc 75 Financial instruments Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of Directors The Groups financial instruments primarily comprise bonds, bank loans, finance Under the Companies Act 2006, companies are under an obligation to disclose leases and overdrafts.
The principal purpose of these is to raise funds for the any indemnities which are in force in favour of their directors.
The current Articles Groups operations.
In addition various other financial instruments such as trade of Association of the Company contain an indemnity in favour of the Directors of creditors and trade debtors arise directly from its operations.
From time to time, the Company which indemnifies them in respect of certain liabilities and costs the Group also enters into derivative transactions, primarily interest rate swaps, that they might incur in the execution of their duties as Directors.
Copies of the currency swaps and forward exchange contracts, the purpose of which is to relevant extract from the Articles of Association are available for inspection at the manage interest risk and currency risk, arising from the Groups operations and its registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday sources of finance.
and will be available at the venue of the 2013 Annual General Meeting from 15 minutes before the meeting until it ends.
The main financial risks, to which the Group has exposure, are interest rate risk, liquidity risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk.
Powers of Directors The Group borrows in selected currencies at fixed and floating rates of interest The business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors who are subject and makes use of interest rate swaps and currency swaps to generate the desired to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Articles of Association of the interest profile and to manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
Company and to any Directions given by special resolution, including the In respect of liquidity risk, the Group aims to maintain a balance between Companys power to repurchase its own shares.
continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of multiple sources of funding The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special including bonds, bank loans, loan notes, finance leases and overdrafts, over a resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Change of control In respect of credit risk, the Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions in relation to a change of parties.
It is the Groups policy that all clients who wish to trade on credit terms control.
Outstanding options and awards would normally vest and become are subject to credit verification procedures.
In addition, receivable balances are exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad conditions at that time.
Capita has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various banks and other With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, financial institutions.
Capitas bank debt contains a change of control provision such as cash, financial investments and derivative instruments, the Groups under which the banks may require immediate repayment in full on change of exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty.
The bonds issued by Capita contain a change of control provision which manages its operations to avoid any excessive concentration of counterparty requires the Group to offer to prepay the bonds in full if a change of control risk and the Group takes all reasonable steps to seek assurance from the event occurs and Capita does not obtain an investment grade credit rating.
counterparties to ensure that they can fulfil their obligations.
There are no other significant contracts in place that would take effect, alter The Group is not generally exposed to significant foreign currency risk, except or terminate on the change of control of the Company.
in respect of its overseas operations in India, which generates exposure to movements in the Indian Rupee exchange rate.
The Group seeks to mitigate the effect of this exposure by entering forward currency instruments, in the form of non-deliverable forward contracts, to fix the sterling cost of highly probable forecast transactions denominated in Indian Rupees.
Further details of the Groups financial instruments can be found in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 116 to 122.
