Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 24 Every company we work with is different and Creating innovative each project is unique but we use a common overall approach: solutions Listening to clients needs Work closely with clients to clearly define their Responsive service design is central to our sales objectives, both in the short and longer term offering.
Whether we are bidding for a government or private sector contract, we firstly seek to Create appropriate governance and client Responsive service understand the current and future requirements engagement structures to ensure that we are design is central to of the client and vitally, the end-user of the service.
delivering to expectations our sales offering.
We will only start to design services after we have Establish strategic partnership boards on our Whether we are gathered firm evidence to ensure that we have clear largest contracts to ensure that the relationship insights into user behaviour and motivations.
This bidding for a develops to support any changing needs.
helps us to build effective services which support government or Creating appropriate solutions long term efficiency and accessibility.
private sector Audit current services understand and Our pool of talented specialists use their skills and contract, the first document how the organisation works including experience to generate new and innovative ways inputs, outputs, workflow, dependencies, service step is to understand of delivering services, tailored for each individual infrastructure and any bottlenecks the current and contract.
We maintain open and honest Provide detailed transformation plans and future requirements discussions with our clients, which allow us to introduce new innovations and different, flexible of the client and develop a detailed understanding of their business service infrastructures.
vitally, the end-user Measuring results of the service.
Agree detailed service standards and KPIs to Vic Gysin measure progress and improvements Joint COO Track the results, not only to establish whether its working as designed, but also to feed into future plans.
Delivering changes We deliver continual transformation of business Securing long term client relationships processes using our full range of technology, people management and work environment expertise.
What we do What we deliver Harness talent and leadership Increased efficiency Process re-engineering Reduced operating costs Deliver effective integration and transformation Flexible delivery models Introduce new ways of working Improved customer service Adopt the most appropriate technology Increased customer Apply our flexible delivery infrastructure retention Create innovative solutions Commercial certainty & reduced risk Partnership model
