Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 20 Effective people management: Building capability harnessing talent and leadership Our people are critical to our success.
It is vital that and scale we have the right skills in place so that we can continue to deliver high quality services for our The strength of our offering across our 10 markets is clients and plan for long term growth.
Over 70% of a result of our proactive development of the Groups our 52,500 staff have transferred to the Group under capability and scale.
This ensures that we have the TUPE Transfer of Undertakings, Protection of right resources in place to deliver compelling, cost Our people are Employment regulations demonstrating the depth effective client solutions, whether its a single service critical to our of our experience of managing complex large-scale in a specific market or a full strategic partnership success.
It is vital employee transfers.
combining multiple objectives and services.
that we have the We track employee retention as one of our key The successful integration and delivery of right skills in place performance indicators.
In 2012, our retention rate progressively larger contracts, with common so that we can for managers across the Group annual salaries processes and substantial numbers of transferring exceeding 50k was 99% 2011: 95% and our continue to deliver employees, fuels the growth of our operations overall employee retention rate was 83% and resources.
Our overall employee retention rate for our clients and We work closely with clients to transform their has reduced this year primarily due to the recent plan for long term business performance primarily through: expansion of our call centre operations, where our growth.
turnover rate reflects the average sector rates.
effective people management Andy Parker process re-engineering Succession planning is a key element of our strategy, Joint COO ensuring that we have the appropriate resources in appropriate ICT platforms place to maintain stable leadership.
In order to retain leveraging our large scale delivery network.
the best people we give them the opportunity to grow and develop.
We support all our employees in their career development and offer a number of different types of training.
We actively reassign managers to new business areas which promotes the Capita ethos and allows us to share innovation and skills between contracts and businesses, helping us to stay at the forefront of the BPM market.
See page 51 Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 21 Process re-engineering: effective Leveraging our large scale delivery network: integration and transformation flexible infrastructure We work closely with our clients to transform and Underpinning all our solutions is an extensive improve their business processes, applying the network of multi-discipline business centres.
By experience that we have gained through numerous offering onshore, nearshore, offshore or blended large scale transformations in order to drive through service delivery options in a time zone that suits our efficiencies and optimise their revenue.
We blend this clients, we can provide maximum flexibility, quality with our clients knowledge and experience in their and cost savings in our sales propositions.
specific market place to create the most appropriate Our delivery network now includes 70 centres in service solutions.
the UK, the Channel Islands, Europe, India and On all our major BPM contracts, we streamline South Africa.
Our business centres in India, where administration by taking out duplicate processes, we employ over 4,500 people, continue to play an switching to more efficient technology and by integral role in our offshore offering.
We now have six Our business centre network leveraging the Groups existing technical and service centres in Mumbai, Pune and Bangalore delivering a delivery platforms.
range of services, from simple transaction processing through to more complex knowledge based back office functions.
Appropriate ICT solutions 56 Onshore We have the capability to work with and enhance a In July 2012, we enhanced our delivery offering centres clients existing technical platforms or we can create through the acquisition of a leading contact centre entirely new, bespoke systems depending on the solutions business based in South Africa, Full Circle, UK desired outcomes.
Our IT Services business provides and we now have approximately 200 employees in a full range of services from off-the-shelf products to Cape Town.
We have already started to provide new full service, on-site solutions for both internal and customer management services for an existing client.
We have continued to invest in our Central European Nearshore 6 Wherever possible, we migrate and integrate business centre which we set up in Krakow, Poland in centres Continental Europe, Ireland, systems, share resources and rationalise premises 2011.
This is now fully operational and servicing a Channel Islands, Isle of Man to optimise our infrastructure.
As we increase scale, number of existing Capita clients in English and other we are able to deliver more services and contracts core European languages.
The 550 seat capacity through shared ICT platforms and operating centre in Krakow is located close to the city centre structures, allowing us to deliver significant cost and the university with access to a skilled, multisavings for clients.
We are continuing to broaden the Offshore 8 services we deliver from the centre.
For example, we now employ eight veterinary technicians to support India, South Africa, Dubai centres pet insurance claims and 80 legal professionals who deliver legal research and administration services.
