Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 25 Improving customer service and retention Flexible delivery models By outsourcing their customer management, we We adapt our solutions to meet the specific support our clients in increasing sales, improving requirements of our clients and through this, we customer satisfaction, reducing costs without generate a healthy mix of revenue streams for Capita compromising quality, consolidating existing contact across a wide spectrum of markets and industries.
centres or rapidly setting up new ones, improving For some clients, a long term defined contract and efficiency at existing sites, and increasing flexibility.
cost profile is important to support their long term strategy.
Other clients, who face faster decision We help our clients improve customer retention with making cycles and business seasonality, require a a range of comprehensive analytics that provide a greater degree of flexibility, for example, detailed insight into how their customers are organisations who need to be able to swiftly behaving and what they think of services.
increase reduce scale in line with short term peaks Many of our clients adopt a multi-channel approach or troughs in demand.
for both sales and customer engagement and we We have an extensive track record of creating continually evolve our capability to ensure that we collaborative partnerships and working together with have the depth of functions necessary to meet small businesses, local organisations and charities to their requirements.
deliver the right outcomes for our clients and the communities they serve.
Increasing efficiency and reducing costs We have the skills to support service transformation Providing commercial certainty across the public and private sectors.
Our onshore, and reducing risk nearshore, offshore or blended delivery capability For each major BPM contract, we commit to a range Supporting allows us to deliver guaranteed efficiencies and of contract specific performance metrics in order to cost savings for our clients whilst improving ensure that we are meeting clients expectations.
a result, clients find that outsourcing gives them the frontline Integral to our offering is our highly efficient more control over support operations, not less, as operating and financial structure which ensures that they are able to directly measure service costs and Recruiting Partnering Project RPP we contain our central overhead, helping us to outputs.
Outsourcing non-core parts of their remain competitive whilst providing added value Our contract with the Ministry of Defence MOD to operations to an industry expert, for example, HR, propositions.
We use our extensive scale to procure deliver RPP will transform the way the Army recruits software development and customer support, can services cost effectively and share these cost benefits officers and soldiers, both regular and TA, releasing also improve their risk profile and enable them to with our clients.
over 1,100 military recruiters back to the frontline focus on what they do best.
and delivering around 300m in benefits to the MOD.
It will deliver a more efficient recruiting process by reducing both time and cost to enlistment, as well as engendering a clear understanding of the offer and a more positive recruiting experience for candidates, their gatekeepers and their influencers.
It will place the military recruiters on the frontline of Army recruiting, allowing them to focus on their core tasks.
