Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 50 Responding to change Protecting our clients Responding to our Satisfied clients are the key to our success.
To meet Our clients include many companies and their expectations, we have to be able to respond to organisations that handle personal data and clients needs their changing needs, as well as to changes in the highly sensitive material and so we make the marketplace.
We achieve this with bespoke service security of client data a priority.
Long term client relationships are vital to our delivery models that ensure we always meet our continued success.
We strive to meet our clients We have an established, robust framework in clients current needs, while taking into account their needs and always try to exceed their expectations, place which includes: expectations and the needs of the public.
There are listening and responding to their views and those of detailed policies and procedures that enable us occasions where we are required to undertake their customers, ensuring that we consistently add to comply with all legal requirements for data actions for our clients that are not going to be value to their operations.
protection and information security popular with the public, such as debt recovery or mandatory annual refresher training for every administering new Government benefits.
We focus Engaging with our clients employee, covering information security, data on ensuring that these activities are delivered on We engage with our clients on a regular basis.
Our protection and fraud awareness behalf of our clients, in an appropriate and management team is highly accessible and we ensure sensitive manner.
regular review and update of training content to that effective communication is maintained at all ensure it is always current and accurate When we are designing services, we make sure that levels of the relationship, from day-to-day operational they are inclusive, accessible and factor in the effects clear incident reporting procedures that ensure contacts, right through to the head of the organisation.
of the broad changes in society that our clients we deal with any potential issue as quickly as Maintaining open and honest discussions with our customers are facing for example an ageing possible and enable learning to be fed back into clients allows us to develop a detailed understanding population and changes in mobile technologies.
of their business and challenges.
Every company we work with is different, and every project unique, but we use a common overall approach.
We offer a huge variety of services and it would not be appropriate to use a single method to measure client satisfaction.
We use a number of different mechanisms, depending on the size and type of the contract.
