Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 17 Private sector key drivers Public sector key drivers Commercial organisations are facing continued The ongoing pressure to reduce budgets whilst pressure to maintain their competitive position by maintaining frontline services is creating a strong driving down operational costs and introducing new pipeline of opportunities in the public sector, where products to market faster, whilst maintaining high we are seeing renewed vigour and innovation in levels of customer acquisition and service.
The terms of how the private sector can support central acquisitions of Ventura and Vertex private sector and local government objectives.
For example, our in 2011, which were fully integrated into Capita in groundbreaking education support services contract 2012, have significantly enhanced our customer with Staffordshire County Council, where we are management capabilities.
delivering services back to the Council and at the same time growing the joint venture into a Today, we have a strong pipeline of opportunities commercial operation, is positioned well to meet the and we are securing relationships that would not requirements of the rapidly changing education have been possible as three separate entities.
In 2012, we increased our presence Our application of customer insight, behavioural in our newer market sectors of defence, health, analytics, multiple channel integration and justice and emergency services and we are seeing intelligent, responsive digital services enables us significant potential for further growth in our more to deliver real value to the business models of our established market sectors.
These capabilities are equally key to designing and delivering more effective Building on our track record and efficient responsive public services.
Across We have a strong track record of developing bespoke the banking and financial services sectors, our service delivery models that meet the needs of our administration services are experiencing high clients and the current and future expectations of the demand and we are developing new propositions public.
We apply the extensive experience we have that build upon and extend our existing ones.
gained from our wide range of markets to share best Extending our of breed customer management and business process practices across all our client relationships.
market reach During the year, we fully integrated customer Capita revenue by market management operations, Ventura and Vertex private sector, acquired in 2011.
Combined with Capitas Public sector 47% Private sector 53% existing services, these acquisitions have significantly enhanced our private sector capability.
Our customer 2012 2011 2012 2011 management offering is now securing large scale 1.
Life and pensions 17 19 customer management and BPM contracts with 1 8.
Local government 18 19 leading brands, which would not have been possible 3.
Financial services 6 5 as separate entities.
In 2012, we secured three major 1 4.
Other private sector 26 23 contracts with Scottish Power, Debenhams plc and 5.
Justice and emergency services 3 3 another major retailer.
co. uk 1 Includes transport, previously reported separately.
Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 18 Drivers for outsourcing 1 2 3 4 5 Central government Local government Education Health Justice and emergency services 11% of Group revenue 18% of Group revenue 8% of Group revenue 6% of Group revenue 3% of Group revenue 2 2011: 9% 2011: 19% 2011: 11% 2011: 5% 2011: 3% Continued financial pressure on Continuing financial pressure Schools are moving out of local Government reform of the NHS Police and Crime Commissioners government organisations to is supporting innovative thinking authority control, giving them is leading to radical changes in face the dual requirements of achieve more for less in the regarding service delivery models autonomy in selecting suppliers the way services are being increasing police visibility and delivery of frontline services which achieve cost savings while commissioned creating significant reducing costs Increasing competition between protecting and improving opportunities for the private Commitment to open public higher education institutions Potential to improve efficiency frontline services sector services and civil service reform creates a role for outsourcing through partnering and Local government organisations expertise Efficiency programmes looking collaboration to gain access to Focus on shorter, more efficient are looking to the private, third for budget cuts to come from a range of private sector assets procurement timelines Expansion of the Academies and voluntary sectors for best back office services i. e. payroll and including ICT, innovative delivery programme providing greater Drive to secure back office practice guidance, including administration rather than models and skills and expertise.
outsourcing opportunities in areas efficiencies by promoting adopting a more enterprising frontline activities such as HR, finance and ICT Majority of BPM spend in the cross-departmental working, approach Increased investment in ICT and police sector currently relates for example, the Civil Service Requirement to track and support Channel shift is at the top of the systems to support increasing to payroll and pensions Learning agreement shared learning across multiple agenda as councils look at demands for health services administration contracts education establishments Use of frameworks will be an area different ways to engage with resulting from changing Opportunity to share merge back of focus for suppliers as part Significant potential to increase citizens demographics and higher office functions with other forces of the efficiency agenda our presence in the international incidences of long term diseases Move towards commissioning or partner organisations in order and independent schools market Greater understanding of the and chronic conditions model through which councils to free up resources to support benefits of commercialising Requirement to respond quickly are shifting away from being the The increasing demands on GPs the frontline aspects of government work to changing legislation and direct provider of public services will provide opportunities for third In the fire sector, budget cuts Government initiatives.
Over the period from 2011-12 party support services Increasing recognition of the driving new ways of working in to 2014-15 the budgets of benefits of shared service Continued pressure to reduce both frontline and back office departments are falling by 19% in infrastructure between councils.
costs with plans to deliver with new technologies real terms excluding health and efficiency savings of up to 20bn 1 UK police forces required to international development.
2 Includes transport, previously reported separately.
3 Her Majestys Inspectorate of Constabulary Policing in Austerity.
Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 19 Drivers for outsourcing continued 6 7 8 9 10 Defence Life and pensions Insurance Financial services Other private sector 1% of Group revenue 17% of Group revenue 4% of Group revenue 6% of Group revenue 26% of Group revenue 2 2011: n a 2011: 19% 2011: 6% 2011: 5% 2011: 23% Pressure to reduce costs whilst Increasingly competitive market Providers seeking access to the Continued rise in self-service, Growing recognition of protecting frontline services creating ongoing pressure on latest technology that can online insurance quotes, outsourced expertise as a way of providers to reduce operating and support improvements in service comparison sites and online improving customer service and Greater tri-service collaboration administration costs delivery and cost efficiencies to banking requires more skilled satisfaction and compatibility in areas such as drive growth and profitability agents with the ability to deal HR and procurement Providers seeking assistance to Multi-media channels changing with increasingly complex respond to and share associated More effective claims handling the way consumers buy services Potential for greater flexibility enquiries and cross up sell costs of increasingly complex reducing claims costs and which creates opportunities to in procurement products legislation preventing fraud and leakage add value through analytics and Requirement for defence clients Compliance costs are rising, channel shift Acknowledgement of the cost Manage the challenge of to become more commercially reducing funds available for benefits offered by commonality minimising claims indemnity Increased competition creating savvy with assets like land and product innovation and service across shared delivery platforms spend while at the same time pressure on organisations to estates channel improvement providing an ever increasing reduce administrative costs and Open to using private sector best Introduction of auto-enrolment quality of customer interaction Mobile banking becoming a mass improve service levels practice to ensure performance in will create high ongoing costs and service market and providing the driving down costs and delivering to serve.
Pressure on investment and opportunity for differentiation efficiencies Regulatory and compliance costs, research budgets, despite including Solvency II, are Social media moving from undiminished requirement to Ministry of Defence facing 735m impacting insurers profitability customer engagement to maintain competitiveness.
of cuts in its core budget for 1 and forcing them to look at cost customer participation e. g. peer 201315. cutting initiatives.
to peer advice crowdsourcing Need for financial organisations to offer greater flexibility and enhance competitiveness.
