Governance Board members Capita plc 59 Board members The Board is currently comprised of nine Directors, made up of the Chairman, Chief Executive and four other Executive and three Independent Non-Executive Directors.
We continue to believe we have a talented and substantial team in place to support our continued growth.
However, as the Group continually grows and diversifies, we will continue to regularly review the Board composition to ensure it meets the needs of the business.
Non-Executive Directors Nigel Wilson Senior Independent Director until 31 December 2012 Joined the Board in May 2010 and became Senior Independent Director upon appointment.
Nigel was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Legal and General Group Plc in June 2012 having previously held the appointment of Group Martin Bolland Gillian Sheldon Martina King Paul Bowtell Chief Financial Officer since September 2009.
He stood down Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director from the Board at the end of 2012.
Joined the Board in March 2008 Joined the Board in September 2012 Joined the Board in January 2005.
Joined the Board in June 2010 and is and became Chairman on 1 January and was appointed Senior Martina is CEO of technology currently Chief Financial Officer of Committee memberships: 2010.
A Chartered Accountant, Independent Director on 1 January company Featurespace.
Paul was Audit Committee Martin previously held a number of 2013.
She is currently a senior previously held a number of senior previously on the board of Tui Travel Nomination Committee senior operational positions within banker at Credit Suisse.
Gillian has positions in marketing and online PLC as Chief Financial Officer and Remuneration Committee the Lonrho Group and was also a substantial experience of advising media, including Managing Director was also on the board of First Choice Paddy Doyle founder and partner of Alchemy boards across a wide range of Aurasma, a division of Autonomy, Holidays PLC.
He is a Chartered Partners for 11 years.
Martin of complex situations and Yahoo!
Her broad Accountant and has extensive Non-Executive Director continues to be a member of both transactions.
Gillian joined Credit knowledge and extensive experience experience across the UK retail until 31 March 2012 Alchemys Investment Committee Suisse in 1997 having worked for of management, new technology sector having held a number of Joined Capita in 1992 and was and Monitoring Boards.
He is also seven years at NM Rothschild & and sales and marketing brings a senior positions with British Gas, appointed to the Board in 1994 currently Chairman of RecyCoal Sons.
Gillian is also a Trustee of BBC different range of expertise to the WH Smith and Forte.
Paul brings and served as Group Operations Holdings Limited and PD Parks Children in Need, appointed in Board which is highly valued.
significant financial and commercial Director and then Joint Chief Holdings Limited Parkdean Holidays.
She has previously Martina is also Non-Executive knowledge to the Board.
He is also a Operating Officer.
He became a been Chair of Bird & Co Group Director of Cineworld PLC and Non-Executive Director and Non-Executive Director from Committee memberships: Advisory Board.
Chairman of the Audit Committee 1 March 2010.
Paddy retired from Nomination Committee Chairman at SThree PLC.
the Board at the end of March 2012.
Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Audit Committee Audit Committee Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Audit Committee Chairman Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Chair Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Governance Board members Capita plc 60 Executive Directors Paul Pindar Gordon Hurst Maggi Bell Andy Parker Vic Gysin Chief Executive Group Finance Director Business Development Director Joint Chief Operating Officer Joint Chief Operating Officer Joined Capita in 1987 from 3i after Joined Capita in 1988 and was Joined Capita in January 1999 and Joined Capita in 2001 and was Joined Capita in 2002 and was advising Capita on its management appointed to the Board as was appointed to the Board in appointed to the Board in January appointed to the Board in January buy-out.
He became Chief Executive Commercial Director in February August 2008.
Andy oversees the majority of 2011.
Vic oversees Capitas financial in 1999.
A Chartered Accountant, 1995 and then as Group Finance various positions across Capita, Capitas non-financial services services operations, Customer Paul is responsible for managing and Director in 1996.
Gordon was also including running our recruitment operations.
Andy has held various Management and International and developing Capitas business to appointed Company Secretary in businesses and leading the Business positions across the Group including the Integrated Services Division.
Vic achieve the Companys strategic 2000.
A Chartered Accountant, Services and Corporate Services being the Divisional Director for has held various positions across the objectives and has overall Gordon has Board responsibility for Divisions.
She has been head of Capitas ICT, Health and Business Group including being Divisional responsibility for our charitable our overall corporate responsibility Group Sales & Marketing since Services Division and held a number Director for Capitas Insurance and approach.
In July 2012 Paul was policy and specific responsibility for January 2005.
She is also of senior finance director positions Investor Services Division and the appointed Non-Executive Chairman our environment, health and safety responsible for driving forward including three years as Senior Integrated Services Division.
Since of Integrated Dental Holdings.
Earlier approach and supplier relationships.
business development across the Divisional Financial Director.
Andy is joining Capita he has overseen the in 2012 Paul retired as Chair of the He chairs the Business Services Group, including managing our a Chartered Accountant and has successful implementation and Great Ormond Street Hospitals Associations Finance and Taxation Major Sales Team, and has Board extensive commercial and financial delivery of a number of our key Corporate Partnerships Board.
Andy has joint Board contracts.
Vic is an experienced engagement.
responsibility for clients and business director with strong employees with Vic Gysin.
Vic has joint Board responsibility for clients and employees with Andy Parker and responsibility for the Group HR function.
