Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 57 Measuring our impact Community Development Foundation Creating Better Tomorrows We want to track and measure the value and impact of our community investment, both to Capita and to At the start of 2013, we established the Capita society as a whole to ensure our efforts are achieving Community Development Foundation, known as our aims.
To do this, we use the London Creating Better Tomorrows.
The foundation will Benchmarking Group methodology.
In 2012, we support five keys areas that align with the key estimate that our total investment was 1.8m based concerns and impacts in the markets in which we on data captured from 50% of the Group.
operate and in the wider community: young people and those in care inclusion for people with health issues and Providing disabilities offender rehabilitation apprenticeships adult social care resettlement for ex-service personnel.
We are already engaged and working with a number We actively look for opportunities to help tackle the of these community groups and we will continue to problem of youth unemployment.
build on our existing initiatives and deliver innovative, Through our partnership with Lambeth Council in scalable community programmes.
2012, we offered three Lambeth residents apprenticeships in our business.
One of them, The key focus of the foundation is to use Capitas 24-year-old Ifrika, joined our apprenticeship scheme skills and services to help support and build capacity in June 2012.
She had been long term unemployed in third sector organisations and SMEs working in and unsurprisingly was finding her confidence these areas.
This support will enable them to run severely dented.
their services as efficiently as possible and help them become sustainable.
In this way, we hope to help in Since joining us, her outlook on the future has increasing the beneficial outcomes in these five initial changed.
My confidence has grown a lot since Ive focus areas.
I dont mind admitting that I was a bit scared about the idea of working in a big corporate office, but everyone has been so helpful and welcoming and I quickly fitted in.
I am on track to achieve my qualification and for the first time in my Our 2012 performance adult life I feel like I can have a proper career.
2012 2011 Jackie Meldrum, deputy leader of Lambeth Council, is Total community investment using London 1.8m 2.0m also very enthusiastic.
Youth unemployment is at the Benchmarking Group methodology very top of our list of priorities, and weve launched a campaign More Jobs to create local jobs, get more Total corporate donations including support for 135k 500k apprentice places, and set up young people with the our charity partner and matched funding scheme, skills they need for the workplace.
Capita is listening to other community initiatives and disaster appeals us and coming up with real jobs that offer our young Employee fundraising for our corporate 245k 475k people real opportunities.
