Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 26 Identifying the right opportunities Securing We constantly identify areas of opportunity and actively engage with potential clients in existing and organic growth new sectors to demonstrate the benefits and added value that outsourcing can offer.
Given the long term Capitas long term growth is primarily driven by nature of contracts, it is essential for us to pursue securing medium to long term major customer only those relationships that can both meet clients management and BPM contracts which currently expectations and generate reasonable returns for represent around 65% of overall Group revenue.
This high level of selectivity, along with our bespoke client solutions, underpins our long term win Highly visible future revenues rate of between one in two and one in three.
In 2012, Our evolution across a wide range of markets has our win rate was better than one in two.
enabled us to develop a broad based services We continue to look for: business with multiple clients across a wide range of diverse sectors.
clients with whom we can build a strong relationship and deliver real benefits A combination of long term major contracts and recurrent business ensures highly visible future defined bid processes with clear decision criteria revenues for the Group: opportunities in line with our core competencies in service transformation Long term BPM contracts Developing a new, fair risk reward balance and acceptable contractual High quality recurring revenues delivered from obligations multiple, integrated administration and customer services contracts, typically 515 years.
limited requirement for capital investment, unless growth business there is a real value proposition for Capita.
Single services Annual roll-over, high repeat rate or secured under In 2012, we signed a contract to create an innovative Creating the right bid team medium contracts of two to five years.
new joint venture JV with Staffordshire County We manage procurements either centrally or at Discretionary spend Council to initially deliver a range of educational divisional level, depending on the size and complexity support services for schools and academies in the Additional services for existing clients and or of the opportunity.
Our major sales team pursues Staffordshire region.
These services are expected to change control requests.
complex, long term customer management and BPM generate annual revenues of approximately 85m Transactional activities 10% of revenue contracts, usually valued in excess of 50m, drawing over 20 years and we will additionally focus on on Group-wide resources to tailor solutions to each Short term projects contracts for specific achieving significant growth through securing new clients requirements.
To ensure prudent pricing, we work streams.
local authority, school, academy and further and clearly separate responsibilities between sales teams higher education clients across the country.
The client relationships, sales support teams pricing and venture is considered one of the most unique and risk models and the Group Board solution and exciting local government and private sector pricing approval.
With the UK schools education support services market currently estimated to be worth around 16bn per year, the JV is targeting total revenue of at least 2bn over the first 10 years.
co. uk Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 27 Procurement process Actively replenishing our pipeline The procurement process, especially in the public Capitas bid pipeline represents the Groups major bid sector, can be costly to pursue and we maintain opportunities over 25m which have reached 1 stringent criteria to focus resources only on shortlist stage.
It provides an indication of the health opportunities where we see a real prospect of the outsourcing market and can be a useful of success.
indicator of likely future organic growth.
Individual bids are capped at a total contract value of 1bn to In the private sector, the procurement process is prevent very large contracts distorting the overall determined by each individual client, often working total value.
We seek out opportunities through business intelligence and existing relationships: Our bid pipeline at 28 February 2013 was 5.2bn We constantly increasingly, we are also approached directly November 2012: 4.8bn and comprised 27 bid identify areas of by organisations.
situations across our target markets, with the highest opportunity and value of bids being in central government, followed UK public sector contracts are subject to a defined actively engage by local government, private sector and defence.
procurement process which can take up to two years with potential Behind this is an active prospect list of opportunities.
EU policy requires fair and open clients in existing competition and opportunities are formally and new sectors to advertised and notified.
In addition, under EU demonstrate the competition law, public sector outsourcing contracts that are already in place must be offered for tender benefits that 1 Bid pipeline 28 February 2013 when the initial contract and extension term outsourcing is complete.
Our bid pipeline is subject to clear criteria: Government and local authorities are exploring ways Maggi Bell Group Business contains contracts of 25m or above to speed up the procurement process as they strive Development to realise the benefits of outsourcing at a faster pace shortlisted to the last four or fewer bidders Director and we have seen continued progress on this in 2012. capped at 1bn to prevent very large Bid If at any stage we feel that procurement conditions individual contracts distorting the total.
pipeline have shifted significantly or that any of these criteria are no longer met, we will, after detailed 5.2bn consultation, withdraw from the process.
We will not 27 bids take on excessive risk or output based contracts which are overly reliant on external factors that are Behind our bid pipeline is an active prospect out of our control.
list of opportunities where the bidding Prospect list process is underway but where we have yet active live bids to reach a shortlist or final bidding stage.
The prospect list is supported by a suspect list relationships which Suspect list we are nurturing to generate future identified opportunities bid opportunities.
1 We have adjusted the criteria of our bid pipeline from 1 January 2013 to reflect the greater size of the Group and the opportunities we are addressing.
We now report all bids worth 25m or above previously 10m or above, now capped at 1bn previously 500m.
Under the previous criteria the bid pipeline at 28 February 2013 would have stood at 4.8bn November 2012: 4.0bn.
Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 28 Our contract price is generally made up of a base Securing appropriate pricing Retaining and expanding contracts cost that covers the transformation and normal and contract terms As well as securing new business from new clients, running costs of the service.
Where demand on the we work to renew or expand existing client Our major contracts are long term commitments.
It service infrastructure and resources fluctuates, the relationships.
By achieving operational excellence, we is therefore essential that our pricing and contract pricing will include a variable volume-related often secure additional business from clients and we terms are correct from the start to ensure that we element.
All contracts include a related basket of achieve high retention rates as contracts come up for maintain a mutually beneficial, long term relationship indices that reflect the cost elements of the service renewal.
Over the last 29 years, we have only failed which is based on trust.
We undertake extensive due such as wage inflation indices, CPI and RPI.
Our to renew four of our material contracts defined as diligence to build detailed service, risk and pricing scale, multi country service delivery model and low having forecast annual revenue in excess of 1% of the models.
We often share these openly with our central overhead costs help to provide additional previous year's revenue.
Over the next five years, prospective clients to ensure that all our assumptions competitive advantage and enable us to generate there are no material contracts due for rebid.
The for delivering successfully on the project are robust reasonable margins for the Group.
next major contract up for renewal will be the and that the benefits generated to both parties are Phoenix contract in 2019. fully understood.
Our track record in accurately pricing contracts enables us to offer clients sensible and realistic proposals while robustly managing and mitigating risk.
Once agreed, the terms of our contracts are fixed which means we have a good view of stable, long term revenues.
Typical major BPM contract life cycle Opportunity identified & bid Contract secured Contract extension Contract renewal rebid 5-15 year contract duration 2-5 years 5-15 year new 3-18 months stipulated at original contract award contract duration creation of bid team transfer and transformation full rebid required with public delivering service improvement and further adaptation of service to meet exploration of clients long term sector contracts cost savings new requirements objectives and their customers needs solution developed in process with the continuous improvement in our 29 years of operation we client, drawing on Group wide skills and have only failed to renew four of our 1 resources material contracts 1 Material contracts: defined as generating more than 1% of previous years revenue.
Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 29 Progress in 2012 2012 major contracts over 50m 2012 major contracts between 10m-50m, including: In 2012, we reported another record sales year Contract Details Contract Details with 4.0bn 2011: 2.0bn of new and extended Recruiting Partnering Partnering with the Ministry of Defence to 8 customer In the motor, retail and utilities markets.
contracts secured, more than twice the value of our Project RPP deliver recruitment services for the Army management contracts previous record year.
This reflects the operational and the enabling ICT for the Royal Navy track record of the Group and the buoyant demand Oxfordshire County Capita Symonds, our property and the Royal Air Force.
for outsourcing and will support further revenue Council consultancy, selected to support Civil Service Selected by the Cabinet Office in February Carillions partnership with the Council.
The wins, 90% of which Learning agreement 2012 to manage exclusively the provision relate to new contracts and 10% to contract UK Border Agency Selected to deliver contact management of training across the Civil Service in a two renewals, were secured from across our markets with services to support the management of year contract.
This contract has now been particular success in central and local government, the overstayer backlog.
extended for a further two years to 2016. retail, health and defence.
London Fire and Selected to provide control room services West Sussex A support services partnership with Emergency and mobilisation and communications County Council the Council to deliver a range of back Planning Authority technologies.
Southwark Council Awarded a four year contract for an North Tyneside Council Selected to provide wide-ranging IT managed service designed to help property, highways and maintenance transform the Council and deliver services in a partnership which has benefits for both customers and the significant opportunities for growth.
Personal Independence Awarded the contract to deliver the PIP Ministry of Justice Awarded a three year contract for the Payment PIP assessments for Central England and application management and hosting of assessments, Central Wales by the Department for Work and the Criminal Justice System Exchange.
For further details relating to our contract wins, Personal Independence Awarded the contract to deliver PIP visit the media and investor centres at: Payment PIP assessments in Northern Ireland by The assessments, Northern Ireland Social Security Agency.
co. uk Northern Ireland London Borough of Selected to deliver the London Borough of Barnet Barnets new support and customer service organisation.
Staffordshire Deliver a range of educational support County Council services for schools and academies in Staffordshire.
Fire Service College Selected by the Department for Communities and Local Government to run the FSC, the largest single provider of specialist operational fire and rescue training in the UK.
3 major private Our expanded customer management sector contracts offering has secured three major contracts including a full customer management service for Debenhams plc, another major UK retailer and Scottish Power.
