Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 26 Identifying the right opportunities Securing We constantly identify areas of opportunity and actively engage with potential clients in existing and organic growth new sectors to demonstrate the benefits and added value that outsourcing can offer.
Given the long term Capitas long term growth is primarily driven by nature of contracts, it is essential for us to pursue securing medium to long term major customer only those relationships that can both meet clients management and BPM contracts which currently expectations and generate reasonable returns for represent around 65% of overall Group revenue.
This high level of selectivity, along with our bespoke client solutions, underpins our long term win Highly visible future revenues rate of between one in two and one in three.
In 2012, Our evolution across a wide range of markets has our win rate was better than one in two.
enabled us to develop a broad based services We continue to look for: business with multiple clients across a wide range of diverse sectors.
clients with whom we can build a strong relationship and deliver real benefits A combination of long term major contracts and recurrent business ensures highly visible future defined bid processes with clear decision criteria revenues for the Group: opportunities in line with our core competencies in service transformation Long term BPM contracts Developing a new, fair risk reward balance and acceptable contractual High quality recurring revenues delivered from obligations multiple, integrated administration and customer services contracts, typically 515 years.
limited requirement for capital investment, unless growth business there is a real value proposition for Capita.
Single services Annual roll-over, high repeat rate or secured under In 2012, we signed a contract to create an innovative Creating the right bid team medium contracts of two to five years.
new joint venture JV with Staffordshire County We manage procurements either centrally or at Discretionary spend Council to initially deliver a range of educational divisional level, depending on the size and complexity support services for schools and academies in the Additional services for existing clients and or of the opportunity.
Our major sales team pursues Staffordshire region.
These services are expected to change control requests.
complex, long term customer management and BPM generate annual revenues of approximately 85m Transactional activities 10% of revenue contracts, usually valued in excess of 50m, drawing over 20 years and we will additionally focus on on Group-wide resources to tailor solutions to each Short term projects contracts for specific achieving significant growth through securing new clients requirements.
To ensure prudent pricing, we work streams.
local authority, school, academy and further and clearly separate responsibilities between sales teams higher education clients across the country.
The client relationships, sales support teams pricing and venture is considered one of the most unique and risk models and the Group Board solution and exciting local government and private sector pricing approval.
With the UK schools education support services market currently estimated to be worth around 16bn per year, the JV is targeting total revenue of at least 2bn over the first 10 years.
