Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 52 Helping employees realise their potential Developing talented leaders We believe in investing in our employees We work hard to build and retain strong, stable development, enhancing their skills and cultivating leadership and management teams and proactively their talent.
We offer several different types of training: identify talented, ambitious employees as future leaders.
skills and personal development courses We help them achieve their potential and, through apprenticeship programmes our Capita Manager Academy training programme, professional qualifications.
We are we equip them with the right skills.
Managers who Our Capita Academy training programme delivers complete a range of business and personal skills and personal development courses.
In 2012, development courses have the opportunity to gain disability-smart we invested 13m, providing over 11,393 days of an externally accredited ILM level 3 qualification in classroom training.
In addition, we also provide first-line management.
In 2012, we worked with online training, workplace training, coaching and Glamorgan University to develop a new post-graduate group instruction.
Dan is one of our facilities management qualification in Leadership and Management which is commercial controllers.
He has muscular Our apprenticeship programme is a vital way of available to aspiring managers across the Company.
dystrophy, is a wheelchair user and needs growing and sustaining talent across our business.
Currently 48 managers are undertaking this course.
The programme enables young people across our 24-hour support.
business to develop the skills and knowledge they During his second year as an undergraduate studying need to succeed and progress in their careers.
Since financial economics, he had six weeks of work the programme began in 2006, we have supported experience at Capita.
Dan said: When I graduated I over 3,800 apprentices right across our business was naturally very apprehensive about my prospects.
including business administration, customer services Id never had a job and I thought that it would all just and IT management.
In 2012, a further 954 be too difficult.
My carer has to assist me with employees started our apprenticeship programme everything, including getting around.
Imagine my and we expect the programme to keep growing into delight when Capita got in touch to tell me about a the future.
We also deliver apprenticeship job they thought I could apply for.
It was perfect for programmes for a number of clients including me because it would give me the flexibility to work at Prudential and HSBC.
home part of the time, but also to be in an office where I would be able to interact with colleagues.
We worked with Access to Work to make some adaptations to the office Dan was due to work in.
Much of what he needed was already in place, but we installed automatic doors and a hoist to make the toilet accessible for him.
We also offered Dan a home adaptation assessment but he already had everything he needed to enable him to work successfully from home.
co. uk Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 53 Where an employee opts to take voluntary Promoting diversity and inclusion Employee safety and wellbeing redundancy, we offer them the services of our We want to attract people from all backgrounds to Our Group health and safety team works with outplacement services team at Capita People work for us.
We access the broadest talent pool so site and facilities managers, identifying risks and Development.
This team helps with career that we can recruit the best people for the job.
By conducting site audits twice a year, to ensure that we assessment and provides people with the skills, recognising and valuing the differences between our comply with both our legal requirements as well as tools and confidence to look for fresh employment.
employees, we can bring together diverse teams and with our own policies.
this allows us to be more creative and innovative in All our employees undertake health and safety the way we work and what we deliver.
We also training as part of their induction and where there Our 2012 performance want to mirror the diversity of the communities are job specific risks, for example, for lone workers or 2012 2011 that we work in and we aim to employ local people construction site jobs, we provide additional training.
Employee retention In 2012, we introduced a major new course on Manager retention rate Our Joint Chief Operating Officers are responsible behavioural safety and safety leadership, aimed at 99% 95% salaries exceeding 50k p. a. for championing diversity and inclusion and we use managers in our higher risk businesses.
a network of trained diversity champions to help Overall employee retention rate We monitor our health and safety performance 83% 89% communicate our diversity strategy across the across the business and in 2012, our accident rate was Health and safety accident frequency rate per 1.41 1.16 business.
The champions work with our HR advisors 1.41 per 1,000 employees 2011: 1.16 showing a 38% 1,000 employees RIDDOR to help develop local diversity action plans, and to reduction in reportable accidents from the 2004 Employee diversity continuously improve our approach.
The increase in 2012 reflects the growth in Male female split 50% male 53% male We are members of the Business Disability Forum numbers of lone and blue collar workers in certain 50% female 47% female and Employers Forum on Age.
We collaborate with new contracts and recently acquired businesses.
Male female split for management 72% male 78% male other members of these forums to share expertise Our business success relies almost entirely on our salaries 50k 89k p. a.
All our employees must also complete people and it follows that their overall wellbeing is our online diversity awareness training every Male female split for senior management 84% male 85% male very high on our agenda.
Our managers have a three years.
16% female 15% female positive and supportive style which aims to help We use our online HR administration system to track minimise work-related stress.
Investing in the health Percentage actual number of employees 26% 23% 1 the diversity of our workforce and encourage our and wellbeing of our employees reduces ill-health from ethnic minority groups 7,660 5,561 employees to disclose their ethnic origin.
Percentage of employees working 19% 15% 2012, 56% 2011: 52% of our employees told us part-time out of total workforce Supporting people through change their ethnic origin and of these, 26% 2011: 23% Employees by location of our employees said they were from ethnic So we can help our clients to be more efficient, it is Onshore 87.7% 87.6% minority groups.
sometimes necessary to reduce headcount in a Offshore 9.8% 10.1% particular contract.
Because were constantly Nearshore expanding, we are often able to offer employees 2.5% 2.3% redeployment into other areas of the business.
1 Based on 56% of our employees disclosing their ethnic origin 2011: 52%.
Where suitable opportunities are not available, we are open and honest about the fact.
We also have good relationships with trade unions, including UNISON, PCS, Prospect and Unite, and we ensure that we meet them regularly during any consultation process.
Consultation with our unions is integral to securing the best outcomes for employees affected.
