Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 55 Measuring and reducing our Waste management and resource use Running a resource carbon emissions Many of our offices are in shared buildings and this presents us with the challenge of collecting accurate We measure and report our emissions annually and, efficient business data.
Where this is the case, we collaborate with in anticipation of new regulatory requirements for landlords to collect the data we need to monitor carbon reporting that will come into effect in 2014, Capita is largely an office-based company so our and improve our performance.
We also work with we have appointed a dedicated resource to manage environmental impacts are not extensive, however, other tenants on waste reduction and to share our carbon accounting.
we recognise that we need to take a pro-active our expertise.
approach to environmental management across the In 2012, our total carbon footprint was 103,728 Group.
This not only ensures that we comply with Last year we set ourselves a target to monitor our tonnes CO2eq 2011: 91,318 an increase of 14%.
relevant statutory and regulatory requirements, but waste at our top 20 sites, with the aim of recycling The increase is explained by three specific factors: also ensures business continuity.
We focus on 80% of all our waste at these sites by 2015.
We are the fact that our acquisition activity results in more reducing the carbon emissions from energy use in currently working with our facilities management offices: the full-year energy usage effect of our our locations and from business travel, running a provider, to assess the existing waste management acquisition of the Ventura contact centre in 2011 resource-efficient business and improving our systems at these sites and develop tailored plans a seven-day a week operation and an increase in waste management.
business travel as a result of the growth of our UK operations and nearshore and offshore business We have an environmental policy and management We work hard to avoid generating waste and we centre network.
system in place based on ISO14001.
Where it is examine the way we use materials.
We use electronic appropriate for an individual business, they may have document management, and try to replace paper We work hard to reduce energy use in our offices and obtained an external accreditation.
based services with online services wherever possible.
have had a formal energy reduction programme in We also actively encourage recycling across the place since 2006, which we have continued to roll View all our policies online Group.
We run Group-wide recycling schemes for out.
Since the programme began we have made capita.
co. uk responsibility paper, consumables such as printer cartridges, mobile savings which equate to more than 1.2m.
Where a phones and redundant IT equipment.
site is subject to the UK Governments carbon reduction regulations, we install smart meters to help Although our water usage is not significant, we do manage and meet our obligations.
play our part in conserving this resource.
Where we own the site, we have made efforts to reduce our Where we can, we try to reduce the necessity for usage and have installed low flush toilets, low flow travel using video-conferencing and tele-conferencing taps and urinal controls.
In 2012, we increased the number of conference calls by 34%.
This also provides cost savings for the business and saves travelling time.
Our 2012 performance Where travel is unavoidable, we try to encourage employees to use public transport and to consolidate 2012 2011 their travel so that one journey can service more 1 Total carbon footprint tonnes CO2eq 103,728 91,318 than one meeting.
We have capped CO2 emissions 2 Carbon intensity for whole Group 23.3 24.0 from our vehicle fleet at 130g km.
Conference calls made 302,939 226,285 Undertake environmental site audits twice a year 100% audits 100% audits completed completed 1 Based on latest greenhouse gas emissions from Defra.
