Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 48 Our priority impact areas: CR leadership Our CR approach 1.
Delivering shareholder value Overall management of our CR activities sits with the Group Board.
Gordon Hurst, Capitas Group Finance 2.
Responding to our clients to ensure that we meet To continue growing as the UKs leading provider Director, has overall responsibility and each Executive their needs, deliver their services responsibly and of customer and business process management Director is responsible for one or more priority impact areas.
deliver value to their customers services, it is vital that we engage with and respond to the needs of all Capitas key stakeholders.
Our Group functional heads are accountable for 3.
Managing our people well by actively attracting the implementation of our CR programme in each Our approach is straightforward.
We have identified and building a quality, diverse workforce of of their areas.
They provide guidance and support at a six main stakeholder, social and environmental motivated and supported employees business level to our employees to ensure that best priority impact areas, those which have the greatest 4.
Creating successful supplier relationships to ensure practice is widely disseminated throughout the Group.
impact on the future of our business and that reflect high quality, responsible, cost-effective our stakeholders interests.
We monitor and report In addition to this, we have a CR Steering Group who are partnerships across the Group on these areas each year.
responsible for challenging what the business as a whole 5.
Running a resource-efficient business is doing in this area and ensuring that all possible risks 6.
Investing in the local communities where we work.
are being identified and managed.
The Group meets Focusing on these priority areas ensures we formally throughout the year and in 2012, members of consistently keep the needs of all our stakeholders in the CR Steering Group reviewed our priority impact areas clear view and that we continue to deliver value to taking into account the importance and interest of these our shareholders.
areas to our stakeholder groups.
The exercise confirmed that our priority impact areas remain the same.
During 2013, we will undertake a further review, consulting with stakeholders.
CR leadership structure Gordon Hurst Group Finance Director Overall responsibility for our CR activities and strategy CR Steering Group Group Executive Directors Develop key policies and Specific leadership responsibilities procedures for specific areas
