Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 22 Diversifying our business through Creating a footprint in new market areas selective acquisitions Market Market entry via acquisition Year Small to medium sized acquisitions that take us into Local government Initial formation of 1984 new and complementary areas and strengthen our Capita within CIPFA capability and scale have always played a key role in Education SIMS 1994 Capitas growth.
Insurance Eastgate 2000 Other private IRG Plc 2000 For example, Capita took its first significant step into sector the private sector in 2000 with the acquisition of share registration business, IRG Plc.
We then Financial services IRG Plc 2000 expanded this business organically and through Life and pensions Administration 2002 acquisition creating a platform for further growth assets of Lincoln into the private sector and particularly the wider Financial Group financial services market.
In 2011, we further Health AON Health Solutions 2004 strengthened our capability in the private sector, Emergency services SunGard Public Sector 2010 particularly across the retail, telecoms and utilities Retail, telecoms Ventura and Vertex 2011 segments through the acquisitions of Ventura and and utilities private sector Vertex private sector.
Our private sector annual revenues now contribute Rigorous acquisition selection 53% of the Groups total revenue and we have criteria and pricing leading market positions established across a number Potential acquisitions are identified and brought to of areas.
the Group by employees in our businesses, external We continue to look for small to medium sized consultants or through a direct approach and all businesses that help us to: Enhancing our deals are assessed, priced and agreed by the Group Board.
Our acquisition approach is underpinned by grow organically strict criteria and this, together with our extensive strengthen existing capabilities delivery model experience of integrating new companies into the extend our market position Capita model, ensures that we add real value to access a new client base the Group.
In 2012, we enhanced our international delivery build economies of scale capability with the acquisition of leading contact Stringent due diligence, before and after acquisition, centre solutions business, Full Circle, based in Cape is undertaken at both Group and business level enter a new market.
Town, South Africa for a total consideration of 1m.
enabling us to achieve clear targets for growth, Capita is now able to provide a full range of offshored integration benefits and profit.
We generally seek services from South Africa for our UK clients, including target acquisitions that: outsourced customer service and fully-hosted have operations and customers principally in the contact centre solutions.
This complements our UK and or Europe operations in India and Poland and brings the total fit with our strategy and core competencies headcount across our nearshore and offshore operations to 12% of the Groups total employees.
generate sustainable, quality revenues are preferably not in an auction as we aim to www.
co. uk acquire without competition can be secured for an attractive price.
Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 23 agent, for 16m.
The acquisition brings considerable Integration of acquisitions Expanding capability through acquisitions experience in venue and event management, which, We have substantial experience of successfully 2012: 14 acquisitions totalling 178m alongside our existing business, creates a proposition integrating acquired businesses and contracts into of genuine scale and depth in this fast growing area 1 the Group and achieving synergies with our existing Acquisition Value m Division of the market.
Our values and key processes are Full Circle 1.0 2.0 Customer Management & communicated and implemented right from the In the health arena, the acquisitions of Medicare First, International start of the integration process.
A dedicated project Clinical Solutions and Medicals Direct, have team manages the transition bringing financial significantly developed our offering to clients in this Bluefin 50.0 Life & Pensions Services procedures, information and communications continually evolving marketplace.
For example, the Fish Administration 21.0 General Insurance technology ICT, HR, legal, compliance and home-based medical screening services of Medicals marketing quickly into line with our standards.
Smiths Consulting 10.0 2.0 IT Services & Consulting Direct, combined with the delivery infrastructure and Acquiring only small to medium sized businesses transformation capabilities of the Group, not only Whale Rock 4.0 4.0 Investor & Banking Services enables us to integrate them into our existing helped us to win but are also playing a key role in Fortek Computers 3.5 1.7 Justice & Secure Services business infrastructure efficiently and allows us delivering our new DWP Personal Independence to generate value faster.
Reliance Secure Task 20.0 Management In the justice and emergency services market, we Progress in 2012 invested 24m on two acquisitions in 2012 Reliance Northcroft 1.2 Property Services During 2012, we continued to see a good flow Secure Task Management and Fortek and this, Medicare First 8.5 Workplace Services of acquisition opportunities, investing 178m in together with the acquisitions we completed in 2010 14 acquisitions which have enhanced our position Expotel Group Limited 16.0 and 2011, has helped us to create an unparalleled in markets including health, justice and emergency offering and to win new contracts across our police services, corporate benefits and travel.
In April 2012, client base and with the UK Border Agency and The Security Watchdog 6.7 Capita undertook a 274m capital raising in order Ministry of Justice.
to pursue its pipeline of value enhancing Avivas occupational 2.5 1.5 Health & Wellbeing We are committed to generating returns for acquisitions whilst maintaining a prudent yet health business shareholders and apply a target of achieving a 15% efficient balance sheet.
post tax return after 12 months integration into the Clinical Solutions 20.0 We further extended the capability of our corporate Group.
The majority of our acquisitions achieve or Medicals Direct 13.2 2.0 pensions and actuarial business, through the exceed this target return.
In December 2011, we acquisition of Bluefin Corporate Consulting, provider 1 acquired Applied Language Solutions ALS whilst Value in brackets represents maximum contingent consideration.
of employee benefits consultancy to medium and it was just beginning to implement a new major large corporations, for 50m.
The acquisition has contract to deliver courts interpretation services.
been integrated with Capita Hartshead and This contract and its implementation has been very rebranded Capita Employee Benefits.
In the travel challenging and Capita have invested in turning the administration market, we acquired Expotel Group, a performance around.
UK hotel, business travel and conference booking
