| Overview | Business Review | | Financial Statements | Other Information | Governance 226323 RIT R&A pp10-pp17 06 03 2013 13:21 Page 17 J Rothschild Capital Management J Rothschild Capital Management Limited JRCM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of RIT and acts as RITs manager.
Directors of JRCM are listed below: Chairman Vice Chairman Non-Executive Directors Lord Rothschild Ignacio Jayanti John Cornish Lord Davies Executive Directors Reuben Jeffery Francesco Goedhuis Head of Strategic Investments Andrew Knight David Haysey Head of Public Equities Hannah Rothschild Andrew Jones Chief Financial Officer James Rothschild Jonathan Kestenbaum Chief Operating Officer Rick Sopher Ron Tabbouche Investment Director Bill Winters Graham Thomas Head of Private Investments Day-to-day management of the business is delegated to an Executive Committee chaired by Graham Thomas.
The biographies of the Vice Chairman and the Executive Committee can be found below.
Ignacio Jayanti Graham Thomas Francesco Goedhuis Ignacio Jayanti is Vice Chairman of Graham Thomas is Chairman of Francesco Goedhuis is Head of JRCM and President of Corsair the Executive Committee and Strategic Investments.
He joined the Capital, an alternative asset Head of Private Investments.
He Company as the Principal in the management firm focused on was previously the head of the Chairmans Office in 2010. investing in global financial services.
Standard Bank Groups global Previously, he was in New York Before spinning off Corsair from Principal Investment Management working for the Economics Nobel J. P. Morgan in 2006, Ignacio was a division, which was established in Laureate Robert Merton and the Managing Director at J. P. Morgan 2008 under his leadership.
He former Vice Chairman of J. P. Morgan, and President of Corsair.
From 1993 joined Standard Bank from Roberto Mendoza at IFL, to 1999, he was also a senior MidOcean Partners in London.
commercialising financial academic member of the Investment Banking Prior to that, he was at Goldman theory on both the buy and sell sides.
Department of J. P. Morgan, where Sachs which he joined in 1993. he headed the Emerging Markets Financial Institutions group.
He is a director of MPC Capital AG.
Jonathan Kestenbaum Ron Tabbouche Andrew Jones Andrew Jones is the Chief Jonathan Kestenbaum is the Chief Ron Tabbouche is the Investment Financial Officer and Chief Risk Operating Officer.
He was previously the Officer.
Prior to joining RIT in 2008, Chief Executive of Five Arrows Head of Investments for Managed he spent three years in venture Limited.
He is also an adviser to Portfolios at GAM.
At the age of 26, capital and four years at Nomura, philanthropic foundations he joined GAMs Investment advising on its private equity connected to Lord Rothschild.
He Committee, working with Gilbert investments as well as risk, global was previously Chief Executive of fide Botton, its co-founder.
More corporate development and NESTA the National Endowment for recently, he led the overall strategy.
He qualified as a Science, Technology and the Arts.
investment strategy of multi-billion chartered accountant with Deloitte Prior to that he was Chief of Staff to dollar funds across a broad range of where he specialised in valuation the Chairman of Apax Partners, Sir asset classes.
In January 2011 principal investment adviser to Jonathan was appointed to The philanthropic foundations House of Lords and became Lord connected to Lord Rothschild.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2012 17
