224233 RIT R&A pp01-pp17 31 05 2012 21:28 Page 14 Board of Directors Chairman Investment Director Lord Rothschild, OM GBE Mikael Breuer-Weil Micky Breuer-Weil is the Investment Director.
He became Jacob Rothschild has chaired RIT since its flotation in an Executive Director of the Company in 2008 having been 1988.
He is also Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
He has worked since 1994 as the principal investment advisor to philanthropic Having left NM Rothschild & Sons in 1980, Jacob foundations connected to Jacob Rothschilds family developed the business of RITs predecessor companies, interests.
Prior to 1994, he spent eight years at Mercury co-founding companies in money management, insurance Asset Management plc including a period of secondment and investment, including Global Asset Management and to Odyssey Partners L. P. an early hedge fund group based St Jamess Place Capital plc.
He served as Deputy in New York.
Chairman of BSkyB Plc for five years, to 2008.
He serves on the International Advisory Board of Blackstone plc and Micky sits on the investment committees of a number of on three family office advisory boards as well as chairing prominent family foundations and is actively involved in his own familys office.
He is also the Honorary Vice charitable causes.
Chairman of La Campagnie Financire Saint-Honor, the holding company of Edmond fide Rothschild Group.
In addition to his career in finance he has been involved in public service including the arts, heritage and philanthropy having chaired The National Gallery, The National Heritage Memorial Fund and The Heritage Lottery Fund.
Non-Executive Directors Independent John Cornish Lord Douro John Cornish joined the Board of the Company as nonLord Douro joined the Board of the Company as nonexecutive Director in January 2008.
He is Chairman of the executive Director in July 2010.
He is Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Valuation Committee and a Conflicts and Remuneration Committees and a member of member of both the Remuneration and Conflicts Committees.
He is a chartered accountant and was a partner at Deloitte LLP He has broad experience in banking and finance, having where he led the firms services to the investment trust served as Chairman of Sun Life and Provincial Holdings industry.
He served as Chairman of Framlington Innovative from 1995 to 2000 and of the Framlington Group from Growth Trust plc for four years until 2010 and currently he is a 1994 to 2005.
He is currently a director of Compagnie director of Henderson EuroTrust plc, RCM Technology Trust Financire Richemont and Sanofi.
On 1 April 2011 he plc and Strategic Equity Capital plc.
was appointed to the International Advisory Board of Abengoa SA.
He is Chairman of Richemont Holdings UK Limited.
He is also Chairman of the Council of Kings College, London.
He was a member of the European Parliament from 1979 to 1989.
14 Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 RIT Capital Partners plc | Overview | Business Review | | Financial Statements | Other Information | Governance 224233 RIT R&A pp01-pp17 31 05 2012 21:28 Page 15 Board of Directors Non-Executive Directors Independent Lord Myners CBE James Leigh-Pemberton James Leigh-Pemberton joined the Board of the Paul Myners joined the Board of the Company as Company as non-executive Director in August 2004 and non-executive Director in August 2010.
He is Chairman of is a member of the Audit and Risk, Conflicts, Autonomous Research, Cevian UK and Justice Holding, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
He has and a former chairman of Marks & Spencer and Land worked at Credit Suisse since 1994, holding positions as Securities.
He was a member of the Court of the Bank of Head of Equity Syndicate, Head of Equity Capital Markets England and the Investment Committee of Singapore's and from 2001 to 2004, Head of European Investment sovereign wealth fund.
His early career was spent in Banking.
He is currently Chief Executive Officer of Credit investment management.
He was a Treasury minister in Suisse, UK.
James began his career at S. G. Warburg & Co, the last British government.
He is a member of the where he worked for fifteen years.
Company's Audit and Risk and Valuation Committees.
Michael Marks CBE Sandra Robertson Michael Marks joined the Board of the Company as Sandra Robertson joined the Board of the Company as non-executive Director in September 2004 and became non-executive Director in July 2008 and is a member of its Senior Independent Director in July 2010.
He is the the Valuation Committee.
She is Chief Investment Chairman of NewSmith Capital Partners LLP, which he Officer of Oxford University Endowment Management.
Before her appointment at Oxford in 2007, she spent the previous 14 years at Wellcome Trust, where she became Michael was formerly Co-Head of the Global Equities Co-Head of Portfolio Management.
business of Merrill Lynch, which he joined in 1995, and where he subsequently held positions as Chief Operating Officer of Merrill Lynch Europe, Middle East and Africa and was subsequently named Executive Chairman.
He was also Executive Vice President of Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc. Michael began his career at Smith Bros. in 1958, where he became a director in 1975 and Chief Executive of Smith New Court in 1987.
He was a non-executive director of Old Mutual plc from February 2004 to May 2007 and a non-executive director of London Stock Exchange plc until 2004.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 15 224233 RIT R&A pp01-pp17 31 05 2012 21:28 Page 16 Board of Directors 1 Non-Executive Directors Non-Independent Jean Laurent-Bellue Rick Sopher Jean Laurent-Bellue joined the Board of the Company as Rick Sopher joined the Board of the Company as non-executive Director in March 2012.
He is Group non-executive Director in December 2010.
He is the Secretary General of Edmond fide Rothschild Holdings in Managing Director of LCF Edmond fide Rothschild Asset Geneva and Board member of the Banque Prive Management and is Chairman of the Board of Edmond fide Rothschild.
He joined LCF Edmond fide Management of Leveraged Capital Holdings NV, the Rothschild Group in 2004 as a member of the Executive flagship investment vehicle of the Edmond fide Rothschild Board of La Compagnie Financire Edmond fide Group, as well as several related multi-manager funds.
He was Chairman of the Executive He was awarded the Chevalier fide la Legion dHonneur Board of Edmond fide Rothschild Corporate Finance from by President Chirac in 2007.
2004 until 2009 when he became General Secretary at Compagnie Financire Saint Honor.
Previously, he was a member of the Executive Board of Clinvest the Investment Banking arm of the Crdit Lyonnais and worked at Crdit Commercial fide France where he led both the Corporate Finance and Equity Investments divisions.
He is a member of the KPMG Supervisory Board in France.
Honorary Vice Chairman Bill Winters Baroness Ariane fide Rothschild Bill Winters joined the Board of the Company as nonAriane fide Rothschild is Honorary Vice Chairman of RIT.
He is CEO and She holds various board positions across the Edmond fide Chairman of Renshaw Bay, an alternative asset Rothschild Group, including Banque Prive Edmond fide management and advisory company founded in Rothschild, Holding Edmond fide Rothschild, Holding partnership with Mr Johann Ruperts Reinet Investments Benjamin & Edmond fide Rothschild Pregny, La and RIT.
He was a member of the UK Independent Compagnie Financire Edmond fide Rothschild Banque, Commission on Banking, established to make La Compagnie Financire Saint-Honor, Siaci Saintrecommendations to the Government on the structure of Honor, Banque Prive Edmond fide Rothshild Europe the UK financial industry.
Luxembourg and Barons & Baronne Associs.
His early career was at J. P. Morgan from 1983-2010, Ariane started her career as a trader in foreign exchange where he held management roles across Markets areas and metals with Socit Gnrale in Australia and in and Corporate Finance and was appointed Co-CEO of the New York.
She then joined US insurance corporation AIG J. P. Morgan Investment Bank in 2003.
He is also a and successfully developed the groups European member of the Market Monitoring Group of the Institute operations from Paris, France.
of International Finance, having previously served on the The Honorary Vice Chairman is not a Director of the board and as co-Chair of its Committee on Effective Company.
1 The classification as non-independent was made by the Conflicts Committee as disclosed on page 85.
16 Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 RIT Capital Partners plc
