226323 RIT R&A pp10-pp17 06 03 2013 12:19 Page 14 Board of Directors Chairman Lord Rothschild, OM GBE Jacob Rothschild has chaired RIT since its flotation in on a number of family office advisory boards as well as 1988.
He is also Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
chairing his own familys office.
He is also the Honorary Vice Chairman of La Campagnie Financire Saint-Honor, Having left NM Rothschild & Sons in 1980, Jacob the holding company of the Edmond fide Rothschild Group.
developed the business of RITs predecessor companies, co-founding companies in money management, insurance In addition to his career in finance he has been involved in and investment, including Global Asset Management and public service including the arts, heritage and philanthropy St Jamess Place Capital plc.
He served as Deputy having chaired The National Gallery, The National Heritage Chairman of BSkyB Plc for five years, to 2008.
He serves Memorial Fund and The Heritage Lottery Fund.
on the International Advisory Board of Blackstone plc and Non-Executive Directors Independent Lord Douro John Cornish John Cornish joined the Board of the Company as nonLord Douro joined the Board of the Company as nonexecutive Director in January 2008.
He is Chairman of the executive Director in July 2010.
He is Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Valuation Committee and a Conflicts and Remuneration Committees and a member of member of both the Remuneration and Conflicts Committees.
He is a chartered accountant and was a partner at Deloitte LLP He has broad experience in banking and finance, having where he led the firms services to the investment trust served as Chairman of Sun Life and Provincial Holdings industry.
He served as Chairman of Framlington Innovative from 1995 to 2000 and of the Framlington Group from Growth Trust plc for four years until 2010 and currently he is a 1994 to 2005.
He is currently a director of Compagnie director of Henderson EuroTrust plc, RCM Technology Trust Financire Richemont, Sanofi-Aventis and was until 2011 plc and Strategic Equity Capital plc.
a director of Pernod Ricard and Abengoa Bio-Energia.
He is currently a member of the International Advisory Board During the period, he was appointed as a non-executive of Abengoa SA.
He is Chairman of Richemont Holdings director of J Rothschild Capital Management Limited JRCM, UK Limited.
He is also Chairman of the Council of Kings a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
The Board has College, London.
He was a member of the European determined that he is independent, as his appointment is to Parliament from 1979 to 1989. monitor the activities of JRCM as the representative of RITs independent directors.
14 Report and Accounts December 2012 RIT Capital Partners plc | Overview | Business Review | | Financial Statements | Other Information | Governance 226323 RIT R&A pp10-pp17 06 03 2013 12:19 Page 15 Board of Directors Non-Executive Directors Independent Lord Myners CBE Michael Marks CBE Paul Myners joined the Board of the Company as Michael Marks joined the Board of the Company as non-executive Director in August 2010 and is a member non-executive Director in September 2004 and became of the Audit and Risk and Valuation Committees.
its Senior Independent Director in July 2010.
He is the Chairman of NewSmith Capital Partners LLP, He is Chairman and partner of Autonomous Research and which he founded in 2003.
He was formerly Co-Head of Cevian Capital UK.
He is a non-executive director of the Global Equities business of Merrill Lynch, which he Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities and OJSC joined in 1995 and where he subsequently held positions as MegaFon.
Paul is a former Chairman of Marks & Spencer Chief Operating Officer of Merrill Lynch Europe, Middle East and Land Securities.
He also served as a member of the and Africa.
He was subsequently named Executive Court of the Bank of England and a member of the Chairman.
He was also Executive Vice President of Merrill Investment Committee of Singapores sovereign wealth Lynch & Co. Inc. Michael began his career at Smith Bros. in fund.
He was a Treasury minister in the last British 1958, where he became a director in 1975 and Chief government.
Executive of Smith New Court in 1987.
He was a nonexecutive director of Old Mutual plc from February 2004 to May 2007 and a non-executive director of London Stock Exchange plc until 2004.
James Leigh-Pemberton Sandra Robertson James Leigh-Pemberton joined the Board of the Sandra Robertson joined the Board of the Company as Company as non-executive Director in August 2004 and non-executive Director in July 2008 and is a member of is a member of the Audit and Risk, Conflicts, the Valuation Committee.
She is Chief Investment Officer of Oxford University He has worked at Credit Suisse since 1994, holding Endowment Management.
Before her appointment at positions as Head of Equity Syndicate, Head of Equity Oxford in 2007, she spent the previous 14 years at Capital Markets and from 2001 to 2004, Head of Wellcome Trust, where she became Co-Head of Portfolio European Investment Banking.
He is currently Chief Management.
Executive Officer of Credit Suisse, UK.
James began his career at S. G. Warburg & Co, where he worked for fifteen years.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2012 15 226323 RIT R&A pp10-pp17 06 03 2013 12:19 Page 16 Board of Directors Non-Executive Directors Non-Independent Honorary Vice Chairman Jean Laurent-Bellue Baroness Ariane fide Rothschild Jean Laurent-Bellue joined the Board of the Company as Ariane fide Rothschild was appointed as Honorary Vice non-executive Director in March 2012.
He is Group Secretary General of Edmond fide Rothschild She holds various board positions across the Edmond fide Holdings in Geneva and Board member of the Banque Rothschild Group, including Banque Prive Edmond fide Prive Edmond fide Rothschild.
He joined LCF Edmond fide Rothschild, Holding Edmond fide Rothschild, Holding Rothschild Group in 2004 as a member of the Executive Benjamin & Edmond fide Rothschild Pregny, La Board of La Compagnie Financire Edmond fide Compagnie Financire Edmond fide Rothschild Banque, Rothschild Banque.
He was Chairman of the Executive La Compagnie Financire Saint-Honor, Siaci SaintBoard of Edmond fide Rothschild Corporate Finance from Honor, Banque Prive Edmond fide Rothschild Europe 2004 until 2009 when he became General Secretary at Luxembourg and Barons & Baronne Associs.
Ariane started her career as a trader in foreign exchange Previously, he was a member of the Executive Board of and metals with Socit Gnrale in Australia and in Clinvest the Investment Banking arm of the Crdit New York.
She then joined US insurance corporation AIG Lyonnais and worked at Crdit Commercial fide France and successfully developed the groups European where he led both the Corporate Finance and Equity operations from Paris, France.
He is a member of the KPMG The Honorary Vice Chairman is not a Director of the Supervisory Board in France.
The Board has determined that he is not independent due to his senior role with the Edmond fide Rothschild Group, with which the Company has a joint venture.
16 Report and Accounts December 2012 RIT Capital Partners plc
