| Overview | Business Review | | Financial Statements | Other Information | Governance 224233 RIT R&A pp01-pp17 31 05 2012 21:28 Page 17 J Rothschild Capital Management J Rothschild Capital Management Limited JRCM is a 100%-owned subsidiary of RIT and acts as RITs fide facto manager.
Directors of JRCM are listed below: Chairman Lord Rothschild Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Mikael Breuer-Weil Investment Director Duncan Budge Francesco Goedhuis Head of Strategic Investments Andrew Knight David Haysey Head of Public Equities Hannah Rothschild Andrew Jones Chief Financial Officer James Rothschild Jonathan Kestenbaum Chief Operating Officer Graham Thomas Head of Private Investments Member of Executive Committee Day-to-day management of the business is delegated to an Executive Committee chaired by Mikael Breuer-Weil.
The biographies of the other members can be found below.
Francesco Goedhuis Andrew Jones Francesco Goedhuis was appointed Head of Strategic Andrew Jones is the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Investments in 2011.
He joined the Company as the Risk Officer.
Prior to joining RIT in 2008, Andrew spent Principal in the Chairmans Office in 2010.
Previously, he three years in venture capital and four years at Nomura, was in New York working for the Economics Nobel advising on its private equity investments as well as risk, Laureate Robert Merton and the former Vice Chairman of global corporate development and strategy.
He qualified J. P. Morgan, Roberto Mendoza at IFL, commercialising as a chartered accountant with Deloitte where he financial academic theory on both the buy and sell sides.
Jonathan Kestenbaum Graham Thomas Jonathan Kestenbaum is the Chief Operating Officer.
Until Graham Thomas is Head of Private Investments.
He was 2011 he was Chief Executive of Five Arrows Limited.
He previously the head of the Standard Bank Groups global was previously Chief Executive of NESTA the National Principal Investment Management division, which was Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts, the established in 2008 under his leadership.
He joined UKs largest source of seed finance for technology Standard Bank from MidOcean Partners in London, start-ups.
Prior to that he was Chief of Staff to the where he was a founding partner.
Prior to that, he was a Chairman of Apax Partners, Sir Ronald Cohen.
In January founder member of Goldman Sachs Communications, 2011 Jonathan was appointed to The House of Lords and Media and Technology practice in Europe, having joined became Lord Kestenbaum of Foxcote.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts March 2012 17
