GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:45 Page 320 Directors remuneration report Letter from Penny Hughes Chair of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder Review of Group Performance A number of significant milestones were reached during the year as part There is no doubt that 2012 has been another challenging year and of the Groups turnaround plan including: events such as attempts to manipulate LIBOR and the IT incident have had a direct impact on the Group, both from a financial and a reputational x Repayment of the liquidity support to UK Government in May 2012: point of view.
The Board has acknowledged the serious shortcomings in systems and controls which were uncovered as part of the investigations x The successful flotation of more than one third of our stake in Direct into LIBOR and deeply regrets the lack of integrity shown by a small Line Insurance Group plc in difficult market conditions: and group of employees.
x The exit from the Asset Protection Scheme in October 2012.
I would like to assure you that the Committee has spent a great deal of time challenging and taking action in response to past events and Key financial achievements for 2012 were: considering how remuneration can help to drive appropriate behaviours at RBS in future.
Individuals found culpable in relation to LIBOR have left x Core Operating Profit of 6.3 billion, which represents a strong the Group with no annual incentive awards for 2012 and full clawback of performance: outstanding awards.
The Committee has also taken action across the Group, particularly in the Markets division, to account for the reputational x Further significant progress in removing Non-Core assets, a key part damage of these events.
in managing down legacy issues.
Non-Core third party assets are down 36 billion in 2012 to 57 billion, representing 92% progress Against this backdrop, we should not lose sight of the fact that the vast towards the 2013 target of c. 40 billion: majority of employees at RBS continue to do their jobs well and are not responsible for the events that have made headlines.
Around one third of x Capital, funding and liquidity positions remain robust with key our employees joined after the financial crisis.
During the IT incident, performance indicators KPIs on short-term wholesale funding, there was a very positive illustration of the loyalty and determination of liquidity portfolio, leverage ratio, Core Tier 1 capital ratio and staff to support customers during a difficult and regrettable period.
It is loan:deposit ratio all exceeding or in line with medium-term targets: vital that we retain and motivate good people as the foundation upon which we will generate a valuable business for shareholders and a bank x Core Return on Equity ROE was 10%, with Retail & Commercial that society can respect.
ROE at 10% or 14% excluding Ulster Bank.
The ROE for Markets was 10% in challenging market conditions: Considerable progress has been made over the past four years and the Committee remains focused on delivering remuneration structures that x Group expenses were 6% lower than in 2011 with staff costs down complement our goal of rebuilding a safer and more sustainable 6%: and business, capable of serving customers and shareholders well in the long term.
It is a difficult but important balance that we are trying to achieve, x Impairment losses totalled 5.3 billion, down 29% from 2011. reducing overall spend on pay and increasing accountability whilst nurturing the business from which future profits can flow.
We have sought As well as financial achievements, the Committee takes into account to strike this balance fairly, whilst demonstrating our ongoing commitment performance against a broader range of objectives, including support to to restraint, reflecting the nature of our ownership.
For example, in 2012 the Group accounted for 36% of all Small and Medium Enterprises SME lending, compared with its overall I have set out below a summary of how the Committee approached the customer market share of 24%.
The Group advanced 16 billion of UK year: how performance has been assessed: the decisions that have been home loans, including 3 billion to first time buyers.
Using the Bank of reached on pay for 2012 and how past mistakes have been taken into Englands Funding for Lending Scheme the Group has offered lower account: and changes that we are making to ensure a fair and interest rates and waived arrangement fees on certain SME loans, transparent remuneration policy.
benefiting over 11,000 SMEs in the second half of 2012.
320 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 321 RBS GROUP 2012 Decisions made on pay It is clear that challenges remain in rebuilding the reputation of banks but In addition to financial and non-financial measures, the Committee progress has been made in evolving the culture of RBS.
Our applies a rigorous accountability review process in determining pay remuneration policy underpins this work by encouraging appropriate outcomes.
This framework enables us to claw back awards made in behaviours and adjusting for risk.
Examples of enhancements are as previous years where current or new information would change the follows: decisions made in previous years.
The review considers not only financial losses but also behavioural and reputational issues that have arisen.
x Simplification of sales incentives with a broad move to a balanced scorecard type approach focused on customer service and risk: Whilst the Group made significant progress across a range of measures in 2012, the Committee, in conjunction with the Board, agreed that the x All executives and Code Staff have culture included as part of their reduction to shareholder value and reputational damage caused by 2013 objectives supported by quantitative and qualitative measures: incidents such as the LIBOR settlement should result in a reduction of this years variable pools and the application of clawback.
Further details x Full review of balanced scorecard metrics, supported by of the impact of these incidents on remuneration is set out on page 341. independent control function review in advance of variable pools Some of the key outcomes on pay are as follows: being agreed: x Total variable compensation has been reduced from 2011 by 14% at x This year, all our employees will be paid salaries at or above the a Group level and 20% for Markets the reductions are 23% and Living Wage: and 40% respectively after the application of clawback as further evidence of the action that has been taken to bring down overall x Shareholding requirements for the executive directors have been levels of pay: strengthened and new requirements introduced for senior executives to better align their interests with those of shareholders.
x Variable compensation pre clawback as a percentage of operating profit before variable compensation decreased from 28% to 16% for We will continue to monitor external developments and, where 2012 for the Group and from 25% to 16% for Markets.
Full details appropriate, refine our remuneration policy, for example, in light of the can be found in Note 3 to the consolidated accounts on pages 379 requirements of CRD IV.
and 380: Enhancements to remuneration governance and reporting x Since 2010, total variable compensation for the Group has been In recognition that the Committee considers issues wider than just reduced by over 50%: remuneration, the name of the Committee was changed to the Group x Within the context of reduced variable pools, incentive awards Performance and Remuneration Committee.
This reflects the continue to be targeted towards high performers and, as a Committees broader oversight role to consider performance in the round consequence, 40% of employees eligible for an award will receive in supporting the Groups purpose, vision and values aspirations.
During zero for 2012: 2012, the Committee has worked closely with the Board Risk Committee and Group Audit Committee, both of which have provided valuable input x Of those employees who do receive an award for 2012, 68% will on key risk and control issues.
receive less than 2,000 in total and 81% will receive less than 5,000: and Changes have been made to this report in line with a number of anticipated government reforms on remuneration reporting.
The x Average salary increases across the Group for 2013 will be less Remuneration Governance section covers the activities and decisionthan 2%.
making process of the Committee: the Policy Report covers future remuneration policy: and the Implementation Report demonstrates how The CEO, Stephen Hester, will not receive any salary increase in 2013. pay arrangements have been implemented over the past year.
In addition, he decided during the year that it would not be appropriate for him to be considered for any annual incentive award.
Whilst respecting As in previous years, we have consulted with our major shareholders, his decision, I would like to put on record that the Committee believes the including UKFI, on remuneration matters.
I would like to thank those CEO continues to demonstrate strong performance and leadership.
The shareholders who continue to recognise and support our efforts to reform Committee receives regular encouragement from institutional remuneration practices at RBS.
In this turnaround period where it has not shareholders to improve the delivery of market competitive remuneration been possible to pay ordinary dividends to shareholders, this support on to the CEO.
pay decisions has been an essential part of our restructuring programme.
Enhancements to remuneration policy Finally, I would also like to thank my fellow Committee members for their The Committee continues to recognise the importance of driving cultural expertise and guidance and all those who have supported the Committee change both in terms of pay and in a wider sense.
As Chair, I am actively in its efforts to make fair and appropriate judgements.
involved in a number of initiatives relating to diversity, graduate recruitment and management development and many of these initiatives Penny Hughes have received award-winning recognition.
Chair of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee 27 February 2013 321
