GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 302 Executive Committee John Hourican age 42 Stephen Hester, Group Chief Executive Chief Executive, Markets & International Banking Bruce Van Saun, Group Finance Director John Hourican was appointed Chief Executive, Markets & International For biographies see page 298 Banking in January 2012 having served as Chief Executive of its Ellen Alemany age 57 predecessor, Global Banking & Markets, since October 2008.
Prior to this Chief Executive, RBS Citizens and Head of Americas John held a variety of positions across the RBS Group.
John is a fellow of Ellen Alemany joined the RBS Group in June 2007 as Head of RBS the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ireland and received a degree Americas.
She became Chief Executive Officer of RBS Citizens Financial in Economics and Sociology from the National University of Ireland and a Group, Inc. in March 2008 and Chairman in March 2009.
Prior to these Postgraduate Diploma in Accounting from Dublin City University.
appointments, Ellen was the chief executive officer for Global Transaction Services at Citigroup, one of Citis 12 publicly reported product lines.
On 6 February 2013, the Group announced that John Hourican will leave Ellen joined Citibank in 1987 and held various positions including the Group once he has completed a handover of his responsibilities.
With executive vice-president for Commercial Business Group, chairman and effect from 1 March 2013, Suneel Kamlani and Peter Nielsen will be cochief executive officer for Citibank International plc and Citibanks heads of the Markets division and John Owen will continue to lead the European bank.
She also served on the Citibank, N. A.
Board of International Banking division and all will report directly to the Group Directors.
Ellen was elected to serve on the Board of Directors of Chief Executive.
Automatic Data Processing, Inc. beginning in January 2012.
Chris Sullivan age 55 Nathan Bostock age 52 Chief Executive, Corporate Banking Head of Restructuring & Risk Chris Sullivan was appointed Chief Executive of the Corporate Banking Nathan Bostock joined the RBS Group in June 2009.
He is Head of Division in August 2009 and also has responsibility for Ulster Bank Restructuring and Risk with responsibility for Risk Management, Legal & Group.
Chris previous role was as Chief Executive of RBS Insurance.
Regulatory Affairs and the Global Restructuring Group.
Before joining Prior to this, Chris was Chief Executive of Retail and Deputy Chief RBS, Nathan spent eight years with Abbey National plc in several roles Executive of Retail Markets.
Chris is the Group sponsor for Gender and was latterly the chief financial officer and main board director Diversity and the Groups internal Womens Networks and was responsible for Products & Marketing, HR, Insurance and Cards.
Before recognised as the European Diversity Champion of the Year in 2011.
He joining Abbey in 2001, Nathan spent ten years with RBS in a number of is an active sponsor of professional and leadership development and is a roles, including Chief Operating Officer of Treasury and Capital Markets member of the Chartered Banker Professional Standards Board and and Group Risk Director.
A Chartered Accountant, Nathan worked with Governor of both Ashridge College and the ifs School of Finance.
Chris Coopers & Lybrand, before starting his career in banking.
He spent seven holds a number of positions outside the Group including Chairman of years in Chase Manhattan Bank in a variety of areas and functions.
He both the Global Banking Alliance and the Inter-Alpha Group of Banks.
also holds a BSc Hons in Mathematics.
Chris earned his Fellowship of the Chartered Institute of Bankers in Scotland for his services to Scottish Banking.
Ross McEwan age 55 Chief Executive, UK Retail Ron Teerlink age 52 Ross McEwan was appointed Chief Executive Officer for UK Retail in Chief Administrative Officer August 2012.
Ross joined RBS from Commonwealth Bank of Australia Ron Teerlink joined the RBS Group in April 2008 as Chief Executive of where he was Group Executive for Retail Banking Services for 5 years Business Services, becoming the Group Chief Administrative Officer in and prior to that position Ross was Executive General Manager in charge February 2009.
At the same time he was re-appointed to the Managing of its branch network, contact centres and third party mortgage brokers.
Board of ABN AMRO to oversee the integration programme.
Ron started Ross has worked in the insurance and investment industries both in his career with ABN Bank in 1986 as an IT Systems analyst and held Australia and New Zealand for more than 25 years.
He has extensive various functional positions before becoming Chief Operating Officer of management experience having spent 18 years in senior executive roles the Wholesale Clients Business in 2002.
He was appointed Chief including Managing Director of stockbroking business First NZ Capital Executive Officer of Group Shared Services in 2004 and joined ABN Securities and Chief Executive of National Mutual Life Association of AMROs Managing Board in January 2006, where he was responsible for Australasia Ltd AXA New Zealand Ltd. Ross holds a Bachelor of Services and Market Infrastructure.
Ron holds a Masters degree in Business Studies, majoring in Industrial Relations & Personnel Economics from Amsterdams Vrije Universiteit.
Ron will step down from Management.
his role at RBS in the first half of 2013.
Management Committee The Management Committee, comprising our major business and functional leaders, meets as required to review strategy and business performance.
It comprises members of the Executive Committee plus a number of other senior executives.
Full details of membership of the Management Committee can be found on the Groups website www.
