ARSFS12 ESS READING & BUS STRAT AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:03 Page 10 OUR B OUR BUSINESS AND OUR STRA USINESS AND OUR STRATEGY TEGY Chairmans statement Watch or listen to Philip Hampton www.
com AnnualReview The plan to rebuild RBS from 2009 has been based on two primary elements.
The first was to stabilise the company, making it safe so that it could stand on its own feet.
The second was to focus our energies on serving customers well.
We were clear that the plan would take time and that it would take five years and more for key aspects to be delivered.
Four years on, I am pleased to report that we made more progress in 2012, passing a number of important milestones.
Perhaps the most significant was when, with our regulators agreement, we exited the Asset Protection Scheme in October, the earliest date at which that was possible.
We were able to do so because we have made RBS safer.
Our Core Tier 1 capital ratio was 10.3% at the end of 2012, above our target, despite some large unplanned charges.
The balance sheet is smaller, falling by a further 195 billion to 1,312 billion, as the run-down of Non-Core assets continued faster than we first planned.
Our funding is more stable too, with the Group loan to deposit ratio at 100% or 90% in our Core business and our liquidity portfolio is 3.5x times short-term wholesale funding.
We have achieved all of this in the most testing economic environment for many decades.
The UK economy is still smaller than before the crisis struck and the US economy is only slightly bigger.
This weakness in the main economies where we operate was a headwind to our plans, and regulatory changes have further reduced our return on equity in some areas.
In particular, lower returns from investment banking activities necessitated further restructuring.
10 ARSFS12 ESS READING & BUS STRAT AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:03 Page 11 RBS GROUP 2012 Much of what RBS has accomplished since While these failings show our continuing need UK and continued, if moderate, expansion in 2009 has been down to the hard work, to improve our risk and control systems, they at the US.
Compared with a year ago, the professionalism and commitment of our times had a deeper cause.
Some employees problems of the euro area appear less people.
I would like to thank every one who did put their own interests well ahead of pressing though key challenges remain.
their best for our customers in 2012. customers and shareholders, ignoring the Governments and central banks are now difference between right and wrong.
Your managing that crisis more effectively and they However, it became painfully clear during the Board expects our people to demonstrate the have started to put in place the financial year that some of our employees had behaved highest standards of personal and professional infrastructure needed to sustain the euro.
We in ways that do not represent the values of conduct.
We know that our shareholders, our are entitled to some confidence that the RBS.
Their misconduct casts a shadow across customers and others will hold us to high economic environment in 2013 will be better our progress and the good work of many standards.
It is a matter of great regret that the than at any time since the financial crisis struck thousands in the Group.
I have already spoken conduct and values of a very small number of in 2007. about the behaviour of some people in RBS in our people fell so far short of what we expect.
The We are delivering what we said we would do in RBS Board has acknowledged that there were That is why your Board is determined to ensure our strategic plan.
It serious shortcomings in our risk and control that RBS exemplifies the culture you would is much closer now to being in the good systems, and also in the integrity of a small expect in a bank that serves customers well financial health that would allow shareholders group of our employees, and has taken action and makes an important contribution to the to receive a dividend and the Government to to ensure full and proper accountability.
It is why we start to sell its stake.
The challenge that have taken steps to manage more effectively remains is to serve customers better and to do At times like these, your Board and the senior what the industry now calls conduct risk.
In business in a way that makes you and us proud management of the company have a duty to short, this is the risk that the company is to be part of RBS.
Our response has been diligent and damaged because our people do not behave determined in tackling any hint of misconduct properly.
The Board Risk Committee has Philip Hampton and other failings, past or present.
Our job has supervised the development of our approach Chairman been three-fold: to understand what had to conduct risk management.
Together, the happened and why, to put it right and then to Board Risk Committee and Remuneration and minimise the chance that such problems Performance Committee have developed happen again.
proposals that mean our reward policies will support good conduct.
The failure of one of our IT systems in June had unacceptable consequences for many of As a Board, we are determined that RBS our customers in the UK and the Republic of should be known in future for how we behave Ireland.
The Board Risk Committee has led a as well as for commercial success.
rigorous review of what went wrong.
The Committee has sought to ensure that On LIBOR, IT and many other issues, my fellow customers who were affected are appropriately directors have shouldered a considerable and compensated.
It will continue to oversee the growing burden of work.
I wish to thank them management of technology risks and lead our for that and for their support throughout the year.
communication with customers, regulators and others when the investigations conclude.
The We know our future performance will be heavily response of our staff in branches, call centres influenced by economic conditions.
Consensus and elsewhere in dealing with the problems we forecasts for 2013 give some hope that this had caused to our customers was outstanding.
year will see a return to modest growth in the 11
