ARSFS12 DIVISIONAL REVIEW AW Layout 1 24 03 2013 22:02 Page 3 RBS GROUP 2012 We have increased our focus in the areas of We recognise time is of the essence to our Anti-Money Laundering, Sanctions, Conflicts customers.
Our new mobile banking apps Management, Information Security, Records allow them to manage multiple accounts, Management and Data Quality, and have make payments and transfers, and see implemented new credit processes to improve detailed statements going back seven years.
the quality and speed of our credit decisions.
We have over 70,000 customers using the apps on average twice a day and they have Building a better bank that serves transferred more than 750 million since customers well launch.
Our customers are at the core of everything we Our turnaround plan relies on supporting the do.
Our sole purpose is to help them realise communities and local economies we serve.
their ambitions, achieve growth, and become Our regional Great place to do business more efficient.
We have the capital, the funding events bring investors, local authorities and and the professional expertise within our prominent members of the community people to deliver.
together to stimulate growth in their area.
In August, we were the first bank to launch the Changing our culture Funding for Lending Scheme FLS to UK Our Working with You WwY initiative shows businesses.
We used FLS to make in excess of our dedication to understanding our customers 1.7 billion in allocated funds available to over and helping them realise their ambitions.
All our 11,000 SME customers strengthening our SME relationship managers and leaders are UK Corporate position as the UKs leading bank for SMEs, committed to spending at least two days through discounted interest rates and no working for their customers at their premises.
Our relationship managers have undertaken Chief Executive, over 10,000 WwY visits since the initiative UK Corporate We are also helping larger businesses by launched in June 2011. investing in sector and asset class expertise, Watch or listen to Chris Sullivan Our Manufacturing Fund has made 1 billion As part of our commitment to put qualified www.
com AnnualReview available for investment in technology, innovation, bankers back on the high street, our RMs go working capital and business acquisitions.
Our through an accreditation programme.
It has been Operating profit of 1,796 million was Carbon Reduction Fund provides a further independently accredited by the Chartered seven per cent lower than in 2011.
200 million of ring-fenced funding for businesses Banking Institute.
No other bank does this and it That reflected a decline in income of three undertaking energy-efficiency projects.
is a key differentiator for us.
So far, 93% of our SME relationship managers have completed a per cent and increased impairments, up We are a leading provider of FLS and all other minimum of foundation level training.
six per cent, which were partly offset by a major lending initiatives including the Regional three per cent fall in costs.
Return on Growth Fund, Enterprise Finance Guarantee We understand the importance of knowing the equity was slightly lower than in 2011 at and the Business Growth Fund.
sectors and people we work with.
The loan to deposit ratio in Business WiB proposition, first of its kind, is was 82 per cent.
Lending is a vital part of our business, but we industry-leading.
We have over 120 accredited do much more than that.
WiB specialists helping our female customers We introduced a new enhanced telephony succeed by providing a bespoke and tailored and online offering, Business Connect.
We currently support over 170,000 small Making RBS safer business customers, who have access to We have reintroduced banking apprenticeships.
In Corporate Banking, we understand the experienced Relationship Managers from In November, we recruited an initial 16 young importance of managing risk well.
unemployed people under the Evening enhanced our approach to risk, introducing Bizcrowd is our new online business-toStandards Ladder for London and the City improved frameworks and processes: reducing business community.
It helps businesses find Gateway Initiative.
This is part of RBSs wider risk concentrations and bringing key risks new customers, and offers interactive strategy to support young people as they move closer to within appetite.
We are the first bank to from school to work.
support customers in this way and have over 5,000 customers involved in its pilot.
Performance highlights 2012 2011 Operating profit before impairment losses m 2,634 2,717 Impairment losses m 838 793 Operating profit m 1,796 1,924 Return on equity % 14.5 15.2 23
