GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:41 Page 343 RBS GROUP 2012 Compliance report Statement of compliance The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance, business integrity and professionalism in all its activities.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2012, the company has complied with all of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council dated June 2010 the Code except in relation to provision D. 2.2 that the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee should have delegated responsibility for setting remuneration for the Chairman and executive directors.
The company considers that this is a matter which should rightly be reserved for the Board and this is an approach the company has adopted for a number of years.
Remuneration for the Chairman and executive directors is first considered by the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee which then makes recommendations to the Board for consideration.
This approach allows all non-executive directors, and not just those who are members of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee, to participate in decisions on the executive directors and the Chairmans remuneration and also allows the executive directors to input to the decision on the Chairmans remuneration.
The Board believes this approach is very much in line with the spirit of the Code and no director is involved in decisions regarding his or her own remuneration.
We do not anticipate any changes to our approach on this aspect of the Code.
Information on how the company has applied the main principles of the Code can be found in the Corporate governance report on pages 294 to 342.
The company has also complied early with a number of the new provisions included in the new edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council dated September 2012 the 2012 Code.
A copy of both the Code and the 2012 Code can be found at www.
uk The company has also implemented the recommendations arising from the Walker Review.
The company has also complied in all material respects with the Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Audit Committees issued in September 2012.
Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, specific standards of corporate governance and business and financial disclosures apply to companies with securities registered in the US.
The company complies with all applicable sections of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Internal control The Board of directors is responsible for the Groups system of internal control that is designed to facilitate effective and efficient operations and to ensure the quality of internal and external reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
In devising internal controls, the Group has regard to the nature and extent of the risk, the likelihood of it crystallising and the cost of controls.
A system of internal control is designed to manage, but not eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against the risk of material misstatement, fraud or losses.
The Board has established a process for the identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks faced by the Group, which operated throughout the year ended 31 December 2012 and to 27 February 2013, the date the directors approved the Report and Accounts.
This is confirmed by a semi-annual Control Environment Certification process which requires senior members of the executive and management to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of their internal control framework and the compliance of their business with Group policies and associated standards in accordance with the Group Policy Framework, and they meet the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 and the Code Section C2.
The policies that govern these processes, and reports on internal controls arising from them, are regularly reviewed by the Board and meet the requirements of the guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
Enhancements have been made to the Risk Management framework throughout 2012, including the introduction of specific Conduct Risk standards, and further improvements will be made in 2013.
The effectiveness of the Groups internal controls are reviewed regularly by the Board, the Group Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
Executive management committees or boards of directors in each of the Groups businesses also receive regular reports on significant risks facing their business and how they are being controlled.
In addition, the Board receives monthly risk management reports.
Details of the Groups approach to risk management are given in the Risk and balance sheet management section, on pages 107 to 293 of the Business review.
The Group Audit Committee has received confirmation that management has taken, or is taking, the necessary action to remedy any material failings or weaknesses identified through the operation of the Group framework of controls.
The Groups independent auditors present to the Group Audit Committee reports that include details of any significant internal control matters which they have identified.
The system of internal controls of the authorised institutions and other regulated entities in the Group is also subject to regulatory oversight in the UK and overseas.
Additional details of the Groups regulatory oversight are given in the Supervision section on page 500.
343 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:41 Page 344 Compliance report continued Internal control over financial reporting The Group is required to comply with Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and assess the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2012.
The Group assessed the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2012 based on the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control - Integrated Framework'.
Based on its assessment, management has concluded that, as of 31 December 2012, the Group's internal control over financial reporting is effective.
The Group's auditors have audited the effectiveness of the Group's internal control over financial reporting and have given an unqualified opinion.
Management's report on the Group's internal control over financial reporting will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the same time as the Annual Report on Form 20-F. Disclosure controls and procedures As required by US regulations, management have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness and design of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as defined in the Exchange Act rules as at 31 December 2012.
Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Groups disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this annual report.
Changes in internal control There was no change in the company's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by this report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the company's internal control over financial reporting.
The New York Stock Exchange As a foreign issuer with American Depository Shares representing ordinary shares, preference shares and debt securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange the NYSE, the company must disclose any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from those followed by US companies under the NYSE corporate governance listing standards.
In addition, the company must comply fully with the provisions of the listing standards that relate to the composition, responsibilities and operation of Audit Committees.
These provisions incorporate the relevant rules concerning audit committees of the Exchange Act.
The company has reviewed its corporate governance arrangements and is satisfied that these are consistent with the NYSEs corporate governance listing practices, with the exception that the Chairman of the Board is also the Chairman of the Group Nominations Committee, which is permitted under the Code since the Chairman was considered independent on appointment.
The companys Group Audit, Board Risk, Group Performance and Remuneration, Group Sustainability and Group Nominations Committees are otherwise composed solely of non-executive directors deemed by the Group Board to be independent.
The NYSE corporate governance listing standards also require that a compensation committee has direct responsibility to review and approve the Group Chief Executives remuneration.
As stated at the start of this Compliance report, in the case of the company, the Group Board, rather than the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee, reserves the authority to make the final determination of the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive.
The Group Audit Committee complies with the provisions of the NYSE corporate governance listing standards that relate to the composition, responsibilities and operation of audit committees.
In March 2012, the company submitted its required annual written affirmation to the NYSE confirming its full compliance with those and other applicable provisions.
More detailed information about the Group Audit Committee and its work during 2012 is set out in the Group Audit Committee report on pages 309 to 315.
This Compliance report forms part of the Corporate governance report and the Report of the directors.
