GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 325 RBS GROUP 2012 Directors remuneration report Policy Report Policy Report Our Group-wide Remuneration Policy Consultation on remuneration policy takes place with our social partners, The remuneration policy supports the Groups business strategy and is including representatives from UNITE.
The National Living Wage and designed to: London Living Wage are important benchmarks that we monitor each year as part of the annual pay review process.
An annual Group-wide x attract, retain, motivate and reward high-calibre employees to deliver employee opinion survey takes place which includes a number of pay long term business performance within acceptable risk parameters: related questions.
and The remuneration policy applies the same principles to all employees x provide clear alignment between annual and long-term targets for including Code Staff 1.
The current key principles underpinning the individuals and Group divisional strategic plans.
Group-wide remuneration policy are set out below: Element of pay Objective Operation Base salary To attract and retain employees Base salaries are reviewed annually and should reflect the talents, skills and competencies by being competitive in the that the individual brings to the Group.
Salaries should be sufficient so that inappropriate specific market in which the risk-taking is not encouraged.
Annual incentives To support a culture where The annual incentive pool is based on a balanced scorecard of measures including employees recognise the customer, financial, risk and people measures.
Allocation from the pool depends on importance of serving divisional, functional and individual performance.
Individual performance assessment is customers well and are supported by a structured performance management framework.
rewarded for superior individual performance.
Our policy is that awards are subject to individual performance.
Guaranteed awards are only used in very limited circumstances in accordance with the FSA Remuneration Code.
Immediate cash awards are limited to a maximum of 2,000.
Under the Group-wide deferral arrangements a significant proportion of annual incentive awards for our more senior employees are deferred over a three year period.
Deferred awards are subject to clawback.
For Code Staff, 50% of any annual incentive is delivered in the form of Group shares and subject to an additional six month retention period post vesting.
In certain circumstances, formulaic short-term incentive arrangements are used to align the objectives of employees with the strategy of the relevant division in which they work.
All incentive awards are subject to appropriate governance, including independent review by the risk management, finance and human resources functions, with oversight from the Group Performance and Reward Committee, which has delegated authority from the Committee over incentive schemes operating over a period of 12 months or less.
Long-term Incentive To encourage the creation of The Group provides certain employees in senior roles with long-term incentive awards.
Plan LTIP value over the long term and to align further the rewards of the Awards are structured as performance-vesting shares.
Vesting after a three year period will participants with the returns to be based partly on divisional or functional performance and partly on performance across shareholders.
All awards are subject to clawback.
Other share plans To offer employees in certain Employees in certain countries are eligible to contribute to share plans which are not jurisdictions the opportunity to subject to performance conditions.
Benefits To give employees an In most jurisdictions, employee benefits or a cash equivalent are provided from a flexible including pension opportunity to provide for their benefits account.
Note: 1 The following groups of employees have been identified as meeting the FSAs criteria for Code Staff: - Members of the Group Board and Group Executive and Management Committees: - Staff performing a Significant Influence Function within RBS Group: - Employees who have approval authorities such that their decision-making could have a material impact on the RBS Group income statement: - Employees who are responsible for a business or businesses whose performance could have a material impact on the RBS Group income statement: and - Key control function roles.
325 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 326 Directors remuneration report Policy Report continued Summary of remuneration policy for executive directors for 2013 The remuneration policy for executive directors follows the Group-wide policy applicable to other employees but with greater emphasis on variable performance-related pay.
This is to ensure that delivery of total remuneration to executive directors is more dependent on performance and can only be achieved if specific strategic targets and other measures are met.
The structure of remuneration for executive directors involves greater delivery in shares in order to align further their reward with the long-term interests of shareholders.
A summary is set out below: Changes to policy since Element of pay Operation Maximum potential Performance metrics and period last approved Base salary Reviewed annually and Rate at 1 January 2013: N A A 2% increase to the considered against annual Stephen Hester: 1,200,000 salary of Bruce Van market data and in the context Bruce Van Saun: 750,000 Saun to 765,000 of wider Group increases.
Annual incentive Any annual incentive to be Normal maximum: Balanced scorecard of KPIs measured No change.
200% of base salary over the financial year.
KPIs are: Shares vest in two equal Exceptional maximum: x Strategic progress: tranches on the first and 250% of base salary x Business delivery and financial second anniversary of the date performance: of grant.
x Risk and control: Provision for clawback prior to x Stakeholder management: and vesting.
x People management Additional six month holding period post vesting.
See page 328 for further details Long-term incentive Awards granted over shares Maximum under plan rules is Performance conditions measured over No change.
which vest at the end of a 400% of salary.
three year period subject to performance conditions being 2013 LTIP awards will be Performance measures and relative met.
granted subject to an overall weightings are: cap of 300% of salary at x Core Bank Economic Profit - 25% Provision for clawback prior to grant.
x Total Shareholder Return TSR vesting.
relative to comparator group of Each of the four performance international banks - 25% Additional six month holding elements has the potential to period post vesting.
deliver shares worth 100% of x Balance sheet and risk - 25% salary at grant.
x Strategic scorecard - 25% However, there is an overall x Financial and risk performance cap on vesting equivalent to underpin.
The LTIP measures have been selected The notional value of these in consultation with shareholders.
The awards would be 45% of face objective is to have a balanced range of value, which is 135% of measures that encourage the building of salary.
a safer, stronger and more sustainable business.
See page 329 for further details on the measures.
Benefits including Flexible benefits opportunity as Pension allowance of 35% of N A No change.
Opportunity to sacrifice salary into defined contribution pension scheme.
326 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 327 RBS GROUP 2012 Recruitment policy 2010-2012 average compensation outcome for Group Chief Executive The policy on the recruitment of new executive directors aims to structure The preceding charts are based on target expected values of total pay broadly in line with the framework and quantum applicable to current compensation.
Press commentary tends to focus either on these values, executive directors, taking into account that some variation may be or on maximum values assuming all performance conditions are met.
necessary to secure the preferred candidate and to reflect the skills and However, in practice over the period 2010 to 2012, the value received will experience required.
Any awards granted to replace awards forfeited on be significantly less than the maximum or even target value of incentives, leaving a previous employer will be on a comparable basis taking account in light of waivers, performance conditions and share price changes over of anticipated performance outcomes and the proportion of time elapsed.
The chart below shows the likely average pay-out to the Full details will be disclosed in the next remuneration report following Group Chief Executive over the 2010-2012 period.
The data shows that Stephen Hester is likely to receive just 22% of the The mix of executive directors remuneration maximum value of his incentives awarded over the last three years, and The charts below show the composition of remuneration opportunity for around 38% of his maximum total compensation.
This is despite strong on-target annual performance, with the long-term incentive awards shown progress against a range of financial and non-financial targets measured at median performance vesting.
Annual incentive payments earned in over the three year period since 2010. relation to 2013 performance will be deferred and will vest, subject to satisfactory performance.
The actual value of the long term incentive 9,000 LTIP Annual Incentive awards will depend on performance over the period 2013 to 2015 and the 8,000 Pension share price at the time the awards vest.
Base Salary 7,000 6,000 Group Chief Executive - Stephen Hester 5,000 4,000 24% 35 % 3,000 22% of 2,000 maximum incentives 38% of maximum total 1,000 compensation Salary 1% 0 Benefits Maximum Impact of LTIP Impact of annual Impact of share Likely award performance incentive price outcome 8% Pension allowance conditions conditions waivers On-Target Annual Incentive deferred into shares Long-term incentive award estimated value based on 32% median performance Group Finance Director - Bruce Van Saun 23% 31% Salary 8% Benefits Pension allowance 8% On-Target Annual Incentive deferred into shares Long-term incentive award estimated value based on median performance 30% 327 2010-2012 Average Annual Total Compensation 000s GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 328 Directors remuneration report Policy Report continued Annual incentive awards - performance criteria for 2013 The executive directors annual performance objectives, as set out below, are approved by the Committee.
The risk objectives are reviewed by the Board Risk Committee.
Core objectives Stephen Hester Bruce Van Saun Strategic progress Revise original Strategic Plan to respond to significant Monitor and improve the Group and divisional strategic changes in the macro environment.
Drive effective design and implementation of revised revised strategy including focus on brand values and fair plan.
Develop strategy for implementation of ring-fencing.
Progress plans towards Government exit.
Business delivery and Lead delivery of overall performance, including measures Ensure statutory, regulatory and management reporting is financial performance relating to ROE, cost management, Core Tier 1 capital compliant with all external and internal standards.
Continue ratio, funding and risk profile, lending, and EU mandated to improve best in class external reporting.
Group Finance Director role to the business through strategic planning, budgeting, forecasting and reporting.
Monitor and control Group budget.
Ensure a robust capital and funding planning framework.
Successful further Direct Line Insurance Group plc selldown and re-plan of EU mandated branch disposals.
Risk and control Delivery of measures relating to wholesale funding Progress on key risk requirements.
Implementation of reliance, liquidity reserves and leverage ratio.
Further effective regulatory changes impacting capital, funding, and progress on risk appetite, risk frameworks and conduct liquidity.
Improve quality of risk and financial data.
Continue risk, in support of the continued culture change across the development of Group Internal Audit function.
Stakeholder management Achievement of customer performance measures.
Continue to develop effective external relationships, Build maintain strong and effective relationships with including investors, rating agencies and regulators.
external stakeholders, including senior leaders in the new UK regulatory framework.
People management Ensure each division function has a people plan.
Embed Lead upgraded team and build positive culture and sense the Groups purpose, vision and values through high of purpose.
Contribute to overall Group management.
Build talent management and Partner colleagues in leading the Groups purpose, vision performance management.
Maintain leadership and and values to support culture change.
employee engagement as measured by the employee survey.
The Committee will determine the actual value of any award by reference to the extent to which executive directors have met the performance targets.
Awards will be paid entirely in shares and will vest in two equal tranches on the first and second anniversaries of the date of grant.
Clawback provisions will apply prior to the vesting of the shares.
An additional six month holding period will apply post vesting.
328 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 329 RBS GROUP 2012 LTIP awards - performance criteria for awards to be granted in 2013 and Balance Sheet & Risk 25% due to vest in 2016 The Balance Sheet & Risk measures have a particular focus on risk Awards that will be granted to executive directors in 2013 will be subject reduction, the resolution of the Non-Core business and the building of a to four performance categories, each with equal weighting.
These are set sustainable and responsible franchise for the Group.
Strategic Scorecard 25% Core bank economic profit 25% The balanced Strategic Scorecard rewards management for delivering a The Economic Profit measure is focused on the Core bank to ensure that robust basis for future growth in terms of the strength of our franchise, performance reflects enduring earnings for the bank.
Economic Profit, efficiency, reputation, and the engagement of employees.
being a risk-adjusted financial measure, is consistent with the FSA Code Performance measures and also provides a balance between measuring growth and the cost of Non-Core Run-Down capital employed in delivering that growth.
Core bank Economic Profit is Core Tier 1 capital ratio defined as Core bank Operating Profit after Tax less attributed equity Balance Wholesale funding multiplied by the cost of equity, where: Sheet and Risk Liquidity reserves measures Leverage ratio Core bank Operating Profit after Tax is Core Operating Profit taxed at a and targets Loan:deposit ratio standard tax rate.
Earnings volatility Customer franchise Attributed Equity is defined as equity allocated to the Core businesses, Strategic Cost:income ratio in Core bank calculated as a function of the Core businesses risk-weighted asset base.
Scorecard Lending targets measures Sustainability performance Current Cost of Equity is 11.5%, which is subject to review at least and targets Progress in people issues annually.
Both quantitative and qualitative strategic measures are used, including Details of the actual targets, and performance against these, will be measures relating to reputation, customer excellence, organisational disclosed retrospectively once the awards vest.
capability and sustainability, given that these will support the long-term goals of the business.
Targets for each measure are set at the start of the Relative Total Shareholder Return 25% performance period and, where applicable, are aligned with the Groups The relative TSR measure provides a direct connection between Strategic Plan targets.
Commentary will be provided on an annual basis executive directors awards and relative performance delivered to in relation to progress against the targets, where these are not shareholders.
The measure compares the Group's performance against a commercially sensitive.
group of comparator banks from the UK and overseas, weighted towards those companies most similar to the Group.
Performance is measured Vesting point over a three year performance period.
Indicative performance Does not meet 0% Over half of objectives not met Relative TSR Comparator Group Partially meets 25% Half of objectives met Weighting Significantly meets 62.5% Two-thirds of objectives met 1 Barclays 200% Fully meets 100% Objectives met or exceeded in all 2 Lloyds Banking Group material respects 3 HSBC 150% Qualified by Group Performance and Remuneration Committee discretion 4 Standard Chartered taking into account changes in circumstances over the performance Bank of America, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Credit period, the relative importance of the measures, the margin by which Agricole, Credit Suisse Group, Deutsche Bank, JP individual targets have been missed or exceeded, and any other relevant Morgan Chase, National Australia Bank Limited, Royal factors.
5 to 20 50% Bank of Canada, Santander, Societe Generale, The Toronto-Dominion Bank Group, UBS, Unicredito, Wells Risk underpin and clawback Fargo & Company The Committee will also review financial and operational performance against the Strategic Plan and risk performance prior to agreeing vesting x 20% of the award will vest if the Groups TSR is at the median of the of awards.
In assessing this, the Committee will be advised companies in the comparator group.
independently by the Board Risk Committee.
If the Committee considers that the vesting outcome calibrated in line with the performance x 100% of the award will vest if the Groups TSR is at the upper conditions outlined above does not reflect the Group's underlying quartile of the companies in the comparator group.
financial results or if the Committee considers that the financial results have been achieved with excessive risk, then the terms of the awards allow for an underpin to be used to reduce vesting of an award, or to allow the award to lapse in its entirety.
329 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 330 Directors remuneration report Policy Report continued Shareholders views and their impact on remuneration policy Service contracts and exit payment policy In late 2012 and early 2013, an extensive consultation was undertaken The company's policy in relation to the duration of contracts with directors with institutional shareholders and other stakeholders on the Groups is that executive directors' contracts generally continue until termination remuneration approach.
by either party, subject to the required notice, or until retirement.
The notice period under the service contracts of executive directors will not The consultation process involved one-to-one meetings, a roundtable normally exceed twelve months.
session hosted by the Association of British Insurers and National Association of Pension Funds and a number of follow-up letters and In relation to newly recruited executive directors, subject to the prior meetings.
Meetings have taken place involving around 20 institutional approval of the Committee, the notice period may be extended beyond shareholders and shareholder bodies representing a substantial twelve months if there is a clear case for this.
Where a longer period of proportion of the non-UKFI shareholding.
Topics discussed included notice is initially approved on appointment, it will normally be structured financial progress and building a sustainable business, our remuneration such that it will automatically reduce to twelve months in due course.
All strategy to date and the future shape of pay.
UKFI were also consulted new service contracts for executive directors are subject to approval by and as with other shareholders, the Committee received their input.
Investors recognised the challenge faced by the Committee in balancing Those contracts normally include standard clauses covering the need to pay competitively to support business goals but at the same remuneration arrangements and discretionary incentive schemes, the time being mindful of the wider economic environment and the need to performance review process, the company's normal disciplinary show restraint.
Shareholders were supportive of the work being procedure, and terms for dismissal in the event of failure to perform or in undertaken by the Committee and the Board, and recognised the situations involving actions in breach of the Group's policies and progress the Group is making towards recovery.
There was widespread support for the Group Chief Executive and the Any compensation payment made in connection with the departure of an efforts being made by the Committee to seek to reward him fairly for executive director will be subject to approval by the Committee, having performance.
There was discussion of the accountability review process regard to the terms of the service contract and the reasons for and in particular the impact of major events such as LIBOR, together with termination.
questions around culture, turnover and the extent of people risk as a result of the Groups pay positioning.
The possible use of alternative plan Information regarding the executive directors' service contracts is shown structures was raised by certain shareholders supporting a requirement below: to hold shares until retirement, although there was not widespread Notice period - Notice period - support for this approach.
The importance of value sharing between Date of current contract from the company from executive investors and employees remains a key concern for shareholders.
Stephen Hester 4 November 2008 12 months 12 months Bruce Van Saun 8 September 2009 12 months 12 months The Committee and the Board have considered carefully their responsibilities and have applied judgement to achieve a balance Except as noted below, in the event of severance where any contractual whereby our remuneration policy supports business goals without notice period is not worked, the employing company may pay a sum to causing unacceptably high people risks.
the executive in lieu of the notice period.
In the event of situations involving breach of the employing company's policies resulting in The support received from shareholders during the consultation period dismissal, reduced or no payments may be made to the executive.
Shareholders have played a key role in Depending on the circumstances of the termination of employment, the developing remuneration practices that support the long-term goals of the executive may be entitled, or the Committee may allow, outstanding business.
Our remuneration approach of delivering a significant awards under long-term incentive arrangements to vest, subject to the proportion of variable pay for senior executives in shares with deferral rules of the relevant plan.
periods and clawback provisions provides strong alignment with the interests of shareholders.
330 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 331 RBS GROUP 2012 Stephen Hester Letter of engagement In the event of his personal underperformance, the company is entitled, The non-executive directors do not have service contracts or notice after giving reasonable opportunity to remedy any failure, to terminate periods although they have letters of engagement reflecting their Stephen Hesters contract by giving written notice with immediate effect responsibilities and commitments.
and without making any payment in lieu of notice and Stephen Hester will forfeit any unvested stock awards.
In the event that Stephen Hester's Time commitments employment is terminated by the company other than by reason of his Letters of engagement make clear to non-executive directors the time personal underperformance or in circumstances where the company is commitment they are expected to give to their Board duties.
Since 2010, entitled to dismiss without notice, or if he resigns in response to a non-executive directors letters of engagement specifically state that their fundamental breach of contract by the company, he will be entitled to time commitment should be in line with the Walker Review of corporate receive a payment in lieu of notice to the value of base salary, annual governance of banks and other financial institutions in respect of their incentive and benefits including pension contributions.
If he resigns general Board duties.
Additional time will be spent as necessary in voluntarily and the company does not require him to work out his notice respect of committee duties, including in particular any committees which period, Stephen Hester may receive a payment in lieu of notice based on they chair.
salary only i. e. no annual incentive or benefits.
In both cases the treatment of any other unvested stock awards will be determined by the Termination Committee and the Board, having due regard to the circumstances of the No compensation would be paid to any non-executive director in the departure.
event of termination of appointment.
Bruce Van Saun Arrangements for the Group Chairman In the event of his personal underperformance, the company is entitled, Philip Hampton is entitled to receive a cash payment in lieu of notice if his after giving reasonable opportunity to remedy any failure, to terminate appointment is terminated as a result of the Group's majority shareholder Bruce Van Sauns contract by giving written notice with immediate effect seeking to effect the termination of his appointment.
The applicable and without making any payment in lieu of notice and Bruce Van Saun notice period is twelve months.
In the event that the company terminates will forfeit any unvested stock awards.
Any payment in lieu of notice that Philip Hampton's appointment without good reason, or his re-election is may be made to Bruce Van Saun would be based on salary only i. e. no not approved by shareholders in General Meeting resulting in the annual incentive or benefits.
The company has agreed that, provided termination of his appointment, he will be entitled to receive a cash certain conditions are met, on leaving employment, Bruce Van Saun will payment in lieu of notice of twelve months' fees.
not forfeit awards under the rules of the Groups share plans.
Fees for non-executive directors Chairman and non-executive directors The table below sets out the remuneration structure for non-executive Information regarding the terms of appointment for the Chairman and directors for the year ended 31 December 2012.
The Senior Independent non-executive directors is shown below.
Director and Chairs of the Board committees receive a composite fee and therefore do not receive additional fees for membership of any other Re-election committees or the Board.
Under the Articles of Association of the company, directors must stand for re-election by shareholders at least once every three years.
However, in The level of remuneration for non-executive directors reflects their accordance with the provisions of the Code, all directors of the company responsibility and time commitment and the level of fees paid to nonstand for annual re-election by shareholders at the companys Annual executive directors of comparable major UK companies.
directors do not participate in any incentive or performance plan.
Nonexecutive directors fees are reviewed regularly.
Chairmans fee 750,000 Senior Independent Director composite fee 150,000 Chairman of Group Audit Committee, Board Risk Committee or Group Performance and Remuneration Committee composite fee 150,000 Non-executive Director Group Board fee 72,500 Membership of Group Audit Committee, Board Risk Committee or Group Performance and Remuneration Committee fee 25,000 Membership of Group Sustainability Committee fee 12,500 Membership of Group Nominations Committee fee 5,500 No director received any expense allowances chargeable to UK income tax or compensation for loss of office termination payment.
The non-executive directors did not receive any annual incentive payments or benefits.
