GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 305 RBS GROUP 2012 In 2012, as part of their ongoing development, the directors received Outcomes of the 2012 performance evaluation briefings on the UK Bribery Act 2010, the new UK regulatory regime, The 2012 performance evaluation has concluded that the Board and various Financial Reporting Council consultations including amendments Board committees are operating effectively.
The key findings were as to the Code, audit committee guidelines, the stewardship code and follows:- international standards on auditing for the UK and Ireland, a number of x the Group has a highly capable Board which is well-balanced and government consultations on narrative reporting, executive remuneration diverse, with the skills required to respond to the very full agenda and shareholder voting rights and the draft proposals under the Capital and key priorities of the Group: Requirements Directive IV, as well as other regulatory consultations.
x Board composition and executive succession planning should Business visits are also arranged as part of the Group Audit Committee remain under review: and Board Risk Committee schedule and all non-executive directors are x the Board is headed by a strong and effective Chairman and Board invited to attend.
The Group Audit Committee and the Board Risk meetings are open and transparent with constructive discussion, Committee undertook a total of six visits in 2012 to RBS Risk particularly around culture.
The skills and contribution that the Management 2, Group Internal Audit 2, Group Finance and Business executive directors bring to the Board was recognised: Services to review the Change programme.
x as a result of the continued challenging external and regulatory Performance evaluation environment, and the number of regulatory investigations, a In accordance with the Code, an external evaluation of the Board takes substantial time commitment is required from the non-executive place every three years.
An internal evaluation takes place in the directors: intervening years.
x whilst improvements in the quality and clarity of Board and Board The 2011 evaluation was conducted internally by the Group Secretary Committee papers during 2012 was acknowledged, Board and a number of initiatives were implemented aimed at improving the information flows should remain under review so that improvements overall performance and effectiveness of the Board.
These included can be made on a continuous basis: additional improvements to the flow of information to the Board, x Board committees continue to play a key role supporting the work of appointment of additional Directors to Board committees and additional the Board and the directors, individually and collectively, dedicate succession planning sessions.
The 2012 evaluation concluded that the extensive time to the Group: and recommendations from the 2011 evaluation had been implemented in full.
x given the increased focus on culture, the role and responsibilities of In 2012, the Board and Committee evaluation process was independently the Group Sustainability Committee should be enhanced in respect facilitated by IDDAS Limited, a specialist board evaluation consultancy.
of cultural and behavioural issues.
IDDAS Limited were selected following a competitive tender and the Board is satisfied that IDDAS Limited has no other connection with the A summary of the key themes arising from 2012 performance evaluation Group.
is set out below, together with an overview of the proposed actions: Performance evaluation process Key themes included Proposed action IDDAS Limited undertook a formal and rigorous evaluation by: The composition of the Board and Board committees to remain under review to ensure the Board composition x using a detailed framework of questions which was used to structure board has the appropriate balance of skills, individual meetings held with each director: experience, independence and knowledge.
x discussing the outcomes and recommendations with the Chairman: Board and executive The Board and Group Nominations Committee to and: succession planning review board and executive succession planning.
RBS Secretariat to establish a board-sponsored, x recommending the outcomes and areas for improvement to the multi-disciplinary project, to devise an optimal Board members.
Board Papers board information pack, with summaries and levels of depth to suit each reporting area or Amongst the areas reviewed were Board structure, membership issue.
including diversity and processes, Board committees, Director competence, independence and behaviour.
The Group Sustainability Committee to be given an expanded remit for customer related Group Sustainability sustainability and reputation issues, oversight of Committee cultural and behavioural change, and sustainability aspects of the people agenda.
