GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 304 Corporate governance continued Board meetings An annual programme of divisional presentations is agreed by the Board In 2012, nine Board meetings were scheduled and individual attendance each year.
During 2012, the Board received in-depth presentations from by directors at these meetings is shown in the following table.
One of the Direct Line Group, Wealth, Global Restructuring Group, UK Corporate, Board meetings took place overseas during the Boards visit to the Non-Core, Ulster Bank Group, RBS Citizens Financial Group, UK Retail, Groups US businesses.
These presentations enhance the Boards knowledge of the Groups key divisions and afford directors the In addition to the nine scheduled meetings, 28 additional meetings of the opportunity for discussion and debate with divisional senior management.
Board and Committees of the Board were held, including meetings to consider and approve financial statements.
The Chairman and the nonBoard committees executive directors meet at least once per year without executive In order to provide effective oversight and leadership, the Board has directors present.
established a number of Board committees with particular responsibilities.
The Committee chairmanship and membership are reviewed on a regular Attended basis.
The names and biographies of all Board Committee members are Total number of Board meetings in 2012 scheduled set out on pages 298 to 301.
Sandy Crombie 9 9 Alison Davis 9 9 The terms of reference of the undernoted committees, together with the Tony Di Iorio 9 9 Group Nominations Committee and Group Sustainability Committee, are Philip Hampton 9 9 available on the Groups website www.
com and copies are available Stephen Hester 9 9 on request from RBS Secretariat.
Penny Hughes 9 9 Joe MacHale 9 9 The Board committees are discussed in their individual reports: Brendan Nelson 9 9 Baroness Noakes 9 9 Group Audit Committee - pages 309 to 315.
Art Ryan 1 6 9 Board Risk Committee - pages 316 to 319.
Philip Scott 9 9 Group Performance and Remuneration Committee - pages 320 to 340.
Bruce Van Saun 9 9 Information, induction and professional development Former director All directors receive accurate, timely and clear information on all relevant John McFarlane 2 2 2 matters.
All directors also have access to the advice and services of the Notes: Group Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board 1 Unable to attend a number of Board meetings during 2012 due to family illness.
2 Retired from the Board on 31 March 2012. procedures are followed and for advising on all governance matters.
In addition, all directors are able, if necessary, to obtain independent Principal activities of the Board during 2012 professional advice at the companys expense.
In advance of each Board meeting, the directors were supplied with comprehensive papers in hard copy and or electronic form.
In line with the recommendations of the Walker Review of Governance in Banks and Financial Institutions the Walker Review and the Code, the At each Board meeting, the Chairman provided a verbal update on his Group has a comprehensive induction programme for new directors that activities and external engagement and the Group Chief Executive is kept under review by the Group Secretary.
Each new director receives provided a written report on business activities.
The Boards key priorities a formal induction on joining the Board, including visits to the Groups during 2012 have been conduct risk and culture, regulatory developments major divisions and meetings with directors and senior management and and investigations and the continued delivery of the Groups Strategic key stakeholders.
Each induction programme includes a mandatory Plan.
The directors received reports on the Groups financial element which comprises 12 meetings, visits and sessions.
The performance, capital, funding and liquidity positions and risk management remainder of the induction programme is tailored to the new directors together with regular reports on strategy, risk appetite, litigation and specific requirements and includes meetings with key executives and treating customers fairly.
Specific strategy sessions were held in January, their teams and visits to divisions, businesses and Group functions, both April and June.
Other matters considered by the Board during 2012 in the UK and overseas.
included the Independent Commission on Banking reports, Recovery and Resolution Planning and Technology.
Strategy, capital, funding and risk As part of their ongoing professional development, directors are advised are expected to remain key areas of focus for the Board during 2013. of appropriate external training and professional development opportunities and undertake the training and professional development Members of the executive management team attend and make regular they consider necessary to assist them to carry out their duties as presentations at meetings of the Board to give the directors greater directors.
Internal training is also provided, tailored to the business of the insight into the business areas.
Continuing professional development logs are maintained by the Group Secretary and are reviewed regularly with directors to ensure training and development opportunities are tailored to individual directors requirements.
