ARSFS12 DIVISIONAL REVIEW AW Layout 1 24 03 2013 22:02 Page 6 DIVISIONAL REVIEW It was another testing year.
There were some and our costs too high.
We are making signs of improvement but the economy was changes that will reduce costs by 80 million weak.
Unemployment remained high, house by the end of 2013. prices fell further and wages were flat.
We continued to deal with the legacy of the The most significant action we took was past.
Our review of how we operate confirmed dealing with loans we sold before the crisis.
that Ulster Bank has a sustainable future if We gave more effort to managing unsecured we make the right changes.
loans, mortgages, SME facilities and larger corporate exposures.
In particular, we are Our systems failed in June.
We are very sorry supporting customers who are finding it hard for the effects that had on our customers.
We worked hard to support them and put things right.
We improved our digital services.
That makes We extended normal opening hours at it easier for customers to do business with us.
83 branches and Saturday hours at 60.
With our apps for iPhone, BlackBerry and We opened 22 branches on a Sunday.
Android handsets you can: Our call centre extended its hours to 10pm.
get an up-to-the-minute balance: We were able to transfer funds via Western view a mini-statement with your last Union for customers who were abroad.
six transactions: Corporate customers were able to withdraw make transfers between your Ulster Bank up to 5,000 or 5,000 with the agreement accounts: Ulster Bank of their relationship manager.
pay your friends, family, credit card, We processed transactions manually or utility bills: and Jim Brown if corporate customers could not use locate your nearest Ulster Bank branch Chief Executive, online banking.
Ulster Bank In September, we announced how we were Customers used the service almost 18 million Watch or listen to Jim Brown going to make amends to customers who times making 1.2 million payments worth 282 www.
We wrote to every Ulster Bank million.
Changing our culture Operating loss of 1,040 million Making RBS safer After the IT failure we ran Listening Groups with was 56 million higher than in 2011.
Our appointment of a board-level Chief Risk our people.
We wanted to make sure that their This primarily reflected a reduction in Officer and a new Risk Leadership Team show views on what went well and what didn't could income driven by lower interest earning how we are contributing to making RBS safer.
be incorporated into our future strategy.
Total expenses fell by The Chief Risk Officer has led a Group-wide 26 million as a result of cost saving review of risk as well as playing a central role Through our Culture and Engagement Team in our strategic review.
we listen to our people, take their feedback initiatives.
Impairment losses remained and use it to drive improvement.
Falling asset prices and high levels We moved most of our mortgage accounts to a of unemployment coupled with weak new system, which reduces operational risk.
domestic demand continued to depress the property market.
The loan to deposit Building a better bank that serves ratio improved and net interest margin customers well increased slightly.
Retail and SME We know that Ulster Bank has a sustainable deposits increased by eight per cent, future.
But that depends on us changing how although this was partly offset by outflows we work and dealing with the past so that we of wholesale balances.
focus on serving customers well.
Our review told us our business was too complicated Performance highlights 2012 2011 Operating profit before impairment losses m 324 400 Impairment losses m 1,364 1,384 Operating loss m 1,040 984 Return on equity % 21.8 22.8 26
