ARSFS12 ESS READING & BUS STRAT AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:03 Page 16 OUR BUSINESS AND OUR STRATEGY Progress on our Strategic Plan Strategy and business objectives Strategy and business objectives Strategy and business objectives RBS to be based on enduring customer franchises with each business RBS to deliver its strategy from a stable risk profile and capable of generating a sustainable return in excess of its cost of capital balance sheet, with each banking business self-funding 1:1 loan:deposit ratio How are we going to do this?
How are we going to do this?
Franchises with substantial competitive strength Track market positions and customer satisfaction in all Core businesses Reduced balance sheet scale Income growth Continue to fide-risk and shrink our Non-Core balance sheet.
Careful control of future asset growth to support Core Focus on businesses capable of delivering sustainable growth and achieve customers.
market-level growth in each Funding programme Cost control Limit over-reliance on wholesale markets to meet the Deliver on the Groups cost programmes, whilst making essential investments in Groups funding requirements, while building up an our businesses.
Achieve a cost:income ratio that places RBS among the most appropriate liquidity reserve.
Generate a stable deposit efficient of its global peers.
base to fund each business.
Rigorous capital and cost allocation Stable and robust capital support Accurately deploy the Groups capital and allocate appropriate costs to focus Focus on implementing state of the art risk controls, run-off the divisions on sustainable returns, as well as on profit growth.
of excess risk concentrations and maintenance of strong equity capital.
Our progress so far Our progress so far Our goal is for the new RBS to be built upon customer-driven businesses with substantial competitive strengths in their respective markets.
We have The Groups funded balance sheet was further managed down top tier competitive positions across all of our enduring customer franchises.
Non-Core and M&IB have We continue to monitor closely and drive improvements in our customer driven the deleveraging to date, with Non-Cores funded balance satisfaction scores.
sheet standing at 57 billion, 22% of its starting point in 2008 Achieving growth continues to be a major challenge in our operating and ahead of target for the year.
Put simply, if our customers are not growing, we will not grow.
Throughout the restructuring process we have been able to We have restructured and invested in our ongoing businesses to serve our shrink our assets while sustaining a strong capital base.
customers better and deliver improved and enduring performance.
We believe Our Tier 1 leverage ratio of 15.0x times in 2012 comfortably met there is additional upside to these franchises when economic recovery our target.
Our Core bank continued to take in more than 1 of deposits for So far, through our cost reduction programme, we have taken 3.6 billion every 1 of loans made in 2012 with a loan to deposit ratio of annualised out of our cost base.
This, along with lower than originally projected 90%.
The Group met its target of 100% loan to deposit ratio at programme spend, has allowed us to invest in our Core franchises in order to the end of 2012. enhance our customer service and product offerings through improvements to Our reliance on short-term wholesale funding has been our technology and infrastructure.
further reduced to 42 billion or 5% of funded assets.
In 2012 our Core cost:income ratio of 59% showed a further improvement towards our target.
We had an excess of liquidity in 2012 with liquidity reserves of 147 billion, or 3.5x our short-term wholesale funding, We use direct service usage, requirement for market funding and other surpassing our target.
appropriate drivers to allocate costs accurately to the divisions.
Capital is In 2012, we passed a major milestone in our capital story when allocated with a focus on sustainable risk-adjusted returns rather than short-term performance prospects.
This gives our divisions a realistic view of how their we exited the Asset Protection Scheme APS, the Government income translates into profits and returns.
In 2012, the only Core business that scheme we entered in 2009 to provide capital relief and insurance against the possibility of a further significant was materially short of earning its cost of capital was Ulster Bank, although a number of our other businesses have some work to do to improve their returns.
Now, even without the benefit of Core return on equity in 2012 was 9.8%, reflecting protracted economic APS, we have maintained a Core Tier 1 capital ratio of 10.3%, above our target.
challenges in the areas in which we operate.
Our capital ratio meets regulatory requirements well ahead of the internationally agreed implementation timeline and shows that Medium-term target the Group has sufficient capital to deal with future requirements.
All our principal Core businesses sustain positions amongst the leaders in Medium-term target their chosen fields.
Core cost:income ratio 55% Group leverage ratio 18x Core return on equity 12% Group loan:deposit ratio of 100% Group leverage ratio 18x Short-term wholesale funding 10% of third party assets Liquidity portfolio 1.5x short-term wholesale funding Core Tier 1 capital ratio 10% 16 ARSFS12 ESS READING & BUS STRAT AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:03 Page 17 RBS GROUP 2012 Strategy and business objectives Strategy and business objectives Strategy and business objectives The chosen business mix to produce an attractive blend of RBS management hallmarks to include an open, investor-friendly profitability, stability and sustainable growth approach, discipline and proven execution effectiveness, strong risk management and central focus on serving our customers well, and better How are we going to do this?
Focused on retail and commercial banking How are we going to do this?
Our leading UK retail and corporate customer franchises form the anchor of our strategy, strengthened by selected Publish targets for risk return balance international businesses that provide deep local franchises Demonstrate execution effectiveness by setting clear performance targets for with material synergies with the rest of the Group.
risk and returns, and give regular updates on progress against them.
Concentrate on the core strengths of our wholesale Improve levels of disclosure businesses Rebuild confidence and trust with investors by combining clear performance Re-balance and shrink our markets activities, focusing on targets with improved disclosure.
the businesses that form key aspects of our customer proposition and where we have strength.
Set customer franchise targets for every business Exit Non-Core business lines Put serving our customers well, and better, at the heart of our agenda.
Measure our progress on this with reference to a series of targets.
Expeditious run-off or sale of businesses and asset portfolios while maximising the value obtained for the Group.
Management change At the centre of its effort to rebuild the Group, RBS is dedicated to maintaining the strength of its Board and senior management teams.
Our progress so far Strong risk management Embed the new set of management disciplines to ensure that the RBS of the Our business mix has made strong progress towards being future is adequately protected, notably by its risk management processes and dominated by high quality, stable customer franchises.
moved from 64% retail and commercial operating profit in 2007 to 83% operating profit before impairment losses operating profit this year, in line with our target.
Our progress so far In this time we have also ramped up our investment in these businesses, spending on enhancing customer experience, In 2011, we revisited our targets in light of the economic and regulatory developing IT infrastructure and transforming our front and back landscape being significantly different to what was forecast back in 2009 when office functions.
the original targets were communicated.
We strengthened many of our balance We believe that having a focused international presence adds sheet and risk targets, and the revised income targets indicate that we remain value, allowing us to access additional growth opportunities committed to earning sustainable returns from all our ongoing businesses.
and benefit from long-term globalisations trends, although we We are transparent in explaining our progress towards targets, reporting this want to be anchored in the UK.
In 2012 we have met our target in our quarterly results.
Further details can be found on page 13. geographical business mix with the UK contributing 66% to income.
We provide detailed financial information, including disclosures on risk and balance sheet management, to the market each quarter.
We undertook a major restructuring of our wholesale businesses this year, focusing on our strongest businesses and Improving support for our customers was the top goal of our 2009 strategic plan.
We shed 29 billion of funded assets from We track, and target improvements in, customer satisfaction and market position Markets balance sheet.
This will help improve the efficiency of for all of our core franchises.
In addition, we have implemented customer our capital usage and strengthen our overall balance sheet and charters and have piloted training programmes for our front line staff.
We plan to funding profile whilst ensuring we continue to provide our larger widen further the scope of these going forward.
corporate customers with the access to global markets that they We believe that the majority of our people want to, and do, serve our customers require.
However, we need to do more to ensure that customers receive the We have decreased Non-Cores funded balance sheet by 201 best possible service consistently.
billion since the creation of the division in 2008 through run-off A number of legacy conduct issues have had to be addressed, particularly in and disposals.
These highlight the importance of the cultural change we are undergoing in order for us to do better for our customers in the future.
Since the start of the financial crisis we have overhauled RBSs management.
Medium-term target We believe that we now have a strong and qualified team in place to finish restoring RBS to a normal bank, then to build on our core franchises from there.
Approximately 80% of operating profit to come from our retail We are committed to restoring the Group to a sustainable and conservative risk and commercial banking activities and approximately 60% of profile.
The RBS risk management framework, and our risk management teams, income to come from UK businesses are clearly aligned with the Group priority.
For an overview of how this is working Approximately 20% of operating profit to come from our in practice, see pages 19 and 20.
Markets activities Medium-term target Implemented in 2009, some reviewed in 2012 17
