GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:41 Page 345 RBS GROUP 2012 Report of the directors The directors present their report together with the audited accounts for Business review the year ended 31 December 2012.
Activities The Group is engaged principally in providing a wide range of banking, Group structure insurance and other financial services.
Further details of the The company is a holding company owning the entire issued ordinary organisational structure and business overview of the Group, including share capital of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, the principal direct the products and services provided by each of its divisions and the operating subsidiary undertaking of the company.
The Group comprises competitive markets in which they operate, are contained in the Business the company and all its subsidiary and associated undertakings, including review on pages 40 to 42.
Details of the strategy for delivering the the Royal Bank and NatWest.
Details of the principal subsidiary companys objectives can be found on pages 16 and 17. undertakings of the company are shown in Note 8 on page 482.
Risk factors Following placing and open offers in December 2008 and in April 2009, The Groups future performance and results could be materially different HM Treasury HMT owned approximately 70.3% of the enlarged ordinary from expected results depending on the outcome of certain potential risks share capital of the company.
In December 2009, the company issued a and uncertainties.
Certain risk factors the Group faces are summarised further 25.5 billion of new capital to HMT.
This new capital took the form on page 43.
Fuller details of these and other risk factors are set out on of B shares, which do not generally carry voting rights at general pages 503 to 515. meetings of ordinary shareholders but are convertible into ordinary shares and qualify as Core Tier 1 capital.
The reported results of the Group are also sensitive to the accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its At 31 December 2012, HMTs holding in the companys ordinary shares financial statements.
Details of the Groups critical accounting policies had reduced to 65.3% as a consequence of share issues during the year.
and key sources of accounting judgments are included in Accounting policies on pages 360 to 372.
Results and dividends The loss attributable to the ordinary and B shareholders of the company The Groups approach to risk management, including its financial risk for the year ended 31 December 2012 amounted to 5,971 million management objectives and policies and information on the Groups compared with a loss of 1,997 million for the year ended 31 December exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk, is discussed in the 2011, as set out in the consolidated income statement on page 353.
Risk and balance sheet management section of the Business review on pages 107 to 293.
The company did not pay a dividend on ordinary shares in 2011 or 2012.
Financial performance On 26 November 2009, RBS entered into a State Aid Commitment Deed A review of the Group's performance during the year ended 31 December with HM Treasury containing commitments and undertakings that were 2012, including details of each division, and the Group's financial position designed to ensure that HM Treasury was able to comply with the as at that date is contained in the Business review on pages 44 to 101. commitments to be given by it to the European Commission for the purposes of obtaining approval for the State aid provided to RBS.
As part RBS Holdings N. V. formerly ABN AMRO Holding N. V. of these commitments and undertakings, RBS agreed not to pay In 2007, RFS Holdings B. V. which was jointly owned by the Group, the discretionary coupons and dividends on its existing hybrid capital Dutch State successor to Fortis and Santander together, the instruments for a period of two years.
This period commenced on 30 April Consortium Members completed the acquisition of ABN AMRO Holding 2010 for RBS Group instruments and ended on 30 April 2012: the two N. V. year deferral period for RBS Holdings N. V. instruments commenced on 1 April 2011.
On 1 April 2010, the businesses acquired by the Dutch State were transferred to ABN AMRO Group N. V. itself owned by the Dutch State.
In On 4 May 2012, RBS determined that it was in a position to recommence connection with the transfer ABN AMRO Holding N. V. was renamed RBS payments on RBS Group instruments.
The Core Tier 1 capital impact of Holdings N. V. and its banking subsidiary was renamed The Royal Bank discretionary amounts payable in 2012 on RBSG instruments on which of Scotland N. V. RBS N. V.. Certain assets of RBS N. V. continue to be payments have previously been stopped is c. 330 million.
The Board of shared by the Consortium Members.
RBSG decided to neutralise any impact on Core Tier 1 capital through In October 2011, the Group completed the transfer of a substantial part of equity issuance.
Approximately 65% of this is ascribed to equity funding the UK activities of RBS N. V. to the Royal Bank pursuant to Part VII of of employee incentive awards through the sale of surplus shares held by the UK Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Substantially all of the the Groups Employee Benefit Trust, which was completed in June 2012.
Netherlands and EMEA businesses were transferred in September 2012.
The remaining 35% was raised through the issue of new ordinary shares Further transfers are expected to take place during 2013 but are subject which was completed in September 2012. to certain authorisations including regulatory approval where necessary.
The Group now anticipates that the transfers in China will be completed Discretionary dividends on certain non-cumulative preference shares and at a later date.
discretionary distributions on certain RBSG innovative securities payable after 4 May 2012 have been paid.
Future coupons and dividends on Approximately 98% of the issued share capital of RFS Holdings B. V. is RBSG hybrid capital instruments will only be paid subject to, and in held by the Group.
accordance with, the terms of the relevant instruments.
345 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:41 Page 346 Report of the directors continued Business divestments Employee communication To comply with the European Commission State aid requirements the Employee engagement is encouraged through a range of communication Group agreed a series of restructuring measures to be implemented over channels, at both divisional and Group level.
These channels provide a four year period from December 2009.
These measures supplement access to news and information in a number of ways, including the the Strategic Plan previously announced by the Group.
These include the intranet, magazines, video, team meetings led by line managers, divestment of Direct Line Insurance Group plc, the sale of 80.01% of the briefings held by senior managers and regular dialogue with employees Groups Global Merchant Services business completed in 2010 and the and employee representatives.
sale of substantially all of the RBS Sempra Commodities joint venture business largely completed in 2010, as well as the divestment of the The Group Chief Executive and other senior Group executives regularly RBS branch-based business in England and Wales and the NatWest communicate with, and encourage feedback from, employees across a branches in Scotland, along with the direct SME customers across the range of channels.
Employee feedback In 2010, the Group reached agreement with Santander UK plc Every year since 1999, through the Your Feedback survey, employees in Santander on the sale of certain UK branch-based businesses broadly all our businesses have shared their thoughts about what its like working comprising the RBS branch-based business in England and Wales, and for RBS.
These insights inform what the Group needs to do to improve the NatWest branch-based business in Scotland, along with certain SME the way it works, whether its a local issue or something that affects and corporate activities across the UK.
However, in October 2012, the everyone.
Apart from an opportunity to listen to employees, the survey Group announced Santanders decision to pull out of the agreement.
also enables the Group to monitor levels of employee satisfaction and RBS is continuing to work to fulfil its obligations to divest these engagement and how these compare with other companies.
Employee consultation Also in October 2012, the Group sold 34.7% of its interest in Direct Line The Group recognises employee representative organisations such as Insurance Group plc through an initial public offering.
This is the first step trade unions and work councils in a number of businesses and countries.
in meeting the requirement to cede control by the end of 2013 and complete full divestment by the end of 2014.
The Group has a European Employee Council that provides elected representatives with an opportunity to understand better the Groups Employees European operations.
As at 31 December 2012, the Group employed 137,200 employees fulltime equivalent basis throughout the world.
Details of employee related Diversity and inclusion costs are included in Note 3 on the consolidated accounts.
During 2012, the Group executive renewed its commitment to making workplace policies, processes and experiences inclusive for staff, The Group operates certain employee share plans in which eligible customers and stakeholders.
In support of this, Group HR has set employees are able to participate and which align the interests of inclusion within its top priorities for 2013. employees with those of shareholders.
Inclusion is built into various policy areas and people management Employee learning and development processes.
For example: the Group continues to support disabled people The Group maintains a strong commitment to providing all its employees ensuring they have equal opportunities in recruitment, employment, with the opportunity to grow through learning and development, which in promotion and training.
turn helps to achieve business objectives and drive excellent customer service.
Supporting the professionalisation of our front line staff, this year The Group also supports employee led networks such as Focused more than 6,000 of our customer facing employees participated in Women and Rainbow who provide personal and career development accredited development programmes.
This helps our employees deliver opportunities through networking and training events.
the best service to our customers whilst working towards a recognised professional standard.
This commitment to inclusion extends to supporting and participating in positive action programmes outside of the Group aimed at cultivating future leaders including An Inspirational Journey, the FTSE-100 crosscompany mentoring and Glass Ladder programmes.
The Group continues to maintain its involvement with external charitable networks and events such as Manchester Pride.
346 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:41 Page 347 RBS GROUP 2012 This approach to inclusion extends to the marketplace with the RBS Sustainability Women in Business specialists supporting and guiding more and more The long term success of the Group relies on being safe, strong and women to take the step of starting their own business.
This underpins everything that RBS does and enables the Group to play a central role within society that enables people to run their Performance is monitored and reviewed at Group and divisional level and daily lives and businesses.
This, in turn, supports economic growth and RBS remains supportive of the recommendations of Lord Davies Report.
brings wider benefits to society.
There are further opportunities for the There are currently three female directors on the Board out of a total of Group to build on this and explore ways in which we can create additional 12, which meets Lord Davies aspirational target of 25 per cent female value for all stakeholder groups.
For more information on the Group Board representation.
As at 31 December 2012, 19 per cent of Sustainability programme, see pages 33 to 35. executives in the Group and 55 per cent of employees were female.
Sustainability is therefore not just about the many responsibilities and Further details on the Board diversity policy can be found at obligations that the Group has in a legal sense, but is about broad issues www.
com that need to be addressed to ensure that the Group is a healthy and respected business operating on a sustainable basis.
This year the Group has been recognised for its work on Equality, Diversity and Inclusion by retaining our Gold standard ranking from Sustainability is central to the way the Group is managed.
The Group Opportunity Now gender, achieving Silver for Race for Opportunity Sustainability Committee is responsible for overseeing and challenging race, attaining the Top Employers award for employee engagement how management is addressing sustainability and reputation issues from workingmums.
co. uk as well as securing a position in the Working relating to all stakeholder groups and reports to the Board.
For more Families Top 10. information on the Committee, see page 307.
Safety, health and wellbeing Going concern Ensuring the safety, health and wellbeing of employees and customers is The Groups business activities and financial position, the factors likely to an important responsibility for the Group.
affect its future development and performance and its objectives and policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed and its The Group is committed to ensuring legal compliance and managing capital are discussed in the Business review.
The risk factors which could health and safety risks.
During 2012, increased focus on leadership, materially affect the Groups future results are set out on pages 503 to governance and the effectiveness of controls delivered improvements in 515.
The Groups regulatory capital resources and significant health and safety performance.
developments in 2012 and anticipated future developments are detailed on pages 128 to 136.
The liquidity and funding section on pages 137 to A wide range of health benefits and services are in place to help 156, describes the Groups funding and liquidity profile, including employees maintain good physical and psychological health, and support changes in key metrics, the build up of liquidity reserves and the outlook them if they do become unwell.
A number of these services have been for 2013. enhanced and promoted in response to the impact of the economic environment.
For example, in 2012 we launched an online toolkit which Having reviewed the Groups forecasts, projections and other relevant provides easy access to a range of resources, provided through our evidence, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Employee Assistance Programme, to help employees deal with stress, the company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable build resilience and manage personal finances.
Accordingly, the financial statements of the Group and of the company have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Pre-employment screening The Group has a comprehensive pre-employment screening process to BBA disclosure code guard against possible infiltration and employee-related fraud for all direct In September 2010, the British Bankers Association published its Code and non-direct staff engaged on Group business.
The code sets out five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance.
The principles are that the Code of conduct Group and other major UK banks will provide high quality, meaningful The code of conduct applies to everyone who works for RBS.
It promotes and decision-useful disclosures: review and enhance their financial honest and ethical conduct, including the handling of actual or apparent instrument disclosures for key areas of interest to market participants: conflicts of interest between personal and professional relationships.
The assess the applicability and relevance of good practice recommendations Group recognises that personal conduct, business integrity and the to their disclosures acknowledging the importance of such guidance: Groups security are crucial, and the code of conduct serves to inform seek to enhance the comparability of financial statement disclosures those who work for the Group of its expectations of their behaviour and across the UK banking sector: and clearly differentiate in their annual practices.
reports between information that is audited and information that is unaudited.
The Groups 2012 financial statements have been prepared in The code of conduct is available on the Groups website www.
com compliance with the codes principles.
and will also be provided to any person without charge, upon request, by contacting RBS Secretariat at the telephone number listed on page 539.
347 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:41 Page 348 Report of the directors continued Corporate governance voting rights of the company respectively, the remainder being The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
represented by the ordinary shares.
Details are given in the Corporate governance report on pages 294 to There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the 342.
The Corporate governance report and compliance report pages 343 company other than certain restrictions which may from time to time be and 344 form part of this Report of the directors.
imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
Share capital Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the FSA, certain employees of the Details of the ordinary and preference share capital at 31 December 2012 company require the approval of the company to deal in the companys and movements during the year are shown in Note 26 on the shares.
The rules governing the powers of directors, including in relation to Following approval at the Groups Annual General Meeting on 30 May issuing or buying back shares and their appointment are set out in the 2012, the sub-division and consolidation of the Groups ordinary shares companys Articles of Association.
It will be proposed at the 2013 Annual on a one-for-ten basis took effect on 6 June 2012.
The nominal value of General Meeting that the directors be granted authorities to allot shares the ordinary shares was amended to 1.
The sub-division and under the Companies Act 2006.
The companys Articles of Association consolidation of the Groups ordinary shares resulted in the creation of may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of 59,554,319,127 deferred shares of 15p each, which were cancelled on 6 shareholders.
A number of the companys share plans include restrictions on transfers In 2012, the company issued 326 million ordinary shares of 25p each of shares while shares are subject to the plans or the terms under which prior to the sub-division and consolidation and 62 million ordinary shares the shares were awarded.
of 1 each following the sub-division and consolidation, in connection The rights and obligations of holders of non-cumulative preference with employee share schemes.
shares are set out in Note 26 on the consolidated accounts.
On 10 September 2012, the Company announced the allotment and Except in relation to the Dividend Access Share, the company is not issue of 52,661,227 new ordinary shares of 1 each with an aggregate aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in nominal value of 52,661,227 for the purpose of ensuring 2012 coupon restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
There are no payments on discretionary hybrid capital securities were neutralised from persons holding securities carrying special rights with regard to control of a Core Tier 1 capital perspective.
The shares were allotted to UBS AG at the company.
a subscription price of 227.87 pence per share determined by reference to the average market price during the period in which the shares were Under the rules of certain employee share plans, eligible employees are sold in the market following the Companys interim results on 3 August entitled to acquire shares in the company, and shares are held in trust for 2012.
The gross proceeds of the issue were 120 million.
The share price participants by The Royal Bank and Ulster Bank Dublin Trust Company at close of business on 10 September 2012 was 253 pence per share.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to Additional information the Trustee no vote is registered.
Where not provided elsewhere in the Report of the directors, the following additional information is required to be disclosed by Part 6 of Schedule 7 The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 1992 Employee Share Trust, The Royal to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Bank of Scotland Group plc 2001 Employee Share Trust and The Royal Reports Regulations 2008.
Bank of Scotland Group plc 2007 US Employee Share Trust hold shares on behalf of the Groups employee share plans.
The voting rights are The rights and obligations attaching to the companys ordinary shares exercisable by the Trustees, however, in accordance with investor and preference shares are set out in the companys Articles of protection guidelines, the Trustees abstain from voting.
The Trustees Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in would take independent advice before accepting any offer in respect of the UK or can be found on the Groups website www.
com their shareholdings for the company in a takeover bid situation.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company every holder of Awards granted under the companys employee share plans may be met ordinary shares and cumulative preference shares present in person or through a combination of newly issued shares and shares acquired in the by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote.
On a poll, every holder market by the companys employee benefit trusts.
of ordinary shares or cumulative preference shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have four votes for every share held.
A change of control of the company following a takeover bid may cause a The notices of Annual General Meetings and General Meetings specify number of agreements to which the company is party to take effect, alter the deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or or terminate.
All of the companys employee share plans contain proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the meeting.
provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options may vest and become exercisable on change of control, subject The cumulative preference shares represent less than 0.015% and the where appropriate to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at non-cumulative preference shares represent less than 0.675% of the total that time and pro-rating of awards.
In the context of the company as a whole, these agreements are not considered to be significant.
348 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:41 Page 349 RBS GROUP 2012 Directors Political donations The names and brief biographical details of the current directors are At the Annual General Meeting in 2012, shareholders gave authority shown on pages 298 to 301. under Part 14 of the Companies Act, for a period of one year, for the company and its subsidiaries to make political donations and incur All of the current directors served throughout the year and to the date of political expenditure up to a maximum aggregate sum of 100,000.
This signing of the financial statements.
authorisation was taken as a precaution only, as the company has a longstanding policy of not making political donations or incurring political John McFarlane stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2012. expenditure within the ordinary meaning of those words.
During 2012, the All directors of the company are required to stand for re-election annually Group made no political donations, nor incurred any political expenditure by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
in the UK or EU and it is not proposed that the Groups longstanding policy of not making contributions to any political party be changed.
Directors interests Shareholders will be asked to renew this authorisation at the Annual The interests of the directors in the shares of the company at 31 General Meeting in 2013.
December 2012 are shown on page 339.
None of the directors held an interest in the loan capital of the company or in the shares or loan capital Policy and practice on payment of creditors of any of the subsidiary undertakings of the company, during the period The Group is committed to maintaining a sound commercial relationship from 1 January 2012 to 27 February 2013. with its suppliers.
Consequently, it is the Groups policy to negotiate and agree terms and conditions with its suppliers, which include the giving of Directors indemnities an undertaking to pay suppliers within 30 days of receipt of a correctly In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act 2006 the Companies prepared invoice submitted in accordance with the terms of the contract Act, Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provisions have been issued by or such other payment period as may be agreed.
the company to directors, members of the Groups Executive and Management Committees and FSA Approved Persons.
At 31 December 2012, the Groups trade creditors represented 25 days 2011 - 27 days of amounts invoiced by suppliers.
In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act, Qualifying Pension Scheme Indemnity Provisions have been issued to all trustees of the Directors disclosure to auditors Groups pension schemes.
Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: Post balance sheet events a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of There have been no significant events between the year end and the which the companys auditors are unaware: and date of approval of these accounts which would require a change to or disclosure in the accounts.
b the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information Shareholdings and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that The table below shows shareholders that have notified the Group that information.
they hold more than 3% of the total voting rights of the company at 31 This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with December 2012. the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act.
Solicitor For The Affairs of Her % of total Majestys Treasury as Nominee Number of shares % of share class voting rights Auditors for Her Majestys Treasury millions held held The auditors, Deloitte LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in Ordinary shares 3,964 65.3 64.9 office.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the companys auditors B shares non-voting 51,000 100.0 will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
On 1 February 2013, the Group was notified that Her Majestys By order of the Board Treasurys shareholding of ordinary shares represented 65.28% of the total voting rights.
The increase was as a result of a change in the total voting rights.
Aileen Taylor Charitable contributions Secretary In 2012, the Groups overall community contribution was 57.3 million 27 February 2013 2011 - 72.0 million.
The total amount given for charitable purposes by the company and its subsidiary undertakings during the year ended 31 The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc December 2012 was 25.8 million 2011 - 39.1 million.
is registered in Scotland No.
SC45551 To ensure it makes its community investments as effective as possible, the Groups policy is to focus its resources on a small number of substantial strategic programmes.
These are issues most relevant to a financial institution and relate broadly to financial education, supporting enterprise and microfinance and the charitable endeavours of employees.
