ARSFS12 DIVISIONAL REVIEW AW Layout 1 24 03 2013 22:02 Page 4 DIVISIONAL REVIEW we sold our Latin American, Caribbean and The ruble and renminbi were added as African businesses to Royal Bank of Canada, approved currencies and lending values were an important step in concentrating on also agreed for renminbi cash and bonds.
In the UK, we launched the Coutts multi-asset Together with RBS Group Risk, we introduced funds comprising a range of seven UK and the Coutts Conduct programme in order to global RDR-compliant funds.
These aim to deliver new standards and frameworks by the deliver attractive long-term returns by investing end of 2013.
The intent of the programme is to in a broad range of asset classes including safeguard clients and the business from cash, bonds, equities, commodities and breaches of regulatory rules or law.
property that allow each clients individual investment objectives to be matched to an Building a better bank that serves appropriate investment strategy based on four customers well separate asset allocation models.
We launched Coutts Mobile in October.
It means we can offer clients greater choice We introduced a new client feedback and flexibility in the way they manage their programme in the UK in 2012 in order to banking needs, providing them with the same improve the volume and quality of client access and convenience of Coutts Online feedback and enable us to react swiftly to any on their smartphone or tablet.
We expect to roll out similar programmes with Adam & Company and the Wealth The UK rollout of the Coutts global technology International business in 2013. platform was completed in early 2012, enabling Rory Tapner us to operate as an international organisation Changing our culture Chief Executive, on unified and common information technology, During the year we began the journey towards Wealth transforming our ability to serve clients globally.
It reflects our values as we strive for excellence in Watch or listen to Rory Tapner We introduced a new Sales Management everything we do.
Whether our people serve www.
com AnnualReview Framework for the International business clients at the front line, or work in a functional focusing on recruitment and induction, or support role, we must take pride in how we coaching, training and development, target go about our tasks and work to the highest Operating profit increased by 5 million, setting, performance management possible standards.
or two per cent, to 253 million, driven and monitoring.
by higher income partially offset by If we get this right for ourselves, we will get it increased expenses and impairment Throughout 2012, our UK business prepared right for our clients and we will earn their trust losses.
Total income increased by to implement the Retail Distribution Review RDR and loyalty for years to come.
Each of us has 66 million and expenses by 40 million.
This resulted in the introduction of a hand to play in building our Crown Standard the new advice model on 26 November, ahead and, as we continue with our transformation, Impairments were 21 million higher.
of the required implementation date.
there is every opportunity for us to define what Return on equity increased to 13.7 per this should look and feel like.
The loan to deposit ratio was stable We significantly enhanced our Lombard at 44 per cent.
lending programme in 2012, which will be We held our first Diversity & Inclusion Week central to our success and a source of in November.
Led by our Diversity & Inclusion important focus in 2013 and beyond.
We set Council, it recognises that at the heart of our Making RBS safer higher lending values for Chinese H-shares business are our people who represent a Our strategic priorities mean that we will and Red Chips, and further increased lending variety of different cultures and beliefs.
continue to contribute to making RBS safer.
China, India and We celebrate these differences and want to One of these is our sharpened focus on Russia were approved as special emerging embed Diversity and Inclusion in the DNA scalable markets following the introduction of markets, with a corresponding removal of the of our people and our business.
During the year 50% emerging market cap for each country.
Performance highlights 2012 2011 Operating profit before impairment losses m 299 273 Impairment losses m 46 25 Operating profit m 253 248 Return on equity % 13.7 13.1 Assets under management, excluding deposits bn 28.9 30.9 24
