ARSFS12 DIVISIONAL REVIEW AW Layout 1 24 03 2013 22:02 Page 2 DIVISIONAL REVIEW We know we will be safer if we do business regular user base from 1.4 million to 2 properly.
That is why we improved how we million.
It used to take three weeks to open manage conduct risk by putting the customer an account with us, now it takes 24 hours.
at the heart of all we do, focusing on customer Our mobile branches average 7,000 miles outcomes through the advice we give, the each week to serve our customers in 347 products we sell and the services we provide.
We built on the significant progress we have made on credit risk over the last few years.
In response to the Retail Distribution Review We live within the risk limits we have set and were building a simpler, nimbler, more we are confident that we would remain customer focused advice business.
We made changes to our branches to make life We have improved our liquidity risk by reducing easier for customers and help us reduce costs.
We now hold 100 of deposits We refurbished nine branches and refreshed for every 103 we lend.
Large portions of our 59 more.
By introducing Banking Hall mortgage portfolio are now available for use Coordinators and more Cash and Deposit in the event of a stress situation.
Machines, we moved transactions away from branch counters, giving our people more time Despite our progress, in June, we let our to talk to customers.
customers down when our IT systems failed.
Weve investigated and Changing our culture UK Retail understand where we need to improve.
Our people are vital in ensuring we become the Helpful and Sustainable Bank we want to be.
Ross McEwan In the latter part of 2012, we welcomed Were changing our culture to get the whole CEO Ross McEwan, our new Chief Executive.
organisation focused on the needs of our UK Retail Coming from Commonwealth Bank with an customers.
That starts when we recruit new abundance of energy and experience, Ross people who have a great approach to helping Watch or listen to Ross McEwan has listened to our customers and people and customers.
From day one, our Big Welcome www.
com AnnualReview has set a clear direction for 2013 with a focus induction makes clear our commitment to on making it simple and easy for our customers customers and how best to meet their needs.
Operating profit of 1,891 million was six to do business with us.
A ten per A new incentive approach has been introduced cent decline in income was only partly Building a better bank that serves for our frontline people which is all about customers well meeting customer needs and encouraging offset by lower costs, down six per cent, We want to put customers first and we made sustainable and profitable growth.
and a 33 per cent fall in impairment changes that help us do that.
Return on equity was broadly Our knowledgeable staff will put our Every day, our people put our customers first, stable at 24.4 per cent.
Deposit growth of customers needs first.
The Chartered and often go to heroic efforts to do so.
And we six per cent contributed to a further Banker Institute accredits our training to recognise them.
Across our business our reduction in the loan to deposit ratio, help ensure our staff have the knowledge people nominate their colleagues for Helpful which improved to 103 per cent.
Banking Hero awards and winners are selected Help when they need it most.
Emergency by a panel of frontline employees.
They are our Cash allows customers to get cash if their role models.
More than 80,000 people used the service in 2012.
Our Helpful Leadership Academy gives Quick and convenient service.
We cut leaders the skills, understanding and average branch queuing time from almost confidence to lead all of us towards becoming Making RBS safer five minutes to less than three and a the UK's most Helpful Bank.
We reward leaders Our starting point in making UK Retail safer half minutes.
We open 1,263 branches for their contributions to service and risk was understanding and agreeing how much on Saturdays and 254 open until 6pm on management but also by how they provide risk we are prepared to take.
We upgraded and improved our leadership for their teams and how well they that and abide by the disciplines that imposes.
market-leading mobile app, growing our manage customers complaints.
Performance highlights 2012 2011 Operating profit before impairment losses m 2,420 2,809 Impairment losses m 529 788 Operating profit m 1,891 2,021 Return on equity % 24.4 24.5 22
