ARSFS12 DIVISIONAL REVIEW AW Layout 1 24 03 2013 22:02 Page 5 RBS GROUP 2012 Making RBS safer These successes came in our first year as we International Banking is making RBS safer by: built the new division.
Customer service was reducing third party assets from 69.9 billion our priority but we still managed to complete a in 2011 to 53.0 billion: complex restructuring and to reduce our costs boosting customer deposits by 1.1 billion by 215 million while maintaining our global as a result of an improved customer offering, reach.
We have restructured our business including our Global Liquidity Solutions Portal.
which puts us in a strong position to serve As a result of this reduction in third-party customers well in the future.
assets and increase in our deposits, our loan to deposit ratio has moved from 103% to 85%.
Changing our culture International Banking is committed to treating Our core message to our people is that our customers fairly, continually enhancing the customers must be at the heart of what we risk and control framework and conducting do and how we do it.
We have put in place a business in an ethical manner.
This is how we conduct risk framework with integrity of our will continue to improve our culture and how staff at its centre.
It emphasises the behaviour we interact with customers.
we expect from everyone in International Banking and its messages are reinforced In addition, we aim to run International Banking regularly by our senior leaders.
The M&IB transformational leadership Building a better bank that serves programme is designed to develop more International customers well agile, commercially-aware and peopleOthers recognised our success in focused leaders.
We have made our graduate recruitment In the Euromoney Cash Management Survey process more robust and graduates now John Owen clients voted us number one cash receive more training, with greater emphasis Chief Executive, management manager in the UK and on what our regulators expect.
International Banking number two in Europe.
In addition RBS was We believe that we will serve customers number two in Europe and North America better if our people look more like our clients.
Watch or listen to John Owen for handling sterling transactions.
That is why we increased the proportion of www.
com AnnualReview RBS was the Greenwich Quality Leader in women in our graduate programme.
Large Corporate Trade Finance in the UK.
It also ranked us number one for Large We have embedded the principles of correct Operating profit of 594 million was Corporate Trade Finance Penetration in behaviour within staff job descriptions.
161 million 21 per cent lower than the UK.
They will be recognised for demonstrating in 2011 as a 17 per cent decline in Trade & Forfaiting Review named us Best compliance and integrity behind their income was only partially offset by Trade Bank, Western Europe.
achievements, as well as for the achievements lower expenses, down 13 per cent, and Global Finance rated us Best Supply Chain themselves in their half-yearly and year-end impairment losses, down 34 per cent.
Finance Provider, Western Europe, and we performance reviews.
These measures are won its Best Customer Implementation of supported by a suite of intranet-based Return on equity was lower than in 2011 Supply Chain Financing award for work learning tools.
The loan to deposit ratio carried out for brewer Carlsberg.
Performance highlights 2012 2011 Operating profit before impairment losses m 705 923 Impairment losses m 111 168 Operating profit m 594 755 Return on equity % 9.2 11.5 25
