EMERGING MARKETS Emerging Markets operates across 20 countries in Latin America, Asia, the Middle East and Central and Eastern Europe STRATEGY 2012 OVERVIEW We remain committed to delivering organic In 2011, we set our target for Emerging growth, an improved underwriting result Markets premium to double to around and an increase in return on capital.
2.2bn by the end of 2015 and we remain on track to achieve this.
We have strong strategic positions top five in a number of markets and look to achieve Net written premiums were up by 17% scale in others through bolt on acquisitions.
to 1,237m at constant exchange 12% We also aim to achieve organic growth and as reported andincluding our associates improved underwriting results through the in India and Thailand total premiums development of differentiated business were 1,540m.
models or scale in niche market segments.
Throughout the year we have continued Emerging Markets has delivered We are committed to a significant reduction to maintain underwriting discipline despite in the expense ratio driven by strong intense competition.
Where necessary we excellent top line growth and our growth in written premiums and restricted have taken strong pricing action to achieve underwriting result continues growth in expenses.
We will also pursue our target returns and we have maintained to improve as we achieve scale.
tactical expense reduction programmes a tight grip on expenses.
Our underwriting We remain confident of achieving particularly in high expense ratio businesses.
result of 33m 2011: 3m reflects a strong our net written premium target performance in all three regions and an Our strategy continues to focus on Affinity, improvement in our expense ratio of 1.2%.
of 2.2bn by 2015 Specialty, Motor, Marine and Small and The COR of 96.9% 2011: 98.7% reflects Medium Enterprises SME.
In each of these the improved underwriting result.
Paul Whittaker, areas we develop solutions which can be Chief Executive, Emerging Markets replicated across our regions effectively Latin America and efficiently.
Premiums were up by 20% to 766m at constant exchange 14% as reported, In 2012 we have taken further actions with double digit growth in four countries.
Argentina grew particularly strongly with premiums up by 79% aided by the Our growth ambitions in Asia and our focus acquisition of El Comercio and ACG in July on reducing management overheads have 2012 as well as underlying growth of 36%.
led us to reorganise our Asia Middle East region.
As from January 2013 Asia will Central and Eastern Europe be a separate region and will include our Premiums were up by 9% to 224m associates in India and Thailand while the at constant exchange 2% as reported.
Middle East will be integrated into our Growth continued in the Baltics during 2012 Central and Eastern Europe region.
and our Direct businesses in Poland and Russia once again delivered strong top line In July 2012 we completed the acquisition growth of 13% at constant exchange 5% of El Comercio and ACG in Argentina, as reported.
making RSA the sixth largest P&C insurer in the country.
We have signed 31 new Asia and the Middle East affinity deals in 2012 and we continue Premiums were up 14% to 247m at to invest in talent in our focus areas.
constant exchange 15% as reported driven by strong performance in Oman We are redeploying capital with the sale of and Specialty with growth of 23% and our subsidiary in the Dutch Caribbean and 15% respectively, at constant exchange.
our withdrawal from the Czech market.
Our Indian associate premiums were up 10% at constant exchange to 153m down 3% as reported and our Thailand associate grew 13% to 150m at constant exchange 12% as reported driven by Motor.
24 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW MARKET CONDITIONS TECHNICAL EXCELLENCE In 2012, market conditions remained We have continued our focus on Existing Reporting Structure NWP % positive in most of the countries in which increasing sophistication in our we operate, although the global economic underwriting and pricing processes.
downturn had greater impact as the We have improved our underwriting year progressed.
In Latin America, tools for Personal and Commercial lines unemployment rates continue to improve and also increased the number and LA 50 on historic lows and consumer demand capability of our pricing resources.
CEE 14 continued to increase in each of our markets AME 16 although we saw a slow down in Brazil in On claims, we have benefited from Associates 20 the second half of the year.
Across Asia and procurement initiatives, claims file reviews the Middle East economies enjoyed healthy and salvage processes.
GDP grew across the Baltics and technical training continued with senior unemployment levels stabilised.
underwriters participating in advanced New Reporting Structure NWP % technical training programmes and CUSTOMER underwriting networks with their In 2012 we ran customer engagement counterparts from across the RSA Group.
We are using the results of these surveys to OUTLOOK continue to enhance our differentiated Emerging Markets offers huge growth LA 50 service propositions based on being Easy potential for the Group.
We are confident CEEME 23 to Deal With.
We are already seeing that we will achieve increased scale in the Asia 27 improvements in many of our businesses markets we operate in through in-market in customer retention and satisfaction.
acquisitions, affinity distribution deals and improved customer experience.
PEOPLE HIGHLIGHTS Talented and engaged people are the We will also grow profitably as we r NWP growth of 17% at constant key to our success.
We were recognised in see the benefits of operating leverage exchange 12% as reported in 2012 Gallups database of companies as achieving and the results of our expense reduction world class engagement in 2012.
We also programmes flow through to the r On track for 2.2bn NWP by the received a number of external awards operating result.
end of 2015 including Great Place to Work awards r Won 31 new Affinity deals in 2012. in Latin America Chile 14th, Colombia We will continue to invest in our chosen 5th, Brazil 44th and LATAM 14th, markets and remain committed to achieving Latin America our Lithuanian business received 7th place our net written premium target of around in Best Employer Award 2012 in Central 2.2bn by the end of 2015. r Latin America NWP growth of 20% and Eastern Europe and Mexico achieved at constant exchange a Top Companies award 14th place.
r Argentina, Brazil, Mexico and Uruguay Emerging Markets Growth all delivered double digit growth at We continue to invest in people and to NWP m constant exchange.
1,540 provide exciting opportunities for people to work and gain experience across a 150 1,395 Asia and the Middle East diverse region.
17% 134 153 1,194 r Asia Middle East grew by 14% 158 We remain committed to international at constant exchange 114 1,237 1,007 mobility to give our developing talent the 888 116 1,103 r Oman grew 23% at constant 88 opportunity to gain experience in other 77 exchange and is the number one 86 964 markets and support the accelerated 719 73 P&C insurer in the market 615 57 833 deployment of capability from developed 738 48 47 markets.
This can take the form of shortr Delivered strong NWP growth 36 term secondments as well as longer-term 615 in our Singapore Specialty hub 531 transfers.
We currently have 18 staff r India and Thailand grew at 10% and 13% assignments outside of their home respectively at constant exchange with country across Emerging Markets.
continued growth in the Motor market.
This focus on talent development helps Central and Eastern Europe provide a strong pipeline of leadership talent RSA India Thailand and Im pleased to say that 14 of our 20 r Central and Eastern Europe grew by 9% business CEOs have been promoted from at constant exchange as a result of double previous roles within the Group.
digit growth in Estonia, Poland and Russia r We have maintained our market leading position in the Baltics.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 25 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 RISK REVIEW Our business success is underpinned by our strong risk management RISK MANAGEMENT GROUP RISK APPETITE r Oversight and challenge across We manage risk to minimise losses and The Group risk appetite is set and monitored the Group.
take opportunities to invest appropriately at a Group, regional and business level, is in profitable growth.
reviewed annually, approved by the Board 3rd line Independent assurance Risk Committee and signed off at the Group r Providing independent and objective We operate under a common framework Board.
It sets business volumes for certain assurance of the effectiveness of the through which risk management and control higher risk insurance classes, stipulates loss Groups systems of internal control is embedded throughout the Group.
retention limits, reinsurance protection, established by the first and second targets for credit rating and solvency margins.
The Board is responsible for the Groups Risk Management System and for defining RISK FRAMEWORK GROUP RISK POLICY STATEMENTS the Groups risk appetite.
The Group operates a three lines of Our policy statements set out the minimum defence model for the oversight and standards to be maintained by the Groups Executive management is responsible for management of risk as follows: operations to manage their risks in a way implementing systems and controls that that is consistent with the risk appetite.
manage our risk exposures in line with 1st line Management our risk appetite.
Each Group business r Delivering the business plan within RISK CATEGORIES is required to follow a consistent process risk appetite Risks are viewed under categories that broadly to identify, measure, manage, monitor correspond to those used in the Financial and report its risks.
r Accountable for implementing and Services Authoritys Prudential Sourcebook for using the Risk Management System Insurers INSPRU and Senior Management The Board Risk Committee ensures r Embedding an appropriate risk culture.
Arrangements, Systems and Controls SYSC.
that material risks are identified and that Additional information is provided in the Risk appropriate arrangements are in place to 2nd line Risk oversight Management section on page 92.
Some of the manage and mitigate those risks effectively key current practices and tools for each risk in line with risk appetite.
r Development and maintenance of a category are set out overleaf alongside Risk Management System within which our risks and uncertainties.
the Group policies and minimum standards are set Governance structure the principal committees are shown below BOARD GROUP BOARD RISK GROUP AUDIT INVESTMENT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE CONTROL & GROUP GROUP ASSET GOVERNANCE REGIONAL AUDIT EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEES COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE GROUP RISK, GROUP GROUP REGIONAL INVESTMENTS RESERVING TRANSACTION RISK COMMITTEES & TREASURY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE GROUP GROUP ICA & CAPITAL CAPITAL SOLVENCY II REINSURANCE DISCLOSURE ALLOCATION MANAGEMENT STEERING CREDIT COMMITTEE STEERING GROUP COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE 26 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW PRINCIPLES Simple objectives r Create value for all stakeholders r Focus on general insurance in our selected markets r Commitment to sustainable, profitable performance Clear risk appetite r Underwriting and operating excellence r Strong control environment r Tight financial management r Protecting and managing the Groups reputation Robust governance, control and reporting r Comprehensive policies, procedures and controls r Clear delegation of authorities r Robust lines of defence r Regular and relevant reporting and assurance processes Strong culture r Board set tone from the top of open communication and engagement r Putting the customer at the centre of what we do r High quality and engaged staff 2012 UPDATE During the year we have maintained our Systems & Process People focus on risk management, strengthening r Continued development of the r We shared the strength of our risk and developing our processes, controls and validation process across the Group, experts around the business to develop capabilities across the Group through the to provide assurance of the results, excellence across the Group following activities: design and workings of the Internal r We continue to invest in our people, Model and the adequate reflection Organisation and Culture in particular continuing to strengthen of the Groups risk profile our capabilities for insurance and financial r Establishment of sub Risk Committees, r Extended Stress and Scenario Testing risk management through training, strengthening our 1st Line ownership of programme across all EEA legal entities, recruitment and transfer of skilled staff.
risk management principles and practices enabling the Group to identify potential and further supporting our Regional Risk risks and their impact, calibrate risk Committees and Board Risk Committee appetite, help to validate the r Risk management in the Group Internal Model strengthened by the appointment r Delivery of an Emerging Risk profile of a Group Chief Risk Officer to to the Board Risk Committee that the Executive Committee included key themes such as: r Continued to promote risk informed Eurozone Crisis decision making, with more explicit Slow down of global growth engines consideration of risk and reward Changing attitudes of regulators to harmonisation of financial r A continued evolution of our Risk services regulation.
Management System to ensure compliance with Solvency II regulatory environment.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 27
