BOARD OF DIRECTORS MARTIN SCICLUNA I, N, B SIMON LEE B, I EDWARD LEA A, N, R Chairman age 62 Group Chief Executive age 52 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director age 71 Skills and experience Skills and experience Martin was appointed as Chairman and Simon Lee was appointed as Group Chief Skills and experience Director in January 2013.
Previous roles Executive in November 2011 having been Edward Lea was appointed as a Non-Executive include 34 years at Deloitte LLP including 26 Chief Executive of the Groups International Director in July 2003 and was appointed years as Partner, Chairman of Deloitte LLP region since April 2003 and an Executive Senior Independent Director in January 2011. from 1995 to 2007 and a Director, Deloitte Director since January 2007.
Previous roles Previous roles include Finance Director of BUPA, Touche Tohmatsu from 1999 to 2007. include 17 years with the National Westminster ASDA and MFI and Chairman of Redbourn Group, in the UK and US, including time as Group Limited.
External appointments Chief Executive, Natwest Offshore and Chairman of Great Portland Estates plc and External appointments Head of US Retail Banking.
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Director of Powertraveller Limited.
Audit Committee, Lloyds Banking Group plc.
External appointments Member of the Board of the Association of British Insurers.
RICHARD HOUGHTON B, I ADRIAN BROWN ALASTAIR BARBOUR A, 1 Group Chief Financial Officer age 47 Chief Executive, Independent Non-Executive Director age 60 UK and Western Europe age 48 Skills and experience Skills and experience Richard was appointed Group Chief Financial Skills and experience Alastair Barbour was appointed as a NonOfficer in June 2012.
Previous roles include Adrian Brown was appointed as an Executive Executive Director in October 2011.
Alastair Group CFO of Aspen Insurance Holdings Director in July 2011 having been Chief retired from KPMG in March 2011.
In the last Limited, COO and CFO at RBS Insurance, Executive of the UK since September 2008.
20 years of his 36 year career with the firm, Finance Director of Ulster Bank, Finance Adrian is a qualified management accountant in the UK and overseas, he led their financial Director of Direct Line and Accountant and has been with the RSA Group since 1989. services team in Scotland with a primary focus at Deloitte & Touche.
He is a Fellow of the He was previously the UK Chief Operating on insurance and investment management.
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England Officer with responsibility for Claims, Sales External appointments and Wales.
and Service, IT and Change across Personal Non-Executive Director of Standard Life and Commercial lines, and prior to that he European Private Equity Trust plc, CATCo External appointments was UK Director of Personal lines, leading Reinsurance Opportunities Fund Limited, CATCo None currently held.
the launch of MORE TH N. Reinsurance Fund Limited, Liontrust Asset External appointments Management plc, Scottish Equitable Policyholders Committee Member Key as at 19 February 2013 Adrian is a Director of Employers Liability Trust Limited, The Bank of N. T. Butterfield & Son A Group Audit Committee Tracing Office and DKH Legacy Trust.
Limited and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered B Board Risk Committee Accountants in England and Wales.
I Group Investment Committee N Group Nomination Committee R Group Remuneration Committee Denotes Chair of Committee 36 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE NOEL HARWERTH A, B JOHN MAXWELL N HUGH MITCHELL R Independent Non-Executive Director age 65 Independent Non-Executive Director age 68 Independent Non-Executive Director age 56 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Noel Harwerth was appointed as a John Maxwell was appointed as a Hugh Mitchell was appointed as a NonNon-Executive Director in March 2004.
Previous Executive Director in September 2012.
Previous roles include Chief Operating roles include Executive Director of Prudential Hugh is the Chief Human Resources and Officer of Citibank International plc, Director Group plc, Chairman of DXServices plc, Corporate Officer of Royal Dutch Shell plc and of Logica plc and Impellam Group plc.
Director of Provident Financial plc and a member of the Shell Executive Committee.
Homeserve plc and Director General External appointments External appointments of The Automobile Association Limited.
Director of Harry Winston Diamond Director of Shell International Limited and Corporation, GE Capital Bank Limited, LME External appointments Shell Aircraft Limited.
Advisory roles held at Holdings Limited and Chairman of Sumitomo Director of London Finance and Investment The Centre for Advanced Human Resources Mitsui Banking Corporation Europe Limited.
Group plc and a member of the Institute of at Cornell University Advisory Board, IMD Non-Executive Director of Standard Life plc, Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Business School Advisory Board, Fellow of the Avocet Mining plc and Alent plc.
National Academy of Human Resources USA, Honorary Vice-President of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development and Advisory Board Member of the National College for School Leadership.
MALCOLM LE MAY B, I, R JOSEPH STREPPEL R JOHANNA WATEROUS CBE A, N Independent Non-Executive Director age 55 Independent Non-Executive Director age 55 Independent Non-Executive Director age 63 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Malcolm Le May was appointed as a Johanna Waterous was appointed as a Jos Streppel was appointed as a Non-Executive Non-Executive Director in March 2004.
Director in October 2011 and has a Previous roles include CEO Investment Banking Previous roles include Chairman of Tate comprehensive understanding of the insurance Europe at UBS, Deputy CEO of ING-Barings Enterprises and over 20 years with McKinsey market globally and good knowledge of and Morley Fund Management and President & Company, with roles including Co-leader of international and emerging markets.
He was Europe at JER Partners.
the Global Marketing and Sales Practice and Chief Financial Officer of Aegon until 2009 Leader of their UK Consumer Practice and the and has extensive financial services expertise.
External appointments European Retail Practice.
Johanna was awarded Non-Executive Director of Pendragon plc External appointments a CBE in the 2013 New Year Honours List.
and Consultant to Ernst & Young LLP.
Chairman of KPN, Vice Chairman of Van External appointments Lanschot, a Dutch private banking and asset Non-Executive Director of WM Morrison management firm, Chairman of the Monitoring Supermarkets plc, Senior Independent Director Committee of the Dutch Corporate Governance of Rexam plc, Director of Shoppers Drug Mart Code, Arq Foundation and Chairman of Corporation, Director of RBG Kew Enterprises Duisenberg School of Finance.
Limited, Operating Partner of Duke Street LLP and Chairman of Sandpiper CI.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 37
