RSA AT A GLANCE We are a leading general insurer operating in 32 countries and providing products and services in over 140 countries through our global network of local partners THE INVESTMENT CASE HERITAGE We provide insurance solutions to individuals and businesses 1710 across the globe.
The Sun Fire Office is established.
We operate in a combination of stable economies with excellent 1765 profitability, high growth economies with opportunities to build scale We insure the home of Captain James Cook, prior to the first and economies recovering from the effects of the global recession of his legendary voyages.
where we can improve performance.
1844 We have an enviable track record of delivering steady growth We cover Down House where Charles Darwin wrote in premiums and a consistently strong underwriting result with On the Origin of Species.
combined operating ratios of around 95% over the last seven years.
1959 We manage the business conservatively ensuring prudent reserving Sun Insurance Office merges with Alliance Assurance Company and a low risk approach to our investment portfolio to minimise to form Sun Alliance Insurance Limited.
volatility in earnings and maximise shareholder returns.
1996 We aim to achieve market-leading profitability in mature markets.
Sun Alliance Group merges with Royal Insurance Holdings, to become Royal & SunAlliance Insurance Group plc.
We will invest in attractive growth markets where the creation of operating leverage will drive significantly improved profitability.
2001 MORE TH N launches in the UK.
We will continue to build our global Specialty capabilities where we have strong positions in Marine, Renewable Energy, Construction 2006 & Engineering and Risk Managed business.
We became the first carbon-neutral UK Insurer.
We will be disciplined over capital allocation, embedding new measures 2008 into the Group to support robust portfolio management decisions.
Royal & SunAlliance becomes RSA Insurance Group plc.
We have an experienced and capable management team who 2009 are committed to and incentivised by the delivery of increasing We take part in the reconstruction of the Italian city shareholder value.
of LAquila following its earthquake.
2010 Major earthquake strikes Chile where we are the largest insurer.
2010 The RSA Group is 300 years old.
2011 Record year for natural catastrophes.
RSAs exposures minimised through prudent use of reinsurance.
2012 Acquisitions of LUnion Canadienne in Quebec, and El Comercio and AC in Argentina.
2 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 INTRODUCTION CANADA 19% EMERGING MARKETS of 2012 Group NWP Customers in over 15% 36% 140 UK countries receive our products and services 22% SCANDINAVIA 8% WESTERN EUROPE CANADA WESTERN EUROPE 68% PERSONAL 32% COMMERCIAL % OF NWP 54% PERSONAL 46% COMMERCIAL r We distribute products through intermediaries under r In Ireland, we operate as RSA through intermediaries the RSA brand.
Our Direct offering is Johnson and as 123. ie in the Direct market r Through our affiliated broker network, Noraxis, we operate r Our Italian operation is purely intermediated, operating as one of the largest brokers in Canada as RSA through brokers and non-tied agents r In October 2012, we completed the acquisition r We have RSA branded Specialty operations in Belgium, of LUnion Canadienne, the third largest intermediated France, Germany, the Netherlands, Spain and Italy.
Motor and Property insurer in Quebec.
SCANDINAVIA EMERGING MARKETS 54% PERSONAL 46% COMMERCIAL 43% PERSONAL 57% COMMERCIAL r We operate as Codan in Denmark and Norway r Our main focus is on Motor, Affinity, Large and Complex risks, and as Trygg-Hansa in Sweden Small and Medium Enterprises SME, and Marine r We have a multi-channel distribution model, selling r In Latin America, we operate as RSA in Argentina, Brazil, our products through call centres, intermediaries Chile, Columbia, Mexico, and Uruguay and affinity partners.
r In Central and Eastern Europe, we operate as Lietuvos Draudimas in Lithuania, as Balta in Latvia, as RSA in Estonia, Link4 in Poland, and as InTouch in Russia UK r In Asia and the Middle East we operate as RSA in China, 44% PERSONAL 56% COMMERCIAL Hong Kong, Singapore, UAE and Bahrain and we operate as Al Alamiya in Saudi Arabia and as Al Ahlia in Oman.
r In the UK, we are a leading Commercial insurer and a top 5 Personal lines insurer r In the Commercial market we operate as RSA through intermediaries and in Personal we operate through intermediaries, affinity partners as well as MORE TH N and eChoice in the direct market.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 3 WHAT WE DO We protect people and businesses against the risks they face in their daily lives.
Our global network provides Property, Casualty, Motor and Household insurance in over 140 countries worldwide RECRUIT AND RETAIN PRICE RISK AND MANAGE RISK TO ALIGN CUSTOMERS SET PREMIUMS WITH OUR RISK APPETITE Our business starts with our customers.
We are experts in the pricing of risk.
Our business is about understanding risk.
Across the world we employ a wide range Across the world our underwriters Inherent within this understanding is of distribution strategies tailored to meet develop a deep understanding of the knowledge of those risks which are the needs of local markets.
Many of our the risks that our customers want outside our appetite.
When this is the markets are dominated by insurance to insure with us.
case for insurance risk we seek to manage brokers with whom we have built long risk through our selective use of term relationships based on trust and These risks range from a pet insurance reinsurance.
We have also developed policy in the UK all the way to a wind of premiums to reinsurers ensuring that direct distribution businesses where farm in South America.
With this our shareholders are not overly exposed customers purchase policies over the understanding, we seek to offer an to any single area of insurance risk.
Over phone, or increasingly online.
We trade attractive price to the customer, the years this prudent approach has had through distribution partnerships with competitive in the market but which material benefits for shareholders and retailers, employers and other affinity ensures that we can deliver returns has meant that, despite natural disasters groups across the world.
and extreme weather in the locations in which we operate, we have been able to Many of our customers have been with We reserve prudently, ensuring that maintain a consistent underwriting margin.
Whilst most of our we retain reserves which will comfortably products are short term by their nature, cover the likely costs of claims from a We take a similarly conservative approach we want our relationship with our policy.
This means we are able to release to other risks within our business.
We customers to develop over many years.
reserves from time to time.
This has have completed various Group-wide We aim to delight our customers with our delivered a consistent track record of assessments and rolled out activities to service to them and ensure that they have positive prior year development into our strengthen our operations and manage every reason to renew their policy each profits.
We expect this to be a consistent operational risk.
On credit, market and year.
Our track record is excellent with feature of our profits in years to come.
liquidity risk, we continue to proactively customer retention a little under 80% manage our business to include factors every year for the last five years.
such as the challenging economic climate.
Current year prior year results m On regulatory risk, our active engagement with regulators and our close monitoring 286 291 We have consistently retained close to 191 of regulatory requirements has helped 229 safeguard our business.
80% 267 of our business over the last five years 2012 Reinsurance Premiums 184 146 100 93 GWP 9.4bn Net Written Premiums -29 Reinsurance Premiums 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Prior Y ear Current Y ear 4 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 INTRODUCTION PAY CLAIMS INVEST PRUDENTLY DELIVER SHAREHOLDER VALUE Our customers rely on us to be there The delay between receiving premiums Our aim is to maintain a strong balance for them when they need to make a claim.
and paying claims means that we have sheet, retaining sufficient capital to Across all of our businesses we take a stock of assets which we can invest.
protect stakeholders from all but the customer service, especially in paying We take a very prudent approach to most extreme shocks.
our investment management, seeking to deliver a predictable level of investment We aim to reward shareholders by Our response to the two earthquakes income with minimal volatility.
We do delivering returns on equity consistently in the Emilia-Romagna region of Italy not seek to invest in high risk or illiquid above our cost of equity and through in May was focused on our customers assets which could restrict our ability the payment of a sustainable dividend.
Within 24 hours, we to pay claims.
had appointed loss adjusters to some of the largest and most important property Our 14.3bn asset portfolio including Underlying return on average equity % claims, and set up a dedicated claims cash is invested in a broad range of 16.4 handling team.
On the largest claim we predominantly sovereign debt and high 13.4 faced, we made an interim payment of quality corporate bonds.
We keep a 11.6 10.1 9.9 1m within 45 days so that our customer portion of our portfolio in cash and could recommence production.
We were have minimal exposure to equities the first insurer to pay a claim of this and property.
In 2012 this portfolio magnitude in the area.
The UK suffered serious flooding in June and July.
During these floods we mobilised Investment portfolio % our Emergency Response Vehicle ensuring that local communities had access to Dividend for the year p claims handlers on the ground and that Bonds 82 9.16 8.82 we could personally visit over 90% of 8.25 Cash 9 7.71 7.31 flooded properties within a few days of 14.3bn Equities 4 the flood.
This helped our customers Property 2 return to a normal life as quickly as Other inc. 3 possible and also helped manage our Prefs and CIVs claims spend.
