Board of Directors The Board is responsible for the oversight of the management of the business and for ensuring high standards of corporate governance.
The Boards principal aim is to enhance Schroders long-term value for the benefit of shareholders.
Andrew Beeson Michael Dobson Luc Bertrand Chairman 68 Chief Executive 60 Senior Independent Director 62 Appointed Chairman in May 2012, having been a Chief Executive since November 2001, having joined Appointed Senior Independent Director in May 2012, non-executive Director since October 2004 and the the Board as a non-executive Director in April 2001. having been a non-executive Director since Senior Independent Director from May 2010 to May March 2006.
Experience: He was previously Chief Executive of Morgan Grenfell Group and a Member of the Board Experience: He started his career with Bankers Experience: He was the Founder and Chief Executive ofManaging Directors of Deutsche Bank AG.
Trustand held various corporate finance positions of the Beeson Gregory Group and subsequently inNew York, London and Amsterdam 1974 1980.
Chairman of Evolution Group plc, following its merger External appointments: Member of The Financial Heis Chairman of the Executive Committee and with Beeson Gregory.
He was a Founder Director Services Practitioner Panel of the FSA and Member of Chief Executive of Ackermans & van Haaren N. V. ofIPGroup plc, and also founded what is now known the Independent Compensation Review Panel of asthe Quoted Company Alliance.
He was a Member of the Advisory External appointments: Independent Director of ING Committee of the Staff Retirement Plan of Belgium and a number of other profit and not-for-profit External appointments: Member of the Advisory theInternational Monetary Fund until October 2012. companies: Chairman of the Guberna Belgian Committee of Westhouse Holdings plc.
Institute:and Member of the Advisory Council of INSEAD Belgium.
Committee membership: Chairman of the NominationsCommittee.
Committee membership: Member of the Nominations and the Remuneration Committees.
Philip Mallinckrodt Kevin Parry Massimo Tosato Group Head of Private Banking 50 Chief Financial officer 51 Executive Vice-Chairman and Global Head of Distribution 58 Appointed a Director in January 2009, having joined Appointed Chief Financial officer in January 2009, Schroders in 1994. having previously been a non-executive Director Appointed a Director in August 2001, having joined since January 2003.
He will step down as Chief Schroders in 1995.
Experience: He started his career with Credit Suisse Financial officer and as a Director with effect from First Boston.
He joined Schroders in 1994, and then 5May 2013.
Experience: He was a Founding Partner and Chief worked for Citigroup from 2000 to 2002.
He rejoined Executive officer of Cominvest SpA.
Experience: He qualied as a chartered accountant with and Managing Director of Euromercantile SpA.
KPMG and became a Partner and later a Managing External appointments: Member of the International Partner at KPMGs London ofce.
He was subsequently External appointments: Member of the International Advisory Council of the Brookings Institution.
Chief Executive of Management Consulting Group plc.
Advisory Board of Columbia Business School: VicePresident of the European Fund and Asset External appointments: Senior Independent Director Management Association: and a Trustee of the Parasol and Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee of Unit Foundation for Contemporary Art, London.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC and Deputy Chairman of the Royal National Childrens Foundation.
44 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Ashley Almanza Robin Buchanan Lord Howard of Penrith Independent non-executive Director 49 Independent non-executive Director 60 Independent non-executive Director 67 Appointed a non-executive Director in August 2011.
Appointed a non-executive Director in March 2010.
Appointed a non-executive Director in November 2008.
Experience: He is a chartered accountant and has Experience: He served as the Senior Partner of Bain Experience: He was previously the Deputy to the held a number of senior roles at BG Group including &Company Inc. in the UK until 2007 and remains a Chairman of Lehman in Europe until 1998 and was Managing Director UK, Europe and Central Asia, Senior Adviser.
He was Dean and President of London thePartner in charge of international xed income and was Chief Financial officer of BG Group plc from Business School.
External appointments: Chairman of Michael Page External appointments: Chairman of Tarchon Capital External appointments: Member of the Advisory Board International plc and a non-executive Director of Management LLP, Chief Investment officer at of the Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation.
LyondellBasell Industries N. V. He is a Member of the Beazley plc and a Member of the Advisory Board Trilateral Commission: the International Advisory of Ondra Partners.
Committee membership: Member of the Nominations, Council ofRecipco: and the Remuneration Committee Remuneration and the Audit and Risk Committees.
of Coller Capital Ltd. Committee membership: Chairman of the Hewill become Chairman of the Audit and Risk Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Committee at the conclusion of the 2013 Annual Committee membership: Member of the Nominations Nominations and the Audit and Risk Committees.
and the Audit and Risk Committees.
Merlyn Lowther Nichola Pease Bruno Schroder Independent non-executive Director 59 Independent non-executive Director 51 Non-executive Director 80 Appointed a non-executive Director in April 2004.
Shewill Appointed a non-executive Director in September Appointed a Director in January 1963. step down as a Director at the conclusion ofthe 2013 2012.
She will stand for election at the 2013 Annual Annual General Meeting.
Experience: He is the great-great-grandson of Johann Heinrich Schroder, co-founder of the Schroders Experience: She has held several senior management Experience: She has 30 years experience in the asset businesses in 1804.
He joined the Schroder Group in positions at the Bank of England 1975 2004 management and stock broking industries.
Most London where he worked in the Commercial Banking including Personnel Director, Deputy Chief Cashier recently she was the Chief Executive and then Deputy and Corporate Finance divisions of J. Henry Schroder and Chief Cashier.
Chairman of JO Hambro Capital Management Ltd. Wagg & Co Ltd, London.
External appointments: Non-executive Director of External appointments: Non-executive Member of the External appointments: Director of a number The Co-operative Bank plc, Trustee of The Henry Smith Executive Committee of the Army Board and recently of private limited companies.
Charity and the Winston Churchill Memorial Trust.
appointed Chairman of the Army Independent Assurance Committee: Trustee, Chairman of the Committee membership: Member of the Committee membership: Chairman of the Investment Committee and Member of the Audit NominationsCommittee.
Member of the Committee of Guys and St. Thomas Charity: and Nominations Committee.
Member of the Eton College Investment Committee.
Committee membership: Member of the NominationsCommittee.
She will join the Audit and Risk Committee in May 2013.
Michael Miles and Alan Brown also served ontheBoard during 2012.
Both retired from the Boardatthe conclusion of the Annual General Meeting held on 3 May 2012.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45
