How we are structured Schroders is an investment-led rm supported by a strong client service and business development capability.
There are two operating segments: Asset Management and Private Banking.
Our operating segments Consistent and superior investment performance is key to growing the business Asset Management see pages 21 and 22 Private Banking see page 23 Assets under management: 195.7 billion Three divisions: Investment, Distribution Assets under management: 16.3 billion Employs over 2,650 people and Infrastructure Employs 340 people M1 Fitch Asset Management Rating Tier 1 capital ratio of 26 per cent.
Highly personalised investment management service Investment Distribution Customised investment solutions geared to client-specic financial goals Equities Fixed Income Product development Investment Deposit taking Product specialist sales resources management and cash Multi-asset Emerging Market Debt, Commodities Custody and Specialised and Property Channel sales specialists, client servicing, execution lending marketing and communications Client service through our worldwide ofces Private Banking in seven locations Institutional clients Intermediary clients Private Banking clients Corporate pension plans Banks Charities Insurance companies Independent financial advisers Family ofces Ofcial institutions Insurance companies High net worth individuals Individual pension plans Platforms Infrastructure supports the business in delivering superior investment performance and excellent client service.
It consists of information technology, operations, finance, risk management, human resources, legal, compliance and internal audit.
Group see page 23 The non-operating Group segment is focused on capital management, governance and corporate management.
Manages the Groups investment capital of 926 million Allocates capital to seed new investment strategies before bringing them to the Institutional or Intermediary market 20 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategy In August, we recruited a new Head of European Credit as part of our strategy to recruit new investor talent into Fixed Income.
Asset Management Investment The Investment division comprises We have a broad range of products and performance that meets or exceeds client portfolio management, research solutions that meet investor demand at objectives within specic risk parameters.
and dealing functions across Equities, different phases ofthe economic and We primarily assess investment Fixed Income, Multi-asset, Emerging Market market cycle.
All investment activities performance relative tobenchmark and Debt and Commodities, and Property.
are managed with theaim of delivering peer group over a three-year period.
Product range by asset classes Equities Fixed Income Multi-asset Emerging Market Debt, 302 employees 141 employees 92 employees Commodities and Property Our Equity products range Our global Fixed Income capability We offer a comprehensive range 126 employees fromsingle country to regional and employs fundamental and of customised solutions, pooled We manage emerging market global funds, small and mid-cap quantitative approaches and is products and advisory services.
debt, commodities, currency and funds and defensive strategies based on research-intensive, We specialise in providing a agriculture funds.
globally-integrated, credit and consultative, solutions-based macro capabilities.
approach for clients, which Our Property business manages efficiently diversies risk.
a wide range of open and closed-ended property funds.
We offer private equity fund of funds.
Assets under management Assets under management Assets under management Assets under management 96.3bn 37.6bn 42.8bn 19.0bn 2011: 80.4bn 2011: 34.5bn 2011: 36.4bn 2011: 20.0bn Asia Pacic 17% Americas 23% Americas 10% Agriculture 29% Australia 8% Asia Pacic 9% Asia Pacic 14% and commodities Emerging markets 17% Australia 10% Australia 6% Emerging 14% Europe 8% Europe 19% Europe 4% market debt Global 13% Global 27% Funds of hedge funds 3% Private equity 5% Japan 3% UK 12% GAIA range 2% Property 52% Quantitative equities 16% LDI 19% UK 14% Multi-manager 3% US 4% Structured 2% UK 37% Investment capabilities Investment capabilities Investment capabilities Investment capabilities Asia Pacic Aggregate and multi-strategy Customised solutions Agriculture Australia Cash liquidity Funds of hedge funds Commodities Emerging markets Credit Liability-driven investments Currencies Europe Emerging market debt Multi-asset strategies Emerging market debt Global relative return Structured investments absolute return Japan Global Gold and precious metals Quantitative equities Government Private equity funds of funds UK High yield Property US Tax-exempt Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 How we are structured continued Asset Management Distribution Distribution employs over 580 people Institutional clients Intermediary clients globally, specialising in sales, client service, marketing, product development and We manage segregated accounts for We work closely with both local and global product management, and serving both Institutional clients involving multiple different distributors across Europe, Asia and the Institutional and Intermediary sales channels.
strategies across equities, multi-asset, xed Americas to develop products for their retail income and alternatives.
clients which meet their needs over different Distribution works closely with Investment stages of the market cycle.
and is responsible for the development of our investment products, focusing Location by client domicile Location by client domicile particularly on the risk reward features Americas and on producing products that deliver Americas 17% 13% Asia Pacic 28% Asia Pacic 32% the intended results.
We monitor gaps in Europe 18% Europe 28% our product range, launching new products UK 37% UK 27% and retiring products that are no longer in demand.
The majority of our Intermediary assets are in Luxembourg and UK funds.
Domestic Institutional clients Intermediary clients ranges in other countries are important Charities Banks to address local tax, regulatory or client Corporate pension plans Independent financial advisers requirements.
We manage segregated Endowments Insurance companies accounts for Institutional clients.
Government funds Online platforms Insurance companies Private banks 21 countries Local authority pension plans Private wealth managers operate fund ranges Sovereign wealth funds over 580 funds Asset Management Infrastructure The Infrastructure division employs over Revenue is also earned from performance Asset Management net revenue 2012 1,350 people in information technology, fees calculated on excess returns over operations, finance, risk management, agreed targets, and from transaction-related Management 89% fees human resources, legal, compliance and revenue.
The revenue margin on assets Performance 3% internal audit.
We continue to invest in talent under management is affected by the fees and technology in order to support our business mix with, for example, higher fees Other fees 8% investors evolving needs, enhance our typically earned on equity mandates and client service capabilities, advance our risk lower fees earned on xed income management solutions and meet new and multi-asset mandates, and fees in regulatory requirements.
1,014.8m Asset Management revenue and costs Costs include xed and variable 2011: 1,041.5m Asset Management revenue primarily remuneration and non-staff related costs comprises fees charged as a percentage such as ofce accommodation, information of assets under management.
The level technology, operations, legal, compliance, of assets under management changes risk and audit.
Asset Management as a result of net new business, and generated net revenue of 1,014.8 million For more information on the financial changes in investment performance 2011: 1,041.5 million and profit before performance of Asset Management, and market levels.
22 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategy We created a new role of Global Head of Consultant Relationships during the year to enhance our relationships with major global consultants.
Private Banking Private Banking offers investment Private Banking revenue and costs The business model draws on in-house management and specialist banking Private Banking net revenue comprises expertise and third-party managers, services to high net worth individuals, fees charged as a percentage of assets working closely with clients and their familyofces and charities from ofces under management, transaction related professional advisers.
in London, Zurich, Geneva, the Cayman fees, net interest income and fees for Islands, Guernsey, Jersey, Milan specialist banking services.
Private Services offered and Singapore.
Banking costs include xed and variable Discretionary and advisory asset remuneration and non-staff related costs management on behalf of high net Client service such as ofce accommodation, information worth individuals and family ofces Dedicated relationship management technology, operations, legal, compliance, Cash management and deposit taking is core to our proposition, tailoring risk and audit.
Custody and execution services our service to clients individual needs.
Specialised lending Our investment proposition for high net The Private Banking segment achieved net worth individuals includes accessing revenue of 94.4 million 2011: 114.3 million the full range of investment skills within and profit before tax of 11.8 million 2011: Asset Management as well as capabilities 23.8 million.
Infrastructure Private Banking is supported by a For more information on the financial centralised administration capability performance of Private Banking, in Zurich.
Group segment The Group segment includes the Group segment revenue and costs Investment capital ofces of the Chairman, Chief Executive Revenue comprises income and net and Chief Financial officer, as well as gains on investment capital.
Costs Cash 49% Fixed Income 29% employees involved in the management relate to the ofces of the Chairman: Seed capital 17% of investment capital.
Chief Executive and Chief Financial Legacy private 5% officer: Group capital and treasury: the equity Group capital comprises operating capital Board: and other costs, including those required for regulatory and operational associated with governance, corporate purposes and investment capital, surplus management and external and captive to operating requirements.
926m Investment capital is managed with the The Group segment net revenue was 2011: 837m objective of a LIBOR return with low 25.7 million 2011: loss of 3.2 million and volatility.
Individual investments are costs were 37.2 million 2011: 12.8 million.
diversied across asset classes that are After taking account of interest income judged to be compatible with the investment of11.7 million 2011: 14.8 million and objectives.
Investments are made in theloss from a private equity associate approved asset classes, subject to limits of0.5 million 2011: loss of 4.7 million, For more information on the as to quantum and value at risk approved the segment incurred a loss before tax nancialperformance of the by the Board.
of 0.3 million 2011: loss of 5.9 million.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23 Partnerships Building close relationships with our clients A detailed understanding of our clients investment needs leads to enduring relationships.
We manage assets on behalf of institutional and retail investors, financial institutions and high net worth individuals across the world, and offer a comprehensive range of products and services to meet our clients investment objectives.
9.4bn of net new business 24 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Operating review 26 Key risks and mitigations 30 Corporate responsibility 38 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25
