Directors report Directors report Change of control The information contained in the sections of this Annual Report Directors and employees employment contracts do not normally and Accounts set out below forms part of this Directors report: provide for compensation for loss of ofce or employment as a Chairmans and Chief Executives statements: result of a change of control.
However, the provisions of the Business review which includes Strategy and the separate Companys share schemes and plans may cause options and shaded sections contained within the Financial report identied awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans as the Financial review : to vest on a change of control.
Board of Directors: Corporate governance report, including the Nominations Charitable and political donations Committee report and the Audit and Risk Committee report: and The amount paid by Group companies to charitable organisations Statement of Directors responsibilities.
Further information on the Groups charitable activities can be found in the Corporate Principal activities and business review responsibility section of the Business review.
No political donations Schroders plc is the parent company of an international asset or contributions were made or expenditure incurred by the management and private banking group.
A review of the Groups Company or its subsidiaries during the year 2011: nil and there business during 2012 and likely future developments are contained is no intention to do so in the current year.
within the Chairmans and Chief Executives statements and the Business review.
Creditor payment policy The Groups policy and practice in the UK is to agree the terms Dividends of payment with suppliers at the time of contract, to ensure The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 30.0 pence per suppliers are aware of payment terms and to make payment in share which, if approved by shareholders at the Annual General accordance with those terms subject to satisfactory performance.
Meeting, will be paid on 9 May 2013 to shareholders on the register The Group does not follow any code or standard on payment of members at the close of business on 2 April 2013.
Dividends practice, but intends to adopt the UK Prompt Payment Code in payable in respect of the year and their total value are set out below: 2013.
Most suppliers terms of settlement are in the range of 30 to 60 days.
At 31 December 2012, the amount owed to the Groups 2012 2011 trade creditors in the UK represented approximately 34 days Ordinary shares and non-voting ordinary shares m m average purchases from suppliers 2011: 35 days.
Interim dividend 13.0 pence per share 2011: 13.0 pence 34.7 34.7 Recommended final dividend 30.0 pence per share 2011: 26.0 pence 80.1 69.4 Going concern Total dividend 43.0 pence per share 2011: 39.0 pence 114.8 104.1 The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out The Schroders Employee benefit Trust and the Schroder US in the Business review.
In addition, the financial statements include Holdings Inc. Grantor Trust have waived, in normal circumstances, information on the Groups approach to managing its capital and their rights to dividends paid on both the ordinary and non-voting financial risk management: details of its financial instruments and ordinary shares in respect of 2012. hedging activities: and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
Directors share interests The Group has considerable financial resources, a broad range The interests in the securities of the Company at the year end of products and a geographically diversied business.
As a of the Directors who were on the Board in 2012 can be found consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well in the Remuneration report.
placed to manage its business risks in the context of the current economic outlook.
Employees Details of the Companys employment practices can be found Accordingly, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the in the Corporate responsibility section of the Business review.
Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
They therefore Indemnities and Insurance continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual At the 2007 Annual General Meeting, shareholders authorised Report and Accounts.
the Company to provide indemnities to Directors in certain circumstances and to fund defence costs.
All Directors at the time By Order of the Board shareholder approval was received were granted specic deeds of indemnity and any Director appointed subsequently has been granted such an indemnity.
On their appointment, new Directors Graham Staples are granted an indemnity as dened in the Companies Act 2006 Company Secretary in respect of any third party liabilities which they may incur as a 6 March 2013 result of their service on the Board.
Directors and Ofcers Liability Insurance is maintained by the Company for all Directors.
76 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012
