Market developments: longer-term trends Global demographics, average income, savings ratios and growth in total savings are the key structural drivers of the asset management industry.
Dened benefit pension schemes are multi-layered industry, provided that asset maturing rapidly, driven by the increasing managers are able to deliver performance longevity of an ageing population.
with a high degree of consistency.
Low This has forced a move to dened cost beta will be accessed by clients contribution pension schemes and through passive strategies and ETFs.
is a catalyst for the growing importance of individual personal savings.
Accessing Regulatory complexity the individual and focusing on their needs Wide-ranging regulatory reform is in a multi-layered servicing, packaging or underway globally, to address issues distribution framework will be paramount from systemic risks to investor protection, for asset managers.
Asset Client demand for income generation managers, particularly globally-diversied and outcome-orientated strategies Emerging economies rms, need to meet the increased cost of continues as clients seek to secure In 2012, global wealth was estimated more complex regulation and balance the income and manage risk.
to be in excess of US$223 trillion, with competing demands of different jurisdictions.
held in Europe and North Massimo Tosato America.
However, wealth accumulation The Retail Distribution Review RDR Executive Vice-Chairman and in emerging markets is more significant has come into force in the UK and Global Head of Distribution with average annual growth rates between there will now be greater transparency 15 and 25 per cent.
Asia, Latin America for the end retail client as the fees paid and the Middle East will continue to will be unbundled, with no commission The key structural drivers of global represent major growth opportunities or rebates permitted for advisers.
As a demographics, average income, savings for our business with new savings ows result of changes in the structure of our ratios and growth in total savings, together driven by the emergence of a large and industry, we expect retail fees to come with regulation, affect the potential size increasingly prosperous middle class in under pressure over the long term.
of the market and the level of penetration these countries.
Ofcial Institutions, such Similar developments are underway of asset management products.
We have as sovereign wealth funds and central in the Netherlands.
identied a number ofkey trends that will banks, will continue to accumulate determine our opportunity set over the surplus assets as global imbalances are In the European Union, the focus includes coming years: maintained and they are an increasingly proposed changes to the Markets in important institutional market segment.
Financial Instruments Directive MiFID, Geographies and demographics new regulations for alternative investment Established saving pools and mature Continued risk aversion and demand fund managers AIFMD and the operation markets, such as Europe and the US, for outcome-orientated solutions of derivatives markets.
Consultations will remain important, despite lower growth We have been preparing for an increased continue on remuneration policies, to rates.
We expect the US to remain the demand for multi-asset solutions to enhance transparency and provide greater largest market for our industry and intend accommodate the growth in dened protection in relation to more complex to grow our presence here.
contribution, post-retirement and annuity products and the Packaged Retail markets, driven by an ageing investor Investment Products PRIPs Initiative, Global demographics base with a lower risk prole.
and toimprove disclosure and level the The retirement of the baby boomer playing eld between product providers.
generation, which owns a majority of In addition to addressing decumulation global wealth, creates a major opportunity needs, this trend has accelerated as a Regulatory changes are driving industry in the decumulation space as individuals result of the financial crisis and market consolidation, which we believe will favour seek to finance retirement, and could volatility in recent years.
We have been asset managers such as Schroders with account for nearly 40 per cent.
of available developing our product offering to include scale, a broad offering and established industry ows within mature economies.
regular income, outcome-orientated, client relationships.
Commercial banks and insurance absolute return and benchmark-unaware companies will see the majority of these strategies for all client segments.
ows and are an increasingly important distribution partner.
We expect insurance We also expect high alpha strategies companies to expand the outsourcing to continue to remain in demand from of asset management.
asset allocation specialists in a more 12 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategy Market developments: 2012 overview Liquidity and political risk dominated financial markets during the year.
2012: market overview Eurozone problems dominated and then Financial markets were largely divorced recovered in the third quarter.
The FTSE from macro-fundamentals in 2012 and risk 100 and S&P 500 indices increased assets performed well, despite continued 5.8 per cent.
Equities and respectively during the year.
corporate bond markets outperformed risk-free assets such as cash and core The MSCI World Index increased government bonds as investors looked 13.1 percent.
and the MSCI Emerging for yield to protect against ination in an Markets Index increased 13.9 per cent.
environment of negative real interest rates.
The Eurozone, problems in the Middle We believe that equities are generally The Nikkei Stock Average in Japan East, the fear of a China hard landing valued attractively and prospects are increased 22.9 per cent.
and the scal cliff in the US all contributed positive in 2013 and longer term.
This was its first positive performance to macro-economic uncertainty, as in three years and its best percentage markets adopted a risk on, risk off Peter Harrison rise since 2005.
The index closed at its approach, which was particularly negative Head of Equities from 15 March 2013 highest level since March 2011, before in the second quarter of the year.
Risk the earthquake and tsunami struck assets staged a recovery from late July the north-east region of Japan.
in response to further quantitative easing Equity markets from central banks and the perception of 2012 was a good year for equities, despite Outlook a stabilisation ofthe Eurozone problems.
the fact that there has been little progress Central banking policy and the stabilisation inresolving the underlying structural issues of the Chinese economy have reduced As a result of the additional liquidity, all in the developed economies.
Both risk in the developed economies.
This major asset classes, with the exception of developed and emerging equity markets bodes well for both global and emerging commodities, moved higher during the year.
delivered reasonable returns against a market equities.
In continental Europe, we difficult macro-economic background.
remain conscious of the macro-economic and political headwinds, but see In the first quarter, equity markets improved opportunities to invest in attractively steadily, before becoming particularly valued, global businesses.
volatile in the second quarter as the Equities world indices performance % FTSE 100 S&P 500 Nikkei MSCI World MSCI Europe MSCI Emerging Markets 125 120 115 110 105 100 95 90 85 Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Market developments continued Corporate and high yield bonds have provided stronger returns as investors have taken on more risk.
Monetary policy announcements were significant catalysts for higher risk markets.
The European Central Banks more proactive approach under Mario Draghi, as well as significant policy announcements in early September and a new round of quantitative easing in the US, further supported the rally.
Fixed income assets benefited from Emerging market debt also performed Safe havens are expensive and more central bank intervention in 2012, strongly with each of the major the search for yields is creating which also helped credit.
The gains in sub-components of the asset class bubble-like conditions in certain equity markets and the search for yield sovereign, corporates and local currency asset classes.
We are increasingly helped push investors into corporate posting double-digit returns.
focused on combining diversied debt.
High yield and investment grade growth exposure with downside assets both performed well.
Outlook risk management within our We expect xed income markets to Multi-asset portfolios.
Karl Dasher continue to be affected by political and Co-Head of Fixed Income macro-economic news in 2013.
Yields Nico Marais on developed market bonds and credit Head of Multi-asset and Portfolio Solutions are still depressed and credit spreads are Fixed income markets considerably lower than 2012, especially Government bonds continued to perform for corporate debt.
We remain positive Multi-asset as low interest rates underpinned the about the potential for active management Against the backdrop of receding fears asset class.
The premium placed on to deliver in 2013 using our top-down about the future of the Eurozone, continued AAA assets continues to rise, especially macro-economic themes to assist our quantitative easing and more encouraging with the ongoing increase in requirements bottom-up credit research.
We will economic statistics, higher-risk assets for banks to hold more safe assets.
continue to be active in the new issue such as equities and high yield debt market when valuations are attractive for have delivered strong returns in 2012. corporate bonds issued by companies We continued to increase our allocation with good fundamentals.
to equities during the year.
While our core exposure continues to emphasise quality, we began to take advantage of pockets Fixed income performance of extreme value.
For example, buying % European equities in June and Japanese equities in the third quarter.
UK Benchmark 10-Year Government Index US Benchmark 10-Year Government Index Merrill Lynch global high yield Merrill Lynch global investment grade Outlook 115 In 2013, we expect low interest rates and 110 weak global growth to continue.
We believe that a strategy which favours higher-quality 105 stocks and is focused on enhancing yield 100 through asset classes such as high yield 95 debt will continue to deliver.
However, the 90 absence of a convincing global recovery will continue to weigh on more cyclical assets.
14 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategy Emerging Market Debt Property and Commodities Overall, capital values for prime property Commodity markets experienced a typical assets increased in 2012, against a level of volatility in 2012 but, in the end, backdrop of improved investor demand.
The negative effects In contrast, the lack of available bank of weaker-than-forecast demand from debt and the risk averse nature of many Europe and China were largely offset investors caused secondary property by the positive effects of easy global values to fall further.
Markets in southern monetary policies.
Europe were effectively closed due to the effect of the Euro crisis.
Absolute Return Emerging Market Debt Commodity markets experienced and Currency Funds faced, throughout In terms of investment performance, a typical level of volatility in 2012 but, the year, a similarly volatile and somewhat central London was the stand-out real in the end, few major surprises.
precarious market environment dominated estate market registering both rental by the European crisis and by the and capital value growth across all sectors.
Geoff Blanning extraordinary monetary policy actions Low levels of supply caused rents to rise Head of Emerging Market Debt of developed country Central Banks.
despite relatively weak occupational and Commodities demand and significant inward ows of Outlook capital pushed investment yields down.
While Central Bank ofcials and the vast majority of global market participants Outlook retain strong conviction that the recent, In the UK and northern Europe, we expect post-crisis, mildly deationary global prime capital values to remain rm in 2013, environment is set to persist, an driven by continued strong investor demand increasingly important section of the for high quality real estate assets.
London investment community now recognises is likely to remain strong.
Pricing of the clear risk to conventional asset allocation secondary assets is starting to look more strategies, in the medium-to-long term, attractive but careful stock selection will be from monetary instability.
critical to generating attractive returns.
We remain focused on providing clients with a choice of multiple alternative investment strategies which offer attractive risk-return characteristics under a variety of economic scenarios.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15
