Directors Report the levels of gearing and potential gearing are monitored Business Review closely by the board and the manager.
The company Investment policy applies a ceiling on gearing of 20%.
While gearing will be The company carries on business as a global growth employed in a typical range of 0% to 20%, the company investment trust.
Its objective is to provide investors, retains the ability to lower equity exposure to a net cash over the longer term, with above-average returns through position if deemed appropriate: a diversified portfolio of international equities and to achieve the company has a policy not to invest more than 15% dividend growth ahead of UK inflation.
of total assets in other listed closed-ended investment funds: and In order to achieve this objective, the company invests in an the company may not make investments in respect of integrated global portfolio constructed through an investment which there is unlimited liability except that the company process whereby assets are primarily allocated on the basis may sell index futures for efficient portfolio management of the investment merits of individual stocks rather than those purposes.
of regions, sectors or themes.
Investment policy implementation The companys portfolio is actively managed and typically During the year under review, the assets of the company were will contain 70 to 120 listed international equity investments.
invested in accordance with the companys investment policy.
The portfolio is widely diversified both by industrial sector For details of how the companys absolute performance and and geographic location of investments in order to spread relative performance compared to its comparator indices, investment risk.
please refer to the Management Review on pages 6 to 12.
Whilst performance is compared against major global and A full list of holdings is disclosed on page 14 and detailed UK indices, the composition of indices has no influence on analyses of the spread of investments by geographic region investment decisions or the construction of the portfolio.
As a and industry sector are shown on pages 6, 7 and 13.
Further result, it is expected that the companys investment portfolio analyses of changes in asset distribution by industry and and performance may deviate from the comparator indices.
region over the year including the sources of appreciation and depreciation are shown on pages 6 and 7.
Attributions of NAV Since the companys assets are invested globally and relative performance, by industry and region, against a global without regard to the composition of any index, there are no equity index are shown on page 10. restrictions on maximum or minimum exposures to specific geographic regions, industry sectors or unlisted investments.
At the year end, the number of listed holdings was 114.
The However, such exposures are reported in detail to, and top ten holdings comprised 16.2% of total assets 2011: 16.1%.
monitored by, the board at each board meeting in order to ensure that adequate diversification is maintained.
Details of the extent to which the companys objective has been achieved and how the investment policy was Liquidity and long-term borrowings are managed with the implemented are provided in the Chairmans Statement on aim of improving returns to shareholders.
In pursuing its pages 4 and 5 and the Management Review on pages 6 to 12. investment objective, from time to time the company will hold certain financial instruments comprising equity and Additional limitations on borrowings non-equity shares, fixed income securities, interests in limited partnerships, structured products and cash and Under the companys articles of association, the directors liquid resources.
The company may use derivatives, other control the borrowings of the company and its subsidiaries than in relation to the sale of index futures, for hedging or to ensure that the aggregate amount of borrowings does not, tactical investment purposes.
The company may only sell unless approved by an ordinary resolution of shareholders, index futures for efficient portfolio management purposes.
exceed the aggregate of the reserves excluding unrealised For the avoidance of doubt, any derivative instrument may capital profits of the company and its subsidiaries, as only be used with the prior authorisation of the board.
published in the latest accounts.
In addition, the directors The company has the ability to enter into contracts to are entitled to incur temporary borrowings in the ordinary hedge against currency risks on both capital and income.
course of business of up to 10% of the companys issued share capital.
Such temporary borrowings are to be for no The companys investment activities are subject to the longer than six months.
following limitations and restrictions: under the companys articles of association, up to Principal risks and uncertainties 40% of the companys total assets on the last audited The principal risks and uncertainties facing the business are balance sheet may be used to make investments of up to as follows: a maximum of 8% of the value of total assets in any one investment and market price risk: company, at the time the investment is made.
Thereafter, interest rate risk: individual investments may not exceed 3% of the value liquidity risk: of total assets, at the time the investment is made: foreign currency risk: and credit risk.
16 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report continued These and other risks facing the company are reviewed Voting regularly by the audit committee and the board.
Further On a show of hands, every shareholder present in person or information is given in Note 17 to the accounts on pages by proxy has one vote and on a poll every member present 37 to 42. in person or by proxy has one vote for each share.
Performance Deadlines for exercising voting rights Management provides the board with detailed information If a shareholder wishes to appoint a proxy to attend, speak on the companys performance at every board meeting.
and vote at a meeting on his behalf, a valid appointment is Performance is measured in comparison with the made when the form of proxy together, where relevant, with companys peers and comparator indices.
a notarially certified copy of the power of attorney or other authority under which the form of proxy is signed is received Key Performance Indicators are: by the companys registrar not less than 48 hours before the NAV total return: start of the meeting or the adjourned meeting at which the NAV total return against comparators: proxy is appointed to vote or, in the case of a poll taken more NAV and share price total return against peers: than 48 hours after it is demanded, no later than 24 hours discount with debt at market value: before the time appointed for taking the poll.
In calculating dividend growth against UK inflation: and these time periods, no account is taken of any day or part total expense ratio.
thereof that is not a working day.
Dividends Buybacks The board may declare dividends, including interim The companys buyback policy is intended to keep the dividends, but no dividend is payable except out of the discount to ex-income NAV at or below 9%.
In calculating companys revenue returns or in excess of the amount NAV for the purposes of the buyback policy, the companys recommended by the directors.
Neither unrealised borrowings are taken at their market value so as to ensure appreciation of capital assets nor realised profits arising that future repurchases of shares will take into account from the sale of capital assets are available for dividend.
changes in the value of the borrowings brought about by movements in long-term interest rates.
During the year ended The directors recommend a final dividend of 6.65p per share 31 October 2012, the company bought back for cancellation payable on 4 February 2013.
With the interim dividend of a total of 2,381,000 shares representing 2.1% of shares in 4.60p already paid in July 2012, this makes a total of 11.25p issue at 31 October 2011, at a cost of 11,121,000. for the year.
Based on shares in issue at 31 October 2012 the final dividend will cost 7,438,000.
The total dividend for the At the AGM on 27 January 2012 authority was granted to year will cost 12,616,000. repurchase up to 14.99% of shares in issue on that date.
The number of shares authorised for repurchase was 17,017,686.
Status Share buybacks from the date of the AGM to the companys The company is a self-managed investment trust and is an year end amounted to 1,669,000 shares or 1.47 percentage investment company within the meaning of the Companies points of the 14.99% authority.
HM Revenue and Customs approved the company as an investment trust under Section 1158 of the Corporation Substantial Shareholdings Tax Act 2010 up to the accounting period ended 31 October At 12 December 2012, the company had been notified of 2011.
This approval is subject to any subsequent enquiry the following holdings in excess of 3% of its shares.
by HM Revenue and Customs.
The company continues % of to satisfy the conditions for such approval and approval is issue expected for the accounting period ended 31 October 2012. at date of Shares notification Share Capital AXA Investment Managers SA 13,702,595 12.0 General The company had 111,857,926 shares in issue on 31 October Lloyds Banking Group 6,346,524 5.1 2012.
The rights attaching to shares in the company are set out in the companys articles of association.
The companys articles of association may be amended by the passing of Directors a special resolution of shareholders, that is, by the approval The companys policy on the appointment of directors is of a majority of not less than 75% of votes cast.
shown on the companys website.
The directors of the company on 31 October 2012 and Rights to the capital of the company on winding up their biographical details are shown on page 15.
All are Shareholders would be entitled to the assets of the company non-executive.
in the event of a winding up after the companys other liabilities have been satisfied.
Report & Accounts 2012 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 17 Directors Report continued The performance of each director was appraised by the Corporate Governance nomination committee during the year.
The chairmans Compliance performance was appraised in his absence by the other The board has reviewed the principles set out in the directors and the results were communicated to him.
UK Corporate Governance Code and believes that the The board believes that each director is independent way the company is governed is consistent with these of the management in character and judgement and principles.
Throughout the year, the company complied there are no relationships with the company or its with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code employees which might compromise this independence.
including section 1 except that: there is no senior independent director: and In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate the chairman is a member of the audit committee.
Governance Code, all directors are standing for re-election at the AGM.
Douglas McDougall, Francis Finlay and Hamish The directors consider that, as all directors are independent Buchan have served as directors for more than nine years.
and non-executive, there is no compelling case for having After formal performance evaluation, the board confirms a senior independent director.
The board considers the that Douglas McDougall, Francis Finlay and Hamish Buchan chairman to be independent in character and judgement continue to perform effectively and with great commitment, and therefore there is no reason for Douglas McDougall not consequently, it recommends their re-election.
to be a member of the audit committee.
The UK Corporate Governance Code is available from the Financial Reporting The appointments of Douglas McDougall, Francis Finlay Council www.
uk and Hamish Buchan as directors run for one year at a time.
James MacLeod was appointed in September The board 2005 and Russell Napier was appointed in July 2009 The board normally meets eight times throughout the each for initial terms of three years subject to their reyear while the audit and remuneration committees meet election by shareholders at the first AGM after their three times each.
The nomination committee meets at appointment.
James MacLeods appointment was least annually.
renewed in September 2008 and September 2011 and Russell Napiers appointment was renewed in July 2012.
During the year Francis Finlay and Russell Napier were Directors letters of appointment will be available for appointed to the audit committee and Russell Napier inspection at the AGM.
was appointed to the remuneration committee.
The company maintains insurance in respect of directors There is a schedule of matters reserved for the board which and officers liability in relation to their acts on behalf of the includes investment strategy, accounting and financial company.
The companys articles of association provide controls, dividends and announcements, capital structure, that any director or other officer of the company may be gearing and major contracts.
indemnified out of the assets of the company against any liability incurred by him as a director or other officer of the Day to day management, including the selection of company to the extent permitted by law.
investments, is delegated to the companys executive management which reports directly to the board.
Directors Interests The interests of the directors and their families in the Prior to each board meeting, directors are provided with companys capital are as follows: a comprehensive set of papers giving detailed information on the companys transactions, financial position and Shares of 25p 31 October 31 October performance.
There is a procedure for directors to seek Beneficial interests 2012 2011 independent professional advice at the expense of the company and training is available to directors as required.
Douglas McDougall 60,000 60,000 Francis Finlay 60,000 60,000 The Companies Act 2006 requires that a director of the company must avoid a situation in which he has, or might Hamish Buchan 22,325 22,325 have, an interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the James MacLeod 24,243 22,849 interests of the company.
Each director submits a list of Russell Napier 14,000 14,000 potential conflicts prior to each meeting.
The other board members consider these and recommend whether or not each potential conflict should be authorised.
No situation There were no changes in the directors interests between arose during the year whereby an interest of a director 31 October 2012 and 12 December 2012. conflicted with the interests of the company.
18 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report continued The following table shows the attendance of directors Every employee is entitled to a salary and other benefits at board and committee meetings during the year to including a contributory pension scheme.
In addition, there 31 October 2012. is a discretionary performance-related bonus scheme.
For investment staff, bonuses payable depend, inter alia, on Board Audit Remuneration Nomination individual performance, the companys NAV total return and the NAV total return relative to comparator indices and peers.
Number of meetings 8 3 3 1 For other staff, bonuses depend, inter alia, on individual Douglas McDougall 8 3 3 1 performance and share price total return.
Notice periods for all members of staff range from three to twelve months.
Francis Finlay 6 2 n a 1 Hamish Buchan 8 3 3 1 Relations with shareholders James MacLeod 8 3 3 1 The company recognises the value of good communication Russell Napier 8 2 n a 1 with its shareholders.
The management meets regularly with private client stockbrokers and the companys major institutional shareholders.
The board receives regular Nomination committee briefings from the companys broker.
Newsletters are There is a nomination committee comprising the whole sent to shareholders during the year and are posted board.
The committee meets at least annually to review on the companys website.
the structure, size and composition of the board and is responsible for identifying and nominating candidates to fill The annual general meeting of the company is the main board vacancies as and when they arise.
It has written terms forum at which shareholders can ask questions of the board of reference which are shown on the companys website.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and to vote on the resolutions which are Unless nominated by the board, a person nominated as contained in the Notice of Meeting on page 46 and which is a director is not eligible for election at a general meeting posted to shareholders at least 21 days prior to the meeting.
unless a shareholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting Shareholders who cannot attend the AGM are encouraged gives the company secretary at least six clear days written to vote by proxy on the resolutions.
Proxy voting figures are notice of his intention to propose the relevant nominee given at the end of the meeting.
for election, along with a notice in writing signed by the nominee confirming his willingness to be elected.
Any shareholder who wishes to ask a question at another time should write to the chairman.
Remuneration committee The board has appointed a remuneration committee Accountability and audit to recommend pay and conditions for the board and The responsibilities of the directors and auditor in respect employees.
It has written terms of reference which are of the financial statements are given below and on page 23. shown on the companys website.
The audit committee has written terms of reference which Directors fees are set with a view to attracting individuals of are shown on the companys website.
Its duties include risk appropriate calibre and experience, taking into account the assessment, reviewing internal controls, the companys time commitment required and the level of fees paid by similar accounting policies, financial statements prior to their investment trusts.
No other benefits are provided to directors.
release and the companys procedures on whistleblowing.
Fees recommended by the remuneration committee are The committee is also responsible for all aspects of the subject to approval by the board.
The companys articles of companys relationship with its external auditor including: association provide for a maximum level of total remuneration reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the annual of 250,000 in the aggregate payable to directors in any audit: financial year.
the auditors remuneration: the terms of engagement: and The company aims to provide levels of employee the level of non-audit work, if any, carried out by remuneration which reward responsibility and the auditor.
achievement and are comparable with other fund management organisations operating in Scotland.
The committee also ensures that the level of non-audit Remuneration is reviewed annually.
work does not compromise the auditors independence.
Report & Accounts 2012 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 19 Directors Report continued The company does not have an internal audit function as the United Kingdom company law requires the directors to audit committee believes that the companys straightforward prepare annual financial statements.
Under that law, the structure and small number of employees do not warrant directors have elected to prepare the financial statements such a function.
This is reviewed by the committee annually.
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards The board is responsible for ensuring that the company has and applicable law.
Under company law, the directors must in place an effective system of internal controls designed to not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they maintain the integrity of accounting records and to safeguard give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company the companys assets.
The board has applied the UK and of the returns and cash flows for that year.
Corporate Governance Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the In preparing those financial statements, the directors are significant risks the company faces.
required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them This process, which has existed throughout the year, is in consistently: accordance with Internal Control: Revised Guidance for make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Directors on the UK Corporate Governance Code published and prudent: in October 2005 The Turnbull Guidance.
In compliance with state whether applicable accounting standards have the UK Corporate Governance Code, the board reviews the been followed subject to any material departures effectiveness of the companys system of internal control at disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and six-monthly intervals.
prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the The boards monitoring covers all controls, including company will continue in business.
financial, operational, and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports The directors are responsible for keeping adequate from management and considering whether significant accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled, and the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied accuracy at any time the financial position of the company or require more extensive monitoring.
During the course of and enable them to ensure that the financial statements its review of the system of internal control, the board has comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also not identified, nor been advised of, any material failings responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company or weaknesses.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and necessary actions has not been considered appropriate.
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The audit committee assists the board in discharging its review responsibilities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included There are procedures in place to ensure that: on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom all transactions are accounted for accurately and governing the preparation and dissemination of financial reported fully to the board: statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
management observes the authorisation limits set by the board: The audit committee has reviewed the matters within its there is clear segregation of duties so that no investment terms of reference and reports as follows: transaction can be completed by one person: it has approved the financial statements for the year control activities are regularly checked: and to 31 October 2012: legal and regulatory obligations are met.
it has reviewed the effectiveness of the companys internal controls and risk management: The board recognises that such systems can only provide it has reviewed the need for a separate internal audit reasonable, but not guaranteed, assurance against material function: misstatement or loss.
it has recommended to the board that a resolution be proposed at the AGM for the reappointment of the external auditor and it has considered the proposed Going concern terms of their engagement: The accounts of the company have been prepared on a it has satisfied itself as to the independence of the going concern basis.
It is the opinion of the directors that, external auditor: and as most of the companys assets are readily realisable and it has satisfied itself that the terms of the business review exceed its liabilities, it is expected that the company will are consistent with the financial statements.
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
20 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report continued Auditor Voting Policy The management reviews resolutions put to general Re-appointment of auditor meetings of the companies in which it invests and, A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the companys wherever practicable, will cast its vote, usually by proxy.
auditor, and to authorise the directors to fix its remuneration, will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Socially Responsible Investing When investments are made, the primary objective is to Disclosure of information to auditor achieve the best investment return while allowing for an It is the companys policy to allow the auditor unlimited acceptable degree of risk.
In pursuing this objective, various access to its records.
The directors confirm that, so far as factors that may impact on the performance are considered each of them is aware, there is no relevant audit information and these may include socially responsible investment issues.
of which the companys auditor is unaware and they have If it is considered that a companys social, environmental or taken all the steps which they should have taken as directors ethical record will adversely affect financial performance and in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit result in poor returns, then an investment will not be made in information and to establish that the companys auditor is the company.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Payment of Creditors It is the companys policy to agree in advance the terms of business with suppliers and then to abide by those terms.
Annual General Meeting Venue As the company has no trade creditors, no disclosure can The companys 125th AGM will be held at The Royal College be made of creditor days at the year end.
of Physicians of Edinburgh, 9 Queen Street, Edinburgh, EH2 1JQ on Friday 25 January 2013 at 10.30am.
Donations No charitable or political donations were made during the Board recommendation year 2011: same.
The board considers that the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are all in the best interests of the company and of By order of the board shareholders as a whole and recommends that shareholders vote in favour of them.
Resolutions 1 to 9 are self explanatory.
Resolution 10, set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting on Steven Hay page 46, seeks to renew the authority to repurchase Company Secretary shares until 30 April 2014.
The principal reasons for 12 December 2012 such repurchases are to enhance the NAV of the shares by repurchasing shares for cancellation at prices which, after allowing for costs, improve the NAV for remaining shareholders and to allow implementation of the companys share buyback policy.
Under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the maximum price that may be paid on the exercise of the authority must not exceed the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the shares as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange over the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and, ii the higher price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid.
The minimum price which may be paid is 25p per share.
Resolution 10 will be proposed as a special resolution that requires to be passed by a three-quarters majority of votes cast at the AGM.
Report & Accounts 2012 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 21
