MANAGERS REVIEW Managers Review Each year the Amazon Annual Report incorporates the original this most impatient of industries.
We only judge our investment shareholder letter from 1997.
Although the origins of Scottish performance over five year plus time horizons.
In truth it takes at Mortgage are more distant and our thoughts are far less profound least a decade to provide adequate evidence of investment skill.
than those of Jeff Bezos we think this is an admirable discipline.
s 4HE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT INDUSTRY IS ILL EQUIPPED TO DEAL WITH What follows is therefore a summary of how our investment the behavioural and emotional challenges inherent in todays approach has evolved over the last decade.
We should be capital markets.
Our time frame and ownership structure help prepared to be judged by it in the years ahead.
We are besieged by news, data and opinion.
The bulk of this information is of little signicance but Our Core Investment Beliefs it implores you to rapid and usually futile action.
This can be Whilst fund managers claim to spend much of their careers assessing particularly damaging at times of stress.
Academic research the competitive advantage of companies they are notoriously argues that most individuals dislike financial losses twice as much reluctant to perform any such analysis on themselves.
The tendency is as they take pleasure in gains.
We fear that for fund managers to cite recent performance as evidence of skill despite the luck, this relationship is close to tenfold.
Internal and external pressures randomness and mean-reverting characteristics of most such data.
If make the avoidance of loss dominant.
This is damaging in a this does not sufce then attention turns to a discussion of the high portfolio context.
We need to be willing to accept loss if there is educational qualications, hard work and exotic remuneration an equal or greater chance of almost unlimited gain.
packages that the fund manager enjoys.
Sometimes the procedural s 7E ARE VERY DUBIOUS ABOUT THE VALUE OF ROUTINE INFORMATION details of the investment process are outlined with heavy emphasis We have little confidence in quarterly earnings and none in on risk controls.
Little attention is given to either the distinctiveness of the views of investment banks.
We try to screen out rather than the approach or the strategic advantages the manager might enjoy incorporate their noise.
In contrast we think that the world offers in order to make imitation improbable.
We think we should try to do joyous opportunities to hear views, perspectives and visions that better than this.
are barely noticed by the markets.
From our ofce in Shanghai s 7E ARE LONG TERM IN OUR INVESTMENT DECISIONS T IS ONLY OVER to futurists in California there is more in the investment world than periods of at least five years that the competitive advantages the Financial Times or Wall Street Journal describe.
and managerial excellence of companies becomes apparent.
s 7E ARE GLOBAL IN STOCK SELECTION ASSET ALLOCATION AND It is these characteristics that we want to identify and support.
We are active not passive or far worse index We own companies rather than rent shares.
We do not regard plus in stock selection.
Holding sizes reect the potential upside ourselves as experts in forecasting the oscillations of economies and its probability or otherwise rather than the combination or the mood swings of markets.
Indeed we think that it is hard to of the market capitalization and geographical location of the excel in such areas as this is where so many market participants company and its headquarters.
We do not have sufficient focus and where so little of the value of companies lies.
Equally confidence in our top-down asset allocation skills to wish to Baillie Gifford is more likely to possess competitive advantages override stock selection.
We do not have enough confidence for the good of shareholders when it adopts a long term in our market timing abilities to wish to add or remove gearing perspective.
We are a 100 year old Scottish partnership.
We do, however, have strong conviction think about our own business over decades not quarters.
Such that our portfolio should be comparatively concentrated, and stability may not be exciting but it does encourage patience in 08 ANNUAL REPORT 2012 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 New Oriental Education & Technology 2 Apple Provider of private education in China.
The latest version of the iPad.
1 2 that it is of little use to shareholders to tinker around the edges Portfolio Comments of indices.
We think this eventually produces better investment The three contentions that we have outlined in the past remain intact.
results and it certainly makes us more committed shareholders To repeat the formulation of 2010: in companies.
We suspect that selecting stocks on the basis of s 4HE RISE OF #HINA AND TO A LESSER EXTENT OTHER EMERGING the past their current market capitalization is a policy designed economies is transforming the global economic scene.
to protect the security of tenure of asset managers rather than to build the wealth of shareholders.
Companies that are large and s 3TOCKMARKETS UNDERESTIMATE THE POWER OF TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE established tend to be internally complacent and inexible.
They in exaggerated revulsion to the bubble of 1998-2000. are often vulnerable to assault by more ambitious and vibrant s 4HE 7ESTERN lNANCIAL SYSTEMS ARE DANGEROUSLY mAWED newcomers.
Technological Innovation s 7E ARE 'ROWTH STOCK INVESTORS 3UCH HAS BEEN THE PREFERENCE We have seriously underestimated this force.
It is more powerful than for Value and the search to arbitrage away minor rating we thought and far broader in its application than we suspected.
differentials that investors nd it very hard to acknowledge We now believe it to be the most important influence on the the extraordinary growth rates and returns that can be found investment world.
The opportunities in front of us are likely to be even today.
The growth that we are particularly interested in is of more dramatic than in the recent past.
This is because the very pace an explosive nature and often requires minimal xed assets or of change is in itself accelerating.
It is very hard to grasp the indeed capital.
We think of it as Growth at Unreasonable implications of this.
The minds of normal human beings, let alone Prices rather than the traditional discipline of Growth at a those of fund managers with their preoccupation with the immediate, Reasonable Price.
We need to be willing to pay high multiples have difficulty in coping with change that is exponential rather than of immediate earnings because the scale of future potential linear and where the guidance offered by the past is so modest.
and returns can be so dramatic.
On the stocks that ourish the Apple is perhaps the simplest example of this process as its devices valuation will have turned out to be derisorily low.
On the others are so dominant and as so much of its story is visible.
In product we will lose money.
terms this has taken us from the original Apple computer retailing at s 7E BELIEVE THAT IT IS OUR lRST DUTY TO SHAREHOLDERS TO LIMIT FEES the equivalent of US$2,500 in todays prices without a monitor, Both the investment management fee equivalent to 0.32% and power supply or even a casing to an iPad with at least 10,000x as the TER 0.51% are low by comparative standards but at least much processing power for a fifth the price.
In 2001 it took 91 adequate in absolute terms.
We think that the malign impact of weeks to sell one million iPods.
In 2011 it took 24 hours to sell one high fees is frequently underestimated.
The difference between million iPhone 4Ss.
For the company this will translate into sales of a TER of 0.5% and one of 1.5% may not appear great but if over US$150bn this scal year with China now running at 20% of the perspective is altered to think of costs as a percentage of sales with near 40% operating margins and US$110bn in cash.
expected annual returns then the contrast becomes obvious.
From the share price lows before the return of Steve Jobs in 1997 a If annual returns average 10% sadly they have not in recent market value of below US$1.5bn has become US$550 bn.
years then this is the difference between removing 5% of your Identifying and holding such extraordinary companies is our primary returns or 15% each year.
Nor do we believe in a performance task.
Doing so holds far greater rewards than any amount of market fee.
Usually it undermines investment performance.
Whilst we have owned Apple since early 2009 we pressure and narrows perspective.
feel that we deserve more criticism than praise for our actions.
Not SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 09 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 Novozymes 2 ABB Enzyme manufacturers stadardization tanks in North Carolina.
Work at the Shanghai robotics factory.
1 2 just did it take us several years to buy the shares but we were also Alternative Energy and Healthcare quick to take profits in 2011.
Our holding and our profits should We have grown accustomed to the extraordinary pace of change in have been signicantly larger.
the electronics and telecommunications industries.
As we noted last year similar developments are now working their way into industries We hope that we own several companies that can follow the same in which innovation has previously been blocked by the self-interest path as Apple but are at a much earlier stage of development.
Whilst opposition can still slow progress it is suggested earlier they are businesses with substantial growth unlikely to be able to do more than delay transformation once the opportunities, minimal or negative capital requirements from a young relevant technologies acquire sufficient momentum.
We have applied age and what we think are sustainable competitive advantages.
This this idea to the alternative energy and healthcare sectors.
So far this often translates into formidable margins and return on capital.
Their has proven a significant error in the first case and seems quite advantages lie in network effects or in more traditional dominance promising in the latter.
We have now sold First Solar but not before it by scale but the lack of capital intensity is in common.
We think that was one of our worst investment decisions.
Whilst the cost of solar such companies are extremely unusual in the history of capitalism.
energy has fallen even more sharply than we believed likely, the The markets are very uncomfortable in dealing with their existence competitive advantage once enjoyed by First Solar has been eaten and characteristics.
They are hard to t into the established valuation away by the power of Chinese competition and by the advent of frameworks particularly those that stress the relationship between shale gas.
the capitalization of a company and the value of its xed assets.
Although most of these companies are American or specifically Healthcare requires reform.
It is costly, inefficient and frequently fails West Coast American there is little theoretical reason that this need to provide the best available medical outcomes.
The main exceptions are currently Chinese which is intriguing.
this situation will be the task of decades it is possible the pace of technological innovation is starting to chip away at a previously Our two largest holdings continue to be Baidu and Amazon.
Just before his death Steve Jobs remarked that into the description above.
They also reect our strong preference for I think the biggest innovation of the 21st century will be the companies that are led by their share-owning founders.
Baidu has intersection of biology and technology.
continued to grow dramatically but the room to expand still seems Genome sequencing appears to be the critical scientific advance open-ended.
It has only 321,000 paying customers.
There are enabling such a new era.
Its costs are also falling at around twice approximately 40 million small businesses in China.
Mobile search the pace of the famed Moores Law that has transformed is growing very rapidly and advertising is becoming critical to the semiconductor performance over the last four decades.
We have a Chinese consumption surge.
Amazon may be an even less mature large shareholding in Illumina which is the established leader in this business.
Unlike Apple or Baidu it currently operates on very low technology.
We have recently supported the company in its thus far margins.
It has so many opportunities to invest that despite very successful battle against hostile takeover by Roche.
We also have favourable cash-ow dynamics it can consume all the cash it what has become a large holding in Intuitive Surgical, which is not generates.
As long as it is investing in activities where its competitive just the dominant leader in robotic surgery but is also the first pure position ought to be powerful and returns improving then we are robotics company in any eld of activity to become highly profitable content to be very patient investors in such a vision for all the and of substantial size.
resultant volatility in the share price.
10 ANNUAL REPORT 2012 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 Fiat 2 Google Owner of top car brand Ferrari.
1 2 China Western Financial Weakness It is fashionable to be gloomy about Chinese prospects.
We do not have much to add to the daily media preoccupation with We think that the transition from a low cost, low valued added the systemic fall-out from the catastrophic implosion of the bloated export behemoth to a domestic empire driven first by infrastructure world of finance in 20089.
But some comment is probably and increasingly by consumption is further and more smoothly required.
At one level we are moderately encouraged.
Both the advanced than was believed possible.
Productivity has risen American and German economies show signs of gradually impressively.
The trade surplus is largely a memory.
Naturally there overcoming the damage inicted by finance.
Given that it is now 7 will be pauses and blockages.
Whilst we think the authorities have years since the U. S. property bubble initially burst and that American been right to clamp down on an overly-exuberant housing market animal spirits are hard to repress entirely in perpetuity this is pleasing before it assumed bubble proportions this could not prevent local but perhaps not surprising.
In Germany finance and housing were excesses nor does it prop up growth.
As productivity rises and never so proud but that employment and business confidence remain innovation accelerates the Communist Party is likely to nd the so buoyant despite banking frailties and Eurozone anxieties is tribute process of evolution still more complex.
to the remarkable strength of German industry.
Further south we are more concerned that Spain still has several years of working through But such concerns are minor compared with the scale of the a fearsome housing bust than we are that the age-old infelicities of achievement and of the remaining potential.
We think China has the the Italian state will entirely undermine a population of cautious human capital, the patience and the competing multiplicity of cities savers and serious industrialists.
Indeed we have recently bought and regions to continue its rise.
Growth may, indeed should, slow shares in Fiat Auto as an improved generation of managers can but we doubt it will collapse.
We see no eventual reason why China combine with the allure of Ferrari to revive the company.
Less should be poorer than Britain.
We are encouraged that we can nd controversially we would simply observe that replacing Silvio enough individual companies of imagination and innovation and Berlusconi with Mario Monti is also a managerial improvement.
with strong competitive moats that this admiration is a matter of practical importance.
We have already discussed Baidu but Such notes of comparative optimism may be unusual amongst the arguably Tencent has been even more prescient in developing the unremitting media gloom but they are not raised to obscure our Chinese internet with its focus on social aspects and on mobile.
concern at the continuing inability of the financial sector to reform Certainly Facebook respects its prowess.
Whilst modest and piece-meal measures have lessened the returns and attraction of investment banking there is no evidence that Chinas return to prominence has been distinguished more by the a culture of stability, restraint and modesty has yet been embraced absence of dramatic disruptions than by their presence.
Whilst by the industry or been enforced by regulators.
Whilst the shock of American ascent was marked by internal and external wars, booms the crisis and the generosity of tax-payers may defer disaster, the and busts, the last thirty years of Chinese progress has been temptations and immediate rewards of finance capital will remain remarkable in its consistency.
The current comparative serenity in the serious threats to the health of the Western world.
face of a troubled Western economy equally appears remarkable.
In contrast India, Brazil and Russia all appear to be struggling with these changed conditions.
Ination, deficits, uncompetitive industries and political failings have combined in varied guises to trigger significant productivity and growth disappointments.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 PPR 2 Fuchs Petrolub Among many others, PPRs luxury brands include Gucci, Bottega High performance oils and lubricants.
Veneta, Yves Saint Laurent and Alexander McQueen.
1 2 copyright FUCHS PETROLUB AG Conclusion Although it has been a frustrating year we nd more to be excited about than to fear.
Innovation combined with globalization has enabled the rise of a series of companies with historically unparalleled returns and growth opportunities.
We think that this process is far from complete.
We think that it is underestimated and misunderstood by markets.
Whilst we hope we are aware of the dangers of overcondence, we are also convinced that impatience and fear have all too often exerted too great an influence on markets.
At times over the last year, most notably in late 2011, it has seemed to us that the ight to presumed safety has been as exaggerated as the rush towards technology stocks in 19992000.
Market distortions can just as easily result in undue depression as in overvaluation.
Indeed given the difficult recent experience of market participants, this currently seems more probable than an outburst of excessive optimism.
JAMES ANDERSON Manager of Scottish Mortgage 8 May 2012 12 ANNUAL REPORT 2012
