DIRECTORS REPORT Shareholders and potential investors may obtain up-to-date information The Board considers the Companys investment management and at www.
secretarial arrangements on a continuing basis and a formal review is conducted annually.
The Board considers, amongst others, the Corporate Governance and Stewardship following topics in its review: the quality of the personnel assigned The Company has given discretionary voting powers to the to handle the Companys affairs: the investment process and the Investment Managers, Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote results achieved to date: the administrative services provided by the against resolutions they consider may damage shareholders rights or Secretaries and the marketing efforts undertaken by the Managers.
Following the most recent review and the excellent results, The Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to particularly over a five year basis, it is the opinion of the Directors consider environmental, social and governance ESG factors when that the continuing appointment of Baillie Gifford & Co as selecting and retaining investments and have asked the Managers to Managers, on the terms agreed, is in the interests of shareholders take these issues into account as long as the investment objectives are as a whole.
The Managers do not exclude companies from their Directors Interests investment universe purely on the grounds of ESG factors but adopt a positive engagement approach whereby matters are discussed with Ordinary 25p Ordinary 25p management with the aim of improving the relevant policies and Nature shares held at shares held at management systems and enabling the Managers to consider how Name of interest 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 ESG factors could impact long term investment returns.
The Managers JPHS Scott beneficial 40,284 37,322 Statement of Compliance with the UK Stewardship Code can be MM Gray beneficial 150,000 150,000 found on the Managers website at www.
The Non-beneficial 12,500 12,500 Managers policy has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
Professor JA Kay beneficial 5,000 5,000 The Managers are signatories of the United Nations Principles for FC McBain beneficial 1,136 1,115 Responsible Investment and the Carbon Disclosure Project.
WG McQueen beneficial 1,500 1,500 Conicts of Interest Each Director submits a list of potential conicts of interest to the The Directors at the year end, and their interests in the Company, were Nomination Committee on an annual basis.
The Committee as shown above.
Dr L Yueh acquired 812 shares on 4 May 2012 in considers these carefully, taking into account the circumstances which she has a beneficial interest.
There have been no other changes surrounding them, and makes a recommendation to the Board intimated in the Directors interests up to 8 May 2012. on whether or not the potential conicts should be authorised.
Directors Board authorisation is for a period of one year.
Having considered the lists of potential conicts there were no situations which gave Dr Yueh, having been appointed to the to the Board on 3 May rise to a direct or indirect interest of a Director which conicted 2012, is required to seek election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors believe that the Board will benefit with the interests of the Company.
from her extensive knowledge and experience and recommend her Bribery Act 2010 election to shareholders.
The Bribery Act came into force on 1 July 2011.
The Company has All other Directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election in a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and is committted to accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
carrying out business fairly, honestly and openly.
The Managers also adopt a zero tolerance approach and have policies and procedures Following formal performance evaluation, the Board considers that in place to prevent bribery.
the performance of the Directors continues to be effective and each remains committed to the Company.
Their contribution to the Board Investment Managers is greatly valued and the Board recommends their re-election to The Board as a whole fulls the function of the Management shareholders.
An Investment Management Agreement Director indemnification and Insurance between the Company and Baillie Gifford & Co sets out the matters The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of each over which the Managers have authority in accordance with the of its Directors.
The deeds cover any liabilities that may arise to a policies and directions of, and subject to restrictions imposed by, third party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or the Board.
The notice period for terminating the Management breach of trust or duty.
The Directors are not indemnified in respect of Agreement is six months.
Careful consideration has been given by liabilities to the Company, any regulatory or criminal fines, any costs the Board as to the basis on which the management fee is charged.
incurred in connection with criminal proceedings in which the The Board considers that maintaining a low total expense ratio is in Director is convicted or civil proceedings brought by the Company in the best interests of all shareholders as lower costs mean higher which judgement is given against him her.
In addition, the indemnity returns, particularly when compounded over long periods.
The Board does not apply to any liability to the extent that it is recovered from is also of the view that calculating the fee with reference to another person.
performance would be unlikely to exert a positive influence over the long term performance.
Details of the fee arrangements with Baillie The Company also maintains Directors and Ofcers liability Gifford & Co are shown on page 37. insurance.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 25
