DIRECTORS AND MANAGERS Directors and Managers Members of the Board come from a broad variety of backgrounds.
The Board can draw on a very extensive pool of knowledge and experience.
Baillie Gifford & Co, a leading UK investment management rm, who act as Managers and Secretaries to the Company have done so since its formation in 1909.
FC McBain Directors Fiona McBain is chief executive of Scottish Friendly Assurance, JPHS Scott a Glasgow based and mutually owned financial services group John Scott, the Chairman, is a former international investment with over 500,000 policyholders.
Fiona was appointed a Director banker who maintains a number of interests in the investment trust in 2009.
Before joining Scottish Friendly in 1998, Fiona, a sector.
John was appointed a Director in 2001 and became chartered accountant, was employed by Prudential plc and Arthur Chairman on 31 December 2009.
He is a former executive director Young now Ernst & Young where she spent some time working of Lazard Brothers & Co. Limited.
During his twenty years with across a number of industry sectors, both in the UK and in the United Lazard, he was involved with the merchant banks corporate advisory States.
She is also a director of the Association of Financial Mutuals.
activities and its Asian businesses.
He is currently a director of various companies including Martin Currie Pacic Trust plc, JP Morgan WG McQueen Claverhouse Investment Trust plc, Miller Insurance, Schroder Japan Gordon McQueen, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Growth Fund plc and Alternative Asset Opportunities PCC Limited.
In brings to the Board first class financial and banking expertise, addition, he is chairman of Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust as a former finance director of the Bank of Scotland.
Gordon was PLC and deputy chairman of Endace Limited.
Until 2003 he was an executive director of HBOS plc, Bank of Scotland and Halifax plc, where his MM Gray main role was chief executive, Treasury.
He is a director of JP Michael Gray, the Senior Independent Director, joined the Board Morgan Mid Cap Investment Trust plc, The Edinburgh Investment Trust in 2004 after a successful career in printing and technology plc and Shaftesbury PLC.
industries where he gained valuable global business experience.
As chairman and chief executive he led the growth of McQueen Dr L Yueh International over a 17 year period as it evolved from being a Dr Yueh is an economist, broadcaster and author.
Linda was printing company into a global enterprise providing a range of appointed to the Board in May 2012 and is being put forward for support services to technology companies.
On McQueens election at the AGM on 28 June.
A Fellow in Economics at Oxford acquisition, he became senior vice president of Sykes Enterprises University, Linda directs the China Growth Centre at St. Edmund Inc. a global NASDAQ quoted outsourcing services company.
She is Adjunct Professor of Economics at the London Business He retired from Sykes in 1999 and has many business, community School and at the London School of Economics and Political and sporting interests including being a member of the Advisory Science.
Linda is an associate of both the Globalisation Programme Board of The Winning Scotland Foundation.
at the Centre for Economic Performance and of the International Affairs, Diplomacy & Strategy Research Centre.
Linda is a director of Professor JA Kay JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc and a Board Member of London John Kay has a distinguished record as an economist, academic, & Partners and an Advisory Board Member of The Ofcial Monetary author and commentator on business, government and economic and Financial Institutions Forum OMFIF.
John was appointed a Director in 2008, he is a Visiting Professor at the London School of Economics, a director of Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. Value and Income Trust PLC and is undertaking a review of equity markets and long term decision making for the Department of Business Innovation and Skills.
06 ANNUAL REPORT 2012 DIRECTORS AND MANAGERS John Scott Michael Gray John Kay Fiona McBain Gordon McQueen Linda Yueh Managers and Secretaries Management Details Scottish Mortgage is managed by Baillie Gifford & Co, an Baillie Gifford & Co is appointed as investment managers and investment management rm formed in 1927 out of the legal rm secretaries to the Company.
The management contract can be Baillie & Gifford, WS, which had been Managers and Secretaries terminated at six months notice.
to the Company since its formation in 1909.
Management Fee Baillie Gifford & Co is one of the largest investment trust managers Baillie Gifford & Cos annual remuneration is 0.32% of total assets in the UK and currently manages eight investment trusts.
Baillie less current liabilities excluding short term borrowings for investment Gifford also manage unit trusts and Open Ended Investment purposes, calculated and payable on a quarterly basis.
Companies, together with investment portfolios on behalf of pension funds, charities and other institutional clients, both in the UK and overseas.
Funds under the management or advice of Baillie Gifford total over 78 billion at 31 March 2012.
Based in Edinburgh, it is one of the leading privately owned investment management rms in the UK, with 36 partners and a staff of around 700.
The Manager of Scottish Mortgages portfolio is James Anderson, a partner of Baillie Gifford, Head of Global Growth and a former Chief Investment officer.
The Deputy Manager is Tom Slater, also a partner and a member of Baillie Giffords Global Growth Team.
The rm of Baillie Gifford & Co is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07
