DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report The Directors present their Report together with the financial A long term investment horizon is observed and little attention is paid statements of the Company for the year to 31 March 2012. to short term market trends when deciding policy.
This patient approach allows market volatility to be exploited to shareholders Business Review long term advantage.
An average holding period for investments Business and Status of five years or more is targeted.
The Company is an investment company within the meaning of Investment may be made in xed interest securities, convertible section 833 of the Companies Act 2006. securities, funds, unquoted entities and other assets based on the The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
It was individual investment cases.
With prior approval of the Board, the approved as an investment trust under section 1158 of the Company may use derivatives for the purpose of efficient portfolio Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the year ended 31 March 2011, management i. e. for the purpose of reducing, transferring or subject to matters that may arise from any subsequent enquiry by HM eliminating investment risk in its investment, including protection Revenue and Customs into the Companys tax return.
In the opinion of against currency risk and for investment purposes.
The primary the Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so investment focus is on equity investments predominantly with good as to enable it to continue to seek such approval.
Objective Exposures to any one entity are monitored regularly by the Board.
At the time of investment the maximum exposure to any one holding Scottish Mortgage carries on business as an Investment Trust.
The investment objective is to maximise total return, whilst also generating is limited to 8% of total assets.
A maximum of 40% of total assets may be invested in holdings individually exceeding 3% of total real dividend growth, from a focused and actively managed global restrictions do not apply to investment in unit trusts or portfolio.
The equity portfolio is relatively concentrated and assets.
These two OEICs, investments by way of rights issues or certain government investments are chosen on their long term merits rather than with bonds.
The maximum permitted investment in other UK listed reference to geographical asset allocation or the composition of an investment companies in aggregate is 15% of gross assets.
The Company aims to achieve a greater return than the FTSE All-World Index in sterling terms over a five year rolling period.
Borrowings are invested in equity markets when it is believed that investment considerations merit the Company taking a geared Investment Policy position to equities.
Gearing levels, and the extent of equity gearing, Scottish Mortgage is a truly active fund and does not attempt to track both in absolute terms and relative to the peer group, are discussed its benchmark index.
Its objective is to maximise total return, whilst by the Board and Managers at every Board meeting.
The portion of also generating real dividend growth, from a focused and actively borrowings which is not invested in equities may be invested in xed managed global portfolio.
Investments are chosen for inclusion interest securities.
Apart from in exceptional circumstances the within the equity portfolio by looking closely at the merits of Company will not take out additional borrowings if, at the time of individual companies in a structured and rational fashion.
borrowing, this takes the level of effective gearing beyond 130% A global perspective is taken.
Asset allocation is the outcome of with net asset value calculated with borrowings at par value.
stock selection and not arrived at by making specic allocations The benchmark is a reference point for judging performance and to regions, industries or sectors.
Achieving diversication is a emphatically is not a portfolio construction tool.
The portfolio does requirement when selecting investments but an unconstrained not set out to reproduce the index and there will be periods when approach is adopted and there are no xed limits set as to performance diverges signicantly from the benchmark.
Performance geographical, industry and sector exposure.
Levels of diversity against the benchmark is assessed primarily over a five year rolling achieved are monitored by the Board on a regular basis.
The number of equity holdings will typically range between Details of investment strategy and activity this year can be found in 50 and 100 and are chosen from around the world.
the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Managers Review on pages 8 to 12.
A detailed analysis of the Companys investment portfolio is set out on pages 16 to 18.
