42 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors The Directors report should be read in conjunction with the Directors Chairmans statement, the Group Chief Executives review, the The Directors of the Company who served during 2012 are shown Operating and financial review, the Corporate Governance report onpage 60 of the Remuneration report.
Biographical details for andthe Remuneration report, which are incorporated by reference eachDirector at 31 December 2012 are given on pages 40 and 41. in and shall be deemed to form part of this report.
In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Principal activities and business review Code, all Directors will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual Carillion is one of the UKs leading integrated support services General Meeting on 1 May 2013.
Richard Adam and Richard Howson companies with a substantial portfolio of Public Private Partnership have contracts of service which are subject to one years notice of projects, extensive construction capabilities and a sector leading termination by the Company.
capability in delivering sustainable solutions.
The Group has operations in the UK, Canada and in the Middle East and North Africa.
The interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of the Company are shown in the Report of the Directors on page 44.
A review of the Groups businesses, financial performance and future developments is contained in the Chairmans statement, Group Chief Indemnity Executives review and the Operating and financial review.
To the extent permitted by the Companies Acts, the Company may indemnify any Director, Secretary or other officer of the Company The following specific issues are discussed in the sections shown against any liability and may purchase and maintain insurance against inbrackets: any liability.
The Company purchased and maintained throughout 2012 Directors and Officers liability insurance.
achievements in respect of the Groups Key Performance Indicators KPIs in 2012 and the KPIs set for 2013 Group Chief Conflicts of interest Executives review see pages 8 to 23 The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider financial performance in 2012 Operating and financial review and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an see pages 24 to 35 interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests principal operational risks and risk management Group Chief oftheCompany.
The Board considers that the procedures it has in Executives review see pages 22 to 23 place for reporting and considering conflicts of interest are effective.
treasury policy and financial risk management Operating and financial review see page 33 Key contractual arrangements social, community and environmental issues Sustainability review There are no persons with whom the Group or Company has see pages 36 to 39 contractual or other arrangements, whom are deemed to be essential resources and employees Group Chief Executives review see to the business of the Group or Company.
page 10 and Report of the Directors see pages 42 to 43.
Employees Analysis of revenue and net assets by operating segment and Information relating to employee numbers and remuneration is given geographical location are given in note 2 on pages 73 to 76. in note 6 on page 78.
Profits and dividends Carillions core values of openness, collaboration, mutual dependency, The consolidated income statement is shown on page 64.
Profit sustainable profitable growth, professional delivery and innovation beforetax was 179.5 million 2011: 142.8 million.
help to differentiate Carillion from its competitors by creating a culture in which everyone in Carillion is encouraged to understand the needs A 2012 interim dividend of 5.4 pence per ordinary share 2011: of their customers and to work in partnership with customers and 5.3pence was paid in November 2012.
It is proposed to pay a suppliers to deliver high-quality, value for money services.
finaldividend of 11.85 pence per ordinary share 2011: 11.6 pence on14June 2013 to shareholders on the register at the close of Employees are key to achieving Carillions business strategy and the business on 17 May 2013.
The payment of these 2012 interim Group is committed to improving their skills through training and andfinaldividends amounts to 72.9 million 2011: 71.5 million.
development and through nurturing a culture in which employees feel valued for the contributions they make to the Company and motivated A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered allowing to achieve their full potential.
shareholders a convenient means of reinvesting their dividends in theCompany by buying further shares.
If required, a DRIP application It is Carillions aim to foster a working environment in which all form is available from the share registrar, Equiniti see page 114 for employees are treated with courtesy, dignity and respect.
continually strives to eliminate all bias and unlawful discrimination in relation to job applicants, employees, business partners and members of the public.
Employees who become disabled are, wherever possible, retrained or provided with equipment that enables them to continue their employment.
43 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The objectives of Carillions Equal Opportunities and Diversity Policy Carillion also involves, engages and consults with employees through areto: People Forums, which give employees an opportunity to express their views on business issues.
The main objectives of the People Forums have a workforce that represents and responds to the diversity are to: ofcustomers and society in general improve safety and quality provided by a balanced and improve employee information and consultation productiveworkforce help employees feel more involved and valued reduce staff turnover, absenteeism and sickness levels support the continued education and development of employees provide a fair working environment in which discrimination improve business performance by improving the awareness of willnot be tolerated employees to the business climate in which they operate create a working environment free from discrimination, help employees to be responsive and better prepared for change.
harassment, victimisation and bullying work towards finding ways for under-represented groups to fully Team Talks, which are held monthly, provide Carillion employees with realise their potential within Carillion and take reasonable steps to a face-to-face communication with their line managers and facilitate help such groups discussion and feedback.
They focus on local issues and key corporate ensure that all employees are aware of the Equal Opportunities messages.
One-to-one meetings between individual employees and and Diversity Policy and to provide any necessary ongoing training their line managers are also held to discuss performance and progress to enable them to meet their responsibilities under it in order to help all employees to develop and reach their full potential.
recognise the merits of developing a workforce that incorporates the many diverse skills and backgrounds available from within the Employees can also exchange best practice information via total population and, accordingly, strive to be an organisation that BusinessXchange on the Group intranet.
will recognise, value and understand diversity and provide allemployees with opportunities to develop and reach their Carillion seeks to involve all employees in its cutting edge programmes fullpotential to integrate safety into every aspect of the Groups operations and to ensure that all applicants are treated fairly during recruitment improve its environmental performance, including the understanding processes and in accordance with relevant legislation and Codes and application of the principles of sustainability.
Further information of Practice on Health & Safety is given in the Group Chief Executives review on regularly review procedures and selection criteria for promotion to page 10 and on Sustainability in the Sustainability review on pages ensure that individuals are selected and treated according to their 36to 39. individual abilities and merits.
Share Capital Carillion places great importance on open and regular communication Carillion has only one class of shares, with one vote for every share.
with employees through both formal and informal processes.
As part of this commitment, a Group newspaper, Spectrum, is produced on As at 31 December 2012, the issued share capital of the Company aregular basis for all employees.
comprised a single class of ordinary shares of 50 pence each.
Details ofshares issued during the year and outstanding options are given in The views of employees on matters affecting their interests and the notes 23 and 25 on pages 89, 90 and 91 to the consolidated financial success of Carillion are also sought through The Great Debate, statements which form part of this report.
Details of the share People Forums, Team Talks, and one-to-one meetings between schemesin place are also provided on pages 59 to 61 of the employees and their line managers.
The Great Debate is a major exercise, which has been undertaken On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every bythe Group in each of the last nine years, involving a wide range of holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled employees.
The results of each Great Debate are used to inform and tovote shall have one vote and, on a poll, every holder of ordinary guide the development ofwork related initiatives as part of Carillions shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote, shall have strategy to be an employer of choice.
The Great Debate forms part of one vote for every ordinary share held.
the Groups ongoing programme to: The Notice of Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines for engage with employees to improve motivation and morale exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote empower employees to contribute to the Groups development inrelation to resolutions to be put to the Annual General Meeting.
both as an employer and as a business Allproxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld demonstrate Carillions commitment to listening to, and in relation to each resolution are announced and published on the responding to, the views of its employees.
Companys website after the meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than in relation to certain restrictions that are imposed from time to time by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws.
In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of theFinancial Services Authority, Directors and certain officers and employees of the Group require the approval of the Company to dealin ordinary shares of theCompany.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights attached to the shares.
Financial statements Governance Our performance About us 44 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors continued Substantial share interests Property As at 27 February 2013, the Company had received under the There are differences between market and book values of interest in FinancialServices Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, land held as fixed assets, however, the differences are not material in formalnotification of the following holdings of voting rights in its relation to the affairs of the Group.
share capital exceeding the 3% notification threshold: Financial instruments % of issued Information on the Carillion Groups use of financial instruments, Nature of interest share capital held financial risk management objectives and policies and exposure Schroders plc Indirect 9.26 isgivenin note 27 on pages 92 to 96 of the consolidated Contracts for financialstatements.
Difference 0.01 Standard Life Investments Ltd Direct 3.931 Directors share interests Indirect 2.332 Ordinary shares Total 6.263 The beneficial interests of the Directors, their immediate families and Templeton Global Advisers Ltd Indirect 5.22 connected persons in the ordinary share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2012 are shown below.
Indirect 4.29 As at As at Contracts for 1 January 31 December 0.71 Difference 2012 2012 Fully paid 50p ordinary shares owned: Number Number Ameriprise Financial Inc. and its group Direct 0.063 Executive Director Indirect 4.822 Richard Adam 232,203 157,004 Total 4.885 Richard Howson 41,845 67,572 F&C Asset Mangement plc Indirect 4.47 Non-Executive Directors Eaga Partnership Trust Direct 1.96 Philip Green 10,000 10,000 Indirect 1.96 Andrew Dougal 5,000 5,000 Total 3.92 Steve Mogford Nil Nil HBOS plc Direct 1.25 Vanda Murray 12,300 12,300 Indirect 2.013 Philip Rogerson 39,630 39,630 Total 3.263 UBS Investment Bank Direct 3.12 There has been no change in Directors interests in the period 1January 2013 to 27 February 2013.
Policy for payment of suppliers The Groups policy is that its individual businesses should agree terms Additional information for shareholders and conditions for transactions with its suppliers and that payment With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the bemade on these terms, providing suppliers meet their obligations Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate tothe businesses satisfaction.
The Group as a whole does not apply a Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
general payment policy as this would not be practicable or appropriate, The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution given the diverse nature of the transactions undertaken by its business ofthe shareholders.
The powers of the Board are described in the units.
The Company does not have any trade creditors.
Corporate Governance report on pages 45 to 52.
The number of days credit outstanding for the Group averaged 69 Annual General Meeting days at 31 December 2012 67 days at 31 December 2011.
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon on 1 May 2013 atAustin Court, 80 Cambridge Street, Birmingham B1 2NP.
The Change of control Noticeof the Annual General Meeting accompanies this Annual A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon a change ReportandAccounts.
of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as loan agreements and share incentive plans.
Included in the AGM business is the proposal to renew the authority for the Company to purchase its own shares.
As at 31 December 2012, Carillions main credit facilities, including the 737.5 million Syndicated the Company had authority from shareholders for the purchase of Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility dated 4 February 2011, contain 43,025,462 of its own shares.
a provision such that in the event of a change of control any lender may, within a 30-day consultation period and if it so requires, notify Auditor the Company that it wishes to cancel its commitment.
Any such Resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor and to authorise cancellation of commitment and the repayment of any outstanding the Directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the borrowings will occur on the date falling three days after the expiry Annual General Meeting.
Approved by order of the Board.
Charitable and political contributions Payments for charitable purposes made by the Group during the year ended 31 December 2012 amounted to 200,000 2011: 200,000.
The primary beneficiaries of these charitable donations were Employee nominated charities, The Wildlife Trust, Business in the Community, Richard Tapp CRASH, RedR, Walking with Wounded and the Royal British Legion.
Secretary 27 February 2013 The Carillion Group also contributes more than one per cent of profitsper annum in cash or in-kind staff time on community projects to community activities and is a corporate member of Business in the Community.
The Company and its subsidiaries made no political donations during the period under review.
