40 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Board of Directors 01.
Philip Green 1,2, 3,4 Chairman Group Finance Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Philip was appointed to the Board in October Richard was appointed Group FinanceDirector Director 2004, becoming Chairman in May 2005. in April 2007.
He qualified asachartered Appointed to the Board in June 2011, HeisChairman of both the Nominations accountant with KPMG Audit Plc in 1982 Philipisa member of the Audit, Nominations, Committee and the Business Integrity andgained broad experience in a number of Remuneration and Business Integrity Committee.
Philip is also Chairman of Bunzl public and private company finance director Committees.
Philip was Chief Executive plc and fide La Rue plc.
He was an Executive roles from the age of 30.
Immediately prior ofUnited Utilities Group PLC from 2006 to Director of BG plc from 1992 to 1998, latterly tojoining Carillion, Richard was Group Finance 2011.
His earlier business experience includes as Deputy Chairman.
He is a Fellow of both Director of Associated British Ports Holdings serving as Chief Executive of Royal P&O the Institute of Chartered Accountants and plc.
He is also a Non-Executive Director and Nedloyd, as a Director and Chief Operating the Institute of Corporate Treasurers.
Age 68. theChairman of the Audit Committee Officer at Reuters Group PLC and as a Chief ofZattikkaplc having previously been a Operating Officer at DHL for Europe and 02.
Richard Howson 3 Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Africa.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of Group Chief Executive theAudit Committee of SSL International plc USindustrial services company, BakerCorp.
Richard has been Group Chief Executive since until its takeover in 2010.
He served as the Chief Operating Officer from September 2010 to 31December 2011 having been appointed tothe Board in December 2009 as Executive Director with responsibility for the Middle East, North Africa and UK Construction businesses and for the Groups Health & Safety and Sustainability programmes.
Prior toappointment to the Board, Richard was Managing Director of Carillions Middle East and North Africa businesses before which heheld senior positions in the Groups Infrastructure and Building businesses.
Richard has worked for the Company for 17years.
He is a Fellow of the Institution ofCivil Engineers.
41 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 05.
Vanda Murray OBE 1,2, 3,4 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Andrew was appointed to the Board in Steve was appointed to the Board in Vanda was appointed to the Board in June October 2011 and is Chairman of the September 2006 and is a member of the 2005 and is Chairman of the Remuneration AuditCommittee and a member of the Audit, Nominations, Remuneration and Committee and a member of the Audit, Nominations, Remuneration and Business Business Integrity Committees.
Steve is Nominations and Business Integrity Integrity Committees.
Andrew was Chief ChiefExecutive of United Utilities Group PLC Committees.
Vanda is Chairman of Vphase Executive of Hanson plc, the international which he joined in March 2011.
Before joining plc, Senior Non-Executive Director of building materials company after its demerger United Utilities, Steve was appointed in May Fennerplc, and a Non-Executive Director from Hanson, the Anglo-American diversified 2007 to Finmeccanica, Italys principal defence ofChemring Group PLC, Microgen plc and industrial group, where he was Finance and security company, as Chief Executive of The Manchester Airport Group plc.
Since his retirement from Hanson plc Selex Galileo.
From April 2000 to May 2007, was Chief Executive Officer of Blick plc from in 2002, Andrew has been a Non-Executive he was a Chief Operating Officer and a 2001 to 2004, a Director of Ultraframe plc Director of Premier Farnell plc and Creston plc Director of BAE Systems plc.
Age 56. from 2002 to 2006, Non-Executive Chairman currently, and formerly Taylor Wimpey plc, of Eazyfone Limited from 2006 to 2009 and Taylor Woodrow plc and BPB plc.
He has has also served as a Trustee and Nonserved as a member of the Audit Committee Executive Director of The Manufacturing at all these companies and Audit Committee Institute.
She was appointed OBE in 2002 Chairman at Taylor Wimpey, Taylor Woodrow forServices to Industry and to Export and and Creston.
Mr Dougal is a member of isaFellow of the Chartered Institute of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Marketing.
Scotland and is a member of its Council and Chair of its Technical Policy Board.
Key 1 Audit Committee 2 Remuneration Committee 3 Nominations Committee 4 Business Integrity Committee Financial statements Governance Our performance About us
