Board of Directors Charles Gregson David Bellamy Andrew Croft Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer N Charles joined the Board in January 2010 as David joined the Company in 1991 and was Andrew joined the Company in 1993 and has an independent Non-executive Director and appointed to the Board in 1997, before been Chief Financial Officer since 2004.
He was appointed Non-executive Chairman with becoming Chief Executive in 2007.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant at effect from January 2012.
He is Chair of the previously fulfilled a number of roles at  in 1988 and has a Nomination Committee.
Charles is St. Jamess Place including Group Operations degree in Accounting and Economics from Non-executive Chairman of ICAP plc and Director and Managing Director.
Andrew is a Trustee CPP Group plc and a Non-executive Director worked in the financial services industry since of the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
He has 1973 and is a Trustee of the St. Jamess Place extensive board and senior management Foundation.
experience in the UK and overseas and has more than thirty years of experience in the financial services sector.
Charles has previously served on the boards of United Business Media plc, Provident Financial plc and MAI plc.
Charles graduated in History and Law from Trinity Hall, Cambridge and has an MA in Law.
He qualified as a solicitor in 1972.
Ian Gascoigne David Lamb Managing Director Managing Director I Ian is the Managing Director responsible for David joined the Company in 1992 and was the management and development of the appointed to the Board in 2007.
He has worked in the financial Managing Director with responsibility for services industry since 1986 and joined the Operations, including Client Services, Company in 1991.
He was appointed to the Marketing, Business Development and the Board in 2003.
He has a degree from Groups fund range.
He is a member of the Lancaster University and an MA from Investment Committee and a Trustee of the Leicester University.
Ian is a Trustee of the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
David is also a St. Jamess Place Foundation.
Director of the Association of Private Client Investment Managers and Stockbrokers and a member of the Council for the CBI South West.
He is a graduate of City University, London and a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
Key A Member of the Audit Committee I Member of the Investment Committee N Member of the Nomination Committee R Member of the Risk Committee Rem Member of the Remuneration Committee 44 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Sarah Bates Vivian Bazalgette Steve Colsell Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director I Rem I Rem A Sarah joined the Board as an independent Vivian joined the Board in July 2011 as an Steve was appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director in 2004 and became independent Non-executive Director and is non-independent Non-executive Director in Senior Independent Director in January 2012.
Chairman of the Investment Committee.
He 2009 to represent Lloyds Banking Group plc.
She is Chair of the Remuneration Committee is also a member of the Remuneration and He is Finance Director of Group Strategic and is a member of the Investment Audit Committees.
Vivian has a wealth of Initiatives, Wealth, Asset Finance & Committee.
Sarah has over thirty years board and senior management experience and International Banking at Lloyds Banking investment experience and is Chairman of the has over thirty years experience of Group.
Steve has held a number of senior J. P Morgan American Investment Trust plc, investment markets.
He is a Non-executive finance and strategy roles in the life, general Non-executive and senior independent Director of Henderson High Income Trust insurance, banking and consumer finance Director of Development Securities plc and a plc, Brunner Investment Trust plc and sectors.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Non-executive Director of three other listed Perpetual Income & Growth Investment Trust Actuaries and a graduate of Imperial College, investment trusts.
Sarah is Chairman of Stena plc.
Vivian is currently Vice Chairman of the London.
Line UK Pension Fund Trustees, of Rutley Governors of Dulwich College, a Member of Russia Property Fund and of the Cancer the Advisory Board of Greenwich Hospital Research UK Pension Fund Investment and advises the BAE Systems Plc Pension Committee.
Sarah is also an advisor to, or Fund and the Investment Committee of the member of, various other investment Nuffield Foundation.
Vivian has an English committees and was formerly Chairman of degree from Cambridge.
the Association of Investment Companies.
Sarah graduated in Philosophy and Law from Trinity Hall, Cambridge and has an MBA from the London Business School.
Iain Cornish Mike Power Baroness Wheatcroft Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director A R N A R N R Rem Iain joined the Board as an independent Mike joined the Board as an independent Baroness Wheatcroft was appointed to the Non-executive Director in October 2011.
He chairs Board as an independent Non-executive is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a the Risk Committee, is a member of the Director in April 2012 and is a member of the member of the Risk and Nomination Audit and Nomination Committees and sits House of Lords.
Iain has considerable board and on the Board of St. Jamess Place International executive Director of FIAT S. p. A. and of the senior management experience and was Chief where he also chairs the Compliance and Risk Association of Large Visitor Attractions.
Executive of the Yorkshire Building Society Committee.
He is Professor of Accounting at Baroness Wheatcroft has considerable from July 2003 until December 2011, having the London School of Economics and Political experience of the media and journalism and joined the Society in 1992.
Iain is a Science and Director of the Centre for was previously Editor-in-Chief at the Wall Non-executive Director of Vanquis Bank Analysis of Risk and Regulation.
He is a Street Journal, Europe, a former Editor of the Limited and also served as a member of the Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Sunday Telegraph and was Business and City FSA Practitioner Panel from 2007 to 2011, Accountants in England and Wales, an Editor of The Times between 1997 and 2006. becoming Chairman in 2009.
Prior to joining Associate of the UK Chartered Institute of She has been a Non-executive Director of the Society, he was a Senior Consultant in Taxation and an Honorary Fellow of the Barclays Group plc and Shaftesbury plc and KPMGs Strategy Services Consultancy Institute of Risk Management.
Mike holds acts as an advisor to, or member of, various Practice, specialising in banking and finance honorary doctorates from the Universities of other bodies, including the British Museum, sector consultancy projects.
Uppsala and St Gallen and he lectures and the UK India Round Table and Policy writes on risk management, regulation and Exchange.
