Directors Report The Directors present their Report and the Annual Report and Principal Activities Accounts and the audited consolidated Financial Statements of The Company is a financial services holding company, with the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012. principal interests in the provision of wealth management advice and services to the clients of the Group.
A full review of the activities of the Group and the basis on which the Company Business Review generates or preserves value over the longer term is given in the The information that fulfils the Companies Act requirements of Chief Executives Statement on pages 4 to 6. the Business Review can be found in the following sections: Principal risks and The Risk and Risk Substantial Shareholders uncertainties Management section on pages As at 27 February 2013, the Company had been notified of the 31 and 32. following interests disclosed to the Company under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: Performance and development Chief Executives Statement of the business during the year on pages 4 to 6, the Chief Lloyds Banking Group plc LBG 288,935,818 56.894% and position at the end of the Financial Officers Report Prudential plc 28,047,643 5.53% year on pages 12 to 14 and the Financial Review on pages Details of the relationship agreement between Lloyds Banking 16 to 29.
Group plc and the Company are set out on page 54.
Information on likely future Chief Executives Statement developments on pages 5 and 6, the Chief The interests of the Directors, their families and any connected Financial Officers Report persons in the issued share capital of the Company are shown on on page 14, and the Financial page 81. Review on pages 19, 25 and 27.
Directors and Officers The Corporate Governance Share Capital Indemnity and Insurance Report on page 54.
Structure of the Companys Capital Financial and non-financial Key Performance Indicators As at 31 December 2012, the Companys issued and fully paid up KPIs on pages 10 and 11. share capital was 506,831,147ordinary shares of 15 pence each.
All ordinary shares are quoted on the London Stock Exchange Environmental, employee and The Corporate Social and can be held in uncertificated form via CREST.
Details of the social community matters Responsibility Report on movement in the issued share capital during the year are provided pages 34 to 43. in Note 29 to the financial statements on page 129.
Contractual or other Page 48. arrangements essential to the Articles of Association business of the Company The full rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the Articles of Association.
The Results and Dividends articles can be amended by a special resolution of the members of The consolidated statement of comprehensive income is on the Company and copies can be obtained from Companies House.
page86 and profit for the financial year attributable to equity Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys shareholders amounted to 107.1 million.
An interim dividend of Reports and Accounts: attend, speak and exercise voting rights 4.25 pence per share, which equates to 21.4 million, was paid and appoint proxies to attend general meetings.
on 19September2012 2011: 3.2 pence per share 15.7 million.
The Directors recommend that shareholders approve a final Voting Rights dividend of 6.39 pence per share, which equates to 32.4 million At any General Meeting, on a show of hands, each member who 2011: final dividend of 4.8 pence per share 23.7 million to be is present in person has one vote and every proxy present who has paid on 24May2013 to shareholders on the register at the close been duly appointed by a member entitled to vote on a resolution of business on 12 April 2013. has one vote.
On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is The Directors introduced a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRP theholder.
Details of the DRP scheme are set out on page 158.
Forms appointing a proxy sent by the Company to shareholders, Status of Company in relation to any General Meeting, must be received by the The Company is registered as a public limited company under the Company or their registrars not less than 48 hours before the Companies Act 2006. time appointed for holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
46 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Restrictions on Voting Rights Meeting held in the third calendar year before the current year, If any shareholder has been sent a notice by the Company under shall retire from office by rotation.
Directors can be removed Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and failed to supply the from office by an ordinary resolution of shareholders or in certain relevant information for a period of 14 days, then the shareholder other circumstances as set out in the Articles of Association.
may not for so long as the default continues be entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting, In accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate or to exercise any other right conferred by membership in Governance Code, the whole Board of Directors will retire by relation to shareholders meetings.
Before a Director is proposed for re-election by shareholders, the Chairman considers whether his If those default shares represent at least 0.25% of their class, any or her performance continues to be effective and whether they dividend payable in respect of the shares will be withheld by the demonstrate commitment to the role.
The Chairman is pleased to Company and subject to certain limited exceptions no transfer, confirm that, following the performance evaluation referred to other than an excepted transfer, of any shares held by the member on page 52, the Directors seeking re-election continue to make a in certificated form will be registered.
valuable contribution to the effective functioning of the Board and to the appropriate mix of skills and experience needed by the Board and its committees.
The Chairman also confirms that the Restrictions on Share Transfers Directors have demonstrated their continued commitment to There are restrictions on share transfers, all of which are set out these roles and continue to dedicate sufficient time to their in the Articles of Association.
Restrictions include transfers made duties.
The Board therefore recommends that those Directors in favour of more than four joint holders and transfers held in retiring at the forthcoming AGM should be re-elected.
Directors may decline to recognise a transfer, details on the Directors are set out in the Directors biographies unless it is in respect of only one class of share and lodged and on pages 44 and 45 and in the Notice of Meeting.
duly stamped with the Transfer Office.
The Directors may also refuse to register any transfer of shares held in certificated form The Board is recommending the articles be amended at the 2013 which are not fully paid.
Directors may also choose to decline AGM to ensure that the articles reflect the provisions of the requests for share transfers from a US Person as defined under UKCorporate Governance Code that all the Directors offer Regulation S of the United States Securities Act 1933 that would themselves for re-election annually.
A further explanation of the cause the aggregate number of beneficial owners of issued shares changes proposed to the Articles of Association is contained in who are US Persons to exceed 70. the Notice of Meeting.
The registration of transfers may be suspended at such times Except as stated in the Directors Remuneration Report, no and for such periods not exceeding 30 days in any year as the Director has, or has had during the year under review, any Directors may from time to time determine in respect of any material interest in any contract or arrangement with the class of shares.
Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Details of all Executive Directors Service Contracts are set out in the Remuneration The Company is not aware of any agreements between Report on page 72. shareholders that restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights attached to the shares.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or Directors employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions in Details of the Directors as at 27February2013 and their the Companys share schemes may, in certain circumstances, biographies are shown on pages 44 and 45.
Brief particulars of the cause share awards granted to employees under such schemes to Directors membership of the Board committees are contained in vest on a takeover.
the Corporate Governance Report on pages 50 to 64.
Baroness Wheatcroft was appointed to the Board as an Power of the Directors independent Non-executive Director on 2 April 2012 and was The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the elected by shareholders at the AGM on 8 May 2012.
Company and their powers are subject to any regulations of the RogerWalsom resigned from the Board on 8 May 2012. articles, to the provisions of the Statutes and to such regulations as may be prescribed by Special Resolution of the Company.
The Companys current Articles of Association require that any Director appointed during the year to fill a casual vacancy must The Companys Articles of Association contain, for example, stand for reappointment at the next Annual General Meeting and specific provisions and restrictions concerning the Companys that, at each Annual General Meeting, all those Directors who power to borrow money.
They also provide that directors have were elected or last re-elected at or before the Annual General the power to allot unissued shares, up to pre-determined levels Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47 Directors Report continued set and approved by shareholders in general meetings.
This also The group had committed facilities totalling 70.8 million as at applies to the directors allotting equity securities otherwise than 27 February 2013 which contain clauses which require lender in accordance with statutory pre-emption rules.
consent for any change of control.
Should consent not be given, a change of control would trigger mandatory prepayment of the facilities.
Creditors Payment Policy The payment of supplier invoices is made on the Companys behalf All of the Companys employee share plans contain provisions by St. Jamess Place Management Services Limited SJPMS, relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options asubsidiary company.
The Company has signed up to the may vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject Department for Business, Innovation and Skills Prompt Payment where appropriate to the satisfaction of any performance Code, a copy of which can be obtained from the PromptPayment conditions at that time and pro-rating of awards.
SJPMSs average number of days purchases outstanding in respect of trade creditors at 31 December 2012 was 17 days 2011: 20 days.
Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on 21 May 2013 at The Royal Aeronautical Society, 4 Hamilton Place, Charitable and Political Donations London W1J 7BQ at 11.00am.
Charitable contributions made by the Group to the St. Jamess Place Foundation during the year totalled 2,439,000 Authority to Purchase Own Shares 2011:1,400,000.
Contributions during the year to other At the Annual General Meeting in 2012, shareholders granted charitable organisations totalled 71,000 2011: 63,000.
A list authority to the Directors for the purchase by the Company of its of charitable donations made by the Foundation is available on own shares.
The authority will expire at the end of the Annual request.
Further details on the Foundation are included in the General Meeting to be held in 2013, or 18 months from the date Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 38 and 39. granted, whichever is earlier.
During the year, the Company did not purchase any of its own ordinary shares.
The Directors will It is the Groups policy not to make any donations to political propose the renewal of the authority to purchase own shares at parties within the meaning of the definitions set out in the the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 and sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Group did not make any political donations during the year 2011: Nil.
Going Concern The Companys business activities, together with the factors Employees likely to affect its future development, performance and position Full details of the Groups approach to employee involvement, are set out in the Business Review, as referred to on page 46. training, development and communication can be found in the The financial position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 36. position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 16 to 29.
In addition, the Notes on pages 113 and pages 119 and 120 and the Risk and Risk Management section Bribery Act 2010 on pages 30 to 33 include: the Companys objectives: policies and During the year, the Company undertook an annual review to processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management ensure that it has adequate policies and procedures in place to objectives: details of its financial instruments and its exposures to prevent bribery and corruption.
This included reviewing and credit risk and liquidity.
updating the Bribery Act Policy Statement, along with other related policies and procedures, and providing training to As shown on page 26 of the Financial Review, the Groups capital employees and Partners.
The Bribery Act Policy Statement was position is strong and well in excess of regulatory requirements.
first issued in 2011 and is available to all employees and Partners The long-term nature of the business results in considerable via the Companys intranet.
positive cash flows, arising from existing business.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is well Significant Contracts and Change of Control placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Company has a number of contractual arrangements which it considers essential to the business of the Company.
The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company Specifically, these are committed loan facilities from a and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business number of banks and arrangements with third party providers for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt of administration services.
the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Further information on the basis of preparation of these accounts can be A change of control of the Company may cause some agreements seen in Note 1 to both the Consolidated Accounts under to which the Company is party to alter or terminate.
These International Financial Reporting Standards and Parent Company include bank facility agreements and employee share plans.
Accounts on UK GAAP basis.
48 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Statement of Directors Responsibilities This statement is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 64.
The complete Corporate Governance Report is set out on pages 50 to 64.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors Each of the Directors, at the date of approval of this report, confirms that: So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware: and Each Director has taken all reasonable steps to ascertain relevant audit information and ensure that the auditors are aware of such information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act2006.
Independent Auditors The auditors  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a Resolution that they be re-appointed until the end of the 2014 Annual General Meeting will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 21May 2013.
On behalf of the Board D Bellamy A Croft Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 27 February 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49
