Our Business Model and Strategy Our Business Model What do we do?
Delivering on our investment proposition t. Jamess Place specialises in providing face-to-face Positive performance of our Investment Management Sadvice to clients through our dedicated advisers, the Approach delivers growth in funds managed and helps St. Jamess Place Partnership, and in managing client wealth ensure positive client relationships.
with our distinctive Investment Management Approach.
Measured in terms of funds under management, the Our business is centred on the UK, attracting clients from the business has doubled over the last five years as well as in the mass affluent and, increasingly, the high net worth markets.
five years preceding that, a rate of growth which we aspire Our advisers monitor and review clients financial needs over to repeat in the next five years, subject of course to the time, adapting advice where necessary in order to ensure that vagaries of the market.
We believe that the strength of recommendations remain appropriate.
By focusing on getting relationship between our Partners and our clients, together this right, we retain both the client relationship and the funds with our approach to investment management, leaves us under management for the long-term.
uniquely positioned to continue to succeed in the wealth management market.
Our relationship-based approach is greatly valued by our clients, no more so than in the current period of financial The St. Jamess Place Partnership uncertainty.
There is an increasing demand for trusted Members of the St. Jamess Place Partnership play the advice from experienced advisers backed by a strong leading role in delivering our wealth management service.
Clients also value our unique The Partners, so called because of the way they work in investment management approach.
partnership with their clients, have, on average, over 17years experience and include some of the most The enduring nature of the relationships we have both with experienced and able professionals working in wealth Partners and with clients is particularly important.
relationships endure because they are founded on mutual respect and trust: within our community we emphasise Whilst all of our Partners are experienced advisers, some the importance of building and maintaining long-term have expertise in specific and highly technical areas.
individuals circumstances require additional expertise, Partners will consult with, and if necessary introduce, a Our Business Strategy Where are we going?
Partners often work alongside other St. Jamess Place has always pursued a simple but effective professional advisers, providing a complementary service strategy for growth, based on: and a fresh perspective.
Development of the Partnership through recruitment of new advisers and productivity improvements We have chosen to promote our services exclusively through Increased activity in the Partnership results in the the Partnership.
This reflects the confidence we have in our attraction of new clients and new funds.
Partners ability to provide clients with sound financial Meeting and where possible exceeding the expectations advice and to build and maintain long-term working of our clients relationships with them.
Positive long-term relationships with clients ensure the retention of funds for the long-term.
Being able to call upon the services of an adviser who understands an individuals personal circumstances enables them to benefit from a source of trusted advice as their financial needs evolve over Business Growth the years.
We are committed to supporting our Partners on going professional development to ensure that they remain appropriately qualified and technically able.
As a result, we Meeting Client Expectations are happy to guarantee the suitability of the advice that they give when recommending any of the wealth management products and services provided by companies in the St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Group.
Investment Proposition Partnership Growth 8 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 t s N n p e e i i l w h c s B n m u o r s i e i t t n a - e l g s e n s r o L Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Our Approach to Investment Management Investment Committee Input Advice from Stamford Associates Manages the Managers Appoint the Set performance Risk management Decisions: Change firm?
Fund Managers objectives and strategy Change manager?
The Investment Management Approach Long-Term Client Relationships At the heart of the proposition to our clients is our Everything we do is targeted at building and maintaining investment management approach.
long-term relationships with clients: this is the core of our business model.
Successful investment is critical to future financial wellbeing, but it is a field which presents a unique problem: We achieve this primarily through the activity of the future performance is unpredictable.
As a result, when St. Jamess Place Partnership and their ability to provide an clients choose an investment manager, no matter how individualised service to each of our clients.
Our Partners successful, they can never be sure that they have made the recognise that no one clients objectives or circumstances are right choice: and even if they have, it may not continue to be the same as another and so the advice must be tailored.
The the right choice over the years to come.
relationship between Partner and client is founded on mutual respect and trust, and the emphasis is on building and We believe that our approach to investment management maintaining a long-term relationship.
Our high standards are addresses these challenges.
We do not place clients money maintained and reinforced by the high expectations that in the hands of our own team of investment managers: members of the Partnership have of each other.
As a result, indeed, we have no investment managers of our own.
clients choose to continue the working relationship with their Instead, we are free to choose any investment manager from Partner indefinitely, appreciating a source of trusted advice as any fund management firm anywhere in the world.
their financial needs evolve over the years.
The responsibility of selecting the range of funds and fund The success of our approach can be seen from the fact that managers that are made available to St. Jamess Place clients over 90% of new investments is estimated to come from at any one time falls upon the St. Jamess Place Investment existing clients or from referrals and introductions from Committee, advised by the respected independent them, and once invested clients tend to stay invested.
We are investment research consultancy, Stamford Associates.
particularly pleased with the consistent, year on year, low rate of surrender of funds typically less than 5%.
The Stamford Associates share their extensive research of the strength of these relationships is also underscored through global investment markets with a small number of our annual client survey, conducted by Ledbury Research, companies.
We are particularly proud to have them on our where we consistently outperform the market place on all team, as St. Jamess Place is the only company they work core satisfaction metrics.
with that provides wealth management advice to private individuals or Trustees.
The Committee meets regularly to review performance and consider detailed reports from each investment manager.
If a change in the marketplace calls for the addition of another manager, the Committee will select one.
Equally, if the Committee loses confidence in the ability of an existing manager it will replace them.
We remain committed to monitoring and reviewing all of our fund managers to ensure we generate the optimum return for our clients investment and expect to make further new appointments, of both managers and mandates, in 2013.
