56 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review Focused and disciplined risk management Standard Chartered has maintained a Our portfolio remains welldiversi ed and robust and disciplined approach to risk focused on our core markets.
Risk pro le Diversi ed portfolio We have a well diversi ed portfolio of loans and In Wholesale Banking 62 per cent of loans and advances and diversi ed income streams: no advances are short-term individual country accounts for more than 20 per We have low exposure to asset classes cent of our loans and advances to customers or outside our core markets and customer base: operating income our exposure to commercial real estate, asset In Consumer Banking, 72 per cent of assets backed securities and leveraged loans is are secured and the average loantovalue ratio non-material from a Group perspective on our mortgage portfolio is less than 48 per cent Strong capital and We remain well capitalised and already meet Our customer deposit base is diversi ed liquidity position the liquidity thresholds required under forthcoming by type and maturity Basel III regulations We have a substantial portfolio of liquid We have a strong advances-to-deposits ratio assets that can be realised if a liquidity stress We remain a net provider of liquidity to interbank occurs markets Robust risk governance We have a clear statement of risk appetite, which We have a very experienced senior risk team structure and is aligned to the Groups strategy: it is approved by and our risk committees are staffed by the experienced senior the Board and informs the more granular risk Groups most senior leaders team parameters within which our businesses operate We have a robust risk management We continuously monitor our risk pro le to ensure framework, which assigns accountability and responsibility for the management and it remains within risk appetite and regularly conduct stress tests control of risk We review and adjust our underwriting standards and limits in response to observed and anticipated changes in the external environment and the evolving expectations of our shareholders The Groups Pillar 3 disclosures for 31December 2012, p rovide details from a regulatory perspective on certain aspects of credit risk, market risk and operational risk and are available on our website.
Pages 1 13 to 115 set out the summary of differences between the Pillar 3 disclosures and the Annual Report along with a cross-reference between disclosures made in the Risk review section of the Annual Report and the Pillar 3 disclosures.
Risk review 57 The following parts of the Risk review form part of the Our exposure to commercial real estate and leveraged loans audited financial statements: from the start of the Risk account fo r less than 2 per cent and 1 per cent of our total management section on page 62 to the end of the assets respectively.
The notional value of the asset backed Liquidity s ection on page 110, with the exception of the securities ABS portfolio, which accounts for 0.7 per cent of our Asset backed securities and The Impact of Basel III total assets, increased by $2.3 billion in 2012 due to investments sections on pages 94, 95 and 103. in high quality, senior ABS and residential mortgage backed securities RMBS assets in the Groups portfolio of liquid Risk overview assets.
Further details are given on page 94.
Standard Chartered has a fide ned risk appetite, approved by Market risk is tightly monitored using Value at Risk VaR the Board, which is an expression of the amount of risk we are methodologies complemented by sensitivity measures, gross prepared to take and plays a central role in the development nominal limits and loss triggers at a detailed portfolio level.
of our strategic plans and policies.
We also regularly conduct This is supplemented with extensive stress testing, which stress tests and monitor concentrations to ensure that we are takes account, of more extreme price movements.
Further operating within our approved risk appetite.
details on market risk are given on pag es 99 to 102.
We review and adjust our underwriting standards and limits in Our liquidity in 2012 bene ted from continued good in ows response to observed and anticipated changes in the external of customer deposits, which helped us to maintain a strong environment and the evolving expectations of our stakeholders.
Liquidity will continue to be In 2012, we maintained our cautious stance overall whilst deployed to support growth opportunities in our chosen continuing to support our core clients.
We manage liquidity in each of our geographical Our balance sheet and liquidity have remained strong and we locations, ensuring that we can meet all short-term funding already meet the enhanced liquidity thresholds required under requirements and that our balance sheet remains structurally forthcoming Basel III regulations.
Our customer deposit base is diversi ed by type and maturity and we are a net provider of liquidity to the interbank Our lending portfolio is diversi ed across a wide range of money markets.
We have a substantial portfolio of marketable products, industries and customer segments, which serves to securities that can be realised in the event of liquidity stress.
We operate in 68 markets and there is no single Further details on liquidity are given on page s 103 to 110. market that accounts for more than 20 per cent of loans and advances to customers, or operating income.
Our cross-border The Group has continued to make detailed submissions to the asset exposure is diversi ed and re ects our strategic focus UKs Financial Services Authority FSA during 2012 regarding a on our core markets and customer segments.
Approximately Group level recovery plan and information to support resolution 47 per cent of our loans and advances to customers are of short planning.
We continue to engage actively with our regulators, in maturity, and in Wholesale Banking 62 per cent of loans and particular our Crisis Management Group regulators, to develop advances have a tenor of one year or less.
In Consumer Banking appropriate and workable responses to the various regulatory 72 per cent of assets are secured and the overall loan-tovalue requirements that are being developed.
It is critical that ratio on our mortgage portfolio is less than 48 per cent.
international regulators work together to develop co-ordinated approaches for crossborder banking groups.
We have low exposure to asset classes and segments outside of our core markets and target customer base.
We have no We have a well e stablished risk governance structure, which is direct sovereign exposure as fide ned by the European Banking set out on page 63, and an experienced senior team.
Members Authority EBA to Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal or Spain.
of our executive committee the Court sit on our principal risk Our total gross exposure to all counterparties in these countries, executive committees, which ensures that risk oversight is a more than half of which relates to currency and interest rate critical focus for all our directors, while common membership derivatives, is 0.6 per cent of total assets.
Our direct sovereign between these committees helps us address the interexposure to the remainder of the eurozone is immaterial.
Board Committees provide Further details are given on page 95.
Our exposure to countries additional risk management oversight and challenge.
directly impacted by the political developments in the Middle We continue to build on the Groups culture of risk management East and North Africa are also low.
Exposures in Bahrain, Syria, discipline.
The management of operational risk, in particular, Egypt, Libya, Algeria and Tunisia represent less than 0.5 per cent continues to be enhanced across all areas of the Group.
are introducing increased rigour in the process for anticipating a wide variety of operational risks and in our assessments of risks and control effectiveness.
Operational risk is covered in more detail on page s 111 and 112.
58 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued Risk performance review 2012 impairment charges were higher in both businesses than the historic lows experienced in 2010 and 2011, driven principally by impairment charges in a very small number of exposures in Wholesale Banking and change in portfolio mix in Consumer Banking.
In Consumer Banking, the total loan impairment provisions for 2012 continued to remain low as a percentage of loans and advances.
There was an increase in overall impairment in line with portfolio growth and our continued strategic shift towards unsecured products in selected markets.
These tend to have both higher impairment rates and higher returns.
We have also seen pock ets of localised pressure, particularly in Korea.
We remain disciplined in our approach to risk management andp roactive in our collection efforts to minimise account delinquencies.
Recoveries continued to bene t from loan sales during this period.
In Wholesale Banking, the increase in provisions was primarily related to a very small number of clients in India and the UAE.
While we do not see a broadbased deterioration in asset quality, we have increased the number of clients subject to additional precautionary monitoring re ecting our proactive approach to managing risk in an uncertain environment.
Portfolio impairment provisions have been reduced principally because the sector-speci c provision held in India is no longer required.
The advances-to-deposits ratio remained strong, strengthening to 74.1 per cent from 76.6 per cent as we experienced good rates of deposit growth in a number of markets.
The liquid asset ratio also improved to 30.4 per cent from 27.8 per cent as we increased our investment in highly liquid assets.
Total average VaR in 2012 was 35 per cent higher than 2011.
The increase was principally driven by increased holdings of availablefor-s ale securities, primarily held as liquidity buffers, as we continued to maintain a highly liquid balance sheet.
Risk review 59 Principal uncertainties Risk Description Mitigants Deteriorating Deteriorating macroeconomic conditions can have an We balance risk and return, taking account of macroeconomic impact on our performance via their in uence on personal changing conditions through the economic conditions in expenditure and consumption patterns: demand for cycle footprint business products and services: the debt service burden We monitor economic trends in our markets countries of consumers and businesses: the general availability of very closely and continuously review the credit for retail and corporate borrowers: and the availability suitability of our risk policies and controls of capital and liquidity funding for our business Regulatory The nature and impact of future changes in economic We review key regulatory developments in order changes and policies, laws and regulations are not predictable and may to anticipate changes and their potential impact compliance run counter to our strategic interests.
These changes could on our performance also affect the volatility and liquidity of financial markets, We respond both unilaterally and through our and more generally the way we conduct business and participation in industry groups to consultation manage capital and liquidity papers and discussions initiated by regulators Although we seek to comply with all applicable laws and and governments.
The focus of these activities regulations, we may be subject to regulatory actions and is to develop the framework for a stable and investigations across our markets, the outcome of which sustainable financial sector and global economy is generally dif cult to predict and could be material to the Group Financial Financial markets volatility or a sudden dislocation We assess carefully the performance of our markets could affect our performance, through its impact on the financial institution counterparties and rate dislocation mark-to-market valuations of assets in our available-for-sale them internally according to their systemic and trading portfolios or the availability of capital or liquidity importance, adjusting our exposure accordingly Financial markets instability also increases the likelihood of We maintain robust processes to assess the default by our corporate customers and financial institution suitability and appropriateness of products counterparties and services we provide to our clients and customers Geopolitical We face a risk that geopolitical tensions or con ict in our We actively monitor the political situation in all events footprint could impact trade ows, our customers ability of our principal markets, and conduct regular to pay, and our ability to manage capital across borders stress tests of the impact of such events on our portfolios, which inform assessments of risk appetite and any need to take mitigating action Risk of fraud The risk of fraud and other criminal activities is growing We have a broad range of measures in place as criminals become more sophisticated and as they take to monitor and mitigate this risk advantage of the increasing use of technology in society Controls are embedded in our policies and procedures across a wide range of the Groups activities, such as origination, recruitment, physical and information security Exchange rate Changes in exchange rates affect the value of our assets We actively monitor exchange rate movements movements and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, as well as and adjust our exposure accordingly the earnings reported by our non-US dollar denominated Under certain circumstances, we may take branches and subsidiaries the decision to hedge our foreign exchange Sharp currency movements can also impact trade ows exposures in order to protect our capital ratios and the wealth of clients, both of which could have an from the effects of changes in exchange rates impact on our performance 60 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued Principal uncertainties Regulatory changes and compliance We are in the business of taking selected risks to Our business as an international bank will continue to be subject generate shareholder value, and we seek to contain to an evolving and complex regulatory framework comprising and mitigate these risks to ensure they remain within legislation, regulation and codes of practice, in each of the our risk appetite and are adequately compensated.
countries in which we operate.
A key uncertainty relates to the way in which governments and regulators adjust laws, The key uncertainties we face in the coming year are set regulations and economic policies in response to macroeconomic out below.
This should not be regarded as a complete and other systemic conditions.
The nature and impact of such and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and future changes are not predictable and could run counter to our uncertainties that we may experience.
Some are anticipated to have a signi cant impact such as changes to capital and liquidity regimes, Deteriorating macroeconomic conditions changes to the calculation of risk weighted assets, derivatives in footprint countries reform, remuneration reforms, recovery and resolution plans, Macroeconomic conditions have an impact on personal banking structural reforms in a number of markets, the UK expenditure and consumption, demand for business bank levy and the US Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act.
products and services, the debt service burden of consumers In particular, the outcome of discussions on the European and businesses, the general availability of credit for retail and Unions Capital Requirements Directive IV CRD IV and Over corporate borrowers and the availability of capital and The Counter OTC Derivative reforms across our markets will liquidity funding for our business.
All these factors may potentially have a material impact on the Group and its business impact our performance.
Proposed changes could also adversely affect economic The world economy is coming out of a dif cult period and growth, the volatility and liquidity of the financial markets and, uncertainty remains.
The sovereign crisis in the eurozone consequently, the way we conduct business and manage capital continues and, although acute risks have been addressed and liquidity.
These effects may directly or indirectly impact our by ongoing policy initiatives, there is still a need for substantial financial performance.
Despite these concerns, we remain a new structural reform see additional information on the risk highly liquid and well capitalised bank.
The US will likely continue to It is in the wider interest to have a well run financial system, and be held back by scal challenges unless political compromises we are supportive of a tighter regulatory regime that enhances are struck, though economic fundamentals are improving.
the resilience of the international financial system.
The Group Our exposure to eurozone sovereign debt is very low.
However, will continue to participate in the regulatory debate through we remain alert to the risk of secondary impacts from events in responses to consultations and working towards an improved the West on financial institutions, other counterparties and global and workable regulatory architecture.
We are also encouraging economic growth.
our international regulators to work together to develop co-ordinated approaches to regulating and resolving crossThese uncertainties have brought more subdued economic border banking groups.
We support changes to laws, growth in some of our footprint countries.
New governments in regulations and codes of practice that will improve the Japan, Korea and China are embarking on more expansionary overall stability of, and the conduct within the financial system policy paths that should enhance their contribution to world because this provides bene ts to our customers, clients and growth, while India is cautiously pursuing new economic shareholders.
However, we also have concerns that certain reforms that should in time lift its performance back to its proposals may not achieve this desired objective and may longterm trend rate.
have unintended consequences, either individually or in In the event of an external shock, larger and more domestically terms of aggregate impact.
driven economies such as India, Indonesia and China are The Group seeks to comply with all applicable laws and expected to be more resilient than the more open economies regulations but may be subject to regulatory actions and such as Singapore, Hong Kong and South Korea.
investigations across our markets, the outcome of which are In ation and property prices appear to be under control in generally dif cult to predict and can be material to the Group.
most of the countries in which we operate.
This and other The Group seeks to co-operate with regulators in response to factors equip the authorities in our signi cant footprint requests for information, inquiries and investigations and takes countries with the policy exibility to support growth.
We balance risk and return taking account of changing Regulators and other agencies in certain markets are conditions through the economic cycle, and monitor economic conducting investigations or reviews into submissions made trends in our markets very closely.
We also continuously review to set various market interest rates and other benchmarks.
the suitability of our risk policies and controls.
Certain of the Groups branches and subsidiaries were and are submitting data to bodies that set such rates and benchmarks.
Risk review 61 The Group is participating in regulatory reviews wherever We closely monitor the performance of our financial institution relevant, contributing to industry proposals to strengthen counterparties and adjust our exposure to these counterparties rate-s etting processes in certain markets and continues to as necessary.
We maintain robust processes to assess the review its practices and processes in the light of such proposals.
appropriateness and suitability of products and services we provide to clients and customers to mitigate the risk of disputes.
During 2012, the Group reached settlements with the US authorities regarding US sanctions compliance in the period Geopolitical events 2001 to 2007, involving a Consent Order by the New York We operate in a large number of markets around the world, Department of Financial Services NYDFS, a Cease and Desist and our performance is in part reliant on the openness of Order by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York FRBNY, cross-border trade and capital ows.
We face a risk that Deferred Prosecution Agreements with each of the Department geopolitical tensions or con icts in our footprint could impact of Justice and with the District Attorney of New York and a trade ows, our customers ability to pay, and our ability to Settlement Agreement with the Of ce of Foreign Assets Control.
manage capital or operations across borders.
In addition to the civil penalties totalling $667 million, the terms of these settlements include conditions and ongoing obligations We actively monitor the political situation in all our principal such as: reporting requirements: compliance reviews: banking markets, such as the development of events in the Middle East transparency requirements: training measures: audit and territorial disputes in North East Asia.
We conduct stress programmes: disclosure obligations: requirements to co-operate tests of the impact of extreme but plausible geopolitical events with further information requests and testimony: requirement to on our performance and the potential for such events to compliance with a remediation programme and the appointment jeopardise our ability to operate within our stated risk appetite.
of an independent monitor at the direction of NYDFS: and Further details on stress testing are given on page 64. compliance with a separate remediation programme at the direction of the FRBNY.
Risk of fraud The banking industry has long been a target for third parties The Group is engaged with all relevant authorities to implement seeking to defraud, to disrupt legitimate economic activity, or to these programmes and to meet the obligations under the facilitate other illegal activities.
The risk posed by such criminal settlements, including the monitoring and compliance reviews, activity is growing as criminals become more sophisticated and responding to further requests for information and inquiries as they take advantage of the increasing use of technology.
related to its sanctions compliance and identifying further improvements to processes.
The Group remains resolute in its We seek to be vigilant to the risk of internal and external crime commitment to tackling financial crime across its global footprint in our management of people, processes, systems and in our and complying with all relevant regulations.
The Group has made dealings with customers and other stakeholders.
We have a signi cant enhancements in its global sanctions and anti-money broad range of measures in place to monitor and mitigate this laundering systems and procedures.
The Group recognises that, risk.
Controls are embedded in our policies and procedures following these settlements, its compliance with sanctions, not across a wide range of the Groups activities, such as origination, just in the US but throughout its footprint, will remain a focus of recruitment, physical and information security.
Exchange rate movements Financial markets dislocation Changes in exchange rates affect, among other things, the value There is a risk that a sudden financial market dislocation, of our assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, as perhaps as a result of deterioration of the sovereign debt crisis well as the earnings reported by our non-US dollar denominated in the eurozone, could signi cantly increase general financial branches and subsidiaries.
Sharp currency movements can also market volatility, which could affect our performance or the impact trade ows and the wealth of clients, both of which could availability of capital or liquidity.
These factors may have an have an impact on our performance.
impact on the mark-to-market valuations of assets in our We monitor exchange rate movements closely and adjust our available-for-sale and trading portfolios.
The potential losses exposures accordingly.
Under certain circumstances, we may incurred by certain clients holding derivative contracts during take the decision to hedge our foreign exchange exposures in periods of financial market volatility could also lead to an order to protect our capital ratios from the effects of changes in increase in disputes and corporate defaults.
At the same time, exchange rates.
The effect of exchange rate movements on the financial market instability could cause some financial institution capital adequacy ratio is mitigated to the extent there are counterparties to experience tighter liquidity conditions or even proportionate movements in risk weighted assets.
There is no certainty that Government action to reduce the systemic risk will be successful and it may have unintended consequences.
62 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued The table below sets out the period end and average currency Risk management exchange rates per US dollar for India, Korea, Singapore and The management of risk lies at the heart of Standard Chartereds Taiwan for the year ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December business.
One of the main risks we incur arises from extending 2011.
These are the markets for which currency exchange rate credit to customers through our trading and lending operations.
movements have had the greatest translation impact on the Beyond credit risk, we are also exposed to a range of other risk Groups results in 2012. types such as country cross-border, market, liquidity, operational, pension, reputational and other risks that are inherent to our 2012 2011 strategy, product range and geographical coverage.
Indian rupee Average 53.43 46.63 Risk management framework Period end 54.96 53.03 Effective risk management is fundamental to being able to generate pro ts consistently and sustainably and is thus a Korean won central part of the financial and operational management Average 1,126.23 1,107.84 of the Group.
Period end 1,070.34 1,151.56 Singapore dollar Through our risk management framework, we manage Average 1.25 1.26 enterprise-wide risks, with the objective of maximising riskadjusted returns while remaining within our risk appetite.
Period end 1.22 1.30 Taiwan dollar As part of this framework, we use a set of principles that Average 29.57 29.43 describe the risk management culture we wish to sustain: Period end 29.07 30.28 Balancing risk and return: risk is taken in support of the requirements of our stakeholders, in line with our strategy As a result of our normal business operations, Standard Chartered and within our risk appetite is exposed to a broader range of risks than those principal uncertainties mentioned above and our approach to managing Responsibility: it is the responsibility of all employees to ensure risk is detailed on the following pages.
that risk taking is disciplined and focused.
We take account of our social responsibilities and our commitments to customers in taking risk to produce a return 1 Group risk committee structure Standard Chartered PLC Board Standard Chartered Bank Court Board Committees Group Asset & Liability Committee Group Risk Committee Liquidity Management Consumer Banking Consumer Banking Wholesale Banking Committee BalanceSheet Committee RiskCommittee RiskCommittee Capital Management Wholesale Banking Group Market Group Credit Committee BalanceSheet Committee RiskCommittee Committee Tax Management Group Operational Group Financial Crime Committee RiskCommittee RiskCommittee Group Model Group Pension AssessmentCommittee RiskCommittee Stress Testing Other Risk Committee Committees 1 More information on Board committees can be found in the Corporate governance section on page s 122 to 141 Risk review 63 Accountability: risk is taken only within agreed authorities and The GRC is responsible for the management of all risks other where there is appropriate infrastructure and resource.
All risk than those delegated by the Court to the GALCO.
The GRC taking must be transparent, controlled and reported is responsible for the establishment of, and compliance with, policies relating to credit risk, country cross-border risk, Anticipation: we seek to anticipate future risks and ensure market risk, operational risk, pension risk and reputational risk.
awareness of all known risks The GRC also fide fines our overall risk management framework.
Competitive advantage: we seek to achieve competitive The GALCO is responsible for the management of capital and advantage through ef cient and effective risk management the establishment of, and compliance with, policies relating and control to balance sheet management, including management of our liquidity, capital adequacy and structural foreign exchange Risk governance andi nterest rate risk.
Ultimate responsibility for setting our risk appetite and for the effective management of risk rests with the Board.
Members of the GRC and the GALCO are both drawn from the Court.
The GRC is chaired by the Group Chief Risk Of cer Acting within an authority delegated by the Board, the Board GCRO.
The GALCO is chaired by the Group Finance Director.
Risk Committee BRC, whose membership is comprised Risk limits and risk exposure approval authority frameworks are exclusively of non-executive directors of the Group, has set by the GRC in respect of credit risk, country cross-border responsibility for oversight and review of prudential risks risk, market risk and operational risk.
The GALCO sets the including, but not limited to, credit, market, capital, liquidity approval authority framework in respect of liquidity risk.
It reviews the Groups overall risk appetite Risk approval authorities may be exercised by risk committees and makes recommendations thereon to the Board.
responsibilities also include reviewing the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems The committee governance structure ensures that risk taking and controls, considering the implications of material regulatory authority and risk management policies are cascaded down change proposals, ensuring effective due diligence on material from the Board through to the appropriate functional, divisional acquisitions and disposals, and monitoring the activities of the and country-level committees.
Information regarding material Group Risk Committee GRC and Group Asset and Liability risk issues and compliance with policies and standards is Committee GALCO.
communicated to the country, business, functional and Grouplevel committees.
The BRC receives regular reports on risk management, including our portfolio trends, policies and standards, stress Roles and responsibilities for risk management are fide ned testing, liquidity and capital adequacy, and is authorised to under a three lines of defence model.
Each line of defence investigate or seek any information relating to an activity within describes a speci c set of responsibilities for risk management its terms of reference.
The BRC also conducts deep dive and control.
reviews on a rolling basis of different sections of the First line of defence: all employees are required to ensure consolidated group risk information report.
the effective management of risks within the scope of their The Brand and Values Committee BVC oversees the brand, direct organisational responsibilities.
Business, function culture, values and good reputation of the Group.
It ensures and geographic governance heads are accountable for risk that the management of reputational risk is consistent with management in their respective businesses and functions, the risk appetite approved by the Board and with the creation and for countries where they have governance responsibilities of longterm shareholder value.
Second line of defence: this comprises the Risk Control The role of the Audit Committee is to have oversight and review Owners, supported by their respective control functions.
of financial, audit and internal control issues.
Risk Control Owners are responsible for ensuring that the risks within the scope of their responsibilities remain within appetite.
Overall accountability for risk management is held by the Court The scope of a Risk Control Owners responsibilities is fide ned of Standard Chartered Bank the Court which comprises the by a given Risk Type and the risk management processes that group executive directors and other senior executives of relate to that Risk Type.
These responsibilities cut across the Standard Chartered Bank.
Group and are not constrained by functional, business and The Court is the highest executive body of the Group geographic boundaries.
The major risk types are described and its terms of reference are approved by the Board of individually in the following sections Standard Chartered PLC.
The Court delegates authority Third line of defence: the independent assurance provided for the management of risk to the GRC and the GALCO.
by the Group Internal Audit GIA function.
Its role is fide ned and overseen by the Audit Committee 64 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued The findings from GIAs audits are reported to all relevant We fide ne our risk appetite in terms of both volatility of earnings management and governance bodies accountable line and the maintenance of adequate regulatory capital requirements managers, relevant oversight function or committee and under stress scenarios.
We also fide ne a risk appetite with committees of the Board.
respect to liquidity risk, operational risk and reputational risk.
GIA provides independent assurance of the effectiveness of Our quantitative risk pro le is assessed through a bottom-up managements control of its own business activities the first line analytical approach covering all of our major businesses, and of the processes maintained by the Risk Control Functions countries and products.
It is also assessed against a range the second line.
As a result, GIA provides assurance that the of exposure concentration thresholds.
overall system of control effectiveness is working as required The Groups risk appetite statement is approved by the Board within the Risk Management Framework.
and forms the basis for establishing the risk parameters within which the businesses must operate, including policies, The Risk function concentration limits and business mix.
The GCRO directly manages a Risk function that is separate from the origination, trading and sales functions of the The Group will not compromise adherence to its risk appetite businesses.
The GCRO also chairs the GRC and is a in order to pursue revenue growth or higher returns.
The GRC and GALCO are responsible for ensuring that our The role of the Risk function is: risk pro le is managed in compliance with the risk appetite set by the Board.
To maintain the Risk Management Framework, ensuring it remains appropriate to the Groups activities, is effectively Stress testing communicated and implemented across the Group and for Stress testing and scenario analysis are used to assess the administering related governance and reporting processes financial and management capability of Standard Chartered To uphold the overall integrity of the Groups risk return to continue operating effectively under extreme but plausible decisions, and in particular for ensuring that risks are properly trading conditions.
Such conditions may arise from economic, assessed, that risk return decisions are made transparently regulatory, legal, political, environmental and social factors.
on the basis of this proper assessment, and are controlled in Our stress testing framework is designed to: accordance with the Groups standards and risk appetite Contribute to the setting and monitoring of risk appetite To exercise direct risk control ownership for credit, market, country crossborder, short-term liquidity and operational Identify key risks to our strategy, financial position, and riskt ypes reputation The Group appoints Chief Risk Of cers CROs for its two Support the development of mitigating actions and business divisions and principal countries and regions.
CROs at contingency plans all levels of the organisation ful l the same role as the GCRO, in Ensure effective governance, processes and systems are respect of the business, geography or legal entity for which they in place to co-ordinate and integrate stress testing are responsible.
The roles of CROs are aligned at each level.
Ensure adherence to regulatory requirements The independence of the Risk function is to ensure that the necessary balance in risk return decisions is not compromised Our stress testing activity focuses on the potential impact of by short-term pressures to generate revenues.
This is particularly macroeconomic, geopolitical and physical events on relevant important given that revenues are recognised from the point of geographies, customer segments and asset classes.
sale while losses arising from risk positions typically manifest A Stress Testing Committee, led by the Risk function with themselves over time.
members drawn from the businesses, Group Finance, In addition, the Risk function is a centre of excellence that Global Research and Group Treasury, aims to ensure that the provides specialist capabilities of relevance to risk management implications of speci c stress scenarios are fully understood processes in the wider organisation.
allowing informed mitigation actions and construction of contingency plans.
The Stress Testing Committee generates Risk appetite and considers pertinent and plausible scenarios that have the We manage our risks to build a sustainable franchise in the potential to adversely affect our business and considers impact interests of all our stakeholders.
across different risk types and countries.
Risk appetite is an expression of the amount of risk we are Stress tests are also performed at country and business level.
willing to take in pursuit of our strategic objectives, re ecting our capacity to sustain losses and continue to meet our obligations arising from a range of different stress trading conditions.
Risk review 65 Credit risk management Our credit grades in Wholesale Banking are not intended to Credit risk is the potential for loss due to the failure of a replicate external credit grades, and ratings assigned by external counterparty to meet its obligations to pay the Group in ratings agencies are not used in determining our internal credit accordance with agreed terms.
Nonetheless, as the factors used to grade a borrower from both the banking and trading books.
may be similar, a borrower rated poorly by an external rating agency is typically assigned a worse internal credit grade.
Credit risk is managed through a framework that sets out policies and procedures covering the measurement and Advanced IRB models cover a substantial majority of our management of credit risk.
There is a clear segregation of exposures and are used extensively in assessing risks at a duties between transaction originators in the businesses and customer and portfolio level, setting strategy and optimising approvers in the Risk function.
All credit exposure limits are our risk return decisions.
approved within a fide ned credit approval authority framework.
IRB risk measurement models are approved by the responsible The Group manages its credit exposures following the principle risk committee, on the recommendation of the Group Model of diversi cation across products, geographies, client and Assessment Committee MAC.
The MAC supports risk customer segments.
committees in ensuring risk identi cation and measurement capabilities are objective and consistent, so that risk control and Credit policies risk origination decisions are properly informed.
Prior to review Group-wide credit policies and standards are considered and by the MAC, all IRB models are validated in detail by a model approved by the GRC, which also oversees the delegation of validation team, which is separate from the teams that develop credit approval and loan impairment provisioning authorities.
Policies and procedures speci c to each business are Reviews are also triggered if the performance of a model established by authorised risk committees within Wholesale and deteriorates materially against predetermined thresholds during Consumer Banking.
These are consistent with our Group-wide the ongoing model performance monitoring process.
credit policies, but are more detailed and adapted to re ect the different risk environments and portfolio characteristics.
Credit approval Major credit exposures to individual counterparties, groups of Credit rating and measurement connected counterparties and portfolios of retail exposures are Risk measurement plays a central role, along with judgment and reviewed and approved by the Group Credit Committee GCC.
experience, in informing risk taking and portfolio management The GCC derives its authority from the GRC.
It is a primary area for sustained investment and All other credit approval authorities are delegated by the GRC senior management attention.
to individuals based both on their judgment and experience Since 1 January 2008, Standard Chartered has used the and a risk-adjusted scale that takes account of the estimated advanced Internal Ratings Based IRB approach under the maximum potential loss from a given customer or portfolio.
Basel II regulatory framework to calculate credit risk capital Credit origination and approval roles are segregated in all but a requirements.
In those very few exceptions where they are not, originators can only approve limited exposures For IRB portfolios, a standard alphanumeric credit risk grade within fide ned risk parameters.
CG system is used in both Wholesale and Consumer Banking.
The grading is based on our internal estimate of probability of Credit concentration risk default over a oneyear horizon, with customers or portfolios Credit concentration risk may arise from a single large exposure assessed against a range of quantitative and qualitative factors.
or from multiple exposures that are closely correlated.
This is The numeric grades run from 1 to 14 and some of the grades managed within concentration caps set by counterparty or groups are further sub-classi ed A, B or C. Lower credit grades are of connected counterparties, and having regard for correlation, indicative of a lower likelihood of default.
Credit grades 1A to by country and industry in Wholesale Banking: and by product 12C are assigned to performing customers or accounts, while and country in Consumer Banking.
Additional concentration credit grades 13 and 14 are assigned to non-performing or thresholds are set and monitored, where appropriate, by tenor defaulted customers.
pro le, collateralisation levels and credit risk pro le.
Credit concentrations are monitored by the responsible risk committees in each of the businesses and concentration limits that are material to the Group are reviewed and approved at least annually by the GCC.
66 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued Credit monitoring The small and medium-sized enterprise SME business is We regularly monitor credit exposures, portfolio performance, managed within Consumer Banking in two distinct customer and external trends that may impact risk management sub-segments: small businesses and medium enterprises, outcomes.
differentiated by the annual turnover of the counterparty.
The credit processes are further re ned based on exposure at Internal risk management reports are presented to risk risk.
Larger exposures are managed through the Discretionary committees, containing information on key environmental, Lending approach, in line with Wholesale Banking procedures, political and economic trends across major portfolios and and smaller exposures are managed through Programmed countries: portfolio delinquency and loan impairment Lending, in line with Consumer Banking procedures.
performance: and IRB portfolio metrics including credit Discretionary Lending and Private Banking past due gradem igration.
accounts are managed by GSAM.
The Wholesale Banking Credit Issues Forum WBCIF is a sub-committee of the Wholesale Banking Risk Committee, Credit risk mitigation which in turn is a sub-committee of, and derives its authority Potential credit losses from any given account, customer or from, the GRC.
The WBCIF meets regularly to assess the portfolio are mitigated using a range of tools such as collateral, impact of external events and trends on the Wholesale Banking netting agreements, credit insurance, credit derivatives and credit risk portfolio and to fide ne and implement our response other guarantees.
The reliance that can be placed on these in terms of appropriate changes to portfolio shape, portfolio mitigants is carefully assessed in light of issues such as legal and underwriting standards, risk policy and procedures.
certainty and enforceability, market valuation correlation and counterparty risk of the guarantor.
The Consumer Banking Credit Governance Committee CGC is a sub-committee of the Consumer Banking Risk Committee Where appropriate, credit derivatives are used to reduce CBRC.
Both the CGC and CBRC meet regularly to assess credit risks in the portfolio.
Due to their potential impact on relevant credit matters.
This includes market developments income volatility, such derivatives are used in a controlled with direct credit concerns, credit policy changes, prominent manner with reference to their expected volatility.
or emerging credit concerns and mitigating actions.
Collateral is held to mitigate credit risk exposures and risk Clients or portfolios are placed on early alert when they display mitigation policies determine the eligibility of collateral types.
signs of actual or potential weakness.
For example, where there For Wholesale Banking, these policies set out the clear is a decline in the clients position within the industry, financial criteria that must be satis ed if the mitigation is to be deterioration, a breach of covenants, non-performance of an considerede ffective: obligation within the stipulated period, or there are concerns relating to ownership or management.
excessive exposure to any particular risk mitigants or counterparties should be avoided.
Collateral concentration Such accounts and portfolios are subjected to a dedicated mitigation standards are maintained at both the portfolio process overseen by Early Alert Committees in countries.
Client and counterparty level account plans and credit grades are re-evaluated.
In addition, remedial actions are agreed and monitored.
Remedial actions risk mitigants should not be correlated with the underlying include, but are not limited to, exposure reduction, security assets such that default would coincide with a lowering enhancement, exiting the account or immediate movement of the forced sale value of the collateral of the account into the control of Group Special Assets where there is a currency mismatch, haircuts should be Management GSAM, our specialist recovery unit.
applied to protect against currency uctuations In Consumer Banking, portfolio delinquency trends are legal opinions and documentation must be in place monitored continuously at a detailed level.
Individual customer behaviour is also tracked and is considered for lending ongoing review and controls exist where there is a maturity decisions.
Accounts that are past due are subject to a mismatch between the collateral and exposure collections process, managed independently by the Risk For all credit risk mitigants that meet the policy criteria, a function.
Charged-off accounts are managed by specialist clear set of procedures are applied to ensure that the value recovery teams.
In some countries, aspects of collections of the underlying collateral is appropriately recorded and and recovery functions are outsourced.
Risk review 67 Collateral types that are eligible for risk mitigation include: The Group uses bilateral and multilateral netting to reduce cash: residential, commercial and industrial property: xed pre-settlement and settlement counterparty risk.
Pre-settlement assets such as motor vehicles, aircraft, plant and machinery: risk exposures are normally netted using bilateral netting marketable securities: commodities: bank guarantees: and documentation in legally approved jurisdictions.
Standard Chartered also enters into exposures are generally netted using Delivery versus Payments collateralised reverse repurchase agreements.
or Payment versus Payments systems.
All eligible collateral accepted by Consumer Banking is covered Traded products by a product proposal approved by senior credit of cers with Credit risk from traded products is managed within the overall the relevant delegated authority.
New collateral types have to credit risk appetite for corporates and financial institutions.
be vetted through a stringent New Business Approval process and approved by the CBRC.
The credit risk exposure from traded products is derived from the positive mark-to-market value of the underlying In order to be recognised as security and for the loan to be instruments, and an additional component to cater for classi ed as secured, all items pledged must be valued and potential market movements.
an active secondary resale market must exist for the collateral.
Documentation must be held to enable Consumer Banking to For derivative contracts, we limit our exposure to credit losses realise the asset without the co-operation of the asset owner in the event of default by entering into master netting agreements in the event that this is necessary.
As required by IAS 32, exposures are only presented net in the financial statement if there For certain types of lending typically mortgages and asset is a legal right to offset and the assets liabilities will be nancing the right to take charge over physical assets is settled simultaneously.
signi cant in terms of determining appropriate pricing and recoverability in the event of default.
The requirement for In addition, we enter into Credit Support Annexes CSAs collateral is, however, not a substitute for the ability to pay, with counterparties where collateral is deemed a necessary which is the primary consideration for any lending decisions.
or desirable mitigant to the exposure.
Further details on CSAs are set out on page 68.
Regular valuation of collateral is required in accordance with the Groups risk mitigation policy, which prescribes both the process Securities of valuation and the frequency of valuation for different collateral Within Wholesale Banking, the Underwriting Committee types.
The valuation frequency is driven by the level of price approves the portfolio limits and parameters by business unit volatility of each type of collateral and the nature of the for the underwriting and purchase of all pre-fide ned securities underlying product or risk exposure.
Stress tests are performed assets to be held for sale.
The Underwriting Committee is on changes in collateral values for key portfolios to assist senior established under the authority of the GRC.
Wholesale Banking management in managing the risks in those portfolios.
Physical operates within set limits, which include country, single issuer, collateral is required to be insured at all times and against all holding period and credit grade limits.
risks, with the Group as the loss payee under the insurance policy.
Detailed procedures over collateral management must Daytoday credit risk management activities for traded be in place for each business at the country level.
securities are carried out by Traded Credit Risk Management whose activities include oversight and approval within the levels Where appropriate, collateral values are adjusted to re ect delegated by the Underwriting Committee.
Issuer credit risk, current market conditions, the probability of recovery and the including settlement and pre-settlement risk, is controlled period of time to realise the collateral in the event of possession.
by Wholesale Banking Risk, while price risk is controlled by Where guarantees or credit derivatives are used as credit risk Group Market Risk.
mitigation the creditworthiness of the guarantor is assessed The Underwriting Committee approves individual proposals and established using the credit approval process in addition to underwrite new security issues for our clients.
Where an to that of the obligor or main counterparty.
The main types of underwritten security is held for a period longer than the target guarantors include bank guarantees, insurance companies, sell-down period, the final decision on whether to sell the parent companies, shareholders and export credit agencies.
position rests with the Risk function.
68 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued Credit portfolio Credit risk mitigation Maximum exposure to credit risk Loans and advances The table below presents the Groups maximum exposure The Group holds collateral against loans and advances to to credit risk for its on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet customers and banks of $140 billion 2011: $142 billion.
Further financial instruments as at 31 December 2012, before taking details of collateral held by businesses and held for past due into account any collateral held or other credit risk mitigation.
and individually impaired loans are set out on page 72.
For on-balance sheet instruments, the maximum exposure The Group has transferred to third parties, by way of securitisation, to credit risk is the carrying amount reported on the balance the rights to any collection of principal and interest on customer sheet.
For off-balance sheet instruments, the maximum loan assets with a face value of $1,321 million 2011: $2,212 exposure to credit risk generally represents the contractual million.
The Group continues to recognise these assets in notional amounts.
addition to the proceeds and related liability of $1,093 million The Groups exposure to credit risk is spread across our 2011: $1,843 million arising from the securitisations.
The Group is affected by the general economic considers the above customer loan assets to be encumbered.
conditions in the territories in which it operates.
The Group Further details of encumbered assets are provided on page 104. sets limits on the exposure to any counterparty and credit The Group has entered into credit default swaps for portfolio riski s spread over a variety of different personal and management purposes, referencing loan assets with a notional commercialc ustomers.
These credit default The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk has increased swaps are accounted for as guarantees.
The Group continues to by $ 29.2 billion compared with 2011.
Exposure to loans and hold the underlying assets referenced in the credit default swaps advances to banks and customers has increased by $19.7 billion as it continues to be exposed to related credit and foreign since 2011 due to growth in the unsecured lending portfolio exchange risk on these assets.
Further details of the transactions in Consumer Banking and broadbased growth across several are set out in the special purposes entity note 43 to the financial industry sectors in Wholesale Banking.
Further details of the statements on page 262. loan portfolio are set out on page 69.
The Groups credit risk exposure arising from derivatives has decreased by $9 billion Derivatives financial instruments compared with 2011.
With respect to derivatives, the Group enters into master netting arrangements which result in a single amount owed by or to the 2012 2011 counterparty through netting the sum of the positive and negative $million $million mark-to-market values of applicable derivative transactions.
Derivative financial instruments 49,496 58,524 At 31 December 2012, $35,073 million 2011: $40,605 million Loans and advances to customers 288, 863 271,778 was available for offset as a result of master netting agreements.
Loans and advances to banks 69,155 66,549 The Group holds cash collateral against derivative and other 1 Investment securities 114,313 100,419 financial instruments of $3,245 million 2011: $3,145 million Contingent liabilities 44, 449 42,880 as disclosed in note 31 on page 246.
Undrawn irrevocable standby Cash collateral includes collateral called under a variation margin facilities, credit lines and other process from counterparti es if total uncollateralised mark-tocommitments to lend 56,697 52,700 market exposure exceeds the threshold and minimum transfer Documentary credits and shortterm amount speci ed in the CSA.
With certain counterparties, the trade-related transactions 7,752 8,612 CSA is reciprocal and requires us to post collateral if the overall Forward asset purchases and mark-to-market values of positions is in the counterpartys favour forward deposits placed 711 733 and exceeds an agreed threshold.
1 Excludes equity shares Off-balance sheet exposures For certain types of exposure such as letters of credit and guarantees, the Group obtains collateral such as in cash depending on internal credit risk assessments as well as the case of letters of credit holding legal title to the underlying assets should a default take place.
Risk review 69 Loan portfolio Geographic analysis Loans and advances to customers grew by $17.1 billion since Overview 31 December 2011 to $288.9 billion.
The Consumer Banking This section covers a summary of the Groups loan portfolio portfolio in 2012 has grown by $7.6 billion, or 6 per cent, since broadly analysed by business and geography, along with an 2011 with a majority of the increase driven by unsecured lending analysis of the maturity pro le, credit quality and provisioning in Hong Kong, Singapore and Korea.
Consumer Banking loans of the loan book.
in Africa also grew strongly, up 28 per cent.
The Wholesale A more detailed analysis is set out for Consumer Banking Banking portfolio has continued to grow in 2012, increasing on page s 76 to 84 and Wholesale Banking on pages 8 4 to 93. by $9.4 billion, or 6 per cent, compared with December 2011 with all geographic regions except Hong Kong growing balances.
Loans to banks have increased by $2.6 billion since 31December 2011 to $69.2 billion.
The analysis of loans and advances by geography presented on page 215 in note 2 to the financial statements present loans based on the location of the customers 3 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 45 70 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued Maturity analysis In Consumer Banking, 55 per cent 2011: 58 per cent of the Approximately half of our loans and advances to customers are portfolio is in the mortgage book, which is traditionally longer - short-term and have a contractual maturity of one year or less.
term in nature and well secured.
Whilst the Other and SME loans The Wholesale Banking portfolio remains predominantly in Consumer Banking have short contractual maturities, typically short-term, with 62 per cent 2011: 64 per cent of loans and they may be renewed and repaid over longer terms in the normal advances having a contractual maturity of one year or less.
2012 One year or less One to five years Over five years Total $million $million $million $million Consumer Banking 39, 795 24, 511 68,570 132, 876 Wholesale Banking 97, 444 46, 729 12,558 156,731 Portfolio impairment provision 744 Total loans and advances to customers 288, 863 2011 One year or less One to five years Over five years Total $million $million $million $million Consumer Banking 33,679 25,844 65,727 125,250 Wholesale Banking 94,827 42,588 9,873 147,288 Portfolio impairment provision 760 Total loans and advances to customers 271,778 Credit quality analysis Loans past due more than 60 days but less than 90 days The table on the right sets out an analysis of the loan portfolio increased by $2.9 billion compared with 2011 and related to a between those loans that are neither past due nor impaired, very small number of exposures on which interest and other those that are past due but not individually impaired and those servicing charges were overdue.
These were regularised prior that are individually impaired.
to renegotiations on commercial terms and with no shortfall in the present value of cash ows when compared with the original Most of the Groups loans to banks are in the credit grade 1-5 terms of the loans and no impairment is expected.
category as we lend in the interbank market to highly rated counterparties.
Exposure in the credit grade 6-8 category Net individually impaired loans in Wholesale Banking increased predominantly relates to trade finance business with financial by $0.8 billion driven by a small number of exposures in India institutions in our core markets.
As at 31 December 2012, 5.9 per cent of the Wholesale Banking The proportion of Consumer Banking loans that are past loans to customers are either past due or individually impaired, dueo r individually impaired increased to 4.6 per cent as at up from 2.8 per cent at 31 December 2011.
Loans past due less 31 December 2012, which is slightly higher than 4.1 per cent than 30 days amount to $1.6 billion and increased by $1 billion at 31December 2011.
T his was largely driven by an increase mainly in Hong Kong and the UAE.
The majority of these in loans in the less than 30 days past due category as a result exposures were repaid or renegotiated shortly after the of timing differences around the year-e nd.
of cases the overdue amounts in this bucket are collected well before they are 30 days past due.
72 per cent of the loans to customers are decisions.
In determining the financial effect of collateral held fully secured and around 90 per cent of collateral across the against loans neither past due nor impaired, we have assessed portfolio is property based.
the signi cance of the collateral held in relation to the type Collateral held against Wholesale Banking loans also covers the of lending.
off-balance sheet exposures including undrawn commitments For loans and advances to banks and customers including and trade related instruments.
As a proportion of total lending those held at fair value through pro t or loss, the table below in Wholesale Banking, collateral decreased compared with sets out the fair value of collateral held by the Group adjusted 31 December 2011, although the proportion of collateral held where appropriate in accordance with the risk mitigation policy in the assets and propert ies increased to more than 50 p er cent as outlined on page 66 and for the effect of .
Further details on collateral are explained in the Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking sections on pages 79 and 89 respectively.
Consumer Banking Wholesale Banking Total Past due Past due Past due but not but not but not individually Individually individually Individually individually Individually impaired impaired impaired impaired impaired impaired Total loans loans Total loans loans Total loans loans As at 31 December 2012 $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Collateral 88,119 2,802 570 51,594 1,823 59 1 139,713 4,625 1,16 1 1 Amount outstanding 132, 876 4, 801 1,249 225,888 4,778 4, 746 358, 764 9,579 5, 995 As at 31 December 2011 Collateral 88,471 2,481 568 53,790 328 459 142,261 2,809 1,027 1 Amount outstanding 125,250 4,035 1,089 213,839 984 3,494 339,089 5,019 4,583 1 Includes loans held at fair value through pro t or loss Collateral and other credit enhancements possessed excess is returned to the borrower.
Certain equity securities or called upon acquired may be held by the Group for investment purposes The Group obtains assets by taking possession of collateral or and are classi ed as available-for-sale, and the related loan calling upon other credit enhancements such as guarantees.
The table below details the carrying value of collateral Repossessed properties are sold in an orderly fashion.
Where possessed and held by the Group as at 31 December 2012 and the proceeds are in excess of the outstanding loan balance the 31 December 2011: 2012 2011 Consumer Wholesale Consumer Wholesale Banking Banking Total Banking Banking Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Property 65 9 74 79 79 Other 3 3 3 3 68 9 77 82 82 Risk review 73 Problem credit management and provisioning within each geography and as a result there is no single factor to The Groups loan loss provisions are established to recognise which the Groups loan impairment allowances as a whole are incurred impairment losses either on speci c loan assets or sensitive.
It is possible that actual events over the next year differ within a portfolio of loans and advances.
Individually impaired from the assumptions built into the model resulting in material loans are those loans against which individual impairment adjustments to the carrying amount of loans and advances.
The Groups accounting policy on loan loss provisioning is discussed in note 1 on page 204.
Non-performing loans A non-performing loan is any loan that is more than 90 days past Estimating the amount and timing of future recoveries involves due or is otherwise individually impaired which represents those signi cant judg ment, and considers the level of arrears as loans against which individual impairment provisions have been well as the assessment of matters such as future economic raised and excludes: conditions and the value of collateral, for which there may not be a readily accessible market.
Loans renegotiated before 90 days past due and on which no default in interest payments or loss of principal is expected Loan losses that have been incurred but have not been separately identi ed at the balance sheet date are determined Loans renegotiated at or after 90 days past due but on which on a portfolio basis, which takes into account past loss there has been no default in interest or principal payments for experience as a result of uncertainties arising from the more than 180 days since renegotiation, and against which economic environment, and defaults based on portfolio trends.
no loss of principal is expected Actual losses identi ed could differ signi cantly from the The gross non-performing loans in Consumer Banking have impairment provisions reported as a result of uncertainties increased by 18 per cent since 31 December 2011, mainly arising from the economic environment.
re ecting the shift in mix towards unsecured lending, the impact The total amount of the Groups impairment allowances is of the Personal Debt Rehabilitation Scheme PDRS regulation in inherently uncertain being sensitive to changes in economic Korea and seasoning of the loan portfolio.
In Wholesale Banking, and credit conditions across the geographies where the Group non-performing loans have increased by $1.2 billion, mainly due operates.
Economic and credit conditions are interdependent to a small number of large exposures in India and the UAE.
The table below presents a summary of the non-performing loans and cover ratio for Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking.
Further details by geography are set out in pages 83 to 84 and 92 for Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking respectively.
2012 2011 Consumer Wholesale Consumer Wholesale Banking Banking Banking Banking $million $million $million $million Gross non-performing loans 1,291 4,309 1,096 3,087 1 Individual impairment provisions 5 32 1,897 458 1,459 Portfolio impairment provision 435 311 434 328 Cover ratio 7 5% 51% 81% 58% 1 The difference to total individual impairment provision as at 31 December 2012 re ects provisions against restructured loans that are not included within non-performing loans as they have been performing for 180 days 74 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued Individual and portfolio impairment provisions: Portfolio impairment provisions fell $16 million primarily due to Individual impairment provisions increased by $ 499 million the release of an additional portfolio impairment provision in compared with 31 December 2011.
This was primarily in India India that was created in 2011 in respect of market uncertainty.
$158 million increase and the UAE $201 million increase as a The following tables set out the movements in total individual result of a small number of Wholesale Banking exposures and in and portfolio impairment provisions, together with the movement Korea $110 million increase due to higher levels of lings under in individual impairment provisions by geography: the Personal Debt Rehabilitation Scheme PDRS regulation.
2012 2011 Individual Portfolio Individual Portfolio Impairment Impairment Impairment Impairment Provisions Provisions Total Provisions Provisions Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Provisions held as at 1 January 1,972 762 2,734 1,917 762 2,679 Exchange translation differences 2 11 13 40 14 54 Amounts written off 958 958 957 957 Releases of acquisition fair values 3 3 10 10 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 288 288 265 265 Discount unwind 77 77 70 70 New provisions 1, 716 157 1, 873 1,266 130 1,396 Recoveries provisions no longer required 469 184 653 399 116 515 Net impairment charge release against pro t 1,247 27 1,220 867 14 881 Provisions held at 31 December 2, 471 746 3, 217 1,972 762 2,734 2012 Other Middle East Americas Hong Asia & Other UK & Kong Singapore Korea Paci c India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Provisions held as at 1 January 78 38 136 471 112 972 61 104 1,972 Exchange translation differences 5 17 1 7 9 4 1 2 Amounts written off 155 57 175 342 42 123 29 35 958 Releases of acquisition fair values 2 2 1 3 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 44 44 28 124 11 29 5 3 288 Discount unwind 2 3 13 17 13 28 1 77 New provisions 158 111 334 428 235 387 31 32 1, 716 Recoveries provisions no longer required 49 49 81 186 26 53 14 11 469 Net impairment charge against pro t 109 62 253 242 209 334 17 21 1,247 Provisions held at 31 December 74 89 246 475 270 1,173 49 95 2, 471 Risk review 75 2011 Other Middle East Americas Hong Asia & Other UK & Kong Singapore Korea Paci c India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Provisions held as at 1 January 102 25 193 507 112 782 60 136 1,917 Exchange translation differences 1 1 1 20 13 4 40 Amounts written off 121 52 244 304 51 136 19 30 957 Releases of acquisition fair values 8 2 10 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 27 18 16 147 13 30 12 2 265 Discount unwind 3 1 12 16 11 23 2 2 70 New provisions 111 72 214 333 98 395 35 8 1,266 Recoveries provisions no longer required 38 23 30 187 29 61 21 10 399 Net impairment charge release against pro t 73 49 184 146 69 334 14 2 867 Provisions held at 31 December 78 38 136 471 112 972 61 104 1,972 Forbearance and other renegotiated loans assets.
A discount provision is raised if there is a shortfall when In certain circumstances, the Group may renegotiate client and comparing the present value of future cash ows under the customer loans.
Loans that are renegotiated on terms that are revised terms and the carrying value of the loan before not consistent with those readily available in the market and or restructuring.
where we have granted a concession compared with the original In Consumer Banking, excluding Medium Enterprises and terms of the loans are considered to be subject to forbearance Private Banking, all loans subject to forbearance in addition strategies and are disclosed as Loans subject to forbearance to other renegotiated loans are managed within a separate in the disclosures below.
Loans that are renegotiated primarily to portfolio.
If such loans subsequently become past due, writeoff prevent the loan becoming past due or impaired are considered and the individual impairment provisions IIP is accelerated to to be Renegotiated loans that would otherwise be past due or 90 days past due unsecured loans and automobile finance or impaired i n the disclosures below.
Loans that are renegotiated 120 days past due secured loans.
The accelerated loss rates for commercial reasons, which may occur, for example, if a applied to this portfolio are derived from experience with other client had a credit rating upgrade, are not included within renegotiated loans, rather than the Consumer Banking portfolio this disclosure.
as a whole, to recognise the greater degree of inherent risk.
Forbearance strategies assist customers who are temporarily in As at 31 December 2012, $769 million 2011: $708 million financial distress and are unable to meet their original contractual of Consumer Banking loans were subject to forbearance repayment terms.
Forbearance can be initiated by the customer, programmes that required impairment provisions to be the bank or a third party including government sponsored recognised.
This represents 0.6 per cent of total loans and programmes or a conglomerate of credit institutions and advances to Consumer Banking customers.
These loans were includes debt restructuring, such as a new repayment schedule, largely concentrated in countries that have active government payment deferrals, tenor extensions and interest only payments.
Provision coverage The Groups impairment policy requires higher impairment against these loans was 12 p er cent 2011: 1 7 per cent, charges for loans subject to forbearance than for fully performing re ecting collateral held and expected recovery rates.
2012 2011 Gross loans Provisions Gross loans Provisions $million $million $million $million Loans subject to forbearance 769 96 708 117 Renegotiated loans that would otherwise be past due impaired 319 228 Total Consumer Banking 1,088 96 936 117 76 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued For Wholesale Banking, Medium Enterprises and Private If the terms of the restructure are such that an independent party Banking accounts, forbearance and other renegotiations in the same geographic area would not be prepared to provide are applied on a case-by-case basis and are not subject to nancing on substantially the same terms and conditions, or businesswide programmes.
In some cases, a new loan is where the present value of the new cash ows is lower than granted as part of the restructure and in others, the contractual the present value of the original cash ows, the loan would be terms and repayment of the existing loans are changed or considered to be impaired and at a minimum a discount provision extended for example, interest only for a period.
These accounts are monitored as described on page 66.
These accounts are managed by GSAM even if they are not impaired that is the present value of the new cash ows is the As at 31 December 2012, $1,011 million 2011: $873 million of same or greater than the present value of the original cash ows Wholesale Banking loans were subject to forbearance strategies and are reviewed at least quarterly to assess and con rm the that required impairment provisions to be recognised.
This clients ability to adhere to the restructured repayment strategy.
represents 0.6 p er cent of total loans and advances to Wholesale Accounts are also reviewed if there is a signi cant event that Banking customers.
$ 437 million 2011: $40 7million of loans could result in deterioration in their ability to repay.
subject to forbearance represents those loans that have complied with the renegotiated loan terms for more than 180 days.
Although these remain impaired loans, they are excluded from our analysis of non-performing loans.
2012 2011 Gross loans Provisions Gross loans Provisions $million $million $million $million Loans subject to forbearance 1,011 232 873 127 Renegotiated loans that would otherwise be past due impaired 773 609 Total Wholesale Banking 1,784 232 1,482 127 Consumer Banking loan portfolio loans, which include credit cards and personal loans, including The Consumer Banking portfolio in 2012 has grown by $7.6 those related to Private Banking, increased by $4.9 billion since billion, or 6 per cent compared with 2011.
The proportion of 2011 as we continued to selectively grow our unsecured lending mortgages in the Consumer Banking portfolio is 55 per cent.
portfolios, particularly in Hong Kong, Singapore and Korea.
The overall mortgage portfolio was broadly at compared with Africa also saw strong growth in unsecured product, up 20 per 2011 as regulatory restrictions continued to restrict growth in cent compared with 2011.
SME lending continued to grow, up by a number of markets, particularly in Korea and Taiwan where $1.9 billion compared with 2011 with growth in the core strategic balances fell.
We did however originate and sell $4.9 billion of trade and working capital products, partly offset by lower levels xedrate mortgages in Korea under the Mortgage Purchase of mortgages.
Programme to the Korea Housing Finance Corporation.
one year increased compared with 31 December 2011, re ecting The following tables show the contractual maturity of loans and the strategic shift towards unsecured lending.
In addition, the advances to customers by each principal category of borrower.
2012 One year or less One to five years Over five years Total $million $million $million $million Loans to individuals Mortgages 3,728 9,564 60,077 73,369 Other 24, 477 11, 158 2,755 38, 390 Small and medium enterprises 11, 590 3, 789 5,738 21,117 39, 795 24, 511 68,570 132, 876 Portfolio impairment provision 435 Total loans and advances to customers 132, 441 2011 One year or less One to five years Over five years Total $million $million $million $million Loans to individuals 1 Mortgages 3,011 11,892 57,671 72,574 Other 20,194 10,502 2,749 33,445 Small and medium enterprises 10,474 3,450 5,307 19,231 33,679 25,844 65,727 125,250 Portfolio impairment provision 434 Total loans and advances to customers 124,816 1 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 45 78 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued Credit quality analysis The proportion of the past due but not individually impaired The tables below set out the loan portfolio for Consumer loans increased to $4.8 billion, or 3.6 p er cent of the loan Banking by product and by geography between those loans that portfolio.
Twothirds of the increase of $0.8 billion arose in the are neither past due nor impaired, those that are past due but less than 30 days past due category, primarily due to temporary not individually impaired and those that are individually impaired.
timing differences in payments in Korea, Malaysia and Singapore.
The overall credit quality of the portfolio remains good with Individually impaired loans increased by $160 million primarily over 95 per cent of the portfolio neither past due nor impaired.
in Korea, which was impacted by increased lings due to PDRS, The mortgage portfolio is well collateralised and has an average which also drove the $82 million increase in individual impairment loantovalue ratio of 47.8 per cent.
The portfolio impairment provision was largely at with an increase in Korea offset by reduced provisions in the MESA region where credit quality of the portfolio has improved.
2012 2011 Neither past Past due Neither past Past due due nor but not Individually due nor but not Individually individually individually impaired individually individually impaired impaired impaired loans Total impaired impaired loans Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans to individuals Mortgages 70, 920 2, 237 350 73,507 70,332 2,023 356 72,711 Other 36, 317 1, 833 471 38, 621 31,785 1,460 352 33,597 Small and medium enterprises 20, 162 731 428 21, 321 18,500 552 381 19,433 127, 399 4, 801 1,249 133,449 120,617 4,035 1,089 125,741 Individual impairment provision 573 491 Portfolio impairment provision 435 434 Total loans and advances to customers 132, 441 124,816 2012 Middle Other East Americas Hong Asia & Other UK & Kong Singapore Korea Paci c India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Neither past due nor individuallyimpaired 30,878 26,956 27,340 27,280 4,825 4,772 1, 629 3,719 127, 399 Past due but not individually impairedloans 404 569 1,059 1,594 342 587 69 177 4, 801 Individually impaired loans 66 57 329 434 52 224 24 63 1,249 Individual impairment provisions 24 15 141 147 29 165 12 40 573 Portfolio impairment provision 50 26 116 153 20 44 22 4 435 Total loans and advances to customers 31,274 27,541 28,471 29,008 5,170 5,374 1,688 3, 915 132, 441 Risk review 79 2011 Middle Other East Americas Hong Asia & Other UK & Kong Singapore Korea Paci c India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Neither past due nor individuallyimpaired 27,202 23,478 30,525 26,319 4,492 3,952 1,299 3,350 120,617 Past due but not individually impaired loans 315 515 924 1,305 310 576 30 60 4,035 Individually impaired loans 54 35 165 435 60 246 28 66 1,089 Individual impairment provisions 17 14 68 146 32 159 16 39 491 Portfolio impairment provision 45 22 101 159 21 63 19 4 434 Total loans and advances to customers 27,509 23,992 31,445 27,754 4,809 4,552 1,322 3,433 124,816 Credit risk mitigation Other secured loans are considered to be partially secured.
A secured loan is one where the borrower pledges an asset as collateral that the Group is able to take possession of in the event Within Consumer Banking, 72 per cent of lending is fully secured and 10 per cent was partially secured.
The following tables that the borrower defaults.
All secured loans are considered fully secured if the fair value of the collateral is equal to or greater than present an analysis of Consumer Banking loans by product split between fully secured, partially secured and unsecured.
the loan at the time of origination.
2012 2011 Fully Partially Fully Partially secured secured Unsecured Total secured secured Unsecured Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans to individuals Mortgages 73,369 73,369 72,574 72,574 Other 15,959 22,4 31 38,3 90 14,317 19,128 33,445 Small and medium enterprises 5, 967 12, 707 2,44 3 21,117 5, 415 11, 967 1,84 9 19,231 95, 295 12, 707 24, 874 132,8 76 92, 306 11, 967 20, 977 125,250 Percentage of total loans 72% 10% 18% 74% 9% 1 7% 80 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued Mortgage loantovalue ratios by geography of the portfolio with average LTVs in excess of 100 per cent The following table provides an analysis of loan-tovalue LTV has declined from 0.8 per cent to 0.5 per cent.
This has been ratios by geography for the mortgages portfolio.
LTV ratios primarily seen within the UAE due to improving economic are determined based on the ratio of the current mortgage conditions in the current year, such as job market stability.
outstanding to the current fair value of the properties on which As at 31 December 2012 average LTVs in Hong Kong and they are secured.
Overall the average LTV ratio for the book is MESA regions were lower as new business was originated 47.8 per cent compared with 49.0 per cent in 2011.
Our major at lower LTVs and in Hong Kong the current book bene t ed mortgage markets of Hong Kong, Singapore and Korea have from an increase in property prices.
an average LTV of less than 50 per cent.
PIP is raised on a portfolio basis for is delinquency.
A loan is considered delinquent past due all products, and is set using expected loss rates, based on when the counterparty has failed to make a principal or interest past experience supplemented by an assessment of speci c payment when contractually due.
However, not all delinquent factors affecting the relevant portfolio.
These include an loans particularly those in the early stage of delinquency will be assessment of the impact of economic conditions, regulatory impaired.
For delinquency reporting purposes we follow industry changes and portfolio characteristics such as delinquency standards, measuring delinquency as of 1, 30, 60, 90, 120 and trends and early alert trends.
The methodology applies a larger 150 days past due.
Accounts that are overdue by more than provision against accounts that are delinquent but not yet 30 days are more closely monitored and subject to speci c considered impaired.
The procedures for managing problem credits for the Private Provisioning within Consumer Banking re ects the fact that the Bank and the medium-sized enterprises in the SME segment product portfolios excluding medium-sized enterprises among of Consumer Banking are similar to those adopted in SME customers and Private Banking customers consist of a Wholesale Banking described on page 89. large number of comparatively small exposures.
Mortgages are assessed for individual impairment on an account by account Loan impairment basis, but for other products it is impractical to monitor each The total net impairment charge in Consumer Banking in 2012 delinquent loan individually and impairment is therefore increased by $17 3 million, or 33 per cent, over 2011.
regulatory actions to curtail the household debt situation are driving a market-wide increase in the number of lings under For the main unsecured products and loans secured by the PDRS.
Impairment charges also increased in Hong Kong, automobiles, the entire outstanding amount is generally written Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand in line with the growth in off at 150 days past due.
Unsecured consumer finance loans unsecured lending and maturing of certain personal loan ares imilarly written off at 90 days past due.
However market conditions in both India and the other than those secured by automobiles individual impairment Middle East have improved and as a result we have seen provisions IIPs are generally raised at either 150 days lower levels of provisioning in these regions.
mortgages or 90 days Wealth Management past due.
There was a portfolio impairment release of $5 million in 2012 The provisions are based on the estimated present values of 2011: $10 million.
future cash ows, in particular those resulting from the realisation of security.
Following such realisation any remaining loan will be written off.
The days past due used to trigger writeoffs and IIPs are broadly driven by past experience, which shows that once an account reaches the relevant number of days past due, the probability of recovery other than by realising security where appropriate is low.
For all products there are certain situations where the individual impairment provisioning or writeoff process is accelerated, such as in cases involving bankruptcy, customer fraud and death.
Writeoff and IIPs are accelerated for all restructured accounts to 90 days past due unsecured and automobile finance and 120 days past due secured respectively.
Individually impaired loans for Consumer Banking will therefore not equate to those reported as non-performing on page s 83 and 84, because non-performing loans include all those over 90 days past due.
This difference re ects the fact that, while experience shows that an element of delinquent loans are impaired, it is not possible to identify which individual loans the impairment relates to until the delinquency is suf ciently prolonged that loss is almost certain.
In the Groups experience, it is generally around 150 days in Consumer Banking.
Up to that point the inherent impairment is captured in portfolio impairment provision PIP.
82 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued The table below sets out the individual impairment provision by geography together with an analysis of the individual impairment charge and the movement in impaired provision by product type.
2012 Ot her Middle East Americas Asia & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Paci c India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Gross impairment charge 135 109 289 379 43 122 29 13 1, 119 Recoveries provisions no longer required 44 49 72 166 19 52 12 3 417 Net individual impairment charge 91 60 217 213 24 70 17 10 702 Portfolio impairment provision release 5 Net impairment charge 697 2011 Middle East Americas Other & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Asia Paci c India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Gross impairment charge 92 51 178 304 58 166 27 8 884 Recoveries provisions no longer required 28 23 26 179 23 52 14 5 350 Net individual impairment charge 64 28 152 125 35 114 13 3 534 Portfolio impairment provision release 10 Net impairment charge 524 The following table sets out the movement in total impairment provisions for Consumer Banking loans and advances as at 31December by each principal category of borrower.
Impairment Impairment provision Net Amounts provision held as at impairment written off held as at 1 January charge other movements 31 December 2012 2012 2012 2012 $million $million $million $million Loans to individuals Mortgages 137 14 13 138 Other 152 579 500 231 Small and medium enterprises 202 109 107 204 491 702 620 573 Portfolio impairment provision 434 5 6 435 925 697 614 1, 008 Risk review 83 Impairment Impairment provision Net Amounts provision held as at impairment written off held as at 1 January charge other movements 31 December 2011 2011 2011 2011 $million $million $million $million Loans to individuals Mortgages 128 21 12 137 Other 180 412 440 152 Small and medium enterprises 198 101 97 202 506 534 549 491 Portfolio impairment provision 451 10 7 434 957 524 556 925 Nonperforming loans Non-performing loans have increased by $195 million compared with 2011 largely driven by Korea $182 million increase in line with the increase in the delinquency impacted by PDRS lings, partly offset by a decline in the UAE where credit quality has improved.
The cover ratio is a common metric used in considering trends in provisioning and non-performing loans.
It should be noted, as explained above, a signi cant proportion of the PIP is intended to re ect losses inherent in the loan portfolio that is less than 90 days delinquent and hence recorded as performing.
This metric should be considered in conjunction with other credit risk information including that contained on page 73.
The following tables set out the total non-performing loans and related provisions for Consumer Banking by geography: 2012 Ot her Middle East Americas Asia & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Paci c India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing 67 70 376 369 65 253 26 65 1,291 1 Individual impairment provision 24 14 141 107 29 165 12 40 532 Non-performing loans net of individual impairment provision 43 56 235 262 36 88 14 25 759 Portfolio impairment provision 435 Net non-performing loans and advances 324 Cover ratio 7 5% 1 The difference to total individual impairment provision at 31 December 2012 re ects provisions against restructured loans that are not included within non-performing loans as they have been performing for 180 days 84 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued 2011 Other Middle East Americas Asia & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Paci c India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing 48 52 194 345 72 291 28 66 1,096 1 Individual impairment provision 17 14 68 113 32 159 16 39 458 Non-performing loans net of individual impairment provision 31 38 126 232 40 132 12 27 638 Portfolio impairment provision 434 Net non-performing loans and advances 204 Cover ratio 81% 1 The difference to total individual impairment provision at 31 December 2011 re ects provisions against restructured loans that are not included within non-performing loans as they have been performing for 180 days The following table sets out the movement in individually impaired loans, those renegotiated loans excluded from non-performing and total non-performing loans.
Renegotiated loans are excluded from non-performing loans if certain speci c criteria are met as explained on page 73.
2012 2011 Individually Total Individually Total impaired Renegotiated non-performing impaired Renegotiated non-performing loans loans loans loans loans loans $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 1,243 147 1,096 1,106 1,106 Exchange translation differences 11 7 4 61 4 57 Additions 706 20 686 755 164 591 Maturities and disposals 495 495 557 13 544 At 31 December 1,465 174 1,291 1,243 147 1,096 Wholesale Banking loan portfolio The Wholesale Banking portfolio remains diversi ed across both The Wholesale Banking portfolio has increased by $9.4 billion, geography and industry.
There are no signi cant concentrations or 6 per cent, compared with December 2011.
More than within the broad industry classi cations of manufacturing: two-thirds of the growth is due to Trade Finance and Corporate nancing, insurance and business services: commerce: or Finance as Wholesale Banking continues to deepen transport, storage and communication.
The largest sector relationships with clients in core markets.
exposure is to manufacturing, which is spread across many sub-industries.
Customer assets growth has been broadly spread, with growth in Singapore, Korea, Africa and the Americas, UK & Europe Exposure to bank counterparties at $69.2 billion increased by region partly offset by a decline in Hong Kong.
Growth in $2.6 billion compared with 31 December 2011, mainly in Korea, Singapore is mainly in trade loans and is concentrated in the Hong Kong, on the back of RMB nancing demand, and in Commerce and Manufacturing industry segments.
Hong Kong Other Asia Paci c APR due to increased money market activity loans fell primarily due to repayments of loans linked to in China.
The Group continues to be a net lender in the interbank acquisitions or IPOs.
The growth in the Americas, UK & Europe money markets, particularly in geographies such as Hong Kong, region is as a result of a certain number of large ticket leveraged Singapore, Other APR, MESA and Americas, UK & Europe.
finance deals primarily relating to clients across our network.
Single borrower concentration risk has been mitigated by active distribution of assets to banks and institutional investors, some of which is achieved through credit-default swaps and synthetic risk transfer structures.
86 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued Maturity analysis over five years have increased by $2.7 billion primarily in the The Wholesale Banking portfolio remains predominantly nancing, insurance and communication sectors.
short-term, with 62 per cent 2011: 64 per cent of loans and The following tables show the contractual maturity of loans advances having a contractual maturity of one year or less and advances to customers by each principal category of driven by short-dated loans and trade finance transactions.
The portfolio has seen a marginal extension in tenor as loans 2012 One year or less One to five years Over five years Total $million $million $million $million Agriculture, forestry and shing 3, 307 1, 000 164 4,471 Construction 3,205 1,269 171 4,645 Commerce 29, 268 4,271 419 3 3, 958 Electricity, gas and water 1,86 4 1,04 7 1,914 4,825 Financing, insurance and business services 14, 021 7, 641 1, 067 22,729 Governments 2,873 303 78 3,254 Mining and quarrying 6,96 6 5,313 2,68 7 14,966 Manufacturing 2 7, 061 11, 410 1,828 40,299 Commercial real estate 4,19 5 6,859 521 11,575 Transport, storage and communication 3,92 1 7,031 3,67 8 14,630 Other 763 585 31 1, 379 97, 444 46, 729 12,558 156,731 Portfolio impairment provision 309 Total loans and advances to customers 156,422 2011 One year or less One to five years Over five years Total $million $million $million $million Agriculture, forestry and shing 2,607 468 107 3,182 Construction 2,300 1,366 138 3,804 Commerce 23,705 4,114 413 28,232 Electricity, gas and water 1,117 1,649 1,708 4,474 Financing, insurance and business services 16,797 8,818 343 25,958 Governments 4,301 1,372 5,673 Mining and quarrying 5,912 3,602 2,760 12,274 Manufacturing 25,704 9,380 1,791 36,875 Commercial real estate 4,146 5,785 324 10,255 Transport, storage and communication 7,267 5,160 2,269 14,696 Other 971 874 20 1,865 94,827 42,588 9,873 147,288 Portfolio impairment provision 326 Total loans and advances to customers 146,962 Risk review 87 Credit quality analysis and commerce, in Hong Kong within mining and construction The table below set s out an analysis of the loans to customers and in Singapore within nancing, insurance and business and banks between those loans that are neither past due nor services.
The remainder of the increase was in the 60-90 days impaired, those that are past due but not individually impaired past due category and related to the nancing, insurance and and those that are individually impaired by industry type and business services and manufacturing sectors in the Americas, by geography.
As explained on page 70, a majority of these past due balances relate to a small number of exposures In Wholesale Banking, the overall portfolio quality remains and have since been either repaid or renegotiated shortly after good and more than 94 p er cent of the portfolio is neither past the balance sheet date.
Individually impaired loans increased by $1.
2 billion, mainly Neither past due nor impaired loans have increased by due to an increase in a small number of exposures in India and $ 4.8 billion in line with portfolio growth, and this is primarily the UAE, and this owed into a higher individual impairment concentrated within the commerce and manufacturing provision of $0.4 billion.
Portfolio impairment provision declined sectors and within credit grades 1-5. by $17 million primarily due to a release in India of provisions Loans past due but not individually impaired increased by created in 2011 in respect of market uncertainties.
Of this increase, $1 billion Loans to banks remain predominantly high quality and more was in the less than 30 days past due category and related to than 99 per cent of the portfolio is neither past due nor a small number of exposures in the UAE within construction individually impaired.
2012 2011 Neither past Past due Neither past Past due due nor but not Individually due nor but not Individually individually individually impaired individually individually impaired impaired impaired loans Total impaired impaired loans Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Agriculture, forestry and shing 4,364 54 92 4, 510 3, 0 89 29 104 3,22 2 Construction 4,175 309 237 4,721 3,70 3 40 129 3, 87 2 Commerce 33,369 323 940 34, 632 28,01 8 91 596 28,70 5 Electricity, gas and water 4,74 4 4 85 4, 833 4,31 7 155 8 4,4 80 Financing, insurance and business services 19,115 2,640 1,139 22, 894 25,168 74 883 26,125 Governments 3,254 3,25 4 5,67 3 5,67 3 Mining and quarrying 14,363 593 19 14,975 12,22 8 37 10 12,27 5 Manufacturing 38,932 748 1, 191 40, 871 36, 07 5 274 1,077 37, 42 6 Commercial real estate 11,403 38 158 11,599 9, 9 91 107 181 10, 27 9 Transport, storage and communication 14,241 43 543 14, 827 14, 41 0 77 249 14, 73 6 Other 1,354 23 33 1, 410 1, 84 4 25 25 1,89 4 149,314 4,775 4, 437 158,526 144,516 909 3,262 148,687 Individual impairment provision 1,795 1,399 Portfolio impairment provision 309 326 Total loans and advances to customers 156,422 146,962 Loans and advances to banks 68,948 3 309 69,260 66,326 75 232 66,633 Individual impairment provision 103 82 Portfolio impairment provision 2 2 Total loans and advances to banks 69,155 66,549 88 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued The tables below set out an analysis of the loans to customers and banks between those loans that are neither past due nor impaired, those that are past due but not individually impaired and those that are individually impaired by geography.
2012 Other Middle East Americas Asia & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Paci c India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Neither past due nor individually impaired 20,674 28,036 7,554 23,806 6,186 1 2, 697 6,212 44,149 149,314 Past due but not individually impaired loans 769 160 256 134 657 20 2,779 4,775 Individually impaired loans 122 199 261 524 748 2, 326 132 125 4, 437 Individual impairment provisions 50 74 105 250 241 1,008 37 30 1,795 Portfolio impairment provision 24 21 16 35 19 94 41 59 309 Total loans and advances tocustomers 21,491 28,300 7,694 24,301 6,808 14,578 6,286 46,964 156,422 2011 Other Middle East Americas Asia & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Paci c India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Neither past due nor individually impaired 23,244 24,752 6,511 23,654 6,130 12,439 5,818 41,968 144,516 Past due but not individually impaired loans 174 10 1 22 104 522 76 909 Individually impaired loans 75 114 202 462 249 1,775 154 231 3,262 Individual impairment provisions 61 61 68 248 76 779 46 60 1,399 Portfolio impairment provision 27 19 25 25 63 75 30 62 326 Total loans and advances tocustomers 23,405 24,796 6,621 23,865 6,344 13,882 5,972 42,077 146,962 2012 Other Middle East Americas Asia & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Paci c India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Neither past due nor individually impaired 19,349 6,205 4,633 8,635 570 3,076 378 26,102 68,948 Past due but not individually impaired loans 2 1 3 Individually impaired loans 5 164 97 43 309 Individual impairment provisions 78 25 103 Portfolio impairment provision 1 1 2 Total loans and advances tobanks 19,356 6,205 4,633 8,720 571 3,172 378 26,120 69,155 Risk review 89 2011 Other Middle East Americas Asia & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Paci c India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Neither past due nor individually impaired 19,027 7,288 3,777 8,217 362 2,427 637 24,591 66,326 Past due but not individually impaired loans 62 13 75 Individually impaired loans 8 165 1 58 232 Individual impairment provisions 76 6 82 Portfolio impairment provision 1 1 2 Total loans and advances tobanks 19,097 7,301 3,777 8,305 362 2,426 638 24,643 66,549 Credit risk mitigation The individual circumstances of each customer are taken into Collateral held against Wholesale Banking exposures amounted account when GSAM estimates future cash ow.
All available to $52 billion 2011: $54 billion.
Our underwriting standards sources, such as cash ow arising from operations, selling encourage taking speci c charges on assets.
51 per cent of assets or subsidiaries, realising collateral or payments under collateral held is comprised of physical assets or is property guarantees, are considered.
In any decision relating to the based, with the remainder held largely in investment securities.
raising of provisions, we attempt to balance economic conditions, local knowledge and experience, and the results of independent Non-tangible collateral such as guarantees and letters of asset reviews.
credit may also be held against corporate exposures although the financial effect of this type of collateral is less signi cant Where it is considered that there is no realistic prospect of in terms of recoveries.
However this type of collateral is recovering a portion of an exposure against which an impairment considered when determining probability of default and provision has been raised, that amount will be written off.
As with Consumer Banking, a PIP is held to cover the inherent risk of losses which, although not identi ed, are known through Problem credit management and provisioning experience to be present in any loan portfolio.
In Wholesale Loans are classi ed as impaired and considered non-performing Banking, this is set with reference to historic loss rates and in line with the fide nition on page 73 and where analysis and subjective factors such as the economic environment and the review indicates that full payment of either interest or principal trends in key portfolio indicators.
The PIP methodology provides is questionable, or as soon as payment of interest or principal for accounts for which an individual impairment provision has not is 90 days overdue.
Impaired accounts are managed by our been raised.
specialist recovery unit, GSAM, which is separate from our main businesses.
Where any amount is considered irrecoverable, an individual impairment provision is raised.
This provision is the difference between the loan carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows.
90 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued Loan impairment release of sectorspeci c provisions in India.
Consequently, there The individual impairment charge increased by $212 million, was a net portfolio impairment release in 2012 of $22 million, or6 4 per cent, compared with 2011, which is in line with the compared with a $24million charge in 2011. increase in nonperforming loans mentioned on page 92 in The table below sets out the net impairment charge for India and the UAE.
These arose primarily in the commerce, Wholesale Banking loans and advances and other credit risk and transport, storage and communication sectors.
provisions were reduced in some markets in 2012 with a 2012 Other Middle East Americas Asia & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Paci c India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Gross impairment charge 23 2 45 49 192 265 2 19 597 Recoveries provisions no longer required 5 9 20 7 1 2 8 52 Net individual impairment charge 18 2 36 29 185 264 11 545 Portfolio impairment provision release 22 Net loan impairment charge 523 Other credit risk provisions 1 Total impairment 524 2011 Other Middle East Americas Asia & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Paci c India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Gross impairment charge 19 21 36 29 40 229 8 382 Recoveries provisions no longer required 10 4 8 6 9 7 5 49 Net individual impairment charge credit 9 21 32 21 34 220 1 5 333 Portfolio impairment provision charge 24 Net loan impairment charge 357 Other credit risk provisions 27 Total impairment 384 Risk review 91 Impairment provisions on loans and advances The following table sets out the impairment provision on loans and advances by each principal category of borrowers business or industry.
Impairment Impairment provision Amounts provision held as at Net impairment writ ten of f other held as at 1 January charge movements 31 December 2012 2012 2012 2012 $million $million $million $million Agriculture, forestry and shing 40 1 39 Construction 68 19 11 76 Commerce 473 136 65 674 Electricity, gas and water 6 2 8 Financing, insurance and business services 167 118 120 165 Mining and quarrying 1 8 9 Manufacturing 551 100 79 572 Commercial real estate 24 24 Transport, storage and communication 40 162 5 197 Other 29 4 2 31 Individual impairment provision against loans and advances to customers 1,399 539 143 1,795 Portfolio impairment provision against loans and advances to customers 326 22 5 309 Total impairment provisions on loans and advances to customers 1,725 517 138 2,104 Individual impairment provision against loans and advances to banks 82 6 15 103 Portfolio impairment provision against loans and advances to banks 2 2 Total impairment provisions on loans and advances to banks 84 6 15 105 Impairment Impairment provision Amounts provision held as at Net impairment written of f other held as at 1 January charge movements 31 December 2011 2011 2011 2011 $million $million $million $million Agriculture, forestry and shing 42 2 40 Construction 57 5 6 68 Commerce 467 47 41 473 Electricity, gas and water 7 1 6 Financing, insurance and business services 120 81 34 167 Mining and quarrying 1 1 Manufacturing 558 181 188 551 Commercial real estate 23 1 24 Transport, storage and communication 23 7 10 40 Other 20 9 29 Individual impairment provision against loans and advances to customers 1,318 321 240 1,399 Portfolio impairment provision against loans and advances to customers 309 24 7 326 Total impairment provisions on loans and advances to customers 1,627 345 247 1,725 Individual impairment provision against loans and advances to banks 93 12 23 82 Portfolio impairment provision against loans and advances to banks 2 2 Total impairment provisions on loans and advances to banks 95 12 23 84 92 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued Non-performing loans factors p reviously outlined.
The balance of non-performing loans Gross non-performing loans in Wholesale Banking have not covered by individual impairment provisions represents the increased by $1,222 million, or 40 per cent, since December value of collateral held and the Groups estimate of the net 2011.
These increases were primarily driven by a very small outcome of any workout strategy.
The cover ratio after taking number of exposures in India and the UAE.
into account collateral is 65 per cent 2011: 72 per cent.
The cover ratio re ects the extent to which gross non-performing The following tables set out the total non-performing loans to loans are covered by individual and portfolio impairment banks and customers for Wholesale Banking on the basis of the provisions and was 51 per cent as at 31 December 2012, down geographic regions to which the exposure relates to rather than from 58 per cent as at 31 December 2011, largely due to the the booking location.
2012 Other Middle East Americas Asia & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Paci c India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing 128 21 261 744 754 2,089 147 165 4,309 1 Individual impairment provision 50 14 105 335 240 1,061 37 55 1,897 Non-performing loans net of individual impairment provision 78 7 156 409 514 1,028 110 110 2,412 Portfolio impairment provision 311 Net non-performing loans and advances 2,101 Cover ratio 51% 1 The difference to total individual impairment provision at 31 December 2012 re ects provisions against restructured loans that are not included within nonperforming loans as they have been performing for 180 days 2011 Other Middle East Americas Asia & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Paci c India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing 83 18 202 773 260 1,476 146 129 3,087 1 Individual impairment provision 61 4 68 325 80 811 45 65 1,459 Non-performing loans net of individual impairment provision 22 14 134 448 180 6 65 101 64 1,628 Portfolio impairment provision 328 Net non-performing loans and advances 1,300 Cover ratio 58% 1 The difference to total individual impairment provision at 31 December 2011 re ects provisions against restructured loans that are not included within nonperforming loans as they have been performing for 180 days Risk review 93 The following table sets out the movement in individually impaired loans, those renegotiated loans excluded from non-performing and the total non-performing loans.
The movement credit rating and measurements on page 65. in impairment provisions for securities classi ed as loans and Debt securities in the AAA rating category increased by receivables is set out in note 21 to the financial statements.
$5.5 billion to $20.7 billion in 2012 mainly due to an increase The table on page 93 also analyses debt securities and treasury inhigher quality corporate bonds to meet the UK liquid asset bills that are neither past due nor impaired by external credit buffer requirements.
The standard credit ratings used by the Group are those Unrated securities primarily relate to corporate issuers.
used by Standard & Poors or their equivalent.
Debt securities Using internal credit ratings, $ 7,208 million 2011: $6,254 million held that have a short-term rating are reported against the of these securities are considered to be equivalent to long-term rating of the issuer.
For securities that are unrated, investment grade.
Asset backed securities Total exposures to asset backed securities 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Percentage Percentage of notional Carrying of notional Carr ying 1 1 value of Notional value Fair value value of Notional value Fair value portfolio $million $million $million portfolio $million $million $million Residential Mortgage Backed Securities RMBS 46% 2,160 2,114 2,120 32% 769 688 667 Collateralised Debt Obligations CDOs 5% 260 203 219 13% 308 241 244 Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities CMBS 10% 478 355 351 26% 633 488 465 Other asset backed securities Other ABS 39% 1,869 1,847 1,861 29% 712 679 694 100% 4,767 4,519 4,551 100% 2,422 2,096 2,070 Of which included within: Financial assets held at fair value through pro t or loss 4% 190 191 191 6% 132 130 130 Investment securities available-for-sale 61% 2,905 2,786 2,786 22% 538 379 379 Investment securities loans and receivables 35% 1,672 1,542 1,574 72% 1,752 1,587 1,561 100% 4,767 4,519 4,551 100% 2,422 2,096 2,070 1 Fair value re ects the value of the entire portfolio, including assets redesignated to loans and receivables The carrying value of asset backed securities ABS represents assets with an average credit grade of AAA.
The credit quality 0.7 per cent 2011: 0.3 per cent of our total assets.
of the asset backed securities portfolio remains strong.
With the exception of those securities subject to an impairment charge, The Group has an existing portfolio of ABS that it reclassi ed more than 90 per cent of the overall portfolio is rated A o r from trading and available-for-sale to loans and receivables better, and 61 per cent of the overall portfolio is rated as AAA.
No assets have been reclassi ed The portfolio is broadly diversi ed across asset classes and since 2008.
This portfolio has been gradually managed down geographies, with an average credit grade of AA.
The carrying value and fair value for this part of the portfolio were $0.97 billion and $1.0 billion respectively as at the The fair value of the entire portfolio is $32 million higher than the end of 2012.
Note 12 to the financial statements provides details carrying value as at 31 December 2012 2011: $26 million lower, of the remaining balance of those assets reclassi ed in 2008. bene ting from some redemptions and a recovery in market prices in certain asset classes.
The Group has also extended its investment to a limited amount of trading in ABS and has also acquired an additional $2.3 billion Further details of asset backed securities are explained on of ABS during 2012 for liquidity reasons.
This is classi ed as page 41 of the Pillar 3 disclosures.
available-for-sale and primarily related to high quality ABS Risk review 95 Financial statement impact of asset backed securities Loans and Available-for-sale receivables Total $million $million $million 31 December 2012 Charge to available-for-sale reserves 3 3 Credit to the pro t and loss account 5 5 31 December 2011 Credit to available-for-sale reserves 16 16 Charge to the pro t and loss account 9 7 16 Selected European country exposures of balances with corporates.
The substantial majority of the The tables on the following page summarise the Groups Groups total gross GIIPS exposure has a tenor of less than direct exposure both on and off balance sheet to certain five years, with approximately 30 per cent having a tenor of speci c countries within the eurozone that have been identi ed less than one year.
The Group has no direct sovereign exposure on the basis of their higher bond yields, higher sovereign debt and $263 million 2011: $ 281 million of non-sovereign exposure to GDP ratio and external credit ratings compared with the rest after collateral and netting to Cyprus.
The exit of one or more countries from the eurozone or ultimately Total gross exposure represents the amount outstanding on its dissolution could potentially lead to signi cant market the balance sheet including any accrued interest but before dislocation, the extent of which is dif cult to predict.
Any such provisions and positive mark-to-market amounts on derivatives exit or dissolution, and the redenomination of formerly eurobefore netting.
To the extent gross exposure does not represent denominated rights and obligations in replacement national the maximum exposure to loss, this is disclosed separately.
currencies would cause signi cant uncertainty in any exiting Exposures are assigned to a country based on the country country, whether sovereign or otherwise.
Such events are also of incorporation of the counterparty as at 31 December 2012. likely to be accompanied by the imposition of capital, exchange and similar controls.
While the Group has limited eurozone The Group has no direct sovereign exposure as fide ned by exposure as disclosed above, the Groups earnings could be the European Banking Authority to the eurozone countries impacted by the general market disruption if such events should of Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain GIIPS and only occur.
We monitor the situation closely and we have prepared $0.9 billion direct sovereign exposure to other eurozone contingency plans to respond to a range of potential scenarios, countries.
The Groups non-sovereign exposure to GIIPS including the possibility of currency redenomination.
Local is $3.5 billion $2.3 billion after collateral and netting and assets and liability positions are carefully monitored by in-country $47.2 billion $32.6 billion after collateral and netting to the asset and liability and risk committees with appropriate oversight remainder of the eurozone.
This exposure primarily consists by GALCO and GRC at the Group level.
96 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued 2012 Greece Ireland Italy Portugal Spain Total Country $million $million $million $million $million $million Direct sovereign exposure Banks 2 918 600 1 281 1,802 Other financial institutions 1,331 9 1,340 Other corporate 29 173 65 20 74 361 Total gross exposure 31 2,422 674 21 355 3,503 Direct sovereign exposure Banks 914 55 130 1,099 Other financial institutions 78 9 87 Other corporate 2 39 4 45 Total collateral netting 2 1,031 64 134 1,231 Direct sovereign exposure 1 Banks 2 4 545 1 151 703 2 Other financial institutions 1,253 1,253 Other corporate 27 134 65 20 70 316 Total net exposure 29 1,391 610 21 221 2,272 1 This represents a single exposure, which is fully guaranteed by its US parent company 2 This represents a single exposure that is part of a wider structured finance transaction and is unaffected by Irish economic risk 2011 Greece Ireland Italy Portugal Spain Total Country $million $million $million $million $million $million Direct sovereign exposure Banks 5 1,143 411 121 401 2,081 Other financial institutions 752 4 16 772 Other corporate 42 47 208 23 55 375 Total gross exposure 47 1,942 623 144 472 3,228 Direct sovereign exposure Banks 1,136 29 196 1,361 Other financial institutions 4 4 Other corporate 5 43 2 50 Total collateral netting 5 1,179 35 196 1,415 Direct sovereign exposure 1 Banks 5 7 382 121 205 720 2 Other financial institutions 752 16 768 Other corporate 37 4 206 23 55 325 Total net exposure 42 763 588 144 276 1,813 1 This represents a single exposure, which is fully guaranteed by its US parent company 2 This represents a single exposure that is part of a wider structured finance transaction and is unaffected by Irish economic risk Risk review 97 The Groups exposure to GIIPS as at 31 December 2012 is analysed by financial asset as follows : 2012 Greece Ireland Italy Portugal Spain Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Loans and receivables 20 91 301 20 26 458 Held at fair value through pro t or loss 17 17 Total gross loans and advances 20 91 318 20 26 475 Collateral held against loans and advances 2 38 24 4 68 Total net loans and advances 18 53 294 20 22 407 Debt securities Trading Designated at fair value 41 41 Available-for-sale 51 78 129 Loans and receivables Total gross debt securities 51 119 170 Collateral held against debt securities Total net debt securities 51 119 170 Derivatives Gross exposure 2 1,025 44 137 1,208 1 Collateral netting 992 39 132 1,163 Total derivatives 2 33 5 5 45 Contingent liabilities and commitments 9 1,254 311 1 75 1,650 Total net exposure 1 on and off balance sheet 29 1,391 610 21 221 2,272 Total balance sheet exposure 22 1,167 362 20 282 1,853 1 Based on ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association netting Other selected eurozone countries A summary analysis of the Groups exposure to France, Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg is also provided as these countries are considered to have signi cant sovereign debt exposure to GIIPS.
France Germany Netherlands Luxembourg Total $million $million $million $million $million Direct sovereign exposure 236 443 679 Banks 2,712 11,765 4,712 1,097 20,286 Other financial institutions 147 333 893 1,373 Other corporate 643 601 7,069 604 8,917 Total net exposure as at 31 December 2012 3,738 12,809 12,114 2,594 31,255 Total net exposure as at 31 December 2011 4,900 7,665 7,831 1,445 21,841 The Groups lending to these selected eurozone countries Other than all these speci cally identi ed countries, the primarily takes the form of repurchase agreements, interba nk Groups residual net exposure to the eurozone is $2.2 billion, loans and bonds.
The substantial majority of the Groups total which primarily comprises bonds and export structured gross exposures to these selected countries have a tenor of less nancing to banks and corporates.
than three years, with more than 67 per cent having a tenor of less than one year.
The Groups exposure in Germany is primarily with the central bank.
98 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued Country cross-border risk Growth in our business in China and Hong Kong continued Country cross-border risk is the risk that we will be unable to to drive increases in cross-border exposure.
Changes in obtain payment from our customers or third parties on their exposures to both countries also re ect an overall reduction contractual obligations as a result of certain actions taken by in the placement of surplus liquidity in China in the second half foreign governments, chie y relating to convertibility and of the year and an increase in surplus liquidity placements in transferability of foreign currency.
The GRC is responsible for our country cross-border risk limits Crossborder exposure in Indonesia grew strongly re ecting the and delegates the setting and management of country limits to opportunities in this market for the Group as whole, and for our the Group Country Risk function.
Customer demand for US dollar loans, principally from local corporate customers, remained buoyant, The business and country Chief Executive Of cers manage and there were signi cant transactions for acquisition nancing.
exposures within these limits and policies.
Countries designated as higher risk are subject to increased central monitoring.
Korea has seen a reduction in exposures greater than one year and an increase in exposures of one year or less.
This re ects a Cross-border assets comprise loans and advances, interestchange of business mix from offshore funded term loans to local bearing deposits with other banks, trade and other bills, shortterm trade finance.
acceptances, amounts receivable under finance leases, derivatives, certi cates of deposit and other negotiable paper, Cross-border exposure to countries in which we do not have investment securities and formal commitments where the a major presence predominantly relates to short-dated counterparty is resident in a country other than where the assets money market activities, and some global corporate business are recorded.
Cross-border assets also include exposures to for customers with interests in our footprint.
This explains local residents denominated in currencies other than the local our signi cant exposure in the US and Switzerland.
Cross-border exposure also includes the value of in US exposure was driven by surplus liquidity owing into commodity, aircraft and shipping assets owned by the Group the US and being placed with the Federal Reserve Bank, that are held in a given country.
other US institutions and in shortterm US issued instruments.
Our cross-border exposure to China, Hong Kong, India, The table below, which is based on our internal cross-border Singapore, Indonesia and Korea has risen further in 2012, country risk reporting requirements, shows cross-border re ecting our business focus and continued expansion in our exposures that exceed 1 per cent of total assets.
Changes in the pace of economic activity is re ected in the growth of cross-border exposure for certain territories.
Our exposure to market risk arises principally from a VaR methodology.
VaR, in general, is a quantitative measure of customer-driven transactions.
The objective of our market risk market risk that applies recent historical market conditions to policies and processes is to obtain the best balance of risk and estimate the potential future loss in market value that will not be return whilst meeting customers requirements.
exceeded in a set time period at a set statistical con dence level.
VaR provides a consistent measure that can be applied across The primary categories of market risk for Standard Chartered trading businesses and products over time and can be set are: against actual daily trading pro t and loss outcome.
Interest rate risk: arising from changes in yield curves, credit VaR is calculated for expected movements over a minimum of spreads and implied volatilities on interest rate options one business day and to a con dence level of 97.5 per cent.
This con dence level suggests that potential daily losses, in excess of Currency exchange rate risk: arising from changes in exchange rates and implied volatilities on foreign exchange the VaR measure, are likely to be experienced six times per year.
options We apply two VaR methodologies: Commodity price risk: arising from changes in commodity Historical simulation: involves the revaluation of all existing prices and commodity option implied volatilities: covering positions to re ect the effect of historically observed changes energy, precious metals, base metals and agriculture in market risk factors on the valuation of the current portfolio.
Equity price risk: arising from changes in the prices of equities, This approach is applied for general market risk factors and equity indices, equity baskets and implied volatilities on related from the fourth quarter of 2012 has been extended to also options cover the majority of speci c credit spread risk VaR Monte Carlo simulation: this methodology is similar to Market risk governance historical simulation but with considerably more input risk The GRC approves our market risk appetite taking account factor observations.
These are generated by random of market volatility, the range of products and asset classes, sampling techniques, but the results retain the essential business volumes and transaction sizes.
variability and correlations of historically observed risk factor The Group Market Risk Committee GMRC, under authority changes.
This approach is now applied for some of the delegated by the GRC, is responsible for setting VaR and stress speci c credit spread risk VaR in relation to idiosyncratic loss triggers for market risk within our risk appetite.
The GMRC is exposures in credit markets also responsible for policies and other standards for the control In both methods, an historical observation period of one year of market risk and overseeing their effective implementation.
These policies cover both trading and non-trading books of the Group.
The trading book is fide ned as per the FSA s Prudential VaR is calculated as our exposure as at the close of business, generally UK time.
Intra-day risk levels may vary from those sourcebook for Banks, Building Societies and Investment Firms BIPRU.
This is more restrictive than the broader fide nition within reported at the end of the day.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, as the FSA only permits certain types of financial instruments or Back testing arrangements to be included within the trading book.
Limits by To assess their predictive power, VaR models are back tested location and portfolio are proposed by the businesses within against actual results.
In 2012, there have been no exceptions in the terms of agreed policy.
the regulatory back testing, compared with four in 2011.
This is within the green zone applied internationally to internal models Group Market Risk GMR approves the limits within delegated by bank supervisors, and implies that model reliability is authorities and monitors exposures against these limits.
statistically greater than 95 per cent.
Additional limits are placed on speci c instruments and position concentrations where appropriate.
Sensitivity measures are Stress testing used in addition to VaR as risk management tools.
For example, Losses beyond the con dence interval are not captured by a interest rate sensitivity is measured in terms of exposure to a VaR calculation, which therefore gives no indication of the size one basis point increase in yields, whereas foreign exchange, of unexpected losses in these situations.
commodity and equity sensitivities are measured in terms of the underlying values or amounts involved.
Option risks are GMR complements the VaR measurement by weekly stress testing of market risk exposures to highlight the potential risk that controlled through revaluation limits on underlying price and volatility shifts, limits on volatility risk and other variables that may arise from extreme market events that are rare but plausible.
100 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued Stress testing is an integral part of the market risk management Market risk changes framework and considers both historical market events and Total average VaR in 2012 was 35 per cent higher than 2011 forward-looking scenarios.
A consistent stress testing in line with increases in the market positions.
methodology is applied to trading and non-trading books.
Further standardisation of VaR methodology with the The stress testing methodology assumes that scope for implementation of historical simulation VaR for speci c credit management action would be limited during a stress event, spread risk from 5 October 2012 permitted improved VaR re ecting the decrease in market liquidity that often occurs.
aggregation but also contributed to subsequent increases in Stress scenarios are regularly updated to re ect changes in risk VaRfor credit-sensitive business.
The impact was greatest at the pro le and economic events.
The GMRC has responsibility for Group level with a rise of $10.6 million in total VaR on 5 October.
reviewing stress exposures and, where necessary, enforcing The corresponding increase in trading book interest rate VaR reductions in overall market risk exposure.
The GRC considers was $1.0 million and non-trading book interest rate VaR was the results of stress tests as part of its supervision of risk appetite.
Regular stress test scenarios are applied to interest rates, credit For 2012 as a whole, non-trading book average VaR was spreads, exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices.
41 per cent higher than 2011, with increases in both interest rate This covers all asset classes in the Financial Markets banking and equity risk.
The increase in non-trading book interest VaR and trading books.
was due to increased holdings of available-for-sale securities, primarily held as liquid asset buffers and changes in the VaR Ad hoc scenarios are also prepared re ecting speci c market methodology as described above.
The increase in non-trading conditions and for particular concentrations of risk that arise book equity risk VaR was due primarily to increased holdings within the businesses.
Trading book average VaR in 2012 was 20 per cent higher than 2011, as the Rates business had higher net long interest rate exposures in India and South East Asia currencies.
Daily value at risk VaR at 97.5%, one day 2012 2011 3 3 4 3 3 4 Average High Low Actual Average High Low Actual $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Trading and non-trading 1 Interest rate risk 25.8 31.1 20.7 24.4 20.4 25.1 15.2 23.5 Foreign exchange risk 4.8 7.7 2.3 4.2 4.3 8.8 2.6 3.4 Commodity risk 1.7 3.0 1.0 1.0 2.2 3.7 1.1 1.2 Equity risk 15.9 18.5 13.9 16.4 11.2 13.9 9.0 12.7 2 Total 28.8 38.5 22.6 29.5 21.4 27.7 15.3 24.5 Trading 1 Interest rate risk 10.4 15.7 6.1 8.2 8.4 11.4 5.4 8.7 Foreign exchange risk 4.8 7.7 2.3 4.2 4.3 8.8 2.6 3.4 Commodity risk 1.7 3.0 1.0 1.0 2.2 3.7 1.1 1.2 Equity risk 1.5 2.8 0.6 1.9 1.9 3.1 1.1 1.1 2 Total 12.8 20.8 6.8 8.0 10.7 14.4 7.0 9.7 Non-trading 1 Interest rate risk 22.2 26.7 17.8 21.4 16.0 21.6 11.1 20.1 Equity risk 16.7 18.0 14.4 16.9 11.4 13.7 9.4 12.7 2 Total 27.1 33.5 21.9 23.9 19.2 25.3 11.0 22.6 1 Interest rate risk VaR includes credit spread risk arising from securities held for trading or available-for-sale 2 The total VaR shown in the tables above is not a sum of the component risks due to offsets between them 3 Highest and lowest VaR for each risk factor are independent and usually occur on different days 4 Actual one day VaR at period end date Risk review 101 Average daily income earned from market risk related activities 2012 2011 $million $million Trading Interest rate risk 6.7 4.6 Foreign exchange risk 5.1 5.7 Commodity risk 1.6 2.0 Equity risk 0.4 0.3 Total 13.8 12.6 Non-tra ding Interest rate risk 3.8 3.6 Equity risk 0.1 0.4 Total 3.9 3.2 Market risk VaR coverage Group Treasury market risk Interest rate risk from non-trading book portfolios is transferred Group Treasury raises debt and equity capital and the proceeds to Financial Markets where it is managed by local ALM desks are invested within the Group as capital or placed with ALM.
under the supervision of local Asset and Liability Committees Interest rate risk arises due to the investment of equity and ALCO.
ALM deals in the market in approved financial reserves into rate-sensitive assets, as well as some tenor mismatches between debt issuance and placements.
instruments in order to manage the net interest rate risk, subject to approved VaR and risk limits.
This risk is measured as the impact on net interest income NII of an unexpected and instantaneous adverse parallel shift VaR and stress tests are therefore applied to these non-trading in rates and is monitored over a rolling oneyear time horizon book exposures except Group Treasury, see right in the see table below.
same way as for the trading book, including available-for-sale securities.
Securities classed as loans and receivables or This risk is monitored and controlled by the Groups Capital heldtomaturity are not re ected in VaR or stress tests since Management Committee C MC.
they are accounted on an amortised cost basis and are match funded, so market price movements have no effect on either Group Treasury NII sensitivity to parallel shifts pro t and loss or reserves.
in yield curves 2012 2011 $million $million Structural foreign exchange currency risks are managed by Group Treasury, and are not included within Group VaR.
25 basis points 33.1 30.9 The foreign exchange risk on the non-trading book portfolios 25 basis points 33.1 30.9 is minimised by match funding assets and liabilities int he same currency.
Group Treasury also manages the structural foreign exchange Equity risk relating to non-listed Private Equity and strategic risk that arises from non-US dollar currency net investments in investments is not included within the VaR.
It is separately branches and subsidiaries.
The impact of foreign exchange managed through delegated limits for both investment movements is taken to reserves, which form part of the capital and divestment, and is also subject to regular review by base.
The effect of exchange rate movements on the capital an investment committee.
These are included as Level 3 ratio is partially mitigated by the fact that both the value of these assets as disclosed in note 15 to the financial statements.
investments and the risk weighted assets in those currencies follow broadly the same exchange rate movements.
With the approval of CMC, Group Treasury may hedge the net investments if it is anticipated that the capital ratio will be materially affected by exchange rate movements.
As at 31 December 2012, the Group had taken net investment hedges using a combination of derivative and non-derivative financial investments of $971 million 2011: $1,115 million to partly cover its exposure to the Korean won.
102 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued The table below sets out the principal structural foreign Derivatives are carried at fair value and shown in the balance exchange exposures net of investment hedges of the Group.
sheet as separate totals of assets and liabilities.
Recognition of fair value gains and losses depends on whether the derivatives 2012 2011 $million $million are classi ed as trading or held for hedging purposes.
Hong Kong dollar 6, 619 5,712 The credit risk arising from all financial derivatives is managed as part of the overall lending limits to financial institutions and Korean won 6,301 5,316 corporate customers.
This is covered in more detail in the Indian rupee 4,025 3,305 Credit risk section.
Taiwanese dollar 2,946 2,847 Chinese renminbi 2, 245 1,993 Hedging Singapore dollar 1, 195 1,791 Countries within the Group use futures, forwards, swaps Thai baht 1,662 1,514 and options transactions primarily to mitigate interest and UAE dirham 1, 598 1,490 foreign exchange risk arising from their in-country exposures.
Malaysian ringgit 1,360 1,213 The Group also uses futures, forwards and options to hedge Indonesian rupiah 1,164 892 foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
Pakistani rupee 586 639 In accounting terms under IAS 39, hedges are classi ed into Other 3, 648 3,152 three types: fair value hedges, predominantly where xed rates 33, 349 29,864 of interest or foreign exchange are exchanged for oating rates: cash ow hedges, predominantly where variable rates of interest or foreign exchange are exchanged for xed rates: and hedges An analysis has been performed on these exposures to assess of net investments in overseas operations translated to the the impact of a 1 per cent fall in the US dollar exchange rates parent companys functional currency, US dollars.
adjusted to incorporate the impacts of correlations of these currencies to the US dollar.
The impact on the positions above The notional value of interest rate swaps for the purpose of fair would be an increase of $2 55 million 2011: $221 million.
value hedging increased by $6.1 billion as at 31 December 2012 Changes in the valuation of these positions are taken to compared with 31 December 2011, as a result of our ongoing reserves.
The increase was largely due to the hedging of higher holdings of debt securities in the Derivatives UK, which form part of the Groups liquidity buffers.
Currency Derivatives are contracts with characteristics and value derived swaps used for cash ow hedging increased by $5.3 billion from underlying financial instruments, interest and exchange compared with 31 December 2011, primarily re ecting deposit rates or indices.
They include futures, forwards, swaps and growth in Hong Kong.
The notional value of interest rate swaps options transactions.
Derivatives are an important risk used for cash ow hedging decreased by $6.5 billion compared management tool for banks and their customers because with 31December 2011, largely due to lower oating rate they can be used to manage market price risk.
The market mortgage balances in Korea.
risko f derivatives is managed in essentially the same way We may also, under certain individually approved circumstances, as other traded products.
enter into economic hedges that do not qualify for IAS 39 hedge Our derivative transactions are principally in instruments accounting treatment, and which are accordingly marked to where the mark-to-market values are readily determinable market through the pro t and loss account, thereby creating by reference to independent prices and valuation quotes.
These are entered into primarily to ensure that residual interest rate and foreign exchange risks are We enter into derivative contracts in the normal course of being effectively managed.
Current economic hedge relationships business to meet customer requirements and to manage include hedging the foreign exchange risk on certain debt our exposure to uctuations in market price movements.
issuances and on other monetary instruments held in currencies other than US dollars.
Risk review 103 Liquidity risk Our liquidity risk management framework requires limits to Liquidity risk is the risk that we either do not have suf cient be set for prudent liquidity management.
There are limits on: financial resources available to meet our obligations as they The local and foreign currency cash ow gaps fall due, or can only access these financial resources at excessive cost.
The level of external wholesale borrowing to ensure that the size of this funding is proportionate to the local market and It is our policy to maintain adequate liquidity at all times, in all our local operations geographic locations and for all currencies, and hence to be in a position to meet obligations as they fall due.
We manage The level of borrowing from other countries within the Group liquidity risk both on a short-term and medium-term basis.
to contain the risk of contagion from one country to another In the short-term, our focus is on ensuring that the cash ow Commitments, both on and off balance sheet, to ensure there demands can be met where required.
In the medium-term, are suf cient funds available in the event of drawdown on the focus is on ensuring the balance sheet remains structurally these commitments sound and aligned to our strategy.
The advancestodeposits ratio to ensure that commercial The GALCO is the responsible governing body that approves advances are funded by stable sources and that customer our liquidity management policies.
The Liquidity Management lending is funded by customer deposits Committee LMC receives authority from the GALCO and is responsible for setting or delegating authority to set liquidity The amount of assets that may be funded from other limits and proposing liquidity risk policies.
Liquidity in each currencies country is managed by the country ALCO within the pre-fide ned In addition, we prescribe a liquidity stress scenario that includes liquidity limits set by the LMC and in compliance with Group accelerated withdrawal of deposits over a period of time.
Each liquidity policies and practices and local regulatory requirements.
country has to ensure that cash in ows exceed out ows under GMR and Group Treasury propose and oversee the such a scenario.
implementation of policies and other controls relating to the above risks.
All limits are reviewed at least annually, and more frequently if required, to ensure that they remain relevant given market We seek to manage our liquidity prudently in all geographical conditions and business strategy.
Compliance with limits locations and for all currencies.
Exceptional market events is monitored independently on a regular basis by GMR and cana dversely impact us, thereby affecting our ability to ful l Finance.
Limit excesses are escalated and approved under our obligations as they fall due.
The principal uncertainties for a delegated authority structure and reviewed by ALCO.
liquidity risk are that customers withdraw their deposits at a Excesses are also reported monthly to the LMC and GALCO substantially faster rate than expected, or that asset repayments which provide further oversight.
are not received on the expected maturity date.
To mitigate these uncertainties, our customer deposit base is diversi ed by type We have signi cant levels of marketable securities, including and maturity.
In addition, we have contingency funding plans government securities that can be realised, repurchased or including a portfolio of liquid assets that can be realised if a used as collateral in the event of liquidity stress.
In addition, liquidity stress occurs, as well as ready access to wholesale a funding crisis response and recovery plan FCRRP is funds under normal market conditions.
maintained by Group Treasury that is reviewed and approved annually.
The FCRRP lays out trigger points and actions in the Policies and procedures event of a liquidity crisis to ensure that there is an effective Our policy is to manage liquidity in each country without response by senior management.
A similar plan is maintained presumption of Group support.
Each country ALCO is within each country.
responsible for ensuring that the country is able to meet all of its obligations to make payments as they fall due, and operates Impact of Basel III within the local regulations and liquidity limits set for the country.
We already meet the Basel III requirements of 100 per cent for both the Net Stable Funding Ratio and the Liquidity Coverage Ratio, well ahead of the required implementation date.
104 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued Primary sources of funding activities.
In the next 12 months, approximately $ 7 billion of A substantial portion of our assets is funded by customer the Groups senior and subordinated debt is falling due for deposits made up of current and savings accounts and other repayment either contractually or callable by the Group.
Of total customer deposits, 41 per cent is retail Further details of the Groups senior and subordinated deposits, 51 p er cent corporate deposits, 8 per cent other debt by geography are provided in note 2 to the financial 2011:r etail 40 p er cent, corporate 52 per cent, other 8 per cent.
These customer deposits, which are widely diversi ed by type and maturity, represent a stable source of funds.
The ALCO in Encumbered assets each country monitors trends in the balance sheet and ensures Encumbered assets represent those onbalance sheet assets that any concerns that might impact the stability of these pledged or used as collateral in respect of certain of the Groups deposits are addressed effectively.
The ALCO also reviews liabilities.
Hong Kong government certi cates of indebtedness, balance sheet plans to ensure that projected asset growth which secure the equivalent amount of Hong Kong currency is matched by growth in the stable funding base.
notes in circulation, and cash collateral pledged against derivatives are included within other assets.
Taken together, We maintain access to wholesale funding markets in all major these encumbered assets represent 3.
7 per cent 2011: 4.0 financial centres and countries in which we operate as well as per cent of total assets, continuing the Groups historical low to commercial paper issuance.
This seeks to ensure that we level of encumbrance.
have exibility around maturity transformation, have market intelligence, maintain stable funding lines and can obtain optimal The following table provides a reconciliation of the Groups pricing when we perform our interest rate risk management encumbered assets to total assets.
2012 2011 Unencumbered Encumbered Total Unencumbered Encumbered Total assets assets assets assets assets assets $million $million $million $million $million $million Cash and balances at central banks 51,480 227 51,707 37,403 37,403 Restricted balances at central banks 9,336 9,336 9,961 9,961 Derivative financial instruments 49,496 49,496 58,524 58,524 1 Loans and advances to banks 68, 432 723 6 9, 155 6 6, 549 6 6, 549 1 Loans and advances to customers 28 6, 485 2, 378 288, 863 269, 551 2,227 271, 778 1 Investment securities 119, 147 1, 598 120, 745 101, 776 2,779 104, 555 Other assets 19, 559 9,259 28, 818 18,387 8,899 27,286 Current tax assets 215 215 232 232 Prepayments and accrued income 2,581 2,581 2,521 2,521 Interests in associates 953 953 903 903 Goodwill and intangible assets 7,312 7,312 7,061 7,061 Property, plant and equipment 6,646 6,646 5,078 5,078 Deferred tax assets 691 691 835 835 Total 612, 997 23, 521 636, 518 568,820 23,866 592,686 1 Includes assets held at fair value through pro t or loss In addition to the above, the Group received $10,5 17 million 2011: $7,076 million as collateral under reverse repurchase agreements that was eligible for repledging.
Of this, the Group repledged $1,37 8 million 2011: $1,005 million under repurchase agreements.
Risk review 105 Liquidity metrics Liquid asset ratio We also monitor key liquidity metrics on a regular basis, This is the ratio of liquid assets to total assets.
The signi cant both on a country basis and in aggregate across the Group.
level of holdings of liquid assets in the balance sheet re ects The key metrics are : theapplication of our liquidity policies and practices and the holdings of these assets are spread across our geographies.
Advances-to-deposits ratio This is fide ned as the ratio of total loans and advances to The following table details the component of liquid assets customers relative to total customer deposits.
A low advancestogether with the ratio of liquid assets to total assets.
todeposits ratio demonstrates that customer deposits exceed customer loans resulting from emphasis placed on generating This ratio improved in 2012 compared with 2011 re ecting the ahigh level of stable funding from customers.
increased levels of liquid assets held to meet regulatory liquidity requirements, especially in the UK.
2012 2011 $million $million 1 Loans and advances to customers 288, 863 271,778 2 Customer accounts 389,882 354,844 Advancestodeposits ratio 74.1% 76.6% 1 See note 19 to the financial statements on page 237 2 See note 29 to the financial statements on page 246 2012 2011 $million $million Cash and balances at central banks 61,043 47,364 Restricted balances 9,336 9,961 Loans and advances to banks 69,155 66,549 Deposits by banks 37,445 36,388 Treasury bills 29,826 26,289 Debt securities 84,487 74,130 of which : Issued by governments 33, 688 28, 635 Issued by banks 32,2 61 27,198 Issued by corporate and other entities 18,538 18, 297 Illiquid securities 1,706 1,415 Other enc umbered assets 2,398 1,850 Liquid assets 193, 626 164,718 Total assets 636, 518 592,686 Liquid assets to total asset ratio % 30.4% 27.8% Geographic spread of liquid assets 2012 Middle Other East & Americas Hong Asia Other UK & Kong Singapore Korea Paci c India S Asia Africa Europe Total % % % % % % % % % Liquid assets 17 11 8 16 4 5 3 36 100 2011 Middle Other East & Americas Hong Asia Other UK & Kong Singapore Korea Paci c India S Asia Africa Europe Total % % % % % % % % % Liquid assets 17 10 8 21454 31 100 106 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued Liquidity management stress scenarios Finally, a 90-day test is run.
These stress tests consider more The Group conducts a range of liquidityrelated stress analyses, prolonged stresses that affect markets across a number of the both for internal and regulatory purposes.
Groups main footprint countries and in which the Group itself may come under some sustained pressure.
This pressure may Internally, three stress tests are run routinely: an acute be unwarranted or may be because the Group is inextricably eight-day namespeci c stress, a 30-day market-w ide stress linked with those markets countries.
The stress tests the and a more chronic 90-day combined name speci c and adequacy of contingency funding arrangements beyond the market-w ide stress.
marketable securities held to cover the eight-day stress, The eight-day stress is speci cally designed to determine a including the portability of funding from one country to support minimum quantity of marketable securities that must be held at another.
These stresses are managed at a Group rather than all times in all countries.
This stress is computed daily, and the individual country level.
minimum marketable securities requirement is observed daily.
Liquidity and funding risks are also considered as part of the This is intended to ensure that, in the unlikely event of an acute Groups wider periodic scenario analysis.
loss of con dence in the Group or any individual entity within it, there is suf cient time to take corrective action.
Every country In addition, the Group runs regulatory stress scenarios, namely must pass, on stand-alone basis, with no presumption of the FSA stress scenario and the Basel III Liquidity Coverage Group support.
Ratio scenario, which are reported periodically to the FSA, as well as local regulatory stresses where applicable.
As at 31 December 2012, all countries passed the stress test.
The Group is also exposed to the risk of market-wide disruption in one or more countries.
It is therefore appropriate to test resilience in each country to unexpected local market disruption, for example loss of interbank money or foreign exchange markets.
To this end, country ALCOs consider a 30-day market-wide stress.
Risk review 107 Liquidity analysis of the Groups balance sheet Within the tables below and on the next page, cash and balances with central banks, loans and advances to banks, Contractual maturity of assets and liabilities treasury bills and investment securities that are available-for-sale This table analyses assets and liabilities into relevant maturity are used by the Group principally for liquidity management groupings based on the remaining period to the contractual purposes.
maturity date as at the balance sheet date on a discounted basis.
Contractual maturities do not necessarily re ect actual repayments or cash ow.
In practice, however, certain liability instruments As discussed on pages 103 to 109, the Group seeks to manage behave differently from their contractual terms and typically, its liabilities both on a contractual and behavioural basis primarily for shortterm customer accounts, extend to a longer period by matching the maturity pro les of assets and liabilities.
The than their contractual maturity.
The Groups expectation of cash ows presented on page 107 re ect the cash ows that when such liabilities are likely to become payable is provided will be contractually payable over the residual maturity of the in the table below.
2012 Three Between Between More than months three months one year and five years or less and one year five years and undated Total $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances to customers 82,464 51,309 89,714 65,376 288, 863 Loans and advances to banks 49, 975 15,903 3, 106 171 69, 155 Total loans and advances 132,439 67,212 92,820 65,547 358, 018 Deposits by banks 35, 315 1,451 607 72 37,445 Customer accounts 166, 223 65,206 149, 956 8,497 389,882 Total deposits 201, 538 66,657 150, 563 8, 569 427,327 Net gap 69,099 555 57,743 56,978 69, 309 2011 Three Between Between More than months three months one year and five years or less and one year five years and undated Total $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances to customers 66,706 40,826 102,686 61,560 271,778 Loans and advances to banks 45,481 16,536 3,980 552 66,549 Total loans and advances 112,187 57,362 106,666 62,112 338,327 Deposits by banks 33,717 1,745 628 298 36,388 Customer accounts 142,394 57,673 125,291 29,486 354,844 Total deposits 176,111 59,418 125,919 29,784 391,232 Net gap 63,924 2,056 19,253 32,328 52,905 110 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued Financial liabilities excluding derivative financial instruments Within the more than five years and undated maturity band are on an undiscounted basis undated financial liabilities of $ 3,241 million 2011: $3,417 million, The following table analyses the contractual cash ows payable all of which relate to subordinated debt, on which interest for the Groups financial liabilities by the remaining contractual payments are not included as this information would not maturities on an undiscounted basis.
The financial liability be meaningful given the instruments are undated.
Interest balances in the table below do not agree to the balances payments on these instruments are included within the reported in the consolidated balance sheet as the table relevant maturities up to five years.
incorporates all contractual cash ows on an undiscounted basis, relating to both principal and interest payments.
2012 2011 Between Between More than Between Between More than Three three one year five years Three three one year five years months months and and and months months and and and or less one year five years undated or less one year five years undated $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million 1 Deposits by banks 35,526 1,397 698 75 34,184 1,549 635 330 1 Customer accounts 316, 367 55, 026 12, 799 8,021 298,211 41,538 8,151 5,954 1 Debt securities in issue 27,395 15,202 27,916 4,658 24,967 8,475 17,512 3,393 Subordinated liabilities and 1 other borrowed funds 87 291 4,301 21,024 166 600 4,436 18,505 Other liabilities 19, 927 4, 143 1, 460 11, 007 23,151 2,322 771 9,332 Total liabilities 399, 302 76, 059 47, 174 44, 785 380,679 54,484 31,505 37,514 Gross loan commitments 122,986 9,544 21,727 10,185 70,558 22,349 3,968 1,120 1 Amounts include financial instruments held at fair value through pro t or loss see note 15 on page 225 Derivative financial instruments on an undiscounted basis overall contract is in an asset or liability position.
The receiving Derivative financial instruments include those net settled leg is not shown in this table and, as a result, the derivative derivative contracts in a net liability position, together with the amounts in this table are in ated by their exclusion.
pay leg of gross settled contracts regardless of whether the 2012 2011 Between Between More than Between Between More than Three three one year five years Three three one year five years months months and and and months months and and and or less one year five years undated or less one year five years undated $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivative financial instruments 400,114 169,817 47,386 25,696 352,344 272,637 169,305 24,964 Risk review 111 Operational risk risks that arise from those activities as an integral part of Operational risk is the potential for loss arising from the failure their first line responsibilities.
Products and services offered to of people, process or technology or the impact of external clients and customers in all our markets are also assessed and events.
Operational risk exposures are managed through authorised in accordance with product governance procedures.
a consistent set of management processes that drive risk Although operational risk exposures can take many varied identi cation, assessment, control and monitoring.
We seek forms, we seek to manage them in accordance with standards to control operational risks to ensure that operational losses that drive systematic risk identi cation, assessment, control do not cause material damage to the Groups franchise.
These standards are challenged and reviewed Operational risks can arise from all business lines and from all regularly to ensure their ongoing effectiveness.
To support the activities carried out by the Group.
We seek to systematically systematic identi cation of material operational risk exposures identify and manage operational risk by segmenting all of the associated with a given process, we classify them into the Groups activities into manageable units.
Each of these has an following types: owner who is responsible for identifying and managing all the Operational risk subtypes Processing failure Potential for loss due to failure of an established process or to a process design weakness External rules and regulations Potential for actual or opportunity loss due to failure to comply with laws or regulations, or as a result of changes in laws or regulations or in their interpretation or application Liability Potential for loss or sanction due to a legal claim against any part of the Group or individuals within the Group Legal enforceability Potential for loss due to failure to protect legally the Groups interests or from dif culty in enforcing the Groups rights Damage to assets Potential for loss or damage to physical assets and other property from natural disaster and other events Safety and security Potential for loss or damage to health or safety of staff, customers or third parties arising from internal failures or the effects of external events Internal crime or dishonesty Potential for loss due to action by staff that is intended to defraud, misappropriate property or to circumvent the law or company policy External financial crime Potential for loss due to criminal acts by external parties such as fraud, theft and other criminal activity Model Potential for loss due to a signi cant discrepancy between the output of risk measurement models and actual experience 112 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued Identi ed operational risk exposures are rated low, medium, financial services to clients who operate in these sectors, and high or five ry high in accordance with fide ned risk assessment support our internal environmental and social risk assessment criteria.
Risks that are outside set materiality thresholds receive process.
We have mechanisms in our origination and credit a differential level of management attention and are reported processes to identify and assess environmental and social to senior management and risk committees up to Board level.
risks, and a dedicated Sustainable Finance team in Wholesale Signi cant external events or internal failures that have occurred Banking that reviews proposed high-risk transactions.
are analysed to identify the root cause of any failure for The GRC provides Group-wide oversight on reputational risk, remediation and future mitigation.
Actual operational losses sets policy and monitors material risks.
The Group Head of are systematically recorded.
Corporate Affairs is the overall risk control owner for reputational In the second line of defence, Group Operational Risk is risk.
The BRC and BVC provide additional oversight of responsible for setting and maintaining the standards for reputational risk on behalf of the Board.
operational risk management and control.
In addition, specialist At the business level, the Wholesale Banking Responsibility operational risk control owners have responsibility for the control and Reputational Risk Committee and the Consumer Banking of operational risk arising from the management of the following Reputational Risk Committee have responsibility for managing activities Group-wide: people, technology, vendor, property, reputational risk in their respective businesses.
security, accounting and financial control, tax, legal processes, At a country level, the Head of Corporate Affairs is the risk corporate authorities and structure and regulatory compliance.
control owner of reputational risk.
It is his her responsibility Each risk control owner, supported by a specialist control to protect our reputation in that market with the support of the function, is responsible for identifying risks that are material country management team.
The Head of Corporate Affairs to the Group and for maintaining an effective control and country Chief Executive Of cer must actively: environment across the whole organisation.
This includes fide ning appropriate policies for approval by authorised risk Promote awareness and application of our policies and committees, that impose speci c controls and constraints procedures regarding reputational risk on the Groups activities.
Encourage business and functions to take account of our The Group Operational Risk Committee, chaired by the GCRO, reputation in all decision making, including dealings with oversees the management of operational risks across the customers and suppliers Group, supported by business, functional, and country-level Implement effective in-country reporting systems to ensure committees.
All operational risk committees operate on the they are aware of all potential issues in tandem with respective basis of a fide ned structure of delegated authorities and terms business committees of reference d erived from the GRC.
Promote effective, proactive stakeholder management Reputational risk through ongoing engagement Reputational risk is the potential for damage to the Groups franchise, resulting in loss of earnings or adverse impact on Pension risk market capitalisation as a result of stakeholders taking a Pension risk is the potential for loss due to having to meet an negative view of the Group or its actions.
actuarially assessed shortfall in the Groups pension schemes.
Pension risk exposure is not concerned with the financial Reputational risk could arise from the failure of the Group to performance of our pension schemes but is focused upon the effectively mitigate the risks in its businesses including one risk to our financial position arising from our need to meet our or more of country, credit, liquidity, market, regulatory, legal pension scheme funding obligations.
The risk assessment is oro ther operational risk.
Damage to the Groups reputation focused on our obligations towards our major pension schemes, could cause existing clients to reduce or cease to do ensuring that our funding obligation to these schemes is business with the Group and prospective clients to be reluctant comfortably within our financial capacity.
Pension risk is to do business with the Group.
All employees are responsible monitored on a quarterly basis, taking account of the actual for day-today identi cation and management of reputational variations in asset values and updated expectations regarding risk.
These responsibilities form part of the Group Code of the progression of the pension fund assets and liabilities.
Conduct and are further embedded through values-based performance assessments.
The Group Pension Risk Committee is the body responsible for governance of pension risk and it receives its authority from GRC.
Reputational risk may also arise from a failure to comply with environmental and social standards.
Our primary environmental and social impacts arise through our relationship with our clients and customers and the nancing decisions we take.
We have published a series of position statements covering high impact sectors and key issues.
These set out our approach to providing Risk review 113 Summary of differences between Pillar 3 disclosures and given default LGD and exposure at default EAD under Basel Risk review rules, whereas the quantitative disclosures in the Risk review are The Groups Pillar 3 disclosures for 31 December 2012 provide based on International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
details from a regulatory perspective on certain aspects of EAD differs from the IFRS exposure primarily due to the inclusion credit risk, market risk and operational risk.
The quantitative of und rawn credit lines and off-balance sheet commitments.
disclosures in the Pillar 3 disclosures will not, however, be In addition, a number of the credit risk disclosures within the directly comparable to those in the Risk review of the Annual Pillar 3 disclosures are only provided for the internal ratings - Report and Accounts as they are largely based on internally based portfolio, which represents 80 per cent of loans and modelled risk metrics such as probability of default PD, loss of advances to customers.
Topic Annual Report and Accounts Pillar 3 report Basis of requirements The Groups Annual Report is prepared in The Groups Pillar 3 disclosures, provide detail accordance with the requirements of IFRS, the UK on risk from a regulatory perspective to ful l Companies Act 2006, and the UK, Hong Kong and Basel II rule requirements, which have been India Listing rules implemented in the UK through the FSAs General Prudential sourcebook GENPRU and its Prudential sourcebook for Banks, Building Societies and Investment Firms BIPRU Basis of preparation The quantitative credit risk disclosures in the Risk Provides details from a regulatory perspective review are based on IFRS onc ertain aspects of credit risk, market risk Loans and advances are analysed between and operational risk.
For credit risk this is largely Consumer Banking split by product, Wholesale based on internally modelled risk metrics such Banking split by standard industry classi cation as PD, LGD and EAD under Basel rules codes Loans and advances are analysed between Market risk disclosures are presented using VaR those that are internal ratings basis IRB and methodology for the trading and nontrading books standardised, split by standard BIPRU categories Market risk and operational risk disclosures are based on the capital required Coverage All external assets that have an exposure to A number of the credit risk disclosures within credit risk the Pillar 3 disclosures are only provided for Market risk exposure is the trading and non-trading the IRB portfolio, which represent 80 per cent books of loans and advances to customers and Liquidity risk analysis of contractual maturities, derivatives.
The remainder of the portfolio is liquid assets and encumbered assets on the standardised rules as prescribed in the BIPRU sourcebook 114 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Risk review continued Summary of cross-references between the Pillar 3 disclosure and the Risk review Topic Annual Report and Accounts Pillar 3 report Credit rating and Overview of credit risk management credit grading A detailed analysis of IRB and standardised measurement and the use of IRB models.
Page 65 approach to credit risks is set out on page 19 Maximum exposure to credit risk set out on page 68 A more detailed explanation of IRB models is Internal credit grading analysis provided by business set out on page 20 and 21 for loans neither past due nor impaired on page 71 For the IRB portfolio, page 3 3 provides an External credit grading analysis for unimpaired indicative mapping of the Groups credit grades Treasury bill and debt securities is set out on in relation to Standard and Poors credit ratings page 93 Minimum regulatory capital requirements for credit risk on pages 22 and 23 Credit grade analysis provided for the IRB portfolio only.
EAD within the IRB portfolio after credit risk mitigation CRM, undrawn commitments, exposure weighted average LGD and weighted average risk weight are bucketed by internal credit grade on pages 34 to 37 Credit risk mitigation CRM approach is set out on page 66 Provides details on CRM from a regulatory perspective, by providing EAD after CRM by Overview of fair value of collateral held and other credit risk mitigants for the loan portfolio, with IRB exposure class.
Explanation is given on further details on Consumer Banking CB collateral what constitutes eligible collateral including provided on page 79 and Wholesale Banking WB explanations of funded and unfunded on page 89 protection.
The main type of collateral for Quantitative overview of other risk mitigants the Groups standardised portfolio is also including: disclosed.
Please refer to pages 3 0 and 31 Securitisations includes disclosures of both Extensive disclosures on securitisation retail transferred and synthetic securitisation including disclosure of notional amounts, Master netting, CSAs and cash collateral details of securitisation programmes where for derivatives the Group is an originator, accounting policy information, governance of securitisation activities and securitisation retained exposures and carrying value bucketed by risk weight bands.
Please refer to pages 41 t o 47 EAD for items subject to counterparty credit CCR risk pre and post credit mitigation is disclosed.
The products that are covered under CCR include repo style transactions and derivative transactions.
Please refer to pages 38 to 40 Risk review 115 Topic Annual Report and Accounts Pillar 3 report Loan portfolio Group overview of the loan portfolio provided by EAD by geography, split between IRB and business by geography is on page 69.
A more standardised portfolios page 24 and by detailed analysis by CB product is set out on industry types as speci ed by BIPRU on pages 76 and 77 and by WB counterparty based page2 6 on standard industry classi cations on page 85 Maturity of EAD, split by IRB and standardised Maturity analysis provided on pages 70, 77 and 86 on page 28 Problem credit Provisioning approach set out on page 73 and Disclosures around the expected loss management and fide nition on non-performing loans on page 73 model used for regulatory purposes and a provisioning Disclosures of nonperforming loans, neither tabular disclosure showing the regulatory past due nor impaired, past due and impaired expected loss against the net individual loans, individual impairment charge and portfolio impairment charge.
Please refer to page 3 2 Impairment charge by geography, product and industry Market Risk Details of the VaR methodology, and VAR Provides details of the internal model approvals trading and nontrading is disclosed by risk type such as the Capital Adequacy 2 CAD2 that on pages 9 9 to 101 the FSA has granted the Group, including the Details of Group Treasurys market risk including extension of the CAD 2 scope to include coal a table showing a parallel shift in the yield curves market risk on page 101 Market risk capital requirements for the trading books are disclosed by risk type onp age 4 8 and 4 9
