Corporate governance 129 The Court of Standard Chartered Bank as at Senior management 5March 2013 comprises the executive directors of Standard Chartered PLC and the following senior executives: 1.
Tim Miller 1 2 Tracy joined Standard Chartered Tim joined Standard Chartered in in 1985 and was appointed a 2000 and was appointed a Director Director of Standard Chartered of Standard Chartered Bank in Bank inJanuary 2013.
He is responsible Head of Human Resources and for Corporate Real Estate, Corporate Communications and a diversity and Secretariat, Legal, Compliance and inclusion ambassador.
On 1 April Assurance, Internal Audit and Global 2013 she will assume responsibility Research functions, collectively for the Legal and Compliance known as Property, Research and functions in addition to her current Assurance.
He was previously Group responsibilities for Human Head of Human Resources.
He is Resources and Corporate Affairs.
Chairman of Standard Chartered She has previously held the positions Bank Korea Limited and Standard 3 4 of Group Head of Corporate Affairs, Chartered Korea Limited.
Tim will Head of the Group Chief Executives bestanding down as a Director of Of ce and other banking roles in Standard Chartered Bank with the UK and Hong Kong.
Tim is also a non-executive director of British Sky non-executive director of Page Group Broadcasting Group plc and also and chairman of Optitune PLC and became a trustee of WORKing for the Governing Body of theSchool of YOUth, a charitable fund established Oriental and African Studies.
He has in May 2012 aimed at tackling youth a Bachelors degree in History and unemployment.
She is a fellow of Economics, a Master of Letters the Chartered Institute of Personnel degree and an MBA from the Development and a member of University of Stirling.
In 2007, he theInstitute of Financial Services.
completed a Doctorate in Business Tracy also holds an MBA from Administration from Nottingham Henley Management College Business School.
Richard Goulding Jan joined Standard Chartered in Richard joined Standard Chartered 2004 and was appointed a Director in 2002 and was appointed a of Standard Chartered Bank Director of Standard Chartered Bank inJanuary 2013.
Richard is Group Information Of cer and Group Chief Risk Of cer and is responsible Headof Technology and Operations for managing Credit, Market and andisresponsible for all systems Operational Risk across the Group.
development, technology support He was previously the Chief and banking operations.
He is Operating Of cer of Wholesale non-executive director of Scope Banking.
Prior to joining the Group International Private Limited and he was at Old Mutual Group, where Standard Chartered Bank China he was chief operating of cer of the Limited.
Prior to joining Standard global financial services division Chartered, Jan was Chief based in London and Boston.
Prior Information Of cer EMEA at Dell.
to that, he was a member of the As well as having overall systems global executive board investment responsibility for EMEA, he was banking division of UBS, chaired the responsible for the expansion of operating committee and took Dells business in terms of new responsibility for programme and markets and consolidation of regional management.
Jan was quali ed as achartered accountant previously a non-executive director with Arthur Andersen, h aving of Monitise Plc.
Age 49. previously obtained a Bachelor ofCommerce degree and a postgraduate degree in finance from the University of Natal in South Africa.
