20 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Our performance in our markets Diverse engines of growth Korea Our strategy In January 2012, we rebranded our operations in Korea from SC First Bank to Standard Chartered Bank Korea, rebrand ing We are headquartered in London and have operated one of the Groups largest distribution networks, with 391 forover 150 years in some of the worlds most dynamic branches and 2,605 ATMs including alliance ATMs.
Our focus continues on the growth markets of Consumer Banking we continued to offer innovative solutions, Asia, Africa and the Middle East while also increasingly launching online sales capabilities and smart phone banking for leveraging our presence in Europe and the Americas to consumer products.
We also originated $5 billion of xedrate facilitate cross-b order business and trade intermediation mortgages, which were transferred under the Korea Housing between the West and the East.
Finance Corporations Mortgage Purchase Programme.
Wholesale Banking saw good growth in Transaction Banking and continued to direct income ows across the Groups Our performance network.
However, the economic environment in Korea remains challenging.
Operating pro t improved in 2012 to $0.5 billion Highly diversi ed income stream, with 26 markets from $0.2 billion in 2011, which was impacted by costs relating generating income in excess of $100 million to an Early Retirement Programme.
All geographies, with the exception of India, delivered Other Asia Paci c headline income growth, with Africa crossing $1.5 billion We have a strong presence in the growth markets of this region, for the first time which includes China, Indonesia, Malaysia and Taiwan, with Wholesale Banking continues to deepen client income being well diversi ed across both businesses.
Income relationships, becoming the core bank to more clients grew in all major markets across the region, with China driving more than onethird of the income growth as we focus on Consumer Banking further developed and expanded its high-value consumers and generating business from the trade digital distribution capabilities in addition to expanding and investment links across our footprint with China.
We also the branch network in China, Africa and India continued to grow our distribution network in China, and th openedo ur 100 outlet in 2012.
Both Indonesia, through our Hong Kong branch and our joint venture with Permata Bank, and Malaysia Hong Kong, which has a network of 79 branches and 236 also experienced good growth across both businesses.
Taiwan ATMs, continues to be one of our largest geographies in terms of continued to be impacted by regulatory constraints but has operating income and pro t. However, re ecting the increasingly continued to reshape its balance sheet and liability mix.
diverse nature of the Group, the proportion of the Groups India income derived from Hong Kong has fallen from 29 per cent India houses SCOPE, our global shared service centre, and 10 years ago to 18 per cent in 2012.
Operating pro t rose by together with our banking operations accounts for over 18,000 7 per cent to over $1.6 billion in 2012 and the balance sheet of our employees globally.
Indias performance continued to be continues to be highly liquid.
In Consumer Banking, we gained affected by a dif cult macro economic environment.
A 15 per market share across all major products and in Wholesale cent depreciation in the rupee over 2012 and continued high Banking, the increasing internationalisation of the renminbi interest rates impacted business sentiment and corporate RMB and our focus on Hong Kong as a hub into and out of activity remained subdued.
This particularly impacted Corporate China continue to be the cornerstone of growth.
Finance income within Wholesale Banking, although this was Singapore largely offset by strong growth in Transaction Banking.
India Our global Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking continues to be a signi cant driver of income generation across operations are headquartered in Singapore and 9 per cent of the Groups network.
Within Consumer Banking, we built on our our employees are based there.
Operating pro t at $0.9 billion acquisition of two unsecured loan portfolios during the year and was slightly lower than the strong performance seen in 2011, further expanded digital distribution channels.
impacted in part by a vigorously competitive environment.
Middle East and Other South Asia MESA In Consumer Banking, we continued to see good growth in This region includes our markets in the UAE, Pakistan, unsecured lending and deposits and we invested in a number of Bangladesh and Bahrain, of which the UAE continues to be the innovative products, including a marketfirst security token debit largest.
Income growth across the region remained subdued, card.
In Wholesale Banking, Transaction Banking grew strongly with operating income up 1 per cent compared with 2011.
In the despite a global slowdown in trade ows, as we continued to UAE, a good performance in Consumer Banking was offset by deepen and strengthen our customer relationships but this was lower Wholesale Banking income.
Client income, however, offset by lower foreign exchange and corporate finance income.
Group overview 21 Percentage of total Group profit before taxation by region in 2012 Q Hong Kong 24% Q Singapore 14% Q Korea 8% Q Other Asia Pacic 18% Q India 10% Q Middle East and Other South Asia 11% Q Africa 11% Q Americas, Our global Consumer Banking and Wholesale UK & Europe 4% Banking operations are headquartered in Singapore and 9 per cent of our employees arebased there remained resilient, driven by higher Trade Finance income as as we continue to diversify our revenue engines across products growth rates and sentiment improved in the region.
We continued to expand our distribution network, continue to build our Islamic Banking franchise under the adding 27 branches to support our Africa 100 strategy.
Saadiq brand, growing income across both businesses by Americas, UK & Europe enhancing product capabilities in Consumer Banking and The Group is headquartered in London and this region delivering a number of corporate finance sukuk, or Islamic continues to be strategically important to us.
We are increasingly bond transactions in Wholesale Banking.
leveraging capabilities developed and built within this region to Africa support our global client base for example, supporting Asian The Group is present in 14 sub-Saharan markets and income client investments in Europe or European client trade ows with growth within this region is highly diversi ed, with seven Asia.
Wholesale Banking dominates this region, comprising over markets delivering over $100 million of income and two of those 90 per cent of income generated and we have seen doubledigit over $200 million.
Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana and Zambia continued growth across Wholesale Banking products compared with to be our largest markets and we saw good growth in South 2011 as we offer a global execution platform.
Operating income was up 15 per cent while operating Banking, we continue to build our Private Bank offering.
pro ts grew 2 3 per cent with both businesses growing strongly.
Operating pro ts were, however, impacted by a charge of Consumer Banking saw good growth in SME and payroll-linked $667 million relating to the settlements with the US authorities.
lending, coupled with good levels of deposit growth, and Wholesale Banking income exceeded $1 billion for the first time Hong Kong Other Total operating income $19,071 million Operating income Asia Paci c Total operating income growth 8% $3,348 million Operating income $3,960 million Operating income growth 10% Operating income growth 13% Americas, Middle East Africa India Singapore Korea UK & Europe and Other Operating income Operating income Operating income Operating income Operating income South Asia $1,593 million $1,585 million $2,203 million $1,852 million $2,296 million Operating income Operating income Operating income Operating income Operating income $2,234 million Operating income growth 15% decline 12% growth 1% growth 8% growth 30% Operating income growth 1%
