38 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Consumer Banking Meeting customer needs to build deeper relationships Our strategy Our strategy is based on three pillars: Differentiated country business models with a focus on high value segments Driving deeper customer relationships through service and solutions to meet customer needs Back-to - basics focus on cost, productivity, risk management and liquidity Our priorities in 2013 Remain committed to our strategy to drive sustainable growth Accelerate rollout of digital and online mobile capabilities Deepen client and customer relationships and maintain our focus on high value segments Steve Bertamini Continue to grow our balance sheet Group Executive Director and Chief Executive Consumer Banking Drive standardisation with continued focus on productivity O ur commitment to customers and our unwavering focus on executing our strategy has enabled our business to continue to grow.
Key highlights Operating income Net Promoter Score NPS Index $7, 202m 2011: $6,791m Secured lending as a percentage of the total book 08 09 10 11 12 72 % Net Promoter Score and NPS are trademarks of Satmetrix Systems Inc. Bain & Company, and Fred 2011: 74% Reichheld.
Standard Chartered uses Bain methodology recalibrated for financial services to calculate NPS.
12 25 39 49 55 Operating and financial review 39 Spotlight on 2012 Further diversi ed our Wealth Management business Developed alliances and partnerships to create scale across products, segments and geographies and enhance customer bene ts Leveraged technology to introduce a number of Integrated distribution channels to improve customer first-to-market solutions experience Business transformation remains on track Consumer Banking CB achieved a good performance Singapore Security Token Card and delivered income growth of 6 per cent to $7.2 billion Delivering a safe and secure industry first and operating pro t on a headline basis increas ed 8 per cent to $1.8 billion.
On a constant currency basis, income is up 8 per cent and headline operating pro t up 9 per cent.
We have a strong balance sheet and our income is well diversi ed across customer segments, products and geographies.
We remained focused on high value segments and on deepening our client and customer relationships.
Personal, Islamic and Consumer Finance segments also grew in 2012.
We continued to manage risk tightly and maintained a strong control on costs to create room for further investment in the business.
In 2012, our key areas of investment included marketing, expanding branch distribution in growth markets, mobile and internet banking capabilities, productivity and system enhancements.
Our nonfinancial customer metrics also continued to improve We turned a regulatory challenge into an opportunity aswe continued to re-engineer our processes to improve the to bring greater convenience for our customers.
As consumer behaviours shift, we will In November, we became the first bank to offer our seek to better serve our customers according to their needs and customers the chance to combine a security token with preferences in order to provide a more seamless experience anyof our credit, debit or ATM cards.
This new solution across all our channels.
wasin response to an industrywide initiative in Singapore to enhance online security through a more sophisticated We ended 2012 in a strong position and are well placed to capture authentication process with transaction signing.
the opportunities within our markets and our customer base.
In the past, banks had issued bulky token keys to customers for online authentication.
The new regulation for enhanced online Deepening client and customer relationships security authentication presented an opportunity for us to nd an Our Customer Charter, launched in 2010, sets out our innovative solution.
commitment to provide fast, friendly and accurate service, to Working with our partners, Standard Chartered developed a token deliver appropriate solutions to our customers financial needs card with the same dimensions as a normal credit card and and to reward their total banking relationship with us.
It is eliminated the need to carry an extra device required for online underpinned by a standardised sales, service and relationship banking.
management model, the Standard Chartered Bank Way.
This enables our teams to deepen customer relationships centred on Customers generate a sixdigit numeric code using the touch - sensitive keypad on the card.
This enables them to login either to needsbased conversations.
online banking or Breeze, our mobile banking application, to 2012 marked a signi cant milestone in the transformation of our validate their online transactions.
While our strategy remained unchanged, our Through this innovation, we have turned a regulatory challenge into customer value propositions were largely installed for our key an opportunity by enhancing security for online and mobile banking customer segments and we progressed to focus on delivery and with a safe, secure and convenient solution for our customers.
to ensure alignment to the needs of our customers.
Private Bank income grew by 12 per cent and continues to be ranked in the top 10 private banks in Asia.
We won a number of accolades including being named Outstanding Private Bank, Asia by Private Banker International SME Banking income grew 5 per cent and loans were up 10per cent.
Building the SME business is a strategic priority across our core markets.
It has strong growth potential and is an area where we can demonstrate our distinctive contribution to the broader economy 40 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Consumer Banking continued Priority & International Banking income grew by 9 per cent.
In the UAE, iTill, a solution we introduced to provide a paperless Our model, where dedicated relationship managers are branch experience for cash deposit and withdrawal transactions, supported by technical specialists, enables us to adopt a has improved turnaround times by 50 per cent.
In Pakistan, our holistic approach to their wealth and banking needs across Employee Banking team set up a paperless centre of operational multiple geographies excellence to process Employee Banking applications and reduced turnaround times by almost 80 per cent.
Personal Banking income grew by 3 per cent.
It is our largest segment and we continued to invest in our distribution Our 360 rewards programme was the first in the market to channels and to improve productivity to better serve the award reward points based on an overall banking relationship.
In diverse banking preferences of this segment.
Our Consumer December we upgraded this offering by launching a revamped Finance business also continued to perform well, delivering rewards site with improved redemption offers in India.
This 12per cent income growth programme will be rolled out to more markets in 2013.
Our Islamic Banking proposition Saadiq offers a Over the past two years, we have invested signi cantly in Wealth comprehensive range of Shariahcompliant financial solutions Management to develop a robust business model and upgraded across six markets, through dedicated Saadiq branches in our technology platforms to provide investment solutions across addition to leveraging traditional distribution infrastructure.
In asset classes for the different needs of our client segments.
2012, Standard Chartered Private Bank launched a Through our Customer Investment Pro ling and Product Risk comprehensive suite of Islamic financial solutions, which is Ratings we have a standardised approach in over 30 markets to now available across key advisory centres in London, Geneva, ensure our products match each customers investment pro le.
Jersey and Dubai Building scale Innovating to meet customer needs Our franchise footprint provides us with many opportunities for Our products uphold our commitment to offer differentiated growth.
We will continue to build scale through productivity service and solutions as we continue to innovate to deliver on our gains, targeted investments and building alliances with partners.
promise to be Here for our customers.
The rollout of our next generation branch design is well under As a result of the progress we have made around digitising, way and we now have 100 branches in China and added 27 new simplifying and standardising our business, we have been able branches across Africa in 2012. to further improve our turnaround times.
This year, we launched We continue to make strong progress in the rollout of our online 31 new service guarantees, with Korea, Brunei, Bangladesh, and mobile capabilities.
As a result, we were awarded Best Nepal and Zambia introducing their first service guarantees, and Consumer Internet Bank by Global Finance in 2012 for the other countries extending coverage to more products and second consecutive year.
In 2012, we achieved over 1 million services.
We now have a total of 61 service guarantees offered in unique downloads for Breeze and exceeded 2.6 million active 21 markets across various products and services.
In Hong Kong we launched Breeze Trade, our mobile application We also established a number of alliances to drive scale and for realtime stock trading, and have seen excellent growth and introduce new bene ts for our customers.
A number of our response in the market.
markets have launched co-branded cards to enable our In Korea, we launched a mobile banking application that lets customers to earn air miles.
Airline alliances include Singapore customers open current and savings accounts and apply for Airlines, Emirates, Gulf Air, Tiger Airways, Garuda, Pakistan credit cards and personal loans using their mobile devices.
We International Airlines and Sri Lankan Airways.
Retail alliances leveraged KTs formerly Korea Telecom mobile payment include Lifestyle and Bajaj in India as well as many others across alliance to enable our customers to make payments from their our network.
Standard Chartered credit card or current savings account using their mobile phones.
Operating and financial review 41 Well placed to capture opportunities customerfocused results across a wide range of metrics.
We In 2013, we will continue to focus on delivering our strategy and are well positioned to navigate the uncertain external our Customer Charter to become the bank that our customers environment and will continue to invest in growing the franchise.
recommend to friends, family and colleagues.
We will fully leverage the exciting opportunities provided by the accelerated adoption of mobile technology while delivering on The transformation of our business is on track.
Our clear strategy our brand promise to be Here for good.
and focus on strong execution is delivering both financial and Consumer Banking The following tables provide an analysis of operating pro t by geography for Consumer Banking: 2012 Middle East Americas Consumer Other Asia & Other UK & Banking Hong Kong Singapore Korea Paci c India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $ million Operating income 1,410 974 1,183 1,777 440 753 482 183 7,202 Operating expenses 771 553 795 1,336 318 493 306 151 4,723 Loan impairment 95 62 223 209 27 51 20 10 697 Other impairment 1 3 4 Operating pro t 544 359 164 232 95 209 156 19 1,778 2011 Middle East Americas Consumer Other Asia & Other UK & Banking Hong Kong Singapore Korea Paci c India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $ million Operating income 1,326 924 1,153 1,613 482 723 422 148 6,791 Operating expenses 702 503 1,023 1,104 352 487 268 166 4,605 Loan impairment 71 29 166 117 32 89 17 3 524 Other impairment 5 1 6 12 Operating pro t loss 553 392 41 392 98 146 131 21 1,650 An analysis of Consumer Banking income by product is set out below: 2012 2011 Better Worse Operating income by product $million $million % Cards, Personal Loans and Unsecured Lending CCPL 2,707 2,422 12 Wealth Management 1,275 1,272 Deposits 1,566 1,409 11 Mortgages and Auto Finance 1,390 1,478 6 Other 264 210 26 Total operating income 7,202 6,791 6 42 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Consumer Banking continued Performance in 2012 Operating pro t increased by $128 million, or 8 per cent, to Operating income in CB increased $411 million, or 6 per cent, to $1,778 million.
Excluding the impact of non-recurring income $7,202 million.
On a constant currency basis, income grew 8 per and expense items, operating pro t fell 1 per cent.
Income in the current year includes a property gain of $39 currency basis, the increase in unadjusted pro t was 9 per cent.
million and a gain of $13 million on disposal of our Private Although regulatory and competitive headwinds have impacted Banking business in Miami.
Excluding these items income pro t growth in a number of our larger markets, there have been increased 5 per cent.
strong increases in a number of our smaller markets, including Indonesia and across the Africa, MESA and Americas, UK & Income in CB remains diverse, with all geographic segments Europe regions.
growing income except India, which was impacted by continuing weakness of the Indian rupee against the US dollar.
Product performance Net interest income increased by $323 million, or 7 per cent, to Income from CCPL grew $285 million, or 12 per cent, to $2,707 $4,907 million, largely driven by increased volumes.
Asset million, with increased volumes more than offsetting continued margins continue to be under pressure, particularly across pressure on margins, which have been impacted by competition mortgages and credit cards and personal loans CCPL, where across a number of our markets.
We continued selectively to margins for both fell by 12 basis points bps although this was grow our unsecured portfolio, particularly in markets with offset by strong volume growth in CCPL as we continue to positive credit bureaus, and we have increased market share.
selectively grow our unsecured business.
Mortgage volumes Volume growth was also supported by increased levels of continue to be impacted by increased regulatory pressures in a bundling with existing products.
number of markets and margins have been impacted by high Wealth Management income was at at $1,275 million.
While levels of liquidity across our markets, although margins income from equity-related products was impacted by subdued increased in the second half of the year compared with the first market volumes due to continuing market uncertainty, this was half.
On the liability side, both current account savings account compensated by stronger performance in bancassurance and CASA and Time Deposits volumes increased with good CASA xed income products as we focused on building a more growth seen in Hong Kong and Korea.
The proportion of diversi ed product mix.
customer deposits held as CASA remained broadly stable at 5 8per cent.
Deposits income increased by 11 per cent to $1,566 million.
CASA balances grew strongly and margins improved across a Non-interest income at $2,295 million was $88 million, or 4 per number of markets.
While Time Deposit balances also saw good cent, higher compared with 2011 and includes the gains relating volume growth, margins were lower compared with 2011 as to a property sale in Korea and the disposal of our Private competition for liquidity intensi ed.
Excluding these gains, noninterest income was 2 per cent higher.
Wealth Management Mortgages and Auto Finance income fell by $88 million, or 6 per income from equity-related products continued to be impacted cent, to $1,390 million, as regulatory constraints in a number of by market uncertainty in light of weaker equity markets, although markets continued to impact mortgage volumes.
Mortgage this was offset by growth in bancassurance and xed income margins also continue to be compressed due to competitive products.
pressures, although we did, however, see some recovery of margins in the second half of 2012, particularly in Hong Kong.
Expenses were up $118 million, or 3 per cent, to $4,723 million.
The loss of interest income was partly offset by an increase in Expenses in 2011 included a charge of $189 million relating to fees as a result of increased levels of participation in the Korea the Executive Retirement Programme ERP in Korea, which was Mortgage Purchase Programme MPP.
partly offset by $96 million of recoveries on certain structured note payouts made in prior periods.
Excluding these items, Other income primarily includes SME-re lated trade and other expenses increased by 5 per cent, re ecting the owthrough transactional income.
It also includes the property and business from investments in staff in 2011 and continuing improvements disposal gains of $52 million.
to branch infrastructure and technology to enhance frontline systems, mobile, remote and internet banking capabilities, including our Breeze mobile platform.
Loan impairment increased by $173 million, or 33 per cent, to $697 million.
The increase is in line with expectations in light of the portfolio growth and seasoning impact of our unsecured portfolio.
It has also been impacted by some localised pockets of stress.
The loan charge bene ted by $78 million 2011: $84 million from the sale of loan portfolios during the year.
Operating and financial review 43 Geographic performance Breeze Home Hong Kong Enhancing the home buying experience Income was up $84 million, or 6 per cent, to $1,410 million.
We saw good volume growth as we gained market share across all forour customers major asset and liability products together with an improvement in liability margins, and these more than offset continuing pressure on asset margins.
Income from CCPL grew strongly as volume growth cushioned continuing margin compression.
While mortgage volumes increased, income was lower than 2011 due to narrower margins, although margins saw an improvement in the latter part of 2012 with a focus on writing new business in higher margin prime ratebased products.
Wealth Management income fell as growth in bancassurance and unit trusts was largely offset by lower income from premium currency investment and structured products.
SME income increased as we continued to drive growth in the trade book.
Deposits income increased as margins improved together with strong volume growth in CASA.
Operating expenses were higher by $69 million, or 10 per cent, primarily due to the ow-through impact from increased front line staff, investments in infrastructure and increased marketing spend.
Pre-provision pro t was up $15 million, or 2 per cent, to $639 million.
Loan impairment was $24 million higher at $95 million, re ecting growth in unsecured lending together with a small increase in bankruptcy lings.
Operating pro t fell $9 million, or 2 per cent, to $544 million.
Singapore W e developed an app to help our customers and easecomplexity Income was up $50 million, or 5 per cent, to $974 million.
Income in the home buying process.
growth was led by higher Wealth Management and CCPL To provide our customers in Hong Kong with up-to-date income, although there has been further compression in asset critical information on local properties, we created Breeze margins.
Wealth Management income rose as we continued to Home, the first all-in-one application for home buyers optimise the product mix, with increased income from unit inAsia.
trusts, xed income and bancassurance products offsetting Breeze Home features a number of tools, including comprehensive lower income from equity-linked structured products.
CCPL property listings, property valuation, mortgage calculator and income grew with strong balance sheet momentum, supported home buying tips to help customers make an informed decision by innovative products such as the Security Token Card, before making a home purchase.
Retail mortgages income fell as an The intuitive app can match properties with a customers preferred increase in mortgage balances was offset by margin criteria and financial standing.
With the built-in GPS functionality, compression as competition intensi ed.
On the liability side, customers can review nearby properties by list, map or reality view.
income growth was at as volume growth was offset by lower It can perform what if analysis on a customers debt situation so Term or Time Deposit TD margins as the competition for that they can see an accurate picture of their nances before they liquidity increased.
Breeze Home is the perfect partner to Mortgage Master, our award winning personalised service for customers that includes seven days a week extended business service, 15 minute approval in principle and oneday mortgage approval service guarantees.
By removing some of the stress and complexity involved with the purchase of a home, we have helped our customers through a major milestone in their lives and delivered on our commitment to be Here for our customers.
44 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Consumer Banking continued Operating expenses increased $50 million, or 10 per cent, to Other Asia Paci c Other APR $553 million from investment in technology, higher staff costs Income was up $164 million, or 10 per cent, to $1,777 million.
All and increased levels of marketing.
major markets saw positive income momentum.
Income in China was up 30 per cent to $296 million, re ecting strong Pre-provision pro t was at at $421 million.
Loan impairment growth in deposit and personal loan volumes, improved more than doubled to $62 million, due to higher unsecured mortgage margins and continued growth in SME.
This was volumes and the seasoning of the unsecured portfolio.
partially offset by lower Wealth Management income as weaker Operating pro t fell by $33 million, or 8 per cent, to $359 million.
investor sentiment resulted in lower volumes of structured products.
Income in Taiwan increased marginally to $424 million.
Korea Personal loan income grew as a result of widening margins Income was up $30 million, or 3 per cent, to $1,183 million and although this was offset by lower income from Mortgages, as included a $39 million gain on sale of property.
Excluding this balances reduced due to continuing regulatory constraints.
gain, income was down $9 million, or 1 per cent.
Regulatory Wealth Management income also fell due to lower unit trust headwinds continued to impact mortgage income as margins volumes but Deposits income increased strongly as CASA narrowed and balances reduced further during the year as we margins improved in the second half of 2012.
Income in Malaysia continued to reshape the balance sheet.
This was partly rose 10 per cent due to increased income from Personal Loans.
mitigated by fees earned from the Mortgage Purchase Indonesia grew 12 per cent with good growth in Mortgages Programme MPP.
Under this programme, we sold KRW6 trillion volumes, secured lending and higher income from CCPL.
$5 billion of xedrate mortgages, largely during the second half of the year, to the Korea Housing Finance Corporation.
Lower Operating expenses were up $232 million, or 21 per cent, to Mortgages income was offset by higher CCPL income, driven by $1,336 million.
Excluding the bene t of recoveries on payouts growth in personal lending volumes as we increased market made in respect of structured notes in prior years, current year share together with improved margins, although the pace of expenses were up $136 million, or 11 per cent.
Expenses in growth moderated in the latter part of 2012 as we tightened China were up by 20 per cent to $384 million as we continued to underwriting standards.
Wealth Management income increased invest in new branch outlets, opening 19 in 2012 to end the year re ecting strong bancassurance income.
Deposits income fell as at 100 branches.
strong growth in CASA balances was offset by lower margins, Pre-provision pro t was down $68 million, or 13 per cent, to which were impacted by a falling interest rate environment.
Loan impairment was up by $92 million, or 79 per Operating expenses fell $228 million, or 22 per cent, to $795 cent, to $209 million, re ecting a lower level of loan portfolio million.
Excluding the $189 million charge for the ERP in 2011, sales in Taiwan and Malaysia and increased levels of provisioning expenses were 5 per cent lower as owthrough savings from in line with portfolio growth and mix change.
Other APR ERP were partially offset by investments in technology and delivered an operating pro t of $232 million, down 41 per cent in ationrelated increases in staff costs.
from 2011, with Taiwan and Malaysia being the most signi cant contributors to the decline.
The operating loss in China Pre-provision pro t was higher by $258 million at $388 million.
increased to $114 million from $108 million in 2011 as we Loan impairment was up $57 million, or 34 per cent, to $223 continued to invest in the franchise.
million due to growth in unsecured products and a market-wide increase in lings under the Personal Debt Rehabilitation India Scheme in the face of a weakening credit environment.
As a Income was down $42 million, or 9 per cent, to $440 million.
result of the above factors, the operating loss of $41 million However, on a constant currency basis, income increased by 4 improved to a pro t of $164 million in the current year.
During the year, we acquired two portfolios from Barclays in India, the first of which was in February 2012 and the second in December 2012.
These portfolios contributed $10 million to income in the current year.
Deposits income increased as a result of higher TD volumes and improved CASA margins.
SME income bene te d from higher volumes and improved liability margins.
Operating and financial review 45 Operating expenses were $34 million, or 10 per cent, lower at Africa $318 million.
On a constant currency basis, expenses were Income was up $60 million, or 14 per cent, at $482 million.
On a higher by 4 per cent, re ecting higher staff costs and increased constant currency basis, income was up 19 per cent.
from unsecured lending, which is predominantly payroll-linked, rose as a result of increased volumes as we grew market share, Pre-provision pro t was down $8 million, or 6 per cent, to $122 although asset margins remain compressed.
Loan impairment was lower by $5 million, or 16 per cent, grew strongly as a result of higher balances and improved CASA at $27 million as a result of the continued focus on secured margins.
lending and an improved portfolio quality.
On a constant currency basis, loan impairment was 3 per cent lower.
Operating Income grew in each of our four largest markets of Kenya, pro t was lower by $3 million, or 3 per cent, at $95 million.
On a Ghana, Nigeria and Zambia.
Kenya continues to be the largest constant currency basis, operating pro t was 8 per cent higher.
CB income generator in the region and increased income by 27 per cent as volume growth and wider liability margins offset Middle East and Other South Asia MESA asset margin compression.
Income growth in Nigeria, Ghana Income was up $30 million, or 4 per cent, to $753 million.
Income and Zambia was primarily led by higher liability margins as in the UAE increased by 8 per cent with strong growth in CCPL, benchmark rates increased.
driven by higher payroll-led lending, which offset slightly lower Operating expenses were $38 million, or 14 per cent, higher at margins.
Mortgages income grew in line with portfolio growth $306 million.
On a constant currency basis, expenses were 18 and SME revenues increased due to improved trade ows and per cent higher, as we continued to build out the distribution focused penetration strategies.
This was offset by lower network, adding 27 new branches, increasing frontline staff and Deposits income with muted liability growth and margin expanding digital distribution channels such as mobile banking.
Income from Islamic Banking grew 30 per cent in the UAE.
Income in Pakistan fell 2 per cent re ecting some Pre-provision pro t in Africa was higher by $22 million or 14 per margin compression following interest rate cuts.
Bahrain grew cent, at $176 million.
Loan impairment was up $3 million to $20 10 per cent as sentiment improve d following the uncertainty million.
Operating pro t was up $25 million, or 19 per cent, to caused by the Arab Spring in 2011.
On a constant currency basis, operating pro t increased 24 per cent.
Operating expenses in MESA were higher by $6 million, or 1 per cent, at $493 million.
While UAE expenses were up 6 per cent, Americas, UK & Europe re ecting investments in frontline sales capacity, expenses in Income rose $35 million, or 24 per cent, to $183 million.
The most other markets were lower, re ecting tight cost discipline business in this region is primarily Private Banking in nature and across the region.
focuses on delivering our product suite to international Pre-provision pro t for MESA was up $24 million, or 10 per cent, customers from across our network.
Income growth was driven to $260 million.
Loan impairment continued to fall and was by higher Mortgages income as volumes increased and margins considerably lower at $51 million, down 43 per cent compared improved.
Unsecured lending was slightly lower due to margin with 2011.
Most of the reduction arose in the UAE and Bahrain compression.
Wealth Management income was impacted by due to adherence to tighter underwriting criteria in addition to an continued market uncertainty across the eurozone.
The current improvement in a number of market factors, including job market year also bene t ed from proceeds of $13 million from the sale of stability.
MESA operating pro t increased 43 per cent, up $63 our Private Banking operations in Miami.
Operating expenses fell $15 million, or 9 per cent, to $151 million as we continued to tightly manage costs.
Impairment was higher by $7 million to $10 million.
Operating pro t increased to $19 million from a loss of $21 million in 2011.
