186 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Report of the directors The directors have pleasure in submitting their report Share capital and the financial statements of the Company and its The issued ordinary share capital of the Company was increased subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December 2012. by 28,976,175 during the year.
3,559,652 ordinary shares were issued under the Companys employee share plans at prices Business review between nil and 1,463 pence.
25,416,523 ordinary shares were We are required to present a fair review of our business during issued under the Companys share dividend scheme.
Further the financial year ended 31 December 2012, our position at details can be found in note 35 to the financial statements.
year-end and a description of the principal risks and The Company has one class of ordinary shares that carries uncertainties that we face.
On a show of hands, each member This review enables shareholders to assess how the directors present has the right to one vote at our general meetings.
On a have performed their duty under the Companies Act 2006, poll, each member is entitled to one vote for every $2 nominal to promote the success of the Company.
value of share capital held.
The information that ful ls the requirements of the Business The issued nominal value of the ordinary shares represents review can be found in the Chairmans statement on pages 6 79.78 per cent of the total issued nominal value of all share and 7, th e Group Chief Executives review on pages 8 to 13, the capital.
There are no speci c restrictions on the size of a holding Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking sections of the nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the Business review on pages 38 to 53, the Risk review on pages 56 general provisions of the articles of association and prevailing to 115 and the Key performance indicators on pages 14 and 15, legislation.
The directors are not aware of any agreements all of which are incorporated into this report by reference.
between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No Principal activities person has any special rights of control over the Companys The Company is the holding company for the Group.
The Group share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
operates globally and is principally engaged in the business of retail and commercial banking and the provision of other Articles of association financial services.
The articles of association may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Areas of operation Our Group comprises a network of 1,700 branches and of ces Authority to purchase own shares in 68 markets.
Further details onthe branches can be found on At the AGM held in May 2012, our shareholders renewed our website www.
the Companys authority to make market purchases of up to 238,461,246 ordinary shares, equivalent to approximately Results and dividends 10percent of issued ordinary shares as at 14 March 2012, and We recommend a final dividend of 56.77 cents 2011: 51.25 up to all of the issued preference share capital.
These authorities cents on 5 March 2013 for the year ended 31 December 2012. were not used during the year and remained in force at This, together with the interim dividend already paid, makes a 31December 2012. total dividend for 2012 of 84.00 cents 2011: 76.00 cents.
In accordance with the terms of a waiver granted by The Stock The final dividend, if approved at the 2013 Annual General Exchange of Hong Kong Limited HKSE on 16 April 2008, which Meeting AGM, will be paid in either sterling, Hong Kong dollars was modi ed on 30 April 2009 and 25 July 2011, the Company or US dollars on 14 May 2013 to shareholders on the UK register will comply with the applicable law and regulation in the UK of members at the close of business in the UK 10:00pm London in relation to holding of any shares in treasury and with the time on 15 March 2013, and to shareholders on the Hong Kong conditions of the waiver, in connection with any shares it may branch register of members at the opening of business in Hong hold in treasury.
Shareholders will be asked to renew these Kong 9:00 am Hong Kong time on 15 March 2013.
The final authorities at the forthcoming AGM, and will receive details dividend will be paid in Indian rupees on 14 May 2013 to Indian within the Notice of AGM.
No treasury shares were held during Depository Receipt holders on the Indian register at the close of the year.
Further details can be found in note 35 to the financial business in India on 15 March 2013, in accordance with the statements.
Relevant audit information It is intended that shareholders on the UK register and Hong As far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit Kong branch register will be able to elect to receive shares information of which the Group statutory auditor KPMG Audit credited as fully paid instead of all or part of the final cash Plc is unaware.
The directors have taken all reasonable steps dividend.
Details of the dividend arrangements will be sent to to ascertain any relevant audit information and ensure that the shareholders on or around 28 March 2013.
Indian Depository Group statutory auditors are aware of such information.
Receipt holders will receive their dividend in Indian rupees only.
Corporate governance 187 Going concern Re-election of directors Having made appropriate enquiries, we consider that the At our AGM to be held on Wednesday 8 May 2013, all of our Company and the Group as a whole have adequate resources Board of directors with the exception of Richard Delbridge and to continue operational businesses for the foreseeable future Val Gooding will stand for re-election.
and therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Directors induction and ongoing development To ensure that directors have the requisite knowledge and Suf ciency of public oat understanding to enable them to challenge effectively, we As at the date of this report, the Company has maintained the provide them a personalised approach to induction, training prescribed public oat under the Rules Governing the Listing and development.
Further details can be found in the Corporate of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited governance report on page 138. the Hong Kong Listing Rules based on the information Our Board receives regular updates on the views of our publicly available to the Company and within the knowledge institutional shareholders and stakeholders.
Our Board of the directors.
openly seeks the views of our shareholders and during the year, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive Of cer, Group Fixed assets Finance Director, met with 21 of our top 25 investors.
Details of additions to xed assets are presented in note 26 to the financial statements.
Rudy Markham is the Senior Independent Director.
Shareholders may discuss any issues or concerns with the Major interests in shares and voting rights Senior Independent Director where they have been unable to As far as the directors are aware as at 31 December 2012, resolve them through existing channels for investor Temasek Holdings Private Limited Temasek is the only communications.
shareholder that had an interest of more than 10 per cent in the Companys issued ordinary share capital carrying a right Shareholder rights to vote at any general meeting.
There have been no changes Under the Companies Act 2006, shareholders holding to the 31December 2012 gures.
5 per cent or more of the fully paid up issued share capital of the Company are able to require the directors to hold a general The Company has been noti ed by the following companies of meeting.
A request may be in hard copy or electronic form and their interests in the total voting rights of the Company: must be authenticated by the shareholders making it.
Where Number of Percentage Percentage such a request has been duly lodged with the Company, the ordinary of voting of voting directors are obliged to call a general meeting within 21 days of Shareholder shares rights direct rights indirect becoming subject to the request and must set a date for the Temasek Holdings meeting not more than 28 days from the date of the issue of the 1 Private Limited 438,346,486 18.166% notice convening the meeting.
Aberdeen Asset Under the Companies Act 2006, shareholders holding Management PLCs Fund 5 per cent or more of the total voting rights at an AGM of the Management Operating Company, or 100 shareholders entitled to vote at the AGM Subsidiaries 186,413,374 7.725% with an average of at least 100 paid up share capital per BlackRock, Inc 154,291,839 6.394% shareholder, are entitled to require the Company to circulate a resolution intended to be moved at the Companys next AGM.
1 Temasek Holdings Private Limiteds interests is held indirectly through Dover Investments Pte.
Ltd Such a request must be made not later than six weeks before the AGM to which the request relates or, if later, the time notice is given of the AGM.
The request may be in hard copy or electronic Loan capital form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given Details of the loan capital of the Company and its subsidiaries and must be authenticated by the shareholders making it.
are set out in note 32 to the financial statements.
Shareholders are able to put forward proposals to shareholder Board members meetings and enquiries to the Board and or the Senior The present members of the Board, together with their Independent Director by using the contact us information on biographical details, are shown on pages 124 to 128. the Companys website http: www.
html, or by emailing Group Corporate Margaret Ewing and Lars Thunell joined the Board as Secretariat at group-corporate.
independent non-executive directors on 1 November 2012 and Louis Cheung and Om Bhatt joined the Board as independent non-executive directors on 1 January 2013.
Richard Delbridge and Val Gooding will step down from the Board as independent non-executive directors on 1May 2013.
188 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Report of the directors continued Directors interests associates are speci cally exempt under the Rules or are The directors bene cial interests in the ordinary shares of the subject to a speci c waiver, they may require a combination Company as at 31 December 2012 are shown in the Directors of announcements, reporting and independent remuneration report on page 183. shareholders approval.
One of the most signi cant changes to the Hong Kong Listing Con rmation of independence Rules from the Companys perspective was the introduction The Company has received from each of the independent on 3 June 2010 of a new exemption the Passive Investor non-executive directors an annual con rmation of independence Exemption from the connected transaction and continuing pursuant to Rule 3.13 of the Hong Kong Listing Rules and still transaction requirements for transactions with associates considers all of the non-executive directors to be independent.
The Company considers that Temasek meets the criteria for a Compensation for loss of of ce passive investor under Rule 14A.
Therefore, any Details concerning the provisions for providing compensation to connected transactions or continuing connected transactions directors for loss of of ce or employment can be found on page of a revenue nature in the ordinary and usual course of business 174 of the Directors remuneration report.
and on normal commercial terms with an associate of Temasek are exempt from the announcement, reporting, annual review Qualifying thirdparty indemnities and independent shareholders approval requirements of the The Company has granted indemnities to all of its directors Hong Kong Listing Rules.
on terms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the purposes of In 2010, HKSE granted the Company a number of waivers section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were accordingly in from strict compliance with the reporting and annual review force during the course of the financial year ended 31 December requirements in respect of Ongoing Banking Transactions 2012, and remain in force at the date of this report.
with Temasek associates that the Company has not been able to identify and the requirements to enter into a xed-term Risk management written agreement and set a maximum aggregate annual value An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing in relation to the Ongoing Banking Transactions with Temasek the signi cant risks that we face is in place.
Its objectives, or any of its associates the Ongoing Banking Transactions policies and procedures, including the policy for hedging risk, Waivers.
The independent shareholders approved the Ongoing our exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk, are Banking Transactions Waivers at the 2010 Annual General coveredin the Risk review from pages 65 to 110 of this report.
Meeting for a period of three years until 7 May 2013.
Given the Company-only risks are managed as a part of overall Group risks.
availability of the Passive Investor Exemption and the 2011 Waiver as described in the following paragraph, the Ongoing Signi cant contracts and agreements Banking Transaction Waivers have now become largely At no time during the year did any director hold a material interest redundant and have not been relied upon since 2010.
The in any contracts of signi cance with the Company or any of its Company has therefore decided not to renew the Ongoing subsidiary undertakings.
The Company is not party to any Banking Transactions Waivers after their expiration in 2013. signi cant agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate In 2011, HKSE granted the Company a waiver the 2011 Waiver following a change of control of the Company.
from strict compliance with the reporting and annual review requirements for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2012 Related party transactions in respect of the Ongoing Banking Transactions between Details of transactions with directors and of cers and other Temasek itself and the Company on the conditions that: related parties are set out in note 46 to the financial statements.
the nature and magnitude of the Ongoing Banking Connected continuing connected transactions Transactions with Temasek itself remains insigni cant in By virtue of its shareholding of more than 10 per cent in the 2011a nd 2012 Company, Temasek and its associates are related parties and the Company will inform HKSE if the transactions are no connected persons of the Company for the purposes of the longer insigni cant or there is any signi cant change in UK Listing Rules and the Hong Kong Listing Rules, respectively circumstances, at which time HKSE will reassess whether together known as the Rules.
Neither Temasek nor its to continue the waiver associates are related parties for the purposes of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures IAS24.
By operation of the above exemptions and waivers, the Company con rms that to the best of its knowledge and The Rules are intended to ensure that there is no favourable belief after due inquiry, the Company does not have any treatment to Temasek or its associates as fide ned under the transactions with Temasek or its associates that would Rules as a result of such shareholding to the detriment of other require announcements, reporting, annual review or shareholders in the Company.
Unless transactions which the independent shareholders approval in 2012.
Company and its subsidiaries undertake with Temasek or its Corporate governance 189 If none of the exemptions under the Hong Kong Listing Rules Group Internal Audit monitors compliance with policies and or the waivers obtained from HKSE are applicable in relation standards and the effectiveness of internal control structures to a transaction with Temasek or its associates, the Company across the Group through its programme of business will continue to comply with the applicable announcement, audits.
The work of Group Internal Audit is focused on the reporting, annual review and independent shareholders areas of greatest risk as determined by a risk-based approval requirements.
Pursuant to the conditions attached to the 2011 Waiver, the Group Internal Audit reports regularly to the Audit Committee, Company will continue to monitor the aggregate amount of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
The findings of the Ongoing Banking Transactions with Temasek itself through all adverse audits are reported to the Audit Committee, the the transaction processing systems and notify HKSE if the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive where immediate magnitude increases signi cantly.
The Company intends to corrective action is required.
renew the 2011 Waiver after its expiration for another three The Board Risk Committee has responsibility for overseeing years until the year ending 31 December 2015. the management of the Companys fundamental prudential The Group has internal systems, processes and procedures in risks as well as reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys place to identify and monitor the non-exempt connected and risk management framework.
The Audit Committee monitors continuing connected transactions.
These are reviewed and the integrity of the Companys financial reporting, compliance updated periodically and their adequacy and effectiveness is and internal control environment.
assessed by Group Internal Audit.
The Risk review on pages 62 to 64 describes the Groups risk management structure.
Our business is conducted Compliance and regulatory matters within a developed control framework, underpinned by policy On 28 March 2012 we announced that we had agreed to statements, written procedures and control manuals.
This transfer our banking operations in Afghanistan to a leading ensures that there are written policies and procedures to local bank, Afghanistan International Bank AIB.
The transfer of identify and manage risk, including operational risk, country operations was effective from 15 September 2012.
As part of the risk, liquidity risk, regulatory risk, legal risk, reputational risk, arrangement, Standard Chartered will maintain a correspondent market risk and credit risk.
The Board has established a banking relationship with AIB, which will enable it to continue to management structure that clearly fide fines roles, responsibilities serve its clients doing business in Afghanistan both locally and and reporting lines.
Delegated authorities are documented and from offshore, while the local operations will transition to AIB.
Executive risk committees regularly review the In 2012, we entered into settlement agreements with five US Groups risk pro le.
authorities relating to US sanctions compliance over the period The performance of the Groups businesses is reported regularly 2001 to 2007.
F urther details are given on page 136. to senior line management and the Board.
Performance trends and forecasts, as well as actual performance against budgets Con icts of interest and prior periods, are monitored closely.
Financial information In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, we have is prepared using appropriate accounting policies, which are established a robust process requiring directors to disclose applied consistently.
Operational procedures and controls have proposed outside business interests before any are entered been established to facilitate complete, accurate and timely into.
This enables prior assessment of any con ict or potential processing of transactions and the safeguarding of assets.
con ict of interest and any impact on time commitment.
The These controls include appropriate segregation of duties, the Nomination Committee reviews actual or potential con icts of regular reconciliation of accounts and the valuation of assets interest, and recommendations on authorisation are made to the and positions.
Authorisations are reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee to consider if they continue to be appropriate, and Employee policies and engagement also to revisit the terms upon which they were provided.
We employ over 89,000 people from 127 n ationalities across 68 markets and are committed to creating a workplace that Internal control endorses diversity and recognises the differences of our The effectiveness of our internal control system is reviewed growing multi-generational workforce.
W e work hard to create regularly by the Board, its committees, the Group Management an open and collaborative working environment through Committee, and Group Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee has various means including informal sessions with senior leaders, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal enabling employees to understand their points of view and control during the year ended 31 December 2012 and reported share their own ideas.
Employees also receive clear and timely on its review to the Board.
The Committees review was communications from senior management to ensure that supported by an annual business self-certi cation process, they understand the financial and economic factors that which was managed by Group Internal Audit.
190 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Report of the directors continued Our employment policies are designed to accommodate the The Company is a holding company and does not trade.
signi cant social, statutory, regulatory and market conditions Therefore, it is not considered meaningful to give a number and practices prevailing in each country in which we operate.
of days purchases outstanding for the Company as at 31 We are committed to equality of opportunities and diversity for December 2012.
For our operation in the United Kingdom, there all regardless of gender, race, age, physical ability, religion or were 29 days purchases outstanding as at 31 December 2012. sexual orientation.
This applies equally to recruitment and to the promotion, development and training of people whom we Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure already employ.
We now provide consistent exible working The Groups 2012 financial statements have been prepared arrangements and sabbatical opportunities in ten markets in accordance with the principles of the British Bankers including China, India, Indonesia, Singapore, UAE and the UK.
Association Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure.
We recognise our social and statutory duty to employ Group code of conduct disabled people and have followed a policy in the United The Board has adopted a Group code of conduct the code Kingdom of providing, wherever possible, the same relating to the lawful and ethical conduct of business and this employment opportunities for differently-abled people as is supported by the Groups core values.
The code has been for others.
If employees become differently-abled, every communicated to all directors and employees, all of whom are endeavouri s made to ensure their employment continues, expected to observe high standards of integrity and fair dealing with appropriate skill-set enhancement where necessary.
in relation to customers, staff and regulators in the communities As part of our approach to employee engagement, all in which the Group operates.
employees are invited to participate in our Sharesave schemes and share in our success.
Individual reward and incentives relate Environmental and social responsibilities directly to the performance and behaviour of the employee, the The Group follows the guidelines issued by the Association performance of the business and the interests of shareholders.
of British Insurers on responsible investment disclosure and Further details of the Sharesave schemes are given in the is committed to the communities and environments in which Directors remuneration report on page 172 and in note 37 to it operates.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that high the financial statements.
standards of responsible business are maintained and that an effective control framework is in place.
We have established and We have measured employee engagement for the past 12 years maintained policies and procedures in relation to environmental 12 using an annual employee engagement survey Q.
This annual and social risks.
Details of our environmental, and social risk employee engagement survey provides important feedback to assessment process can be found on our website.
managers and teams and internal research has demonstrated a strong relationship between high engagement and increased Through our risk management structure and control framework, business performance.
In 2012, 95 per cent of employees the Board receives regular and adequate information to identify participated in the survey and this re ects the strong and assess signi cant risks and opportunities arising from commitment of our employees to voice their opinions and environmental and social matters.
Speci cally, the Brand and demonstrate trust in the process.
Values Committee BVC, which is appointed by the Board and includes the Chairman and Group Chief Executive, reviews the We have an employee relations presence providing employment Groups sustainable business priorities, and oversees the Groups regulatory advice and support in all our key markets, ensuring development of and delivery against public commitments greater alignment of our people governance policies and regarding which activities and or businesses it will and will not promoting our exible working agenda.
encourage in line with the Here for good brand promise.
Major customers The BVC is informed by the Group Risk Committee and Group Our five largest customers together accounted for 3 per cent of Head of Corporate Affairs, who is the risk control owner for our total interest income and other operating income in the year reputational risk, including those associated with environmental ended 31 December 2012. and social matters.
At the country level, the Country Head of Corporate Affairs is the risk control owner and the Risk Committee Creditor payment policy RC or, where there is no RC, the Management Committee, is the Operating businesses are responsible for agreeing, and then governance oversight committee.
All employees are responsible bringing attention to, terms and conditions with their suppliers for day to day identi cation and management of reputational risk.
in the economies in which they operate.
Our policy is to pay Quarterly reviews of risks and reporting are carried out at country, creditors in accordance with these agreed terms and conditions, regional and Group levels.
Where a reputational risk is identi ed, provided the supplier has complied with them.
the risk is escalated in accordance with clearly documented internal reporting procedures.
Corporate governance 191 Key areas of risk are those associated with clients and Our community investment activities focus on addressing health, customers operations and their potential impact on the youth and education priorities across our markets.
Our global environment and local communities.
The Board recognises programmes include: Seeing is Believing, our global campaign its responsibility to manage these risks and that failure to to tackle avoidable blindness: Goal, our youth development manage them adequately would have an adverse impact on programme that combines sports training with life skills and our business.
These risks are explicitly identi ed in our credit financial literacy training to empower adolescent girls: and Living policies, and in the provision of advisory and other financial with HIV, our workplace and community education initiative.
We services in Wholesale Banking and SME Lending.
We have actively encourage our staff to volunteer their time and core skills published a series of Position Statements covering high to bene t their local communities.
Each staff member is entitled impact sectors and key issues, outlining the environmental to three days of paid volunteering leave per year.
Further details and social standards we encourage our clients to observe.
of community prog rammes can be found on page 29.
We have adopted the Equator Principles that set procedures for recognising and mitigating the environmental and social HIV and AIDS procedures impacts associated with Project Finance and related advisory HIV and AIDS remain a serious challenge in many of the services.
The principles have been embedded in the Groups markets where we operate, impacting our staff, their families policy and procedures on Environmental and Social Risk in and the broader community.
The HIV and AIDS procedures as Project Finance Application of the Equator Principles.
part of the Group Equal Opportunities Diversity and Dignity at Work Policy outline our commitment to support our employees.
The Board is not aware of any material exceptions to its policies.
The HIV and AIDS procedures are implemented across all the countries in which we operate and apply to all staff and their Environment and climate change strategy families in a manner consistent with existing medical cover.
The BVC is responsible for overseeing the direction of the In 2012, we revised our comprehensive HIV and AIDS training Groups environmental agenda, which is implemented by toolkit to provide up to date information and resources to our businesses and support functions within the Group as staff and community partners.
The HIV and AIDS procedures are appropriate.
We understand that without a stable climate, available on our website.
energy, food and water security become increasingly dif cult to achieve which in turn can have a detrimental impact on our Electronic communication business.
Our environment and climate change strategy The Board recognises the importance of good communications emphasises the interconnectedness of issues around food, with all shareholders.
Our directors are in regular contact with energy and water security, against a backdrop of climate change.
our institutional shareholders and general presentations are It was developed in 2009 and focuses on four central themes: made when we announce our financial results.
The AGM operational impacts minimising the direct impact of our presents an opportunity to communicate with all shareholders.
operations, including air travel, paper use, water and energy Our shareholders are encouraged to receive our corporate consumption documents electronically.
The annual and interim financial commercial opportunities and sustainable finance managing statements, Notice of AGM and dividend circulars are all environmental and social risks in our nancing: developing available electronically.
If you do not already receive your new business in renewable energy and environmental finance corporate documents electronically and would like to do so in future please contact our registrars at the address on page 286. engagement ensuring that internal and external stakeholders are fully engaged to embed our strategy Shareholders are also able to vote electronically on the resolutions being put to the AGM through our registrars website reporting enhancing accountability of our actions and at www.
com ensuring the continual robustness of our environmental data Further details of our policies can be found on our website.
Annual General Meeting Our AGM will be held at 11.00am London time 6.00pm Community investment Hong Kong time on Wednesday 8 May 2013 at etc venues, We are committed to building a sustainable business and a more 200 Aldersgate, St Pauls, London, EC1A 4HD.
Details of the sustainable society.
We recognise our responsibility to invest in business to be conducted are contained in the Notice of AGM.
the communities where we operate and work closely with local partners to deliver programmes that promote positive social and economic outcomes.
In 2012, we contributed a total investment of $62.7 million to charities and community organisations.
Thissum includes direct financial support of $21.4 million andindirect contributions of $41.3 million such as employees time, the donation of non-monetary goods and fundraising byouremployees.
192 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Report of the directors continued Non-audit services By way of non-exhaustive illustration of the application of the The Groups non-audit services policy the policy was reviewed principles set out in the policy the following types of non-audit and approved by the Audit Committee in 2011.
The policy is services are: based on a number of core principles.
The overriding principle Likely to be permissible under the policy: is to ensure that our Group statutory auditor, KPMG Audit Plcs KPMG, independence and or objectivity as the audit rm is not Audit related services as fide ned by the APB the Group or could not be seen to be compromised by the appointment would also extend this to work on investor circulars in most of KPMG to provide particular non-audit services.
Subject to this foreseeable circumstances overriding principle, the Audit Committees view is that KPMG An objective view as to whether the Group has applied can be of value in a wider range of activities than just financial external laws and regulations appropriately, such as checks statement audit, and, where a non-audit service demands these over regulatory compliance qualities, KPMG should be allowed to tender, subject to the Accounting Practices Boards APB ethical standards and the Testing the robustness of controls infrastructure terms of the policy.
However, the policy makes it clear that Due diligence over potential purchases or sales KPMG should not be regarded as the automatic or first rm of choice for non-audit services and consideration should Not permissible under the policy: always be given to the use of other rms.
The policy requires Any services that are prohibited or to the extent they are a conservative approach to be taken to the assessment of restricted by the APBs published guidance from time to time requests for KPMG to provide non-audit services.
Aggressive tax or regulatory structuring proposals The APB sets out various threats to audit independence including self-interest, self review, familiarity, taking of a management role Any services where fees are paid on a contingent basis or conducting advocacy.
In particular, maintaining KPMGs in whole or in part independence from the Group requires them to avoid taking Consulting services, which actively assist in running the decisions on the Groups behalf.
It is also recognised as essential business in place of management as opposed to providing or that management retain the decision making capability as to validating information, which management then utilises in the whether to act on advice given by KPMG as part of a non-audit operation of the business service.
This means not just the ability to action the advice given, but to have suf cient knowledge of the subject matter to be able Details relating to KPMGs remuneration as the Group statutory to make a reasoned and independent judg ment as to its validity.
auditor and a description of the broad categories of the types Accordingly, the Group is required take a conservative approach of non-audit services provided by KPMG are given in note 8 to interpreting the potential threats to auditor independence and to the financial statements on pages 219 and 220.
There were requires commensurately robust safeguards against them, if a no signi cant engagements of KPMG in 2012 for the provision non-audit service is to be permitted.
After due consideration, the Audit Committee decided not Auditor to reduce the policy to a proscribed list of non-audit services The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the Group that KPMG are permitted to provide.
Rather, each request for statutory auditor, its effectiveness and its relationship with the KPMG to provide non-audit services will be assessed on its own Group, which includes monitoring our use of the auditors for merits.
The Audit Committee believes that such a case-by-case non-audit services and the balance of audit and non-audit fees approach best accommodates i the need for the appropriate paid.
Following a review of the independence and effectiveness rigour and challenge to be applied to each request for KPMG of our Group statutory auditor, a resolution will be proposed at to provide non audit services whilst ii preserving suf cient the 2013 Annual General Meeting to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc.
exibility for the Group to engage KPMG to provide non-audit Each director believes that there is no relevant information of services where they are able to deliver particular value to the which our Group statutory auditor is unaware.
Each has taken all Group and where the proposed services can be provided steps necessary as a director to be aware of any relevant audit without compromising KPMGs objectivity and independence.
information and to establish that KPMG Audit Plc is made aware KPMGs objectivity is of particular value to the Group in the of any pertinent information.
context of providing non-audit services that relate to the provision of an independent view, benchmarked either against By order of the Board external laws, regulations or requirements or the audit rms own knowledge of best practices.
The policy also speci cally incorporates the APBs recommended prohibitions and restrictions on the types of non-audit services that are able to be provided by the audit rm.
Annemarie Durbin Group Company Secretary 5 March 2013
