geographic regions in which we try to expand our business may be slow to develop and ultimately not develop how we expect: our decisions to self-insure against various risks or our inability to obtain insurance for certain risks at reasonable rates: fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates: whether our future operating cash flow will be sufficient to fund future obligations and whether we will be able to obtain financing, if necessary, in sufficient amounts and on terms that are favorable or consistent with our expectations: risks associated with the DLC arrangement and uncertainties of a foreign legal system as we are not incorporated in the U. S. Forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results.
Subject to any continuing obligations under applicable law or any relevant stock exchange rules, we expressly disclaim any obligation to disseminate, after the date of this 2012 Annual Report, any updates or revisions to any such forward-looking statements to reflect any change in expectations or events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements are based.
2012 Executive Overview This past year has been the most challenging in our history as a result of the Costa Concordia incident.
The ship incident had a profound impact on each and every employee, both shoreside and shipboard, and has driven us to reinforce our commitment to the safety of our guests and crew.
We have taken steps to identify lessons learned and best practices.
In addition, we have and will continue to implement improvements to our already established procedures and training programs.
We are also committed to rebuilding Costas reputation and strengthening its trust with guests and travel agents.
Accordingly, Costa launched a number of initiatives, including enhancements to existing safety and security procedures, training and related processes and a major international advertising campaign that targets consumers in its key markets.
Over the next few years, we expect to fully recover and continue to build on our leadership positions.
Net income for 2012 was $1.3 billion, compared to $1.9 billion for the prior year.
This decrease was caused by a 2.5% decrease in constant dollar net revenue yields, higher fuel prices and the Ibero goodwill and trademark impairment charges.
The 2.5% decrease in constant dollar net revenue yields was driven by our EAA brands as a result of the direct and indirect consequences of the ship incident and the challenging economic environment in Europe.
Although our North America brands achieved a slight increase in net revenue yields, they were affected by the indirect consequences of the ship incident.
Our higher fuel prices in 2012 compared to the prior year were partially offset by lower fuel consumption, which continues our multiple-year fuel consumption savings trend.
Implementing a combination of fuel saving initiatives has allowed us to reduce our rate of fuel consumption by 18% over the past seven years.
In 2012, constant dollar net cruise costs excluding fuel per ALBD had a slight decrease compared to the prior year.
On a longer-term basis, our constant dollar net cruise costs excluding fuel per ALBD have remained flat from 2008 through 2012 despite inflationary pressures.
During 2012, we generated $3.0 billion of cash from operations and used $1.8 billion to fund net capital expenditures, leaving us with $1.2 billion of free cash flow defined as cash from operations less net capital expenditures.
All of this free cash flow was returned to shareholders through our $0.25 per share regular quarterly dividend, our $0.50 per share special dividend and by repurchasing 2.6 million of Carnival Corporation common stock.
This is the second consecutive year that we returned all our free cash flow to shareholders.
