SVG Capital plc Business Corporate Financial Company Annual report Overview review information information information 2012 15 Marketplace Although the outlook for the world economy continues to be very challenging, anumberof positive steps and strong statements from the European Central Bank andtheGerman Chancellor during the summer of 2012 have allayed the markets worst fears about the future of the Eurozone.
This led to greater market stability, and has been followed by theshort-term resolution of the scal cliff in the USA and signs of more aggressive policyeasing in Japan.
While markets have been more buoyant as a result ofthese developments, the global economy remains weak and economic forecasters remain cautious.
In terms of private equity, macroeconomic uncertainty continues to weigh on buyout activity, particularly in Europe, where leveraged buyouts declined in 2012 and fell 2 torecord lows.
Despite the weaker annual numbers, Q4 2012 was a strong quarter for European buyouts with deal value rising a significant 85% on Q3 2012 to 22.8 billion 3 the largest quarterly value recorded since Q2 2011.
Deal activity has been building momentum in the US, driven by improved debt nancing conditions, with US investments in 2012 surpassing the post-Lehman highs of 2011 for both buyouts and 4 exits.
New deals are continuing to take place for quality businesses, though competition for assets is keeping acquisition prices high.
Add-on acquisitions remain a key feature of 5 deal activity, representing a third of all deals in 2012.
European debt markets remain more challenging, but are still open for the best deals, and renancings through high yield bonds remain common.
Private equity managers continue to use windows of opportunity to renance portfolio companies to access cheaper and longer-dated nancing and there continues to be a strong focus on pushing out loan maturities.
Additionally, private equity managers are focused on partial or full realisations of portfolio investments and returning capital to investors with a number of partial realisations via dividend recapitalisations and partial sales of sponsors stakes.
In practice a number ofexit processes have been initiated and later pulled due to offers coming in below expectations.
While there have been a handful of successful IPOs, the market conditions remain challenging for listings.
Corporate balance sheets remain cash rich and this could encourage a further recovery in the M&A market if overall sentiment continues to improve, directly acting as a catalyst to the private equity market.
The wider economy is likely to remain weak in the near term, in turn impacting the environment in which the underlying companies operate.
However, the corporate sector as a whole is proving resilient against a difficult macroeconomic backdrop and isin a strong position to withstand the impact of these potential headwinds and deliver positive returns over the longer term.
1 Editorial, Cliff deal lifts markets but strife looms, FT, 2 January 2013 Stocks at highs as focus turns to US banks, FT, 11 January 2013 2 S&P LCD European Leveraged Buyout Review, Q4 2012 3 Press release, Q4 2012 unquote Private Equity Barometer, 21 January 2013 4 Preqin quarterly report Q4 2012 Private Equity-Backed Buyout Deals and Exits, January 2013 5 Preqin press release Private Equity-Backed Buyout Deal Flow in North America Reaches Post-Lehman High in2012, 4 January 2013
