SVG Capital plc Business Corporate Financial Company Annual report Overview review information information information 2012 23 Contractual arrangements The Company relies on Permira to effectively manage the investments it makes.
TheCompany invested in Permira IV on the same terms as other investors, which were customary terms for private equity fund investments at that time.
In December 2008, theCompany capped its commitment to Permira IV, pursuant to a re-organisation oftheFund.
As at 31 December 2012, the Company was party to the following agreements that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid: a the multicurrency revolving facility agreement made between the Company and Lloyds TSB Bank plc dated 10 March 2006.
Under this agreement, the Company would be required to promptly notify Lloyds TSB Bank plc, in its capacity as agent for the banks, of any change of control.
Such notication would open a negotiation period of 60 days to determine whether the lenders shall continue to make the facility available and whether any amendment is required.
Failing agreement, any lender may require repayment of the amount outstanding to it under the facility and cancel its commitment.
b the note purchase agreements dated 18 July 2008 and 2 August 2007.
Under these agreements, the Company would be required to promptly notify all noteholders of thechange of control, offering to prepay the entire unpaid principal amount of notes held by each noteholder, with interest to the date of prepayment.
Each noteholder has30 days to accept or reject the prepayment offer.
If no response is received by anoteholder, the offer shall be deemed to have been rejected.
c the trust deed dated 5 June 2008 between the Company and HSBC Corporate Trustee Company UK Limited as trustee constituting the 120.0 million 8.25 per cent converted bonds issued by the Company with a maturity of 2016.
Under this agreement, the Company shall give notice to the trustee and bond holders within 14calendar days ofany change of control.
Within 60 calendar days of the giving ofsuch notice, each bondholder may give notice of their intention to exercise their conversion rights at a decreased conversion price or require the Company to redeem their bonds with interest to the date xed for redemption.
d the operating agreement dated 21 March 2005 with Permira.
This agreement allowed Permira to terminate the agreement in the event of a change of control of the Company.
This agreement is now no longer in force.
