SVG Capital plc Annual report 28 2012 Board of Directors Andrew Sykes Non-Executive Director Andrew Sykes was appointed as a Director on 8 February 2010 and became Chairman on8 November 2012.
He is deputy chairman ofSmith & Williamson Holdings Limited, chairman of Schroder Real Estate Investment TrustLimited and Absolute Return Trust Limited.
He is also a non-executive director ofSVGAdvisers Limited, Record plc, GulfInternational Bank UK Limited and MBIA UKInsurance Limited.
Committees: Audit Nominations Remuneration Lynn Fordham Chief Executive Lynn Fordham was appointed as a Director on 1 July 2008.
She is the Companys ChiefExecutive officer.
She has over 20 years of financial experience and has worked inanumber of companies including Mobil Oil, BAA plc, Boots Group plc and MAN Group plc.
She is chairwoman of SVG Advisers and is a non-executive director of Fuller, SmithandTurner P. L. C. Committees: Nominations Stephen Duckett Non-Executive Director Stephen Duckett was appointed as a Director of the Company on 12 March 2012.
Stephen is an experienced private equity professional having worked in the industry for the past 17 years, most recently as a Managing Director of Hellman & Friedman based inLondon.
Stephen has been involved with numerous private equity transactions of varioustypes over the course of his career.
Committees: Audit Chairman Nominations Remuneration SVG Capital plc Business Corporate Financial Company Annual report Overview review information information information 2012 29 Caroline Goodall Non-Executive Director Caroline Goodall was appointed as a Director of the Company on 4 October 2010.
Sheiscurrently a consultant to international law rm Herbert Smith, where she wasapartner and held a number of senior management positions.
Caroline is an independent non-executive of accountancy rm Grant Thornton UK LLP and is a non-executive director of Next plc.
She is also a trustee oftheNational Trust and has satasa non-executive on the Governing Body of Newnham College, Cambridge.
Committees: Audit Nominations Remuneration Chairman Charles Sinclair Non-Executive Director Charles Sinclair was appointed as a Director on 1 January 2005 and has been Senior Independent Director since 4 March 2009.
He is Chairman ofAssociated British Foods plc.
He retired as Chief Executive of Daily Mail and GeneralTrustplc on 30 September 2008, apost he held since 1989.
