Active investment working for you Management and administration Manager Independent auditor Investec Asset Management Limited Ernst & Young LLP Authorised and Regulated by the Financial Services Authority 1 More London Place Portfolio Manager, Alastair Mundy London SE1 2AF Woolgate Exchange 25 Basinghall Street Bankers and custodian London EC2V 5HA HSBC Bank plc Telephone No.
020 7597 1803 London EC2P 2BX Registered office Stockbrokers Woolgate Exchange JPMorgan Cazenove 25 Basinghall Street 25 Bank Street London EC2V 5HA Canary Wharf Secretary: London E14 5JP Investec Asset Management Limited, represented by Martin Slade Solicitors Eversheds LLP Registered number 1 Wood Street Registered in England No.
214601 London EC2V 7WS Registrar and Savings Scheme administrator Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone No: 44 121 415 7047 overseas shareholder helpline 0871 384 2432 shareholder helpline 0906 559 6025 broker helpline Calls cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
Lines open 8.30 a. m. to 5.30 p. m. Monday to Friday.
Right: Martin Slade Secretary Far right: Alastair Mundy Portfolio Manager Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 3 Active investment working for you Chairmans statement Performance recognition treatment previously The total return on the net assets of referred to, post-tax earnings rose by Temple Bar during 2012 was 18.0%, 0.6%.
which compares with a total return on The Board is recommending a final the FTSE All-Share Index of 12.3%.
The dividend of 22.0p, to produce a total share price total return was 21.6% increase of 4.0% for the year.
The reflecting an increase over the year in dividend will be payable on 28 March the premium at which the shares trade.
2013 to shareholders on the register at Temple Bar continues significantly to 15 March 2013.
The shares become outperform its benchmark over both ex-dividend on 13 March 2013.
This is five and ten year periods.
the 29th consecutive year in which the Revenue on the portfolio rose by dividend has been increased.
9.5%: however, virtually all of this At the year-end gearing calculated increase was due to how the revenue net of cash and related liquid assets on some bonds held on the portfolio was 2.0%.
The actual and Equity markets performed well in anticipated early repayment of certain 2012 and investors seemed reluctant bonds necessitates the profit between to fight the Federal Reserve and other the buy price and maturity price to be central banks.
Time will tell how deep amortised over a significantly shorter is this commitment to equities.
any way indicate that there will be a period than previously forecast.
There is, at Investment Trust Tax Rules present, no intention to utilise the Excluding this one-off effect, revenue was in line with the managers New legislation was introduced last ability to make distributions from forecasts a year earlier.
Although most year which has resulted in the removal capital profits, but the directors believe dividends across the portfolio rose, of the prohibition on the distribution that it is prudent to provide the overall income was affected by Avon of capital profits by way of dividend.
flexibility to do so in the event of Products cutting its dividend, lower The board is therefore seeking unforeseen changes, such as those to revenue generated from the fixed shareholder approval at the Annual future taxation policies.
interest portfolio as some of the bonds General Meeting to amend the Further information is set out in the reached maturity and a greater Companys Articles of Association to Report of the Directors on page 16. amount of cash being held on the permit the distribution of realised portfolio.
Post-tax earnings rose by capital gains by way of dividend.
Excluding the bond revenue would emphasise that this does not in This is the 29th consecutive year in which the dividend has been increased.
4 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Active investment working for you Chairmans statement continued Investment Policies FTSE 100 index, in order to provide and the Board is already considering The portfolio manager currently has greater flexibility in portfolio the full implications of this legislation.
the authority to invest up to 10% of construction.
The ability for the The second event of significance is the Companys investment portfolio in portfolio manager to select the introduction in January this year of listed international equities in investments broadly from the the Retail Distribution Review RDR developed economies.
The Board is companies within the FTSE 350 Index which, amongst other things, prevents requesting shareholder approval to will bring the portfolio more in line commission payments to advisers.
In increase this limit to 20%, principally with the benchmark FTSE All Share general RDR is viewed as a positive to reflect the increasingly international Index.
development in the longer term for the nature of investment markets where Resolutions will be proposed at the investment trust industry, which has the place of a companys listing often AGM to put the above changes into historically not paid commissions, bears little resemblance to the effect.
through the creation of a level playing countries in which it is active and field in the provision of investment where its profits are generated.
The Board believes that the The Board is also seeking approval There are a number of forthcoming Company is relatively well placed to for a minor change to the Companys changes which will impact the benefit from this development given principal investment objective of Company, including two of particular its scale, performance, the liquidity of providing growth in income and capital significance.
The first relates to the its shares and other attributes.
to achieve a long term total return implementation in the UK of the greater than the benchmark FTSE All European Unions Alternative Annual General Meeting Our AGM this year will be held at Share Index, through investment in a Investment Fund Managers Directive which will result in the introduction of Woolgate Exchange, 25 Basinghall broad spread of primarily UK securities with typically the majority of further regulatory oversight for Street, London EC2V 5HA on 25 March the portfolio selected from the investment trusts, such as the 2013 at 11.00am.
The Board constituents of the FTSE 100 index.
It requirement to appoint a Depositary encourages as many shareholders as is proposed that the majority of the that is, in turn, required to accept fairly possible to attend this meeting.
In portfolio be selected from the onerous responsibilities.
The changes addition to the formal business of the FTSE 350 index rather than just the are due to come into effect in 2014 meeting the portfolio manager, Alastair Mundy, will make a presentation reviewing the past year and commenting on the outlook.
He will also be available to answer any questions alongside the directors.
Outlook As the portfolio manager makes clear in his report, this is an environment Comparative dividend growth where new investment opportunities Source: Datastream are few and far between.
Rather than 160 make an unnecessarily bullish forecast, he prefers to tell it how it is and wait for better times before acting.
