Active investment working for you Managers report investors short-term actions and uncertain.
It is impossible to identify remained committed to simply how much money invested in equities uncovering stocks offering excellent last year is committed for the long long-term value.
term and how much is hot and Despite a significant amount of therefore likely to be withdrawn as negative commentary, most equity the first punch is thrown.
It is markets around the world produced certainly intriguing that some good returns last year, not least the investors who wouldnt touch the UK market.
The FTSE100 index rose market with a bargepole in 2009 10.0% and the FTSE250 index the and were highly vocal in that belief - largest 250 stocks by market have had a Damascene conversion to capitalisation outside the FTSE100 bullishness.
It is never easy to If they are genuine long-term attribute market movements to investors, those who are more bullish particular causes, but with now than they were three years ago government bond yields at multi-year must have changed their assumptions lows, investors apparently concluded about either long-term interest rates that equities were a superior lower for longer or corporate investment to any mainstream profitability higher for longer.
Standards of financial journalism may alternatives.
Alternatively, if they are more positive have hit all-time lows last year with We never claim to possess deep on equities because of the gap between equity yields and interest virtually any share price move macro-economic insights, but our attributed to investors desires to add knowledge of economic history is rates, then this is a relative view which or reduce the risk on their portfolios sufficient to assert that we are could be corrected by long-term bond risk on, risk off.
At times investors observing - and participating in - one yields rising gilt prices falling rather such as ourselves, wishing to discuss of the largest financial experiments than equity dividend yields falling the merits of long-term investing and ever undertaken.
It may end in success equity prices rising.
ignore the short-term noise however less debt, controlled inflation, higher important it seemed to others, were employment and decent economic treated with a combination of growth or failure pick your own amazement and pity.
As ever, we economic nightmare - but we know believed it futile to second guess that, however high the confidence of politicians decisions or other forecasters, the future remains Despite a significant amount of negative commentary, most equity markets around the world produced good returns last year, not least the UK market.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 7 Active investment working for you Managers report continued We cannot be as optimistic about With investors rediscovering their animal our portfolio as we were at the depths of the financial crisis in 2008 9 and spirits, we are not surprised that our universe reading our reports of the time, we of potential buy ideas has shrunk.
Some stocks in the portfolio have risen significantly whilst many of our fair values are little changed.
We focus on the average level of operating profits a company can generate through an economic cycle and value each company we research on that basis.
History also informs actually increased in the second half.
Even in the dark days of 2009 we us that if, while we are waiting, we Amongst other things this provided us assumed that the deep recession settle for investments we regard as with some time to consider the would end at some point and happily second best, they inevitably pharmaceutical sector in more detail.
opposed those investors waiting for disappoint.
We have held a longstanding better news or who believed the end We recognize our patience could overweight position in the of the world was nigh.
be tested in this market as our major pharmaceutical sector.
The strong With investors rediscovering their opposition is central banks eager to balance sheets and high dividend animal spirits, we are not surprised reduce the attractions of bonds and yields of most of the sectors large that our universe of potential buy cash and consequently increase the constituents provide investors with relative attractions of equities.
As assurance that they will be paid to ideas has shrunk.
We feed off the scraps of other investors and these banks each have printing wait for the better times.
However, we particularly devour the most out of presses at their disposal, the odds are unconvinced the better times will favour stocks.
In times when equities may appear heavily skewed against us, be that good.
Although investors are are strong, our opportunity set but we will take our chances.
Being encouraged by companies to believe typically diminishes in both size and bullied into purchasing stocks in the pipeline for new drugs is under quality and this was the case in 2012. historically unattractive periods is their control, our analysis suggests We have long appreciated the something which sits uncomfortably drug discoveries are driven by importance of patience and know with our investment philosophy.
serendipity as much as good great opportunities will arise Our slothful dealing activity in the management.
The consolidation in the intermittently.
However, we have no first half of 2012 was detailed in the industry over the last twenty years method that will accurately forecast interim report and the slothfulness has failed to generate the promised P T ortfolio distribution % emple Bar FTSE All-Share portfolio Index % % Industrials 16.71 8.89 Financials 14.77 23.34 Health Care 10.02 7.03 Oil & Gas 9.65 16.13 Telecommunications 7.98 5.87 Consumer Services 9.83 9.57 Consumer Goods 13.32 13.78 Utilities 2.21 3.74 Technology 1.85 1.57 Basic Materials 1.52 10.08 Total Equities 87.86 100.00 Fixed Interest 7.91 0.00 Cash 4.23 0.00 100.00 100.00 8 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Active investment working for you Managers report continued returns and our conclusion is that size superiority.
It is curious to aver that net asset value.
Admittedly, the net is a barrier, not an aid, in driving the bank sector is uninvestable now asset value is a difference between improved productivity.
In an industry given we know that the all-time worst two very large and variable numbers which operates on very long cycles period for investing in banks was in with the liabilities, in the form of the typical drug takes longer than the mid-2000s when they were highly customer and wholesale deposits, 10 years to bring to the market it is geared, had low capital ratios, rich subtracted from the value of logical that continually changing valuations, were run by management customer loans and other assets and working practices can alienate or disteams with little interest in, or therefore the discount can be incentivise employees.
Perhaps even awareness of, risk and overseen by narrowed by a small reduction in worse, as a result of its efficiency regulators apparently dozing in the gross assets to the detriment of drive, the industry seems to have corner.
Of course, at that time, many shareholders - instead of a large created a structure that reduces lucks bank shares were hitting all-time increase in share price.
However, RBS involvement in the drug discovery highs and were clearly considered has already recognized and impaired process.
those assets most unlikely to repay in Consequently, we decided to Many banks now have new full and while there may be some new reduce the portfolios exposure to the management, stronger capital ratios, nasties still to be uncovered we sector and sold the holding in Pfizer.
lower valuations and greater believe the current valuation Although current valuations for although potentially onerous sufficiently compensates us for the pharmaceutical companies are not regulation.
The new management risks we are taking.
stretched, they lose much of their teams have been swift to sell their Royal Bank of Scotland was forced to sell its insurance subsidiary, Direct lustre over the medium term as some most unattractive assets during a period of good liquidity in the market Line Group, by the EU as a branded drugs reach the end of their patent protection period and become and there is a clearer vision of how consequence of the British fully exposed to competition from the remaining businesses will be Governments assistance in bailing generic equivalents.
With the new structured in a few years time.
Retail out the bank during the financial drug pipeline offering little medium banking has historically been a high crisis.
Direct Line has lost its way in term excitement, companies such as return business because of the recent years due to external Pfizer have their hands full just combination of customer inertia and circumstances such as the maintaining current levels of naivety and the oligopolistic nature of extraordinary increase in claims profitability.
Regulators are keen to resulting from whiplash injuries in Our ears pricked up in the summer counter the naivety with stricter motor accidents and internal when many investors claimed the UK regulation, but the other two factors management problems.
As the biggest retail banks were uninvestable.
player in both motor and household Typically, investors make this claim Our confidence in the long term insurance in the UK, we believe Direct only after they have lost substantial future of profitable banking franchises Line can generate market leading sums in a sector: until then a sectors encouraged us to purchase shares in returns and, if successful, will trade at complexity often attracts those eager Royal Bank of Scotland at an a much higher valuation.
Programmes to demonstrate their intellectual approximate 60% discount to their to cut costs, make claims management more efficient and to Our slothful dealing activity in the first half of 2012 was detailed in the interim report and the slothfulness actually increased in the second half.
These examples should all aid the recovery most valuable weather forecasters compare with other stocks of which programme.
receive this constantly: probably a we were, initially, equally bullish, but In some years performance relative humbling yet rewarding experience, because of the debt within the to a benchmark is dependent on what but sometimes in fund management companies or the weakness of the is held on the portfolio while in other it can take years for events fully to business models, the fair value years what is not held is more play out.
Ironically, what might be subsequently proved less secure.
Last years performance regarded as our best decisions in the We will probably receive few was generated predominantly by last five years are possibly our worst.
opportunities similar to those we stocks we did hold and, in general, we We have made excellent returns from received in 2009, but should be more benefitted from a favourable mix of the bottom of the market in Signet prepared to act when they do arise.
The bar chart and Travis Perkins.
Both have more our defence, investment conditions below shows the top and bottom than quintupled from their lows and were extraordinary at the time and contributors to performance during we have maintained our full holdings.
maintaining rational behaviour was the year and includes the impact of While this has undoubtedly benefited difficult.
As Warren Buffett later stocks not held on the portfolio.
Some shareholders it is revealing to return observed, By year end [2008], of the winners have been held on the to the lows in 2009.
We believed both investors of all stripes were bloodied portfolio for some years and shares were very significantly and confused, much as if they were blossomed nicely: Grafton, QinetiQ, undervalued and, despite their small birds that had strayed into a badminton game.
Games Workshop, Travis Perkins and subsequent large share price falls, it is interesting that our assessment of fair Towards the end of 2008 we Signet responded to improving earnings despite exposure to areas value was unchanged through the purchased a number of reasonably which were far from buoyant such as bear market.
It is therefore a little short-dated investment grade defence, retailing and home puzzling how timid we were in adding corporate bonds.
Fortunately, losers were to our positions.
credit ratings, these bonds were reasonably thin on the ground Some may claim this lesson is purchased at distressed levels when although Avon Products was meaningless as it requires hindsight, the credit markets were fairly unsuccessful yet again and the Market but this is not so.
The stability of our dysfunctional.
They have produced Vectors Gold Miners ETF and fair value assessment was a strong excellent returns, but a number GlaxoSmithKline also disappointed.
indication of either genuine cheapness matured during the year.
Clearly We strive to learn continually from or mind-blowing levels of hubris a corporate bond yields are now our mistakes and our better nasty affliction which we try to keep significantly lower than when these judgements.
Active investment working for you Managers report continued Last years performance was generated predominantly by stocks we did hold and, in general, we benefitted from a favourable mix of winners and losers unattractive to encourage reinvestment.
Therefore, the redemptions will reduce the income on the whole portfolio whilst the proceeds are held in cash and very short-dated bonds.
As highlighted earlier, we can find few equities trading at bargain basement levels and consequently the portfolio is fairly conservatively invested.
Given the many subjects with which investors are currently wrestling, we expect there will be bouts of specific stock volatility that will throw up interesting candidates for the portfolio.
Alastair Mundy For Investec Asset Management Limited 19 February 2013 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 11
