Active investment working for you Report of the directors The directors present their report and accounts for the year The UK equity element of the portfolio will be mostly ended 31 December 2012. invested in the FTSE All-Share Index: however, exceptional positions may be sanctioned by the Board and up to 10% of BUSINESS REVIEW the portfolio may be held in listed international equities in Introduction developed economies.
Shareholders are being asked to This business review forms part of the Report of the approve an increase in the international investment limit to Directors.
Its function is to provide a balanced and 20% at the forthcoming AGM.
The Company may continue comprehensive review of the Companys performance and to hold securities that cease to be quoted or listed if the development during the year and its position at the year-end.
Manager considers this to be appropriate.
There is an The review also covers the principal risks and uncertainties absolute limit of 10% on individual stocks with a maximum faced by the Company and sets out key performance exposure to a specific industrial or commercial sector of indicators used to measure, monitor and manage the 25%, in each case irrespective of their weightings in the Companys business.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC was incorporated in It is the Companys policy to invest no more than 15% of 1926 with the registered number 214601. its gross assets in other listed investment companies including listed investment trusts.
Business of the Company The Company maintains a diversified portfolio of The Company carries on business as an investment investments, typically comprising 70-80 holdings, but company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 without restricting the Company from holding a more or less concentrated portfolio from time to time as and has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an circumstances require.
investment trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Companys long-term investment strategy The Companys principal business activity of investment emphasises: management is sub-contracted to Investec Asset Achieving a portfolio yield of between 120-140% of that Management Limited IAM under the ultimate supervision of the FTSE All-Share Index.
of the board of directors.
The Companys only subsidiary, Stocks of companies that are out of favour and whose Temple Bar Securities Ltd, was dissolved during the year.
share prices do not match the Managers assessment of A review of the business is given in the Chairmans their longer term value.
Statement and the Managers Report.
The results of the From time to time fixed interest holdings or non equity Company are shown on page 28. interests may be held for yield enhancement and other purposes.
Derivative instruments are used in certain Going concern circumstances, and with the prior approval of the Board, for The directors have reviewed the going concern basis of hedging purposes or to exploit a specific investment accounting for the Company.
The Companys assets consist opportunity.
substantially of equity shares in listed companies and in Liquidity and borrowings are managed with the aim of most circumstances are realisable within a short timescale.
The Companys net The use of the going concern basis of accounting is gearing range may fluctuate between 0% and 30%, based appropriate because there are no material uncertainties on the current balance sheet structure, with an absolute related to events or conditions that may cast significant limit of 50%.
doubt about the ability of the Company to continue as a As a general rule it is the Boards intention that the going concern.
After making enquiries, the directors have a portfolio should be reasonably fully invested.
An investment reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate level of 90% of shareholder funds is regarded as a guideline resources to continue in operational existence for the minimum investment level dependent on market foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the directors continue to conditions.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Risk is managed through diversification of holdings, investment limits set by the Board and appropriate financial Investment objective and policy and other controls relating to the administration of assets.
The Companys investment objective is to provide growth in income and capital to achieve a long-term total return Investment approach greater than the benchmark FTSE All-Share Index, through The investment approach of the Manager is premised on a investment primarily in UK securities.
The Companys policy contrarian view on the timing of buy and sell decisions, is to invest in a broad spread of securities with typically the buying the shares of companies when sentiment towards majority of the portfolio selected from the constituents of them is thought to be near its worst and selling them as the FTSE 100 Index.
The directors are proposing that in fundamental profit improvement and or re-evaluation of future the majority of the portfolio should be selected from their long-term prospects takes place.
the constituents of the FTSE 350 Index.
The belief is that repeated investor behaviour in driving 16 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Active investment working for you Report of the directors continued down the prices of out of favour companies to below their with the FTSE All-Share Index.
The Chairmans Statement on fair value will offer investment opportunities.
This will allow pages 4 to 5 and the Managers Report on pages 7 to 11 the Company to purchase shares at significant discounts to include a review of developments during the year together their fair value and to sell them as they become more fully with information on investment activity within the valued, principally as a result of predictable patterns in Companys portfolio and an assessment of future human psychology.
The Managers process is designed to produce best ideas to drive active fund management within a rigorous control Ungeared 5 year performance framework.
The framework begins through narrowing down 160 the universe of stocks by passing those companies with a Temple Bar - gross assets, excluding effects of gearing market capitalisation above 100 million through a FTSE All-Share Index Total Return 140 screening process which highlights the weakest performing stocks.
This isolates opportunities with attractive sentiment characteristics which are then in turn scrutinised in greater 120 detail to identify investment opportunities.
The process is very much bottom up and can result in 100 large sector positions being taken if enough stocks of sufficient interest are found within a single sector.
However, 80 top down risk analysis is undertaken to identify potential concentration of risk and to factor this awareness into 60 portfolio construction.
The portfolio comprises stocks which have been purchased for different reasons and at different 40 times.
In general, because of the bottom up approach to 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2007 stockpicking, each of these reasons is independent of the other and the portfolio, therefore, is not excessively Key performance indicators vulnerable to longer term macro trends.
Cash is a residual of The principal key performance indicators KPIs used to the process and normally will not exceed 5% of the determine the progress and performance of the Company portfolio value.
over time, and which are comparable to those reported by The approach to stock selection and portfolio other investment trusts, are: construction is driven by four core beliefs: Net asset value total return relative to the 1.
Markets overreact to news on the upside and the FTSE All-Share Index downside.
The Manager aims to be sceptical of the crowd Discount premium on net asset value and aware of investor psychology, which often causes Earnings and dividends per share overvaluation of those stocks that are deemed to have Ongoing charges good prospects and an undervaluation of those which While some elements of performance against KPIs are are out of favour.
beyond management control they provide measures of the 2.
There are few companies which sustain below normal Companys absolute and relative performance and are, profits over the longer term.
Weaker companies tend to therefore, monitored by the Board on a regular basis.
leave an industry, thus improving the balance of supply and demand, are bid for or management is changed.
Net asset value NAV total return Similarly, there are few companies which can sustain In reviewing the performance of the assets of the supernormal profits over the longer term.
Such profits Companys portfolio the Board monitors the net asset value tend to be competed or regulated away.
in relation to the FTSE All-Share Index.
Fundamental valuation is the key determinant of stock net asset value total return of the Company was 18.0% prices over the long term.
In other words cheap stocks compared with a total return of 12.3% by the FTSE will outperform expensive stocks.
Diversification is an important control.
Particular companies or sectors can be out of favour for a Discount on net asset value considerable time.
The Board monitors the premium discount at which the Companys shares trade in relation to the net assets.
Performance During the year the shares traded at an average premium In the year to 31 December 2012 the net asset value total to NAV of 4.6%.
This compares with an average premium return of the Company was 18.0% compared with a total of 3.8% in the previous year.
The Board and Manager return of the Companys benchmark index of 12.3%.
In closely monitor both movements in the Companys share addition, the following graph shows the ungeared price and significant dealings in the shares.
In order to investment performance over a five year period compared avoid substantial overhangs or shortages of shares in the Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 17 Active investment working for you Report of the directors continued market the Board asks shareholders to approve resolutions holds a separate meeting devoted to strategy, the most which allow for the buy back of shares and their issuance recent one being in September 2010.
A further strategy which can assist in the management of the discount.
meeting has been arranged for March 2013.
Regular demand generated by monthly investment in the Savings Scheme and the use of marketing and promotional Income risk dividends activity also assist in keeping the discount at an acceptable Generating the necessary level of income from portfolio level.
investments to meet the Companys expenses and to provide adequate reserves from which to base a sustainable Earnings and dividend per share programme of increasing dividend payments to It remains the directors intention to distribute over time by shareholders is subject to the risk that income generation way of dividends substantially all of the Companys net from investments fails to meet the level required.
The Board revenue income after expenses and taxation.
The Manager monitors this risk through the receipt of detailed income aims to maximise total returns from the portfolio and reports and forecasts which are considered at each meeting.
attaches great importance to dividends in achieving total As at 31 December 2012 the Company had distributable return.
revenue reserves of 33.535 million before declaration of The portfolio will typically provide a yield premium to the final dividend for 2012 of 13.321 million.
The final dividend recommended for the year is 22.0p per ordinary share which brings the total for the year Share price risk to 36.65p per ordinary share, an increase of 4.0%.
This will The Companys share price and discount to NAV are be the 29th consecutive year in which the Company has monitored by the Manager and considered by the Board at each meeting.
Some short-term influences over the increased the overall level of its dividend payment.
discount may be exercised by the use of share repurchases Ongoing charges at acceptable prices: however, market sentiment is beyond Ongoing charges is an expression of the Companys the absolute control of the Manager and Board.
management fees and all other operating expenses as a percentage of average daily net assets over the year.
The Accounting, legal & regulatory ongoing charges for the year ended 31 December 2012 were In order to qualify as an investment trust the Company 0.51% 2011: 0.50%.
The Board reviews each year a must comply with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act comparison of the Companys ongoing charges with those of 2010.
Were the Company to breach Section 1158 it might its peers.
At the present time the Company has one of the lose investment trust status and, as a consequence, gains lowest ongoing charges in the growth and income sector of within the Companys portfolio would be subject to capital investment trust companies.
The Section 1158 qualification criteria are, therefore, monitored by the Board at each meeting.
Principal risks and uncertainties The Company must also comply with the provisions of the With the assistance of the Manager the Board has drawn up a Companies Act and, since its shares are listed on the London risk matrix which identifies the key risks to the Company.
The Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules.
A breach of the Board reviews and agrees policies, which have remained Companies Act could result in the Company being fined or unchanged since the beginning of the accounting period, for subject to criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing managing these risks, as summarised below.
Rules could result in the Companys shares being suspended from Listing which in turn would breach Section 1158.
The Investment strategy Board relies on the services of its Company Secretary, IAM, and An inappropriate investment strategy on matters such as its professional advisers to ensure compliance with the asset allocation or the level of gearing may lead to Companies Act and the UKLA Listing Rules and is satisfied that underperformance against the Companys benchmark index or they are able to provide an appropriate service in this regard.
peer companies, resulting in the Companys shares trading on a wider discount.
The Board manages such risks by Corporate governance and shareholder relations diversification of investments through its investment Details of the Companys compliance with corporate restrictions and guidelines, which are monitored and reported governance best practice including information on relations on by the Manager.
The Manager provides the directors with with shareholders, are set out in the corporate governance regular and accurate management information including report on pages 23 to 25 which forms part of this directors absolute and relative performance data, attribution analysis, report.
revenue estimates, liquidity reports, risk profile and shareholder analysis.
The Board monitors the implementation Control systems risk and results of the investment process with the Portfolio Disruption to, or failure of, IAMs accounting, dealing or Manager, who attends Board meetings.
Periodically the Board payments systems or the custodians records could prevent 18 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Active investment working for you Report of the directors continued accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys which someone other than the registered shareholder can exercise voting rights are detailed in the Notes to the Notice financial position or adversely impact the ability to trade.
The Companys ordinary shares have Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
IAM and its associates and the key elements designed to provide effective internal control are included within the internal control section of the corporate governance report DIRECTORS on pages 23 to 25.
The directors of the Company during the year were as stated below and their interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company are as follows.
Each of the directors Other risks held office throughout the year.
Other risks to which the Company is exposed and which 31 December 1 January form part of the market risks referred to above are included 2012 2012 in note 22 to the financial statements together with summaries of the policies for managing these risks.
These A T Copple 12,644 6,250 J F fide Moller 6,931 6,051 comprise: market price risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, R W Jewson 8,214 7,654 credit risk and currency risk.
J Reeve 49,596 46,580 The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for M R Riley 15,000 15,000 identifying, evaluating and managing strategic and operational D G C Webster 3,739 3,601 risks.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with the Turnbull guidance on internal controls.
All the above interests are beneficial.
None of the directors had at any date any interest in either of the Companys ORDINARY DIVIDENDS debenture stocks.
An interim dividend of 14.65p per ordinary share was paid On 10 January 2013 Mr Reeve acquired a further on 28 September 2012 2011: 14.0p and the directors are 94 ordinary shares in the Company through his regular recommending a final dividend of 22.00p per ordinary share monthly saving in an ISA and on 12 February 2013 he 2011: 21.23p, a total for the year of 36.65p 2011: acquired a further 91 ordinary shares.
Subject to shareholders approval, the final Mr Copple, Mr Jewson and Mrs fide Moller acquired a further dividend will be paid on 28 March 2013 to shareholders on 463, 23 and 46 ordinary shares respectively in the Company the register on 15 March 2013. through their regular monthly savings in the Temple Bar Investment Trust Savings Scheme.
No other changes in the ISAs interests shown above occurred between 31 December The Company has conducted its investment policy so as to 2012 and 19 February 2013. remain a qualifying investment trust under the ISA No other person was a director during any part of the regulations.
It is the intention of the Board to continue to year.
All the directors will be retiring in compliance with the provisions of the AIC Code.
Each of the directors being SHARE CAPITAL eligible, the Board recommends their re-election.
In making During the year 850,000 ordinary shares of 25p were these recommendations the Board has carefully reviewed allotted fully paid for a total consideration of 7.876 the composition of the Board as a whole and borne in mind million at prices representing a premium to the prevailing net asset value.
the need for a proper balance of skills and experience.
The Board does not believe that length of service of itself Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 detracts from the independence of a director, particularly in The following information is disclosed in accordance with relation to an investment trust, and on that basis considers Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006. that all directors standing for re-election are independent.
It is confirmed that, following formal evaluation, the Capital Structure performance of each director continues to be effective and The Companys capital structure is summarised on page 38. each continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
There have been no changes since the year-end.
There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in which a director of the Company is or was Voting Rights in the Companys Shares interested and which are or were significant in relation to The voting rights at 31 December 2012 were: the Companys business.
No director has a service contract Number of Voting rights Total with the Company.
Share class shares issued per share voting rights PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS Ordinary shares of 25p each 60,551,367 1 60,551,367 The Companys policy is to obtain the best possible terms of payment from suppliers for all forms of business.
All terms As at 19 February 2013, the share capital of the Company agreed with suppliers have been complied with during the and total voting rights was 60,551,367.
There were no trade creditors at the year-end 2011: nil.
exercise of voting rights and details of arrangements by Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 19 Active investment working for you Report of the directors continued SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING As at 31 December 2012 and 19 February 2013 the The notice of the Annual General Meeting of the Company following had indicated an interest in 3% or more of the to be held on 25 March 2013 is on pages 42 to 46.
In issued ordinary shares of the Company.
addition to the ordinary business six resolutions are % proposed as special business.
Brewin Dolphin Ltd 10.48 Amendment to Articles Speirs & Jeffrey Ltd 6.02 In 2012 certain of the statutory rules governing investment Investec Wealth & Investment Ltd 4.77 limits were amended.
In particular, the rule which AXA SA 3.12 prohibited an investment trust from distributing any net gains arising from the realisation of its investments was MANAGEMENT CONTRACT repealed.
In order to comply with the previous statutory The Company has a management agreement with IAM for regime the Company had a provision in its Articles expressly the provision of investment management, secretarial, prohibiting the distribution of any net gains arising from the accounting and administrative services.
The agreement is realisation of its investments.
The Board no longer considers subject to one years notice of termination by either party.
it appropriate to have such a prohibition in the Articles and IAM receives an investment management fee of 0.35% therefore proposes that this is deleted.
Resolution 16 will, if per annum, payable quarterly, based on the value of the passed, remove this prohibition.
investments including cash of the Company.
Investments It should be noted that the proposal to amend the in funds managed by IAM are wholly excluded from this Articles will not result in a change in how the Companys charge.
net revenue is generated or calculated.
The Company will The investment management fee charged for the year continue to pursue its policy of paying increasing dividends ended 31 December 2012 amounted to 2,224,000 2011: from net revenue profits but the Board believes that the 2,040,000. removal of the restriction will give the Company greater IAMs performance under the contract and the contract flexibility in the longer term, for example in the event of a terms are reviewed at least annually.
This covers, inter alia, change in tax policy.
the performance of the Manager, their management processes, investment style, resources and risk controls.
The Investment policies Board endorses the investment approach adopted by the Ordinary resolutions are being proposed at the AGM to Manager, recognising that while the contrarian style can enable the portfolio manager to have more flexibility in sometimes lead to short-term periods of underperformance constructing the investment portfolio.
The first change will it usually delivers good investment returns over a longer increase the permissable investment level in listed term.
The Companys performance over three and five year international equities in developed economies from 10% to periods relative to both its benchmark and its peer group 20% of the portfolio.
The second change relates to the has been excellent.
In addition, the portfolio has produced current requirement for the majority of the portfolio to be high and growing dividend income to shareholders.
In the comprised of constituents of the FTSE 100 Index: it is opinion of the directors the continued appointment of the proposed that this be changed to the FTSE 350 Index.
Manager on the terms set out above is, therefore, in the best interests of shareholders.
Authority to allot shares and disapplication of pre-emption rights DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITOR It is proposed that the directors be authorised to allot up to The directors are not aware of any relevant information of 1,513,784 of relevant securities in the Company which the auditor is unaware and have taken all the steps equivalent to 6,055,136 ordinary shares of 25p each, that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make representing 10.0% of its ordinary shares in issue as at themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to 19 February 2013. establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that When shares are to be allotted for cash, the Companies information.
Act 2006 requires such new shares to be offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing AUDITOR holdings of ordinary shares.
However, in certain A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor to circumstances, it is beneficial to allot shares for cash the Company will be proposed at the Annual General otherwise than pro rata to existing shareholders and the Meeting AGM on 25 March 2013. ordinary shareholders can by special resolution waive their pre-emption rights.
Therefore, a special resolution will be proposed at the AGM which, if passed, will give the directors the power to allot for cash equity securities up to an 20 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Active investment working for you Report of the directors continued aggregate nominal amount of 1,513,784 equivalent to Recommendation 6,055,136 ordinary shares of 25p each or 10.0% of the The Board considers the resolutions to be proposed at the Companys existing issued ordinary share capital.
AGM to be in the best interests of the Company and its The directors intend to use this authority to issue new members as a whole.
Accordingly, the directors unanimously shares to participants in the Temple Bar Investment Trust recommend that shareholders should vote in favour of the Savings Scheme or to other prospective purchasers resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, as they intend to do whenever they believe it may be advantageous to so in respect of their own beneficial holdings, amounting to shareholders to do so.
Any such issues would only be made 96,841 ordinary shares.
at prices greater than net asset value, as adjusted for the market value of the Companys debt and would, therefore, increase the assets underlying each share.
The issue proceeds would be available for investment in line with the Companys investment policy.
No issues of shares will be made which would alter the By order of the Board of Directors control of the Company without the prior approval of M K Slade shareholders in general meeting.
For Investec Asset Management Limited The appropriate resolutions are set out in the Notice of Secretary Meeting on page 42.
19 February 2013 Directors authority to purchase the Companys own shares The directors consider it desirable to give the Company the opportunity to buy back shares in circumstances where the shares may be bought for a price which is below the net asset value per share of the Company.
The purchase of ordinary shares is intended to reduce the discount at which ordinary shares trade in the market through the Company becoming a new source of demand for ordinary shares.
The rules of the UK Listing Authority provide that the maximum price which can be paid by the Company is 5% above the average of the market value of the ordinary shares for the five business days before the purchase is made.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 21 Active investment working for you Report on directors remuneration This report has been prepared in accordance with Section Share price total return Source: Datastream 421 of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of the year 180 ended 31 December 2012.
An ordinary resolution will be proposed at the AGM to approve this report, but the directors remuneration is not conditional upon the 160 resolution being passed.
The law requires the Companys auditor to audit certain parts of the disclosures provided.
140 Where disclosures have been audited, they are indicated as such.
The auditors opinion is included in their report on 120 page 27.
The Company does not have any executive directors and, as permitted under the Listing Rules, has not, therefore, 100 established a remuneration committee.
Remuneration of non-executive directors is viewed as a decision of the Board, 80 subject to any shareholder approvals which may be necessary.
In effect, therefore, the Board as a whole fulfils 60 the function of a remuneration committee.
The Companys 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2012 Articles of Association currently state that the Board shall determine the rate at which directors shall be paid, provided that the aggregate of all such fees shall not exceed DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS 250,000 p. a.
This does not include any sums paid to directors that are not classed as remuneration, e. g. expense The fee level for directors is shown below.
The limit on the aggregate amount of performance related fee.
There is a formal letter of directors fees paid is subject to the approval of appointment for each director.
shareholders by an ordinary resolution.
Directors are initially appointed until the following AGM when, under the Companys Articles of Association, it is POLICY ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION required that they are offered for re-election by The level of directors fees is determined with reference to a shareholders.
Thereafter, a directors continuing review of the remuneration paid to the directors of a range appointment is subject to annual re-election by of other investment trusts, comparable in terms of both size shareholders.
The Manager of the Audited Company compiles such analysis as part of the 2012 2011 Director management and secretarial services provided to the Company.
No other external advice is taken in considering John Reeve 31,000 29,500 such fees.
It is expected that the level of directors fees will Arthur Copple 21,000 18,051 continue to be assessed on this basis in forthcoming years.
June fide Moller 21,000 20,000 Following the most recent review the Board concluded Richard Jewson 23,600 22,500 that the remuneration be increased by 2.6% to 31,800 p. a. Martin Riley 21,000 20,000 for the Chairman and by 2.4% to 21,500 p. a. for the other David Webster 21,000 20,000 directors with effect from 1 January 2013.
In addition, the 138,600 130,051 Chairman of the Audit Committee, currently Mr Jewson, will receive an annual remuneration of 24,200, an increase of The fees disclosed above exclude employers national 2.6%.
insurance contributions and VAT where applicable.
No director received any other benefits 2011: Nil.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH The directors consider that the most appropriate measure By order of the Board of Directors of the Companys performance is its share price total return M K Slade compared with the total return on the FTSE All-Share Index.
For Investec Asset Management Limited A graph illustrating this relative performance over a five Secretary year period is shown opposite.
19 February 2013 22 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
