qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:33 Page 1 COMPANY SUMMARY Introduction Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC TEMIT is an investment company that invests principally in emerging market companies with the aim of delivering capital growth to shareholders over the long-term.
When TEMIT was launched in June 1989, it was one of the first dedicated emerging markets funds in the UK to offer access to some of the fastest growing economies around the world.
Today, over 20 years later, TEMIT continues to invest in these markets.
However, it now has many more investment opportunities to assess as an increasing number of economies fall into the emerging or frontier market classifications and the number of dynamic companies open to investment continues to expand.
Emerging market companies are often under-researched and, as a result, often mispriced by the stock market, providing investors with attractive investment opportunities.
However, most individuals do not have the time, money or experience to find these opportunities.
TEMIT shareholders receive the benefit of experienced investment professionals who are able to commit a wealth of resource, expertise and local understanding to uncover opportunities that their research indicates offers the best value emerging market investments around the world.
TEMITs research-driven investment approach and strong performance has helped it to grow to be the largest emerging market investment trust in the UK, with assets under management of 2.1 billion as at 31 March 2012 and it continues to win a number of industry awards.
While the majority of the Companys shareholders are based in the UK, shares are quoted on both the London and New Zealand stock exchanges.
Stated Investment Objective The Company seeks long-term capital appreciation through investment in companies operating in emerging markets or whose stocks are listed on the stock markets of such countries.
This may include companies which have a significant amount of their revenues in emerging markets but which are listed on stock exchanges in developed countries.
Company and Investment Management TEMIT has seven Directors on its Board who, with one exception, are fully independent from the Investment Manager, ensuring that shareholders best interests are at the forefront of all decisions.
Under the guidance of the Chairman, the Board of Directors is responsible for the overall strategy of the Company and for monitoring its performance.
The Board has appointed Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML or the Investment Manager as the Investment Manager of the Company.
TAML is one of the pioneers of emerging market investing, with more than 20 years of investment experience and a significant presence in emerging markets across the world.
This well-resourced group with offices in 17 countries and whose employees speak more than 24 languages has built up a comprehensive understanding of the markets in which it operates.
TAMLs analysts are responsible for researching emerging markets and deciding which companies, in their opinion, offer the strongest risk reward opportunities for TEMIT investors over the long-term.
They are required to make regular formal reports to the Board on their portfolio management and performance.
TAML is part of Franklin Resources, Inc. operating as Franklin Templeton Investments, a group which had US$726 billion in assets under management on 31 March 2012.
Share Capital At 31 March 2012 the Companys share capital consisted of 329,814,352 shares of 25 pence.
During the year the Company bought back 50,000 shares.
AIC The Company is a member of The Association of Investment Companies AIC.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 1 339066 02 p01-02 Company Summary.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:33 Page 2 COMPANY SUMMARY CONTINUED How to Invest There are two ways of purchasing shares in TEMIT: 1.
Through the Templeton Investment Plan.
invest a regular monthly or quarterly amount minimum 50 monthly or 150 quarterly.
make occasional lump sum investments initial minimum 250, minimum subsequent investments 50.
Directly in the stock market through a stockbroker.
For more information contact your financial adviser or call us free on 0800 305 306.
Alternatively, you can visit the website at: www.
co. uk This report does not constitute or form part of any offer for shares or an invitation to apply for shares.
The price of shares and income from them can go down as well as up and you may not get back the full amount that you invested.
Past performance is no guarantee of future performance.
Currency fluctuations will affect the value of overseas investments.
Emerging Markets can be more risky than Developed Markets.
Please consult your professional adviser before deciding to invest.
2 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC
