qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:40 Page 13 MANAGERS REPORT & PORTFOLIO REVIEW 31 MARCH 2012 Mark Mobius and TAMLs Emerging Markets team INVESTMENT MANAGER The Directors engage Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML as Investment Manager of the Company.
TAML, part of Franklin Templeton Investments, is one of the worlds largest asset management companies.
TAML is a pioneer of emerging market investment, having created one of the first dedicated emerging market mutual funds about 25 years ago.
As at 31 March 2012, the Templeton Emerging Markets Team managed US$51 billion in emerging markets assets for retail, institutional and professional investors across the globe.
The Templeton Emerging Markets Team, headed by Dr Mark Mobius, is one of the largest of its kind.
It includes 51 dedicated emerging markets portfolio managers, analysts and product specialists.
Their on-the-ground presence in 17 countries, and years of relevant industry experience, greatly assists their understanding of the companies researched for inclusion in the TEMIT portfolio.
Many of the senior members of the TEMIT team, including Allan Lam, Tom Wu and Dennis Lim have worked alongside Mark Mobius for over 20 years.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 13 339066 07 p13-19 Manager's Report.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:40 Page 14 MANAGERS REPORT & PORTFOLIO REVIEW CONTINUED MARK MOBIUS, PH.
D. TOM WU Executive Chairman Senior Executive Vice President & Senior Managing Director Dr. Mobius has spent more than 30 years working in Mr. Wu joined the Templeton organisation in 1987 and his emerging markets all over the world.
He joined Franklin research responsibilities include the banking sector.
Templeton Investments in 1987 as president of the Mr. Wu is also responsible for the financial analysis and Templeton Emerging Markets Fund, Inc.
In 1999, he research of companies in Hong Kong and the Philippines.
was appointed joint chairman of the Global Corporate He began his career at Vickers da Costa in Hong Kong as Governance Forum Investor Responsibility Taskforce of an investment analyst and later as an assistant manager the World Bank and Organisation for Economic before joining the Templeton organisation.
ALLAN LAM, CPA DENNIS LIM Senior Executive Vice President & Senior Managing Director Co-Chief Executive Officer Mr. Lam joined the Templeton organisation in 1987 and Mr. Lim joined Templeton in 1990 and has research his research responsibilities include the real estate and oil responsibilities for Southeast Asian markets.
Mr. Lim is a & gas sectors as well as analysis of companies in the specialist on building regulations and urban planning Philippines.
Mr. Lam manages portfolios dedicated to requirements in Singapore and the ASEAN region.
He global emerging markets and Asia ex Japan.
Mr. Lam specialises in researching companies in the worked for a number of years in the accounting field with telecommunications sector.
He served as a former Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA and KPMG Peat Marwick engineering service officer for the Ministry of National CPA.
His knowledge of accounting practices became an Development in Singapore.
important tool for his equity analysis.
Source: Franklin Templeton Investments as at 31 March 2012.
CFA and Chartered Financial Analysts are trademarks owned by CFA Institute.
14 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 339066 07 p13-19 Manager's Report.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:40 Page 15 due to concerns of slowing growth.
In Latin America, MARKET OVERVIEW Argentina and Brazil ended the period with double-digit Emerging market performances for the reporting period can declines.
The weakest performers were generally found in be divided into two distinct periods: a decline in the first half Eastern Europe.
These markets suffered as a result of their of the year: followed by a recovery, which partially offset geographic proximity to their Western European earlier losses.
For the 12 month period, the MSCI Emerging counterparts and the reliance on these economies for trade, Markets Index declined 8.2% in sterling total return terms.
rather than a tangible material deterioration in their economic structure.
The Eurozone debt crisis and concerns that the US could slip back into a recession dominated headlines in the earlier part of the reporting period.
This led markets PERFORMANCE ATTRIBUTION ANALYSIS globally to fall, as investors shunned equities in favour of PERFORMANCE ATTRIBUTION ANALYSIS less risky assets.
Year to 31 March 2012 Improved economic data, strong corporate earnings, government and central bank efforts to stimulate growth, in NAV Total Return -10.8 addition to substantial fund flows into emerging markets, led MSCI Emerging Markets Index Total Return -8.2 investors to adopt a more positive view on the asset class in Relative Return -2.6 the second half of the year.
The approval of a second Sector Allocation -2.4 European Union bailout package for Greece further Stock Selection -1.1 supported markets.
Total Equities -3.5 Currency 0.9 Comments from US Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke Relative performance -2.6 on the need for maintaining and enhancing policies to help lower unemployment in the US, and news that the European Source: Factset and Franklin Templeton Investments Union might increase its bailout fund provided investors with Geographically, major contributors to the Companys additional reasons to regain confidence.
However, following performance, relative to the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, the year end, continued political turmoil in Europe again included superior stock selection in Hong Kong China.
dented investor confidence and markets recorded sharp falls Moreover, overweight positions in Thailand and Indonesia in value.
At the time of writing, we remain in a period of high made noteworthy contributions to relative performance.
volatility and past experience has shown that, in such Conversely, holdings in South Korea, India and South periods, there has tended to be generally a higher degree of Africa detracted from performance.
correlation between movements in emerging and developed markets than in more settled periods.
Within the emerging markets asset class, Southeast Asian markets were the strongest performers during the reporting period.
Strong domestic demand, rising disposable incomes and relatively low unemployment makes these economies more resilient to global uncertainties.
Hong Kong China and India, however, underperformed their regional peers, LARGEST COUNTRY CONTRIBUTORS AND DETRACTORS TO PERFORMANCE % MSCI Emerging MSCI Emerging Contribution Markets Index Contribution Markets Index Top Contributors to Portfolio Total Return Top Detractors to Portfolio Total Return Hong Kong China 2.7 12.4 South Korea 1.4 5.0 Thailand 1.9 13.9 India 1.3 20.2 Indonesia 0.7 6.2 South Africa 1.1 2.6 Pakistan 0.1 N A Brazil 1.0 12.7 Russia 0.4 17.4 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 15 339066 07 p13-19 Manager's Report.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:40 Page 16 MANAGERS REPORT & PORTFOLIO REVIEW CONTINUED 10 LARGEST COUNTRY WEIGHTINGS VS BENCHMARK % 25.8 Hong Kong China 17.2 17.0 Brazil 14.8 12.8 Thailand 2.1 9.2 India 6.5 9.2 Indonesia 2.7 5.8 Turkey 1.4 4.8 Russia 6.6 4.4 South Korea 15.1 TEMIT 2.6 South Africa 7.6 MSCI Emerging Markets Index 2.5 Mexico 4.7 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 Good stock selection in banks, technology hardware & equipment and food & staples retailing contributed significantly to performance.
An overweight position and good stock selection in automobiles & components also had positive attribution effects: the materials sector was the largest detractor during the period.
A zero exposure to telecommunications services and underweight exposures to semiconductors and food, beverage & tobacco companies also detracted from relative performance.
LARGEST SECTOR CONTRIBUTORS AND DETRACTORS TO PERFORMANCE % MSCI Emerging MSCI Emerging Contribution Markets Index Contribution Markets Index Top Contributors to Portfolio Total Return Top Detractors to Portfolio Total Return Consumer Discretionary 1.5 0.2 Materials 2.2 20.3 Financials 1.4 12.4 Information Technology 1.2 4.6 Consumer Staples 0.1 15.4 Telecommunication Services 0.7 2.4 Health Care 0.0 5.7 Energy 0.5 16.6 Industrials 0.3 12.4 Utilities 0.1 4.3 No Companies held by TEMIT in these sectors SECTOR WEIGHTINGS VS BENCHMARK % 27.4 Financials 24.0 23.2 Energy 14.0 16.3 Consumer Discretionary 7.9 15.2 Materials 13.0 8.1 Information Technology 13.7 6.9 Consumer Staples 8.0 2.4 Industrials 6.7 Utilities 3.7 TEMIT Telecommunication Services 8.0 MSCI Emerging Markets Index Health Care 1.0 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 16 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 339066 07 p13-19 Manager's Report.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:40 Page 17 At the company level, the top three contributors to relative year.
However, taking a long-term view, assuming performance were overweight positions in Brilliance satisfactory resolution of strategy, Sesa Goa should benefit China, Astra International and Dairy Farm.
Brilliance from increases in iron ore prices and the consolidation of China is a major automobile manufacturer in China with a the global mining sector.
Chalco is Chinas leading joint venture with BMW for the production and sale of producer of alumina and primary aluminium products.
BMW 3-series and 5-series vehicles in China.
The company Chalcos share price recorded a decline during the period is a beneficiary of the growth in demand for automobiles due to poor corporate results, lower aluminium prices and and government stimulus measures in the sector.
The longconcerns of an economic slowdown in China.
Taking a longterm growth trend in demand for motor vehicles is term view, however, we are of the opinion that Chalco is expected to continue in China.
Astra is Indonesias leading well positioned to benefit from Chinas continuing growth.
In addition to its market A long-term uptrend in aluminium prices coupled with leadership and extensive distribution network in the demand from Chinas manufacturing, construction and automotive sector, Astra has interests in financial services, consumer sectors could support the company in the future.
heavy equipment, agribusiness, information technology and TEMIT does not hold Samsung Electronics, one of the infrastructure.
As a result, the company is well positioned worlds largest electronics manufacturers.
Despite gradual to benefit from Indonesias robust economic growth, higher restructuring, cross-holdings within the group remain very income levels and the availability of affordable credit.
Dairy complex, while obsolescence levels and falling product Farms core businesses consist of supermarkets, prices are also concerns.
hypermarkets as well as health & beauty, convenience and TEMIT has exposure to currency risk because investments home furnishing stores.
The company remains a favourable are made in currencies other than sterling.
As a matter of investment as it is a beneficiary of Asias economic recovery policy, the Board has decided that it is not appropriate to and higher consumer demand.
The company is also hedge the currency risk it is an inherent risk from investing exposed to fast growing markets such as China, Vietnam in emerging markets.
Consequently in any given period, and India.
TEMIT will show gains and losses resulting from currencies moving against sterling.
In the current period, TEMIT gained Conversely, the three largest detractors against the Index from the relative strength of the Chinese renminbi and the were overweight positions in Sesa Goa and Aluminum US dollar, through ADRs in which the Brazilian investments Corporation of China Chalco and a zero exposure to are held, but lost value on the Turkish lira and Indian rupee Samsung Electronics.
Sesa Goa is a major iron ore Brazilian investments are held through ADRs because of the producer and exporter in India.
Weakness in the iron ore greater liquidity which ADRs offer.
market and investor concerns surrounding group strategic direction led the stock price of Sesa Goa to fall during the TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17 339066 07 p13-19 Manager's Report.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:40 Page 18 MANAGERS REPORT & PORTFOLIO REVIEW CONTINUED Mark Mobius with some of his senior team We continue to maintain a positive outlook on emerging market economies.
LARGEST COMPANY CONTRIBUTORS AND DETRACTORS TO PERFORMANCE % Contribution to Company Contribution to Company Top Contributors Portfolio Total Return Top Detractors Portfolio Total Return Brilliance China Automotive Holdings Ltd. 1.3 7.9 Sesa Goa Ltd. 1.3 40.0 PT Astra International Tbk 1.1 27.4 Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. 1.1 33.6 Dairy Farm International Holdings Ltd. 1.0 28.7 Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. H 0.9 49.6 Siam Commercial Bank Public Co. Ltd, fgn.
0.9 34.1 PT Bank Danamon Indonesia Tbk 0.6 29.6 VTech Holdings Ltd. 0.7 21.4 Mining and Metallurgical Co. Norilsk Nickel 0.5 29.4 Company not held by TEMIT 10 LARGEST SECURITY VS BENCHMARK % 9.1 Brilliance China Automotive Holdings Ltd. 0.1 5.0 Vale SA, ADR, pfd.
2.3 4.9 Itau Unibanco Holding SA, ADR 1.3 4.6 PT Astra International Tbk 0.4 4.5 Banco Bradesco SA, ADR, pfd.
1.0 4.1 Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. 0.3 3.9 Dairy Farm International Holdings Ltd. 3.6 Siam Commercial Bank Public Co. Ltd, fgn.
0.2 TEMIT 3.6 Akbank TAS 0.1 MSCI Emerging Markets Index 3.3 PetroChina Co. Ltd. H 0.8 02468 10 18 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 339066 07 p13-19 Manager's Report.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:40 Page 19 Impala Platinum is one of the leading platinum producers PORTFOLIO CHANGES & INVESTMENT in the world and is responsible for approximately a quarter STRATEGIES of global platinum production.
As one of the most efficient The Companys search for undervalued stocks trading at and lowest cost producers in the world, it is also well attractive valuations led to selective further investments in positioned to benefit from the longer-term up trend in the oil & gas exploration & production, aluminium, commodity prices.
diversified banking, precious metals & minerals, agricultural products, and real estate management & OUTLOOK development sectors.
Geographically, purchases were made in China, via Hong Kong-listed H shares, We continue to maintain a positive long-term outlook for Pakistan, India, Thailand and South Africa.
The International Monetary holdings in Chinas automobile manufacturing and Fund expects much faster growth in these countries than in Russias integrated oil & gas sectors were reduced.
the developed world, thanks to the impact of rising incomes and the maturing of a young population on Seven purchases were made during the year in Peninsula domestic demand.
While the eurozone crisis will inevitably Land, National Aluminium, MCB, Univanich, have an impact across the world, the proportion of exports Corporation of China Chalco, Gazprom and Impala from developing countries to developed markets is falling Platinum.
The Company sold part of its investment as local demand grows.
In contrast to the debt-burdened in Brilliance China to realise gains resulting from strong West, emerging markets typically have low sovereign debt share price appreciation and also divested its holding and high foreign exchange reserves.
We believe that these fundamental strengths should Peninsula Land is an Indian real estate developer based in eventually be reflected in the earnings and share prices of Mumbai.
The companys developments are expected to be companies in our portfolio.
Their domestic stock markets strong beneficiaries because of the scarce supply of have the potential to grow much larger over time, despite commercial space in the Central and Southern Mumbai the inevitable risks of inflation, contagion from developed business districts.
market weakness, and price volatility.
National Aluminium is Indias largest alumina Recently, inflation has fallen back in many developing manufacturer.
The company is amongst the lowest-cost countries, allowing some central banks to ease monetary producers of alumina and aluminium in the world.
policy and thus encourage demand.
Volatility is a fact of life MCB is the fourth largest bank in Pakistan.
The Company in markets, but we continue to invest for the long term in increased its exposure to the bank because of its attractive companies we believe are undervalued, fundamentally valuation and relatively high return on equity.
Univanich is one of the leading producers of crude palm oil in Thailand.
The company is a beneficiary of strong demand growth for crude palm oil and expectations of higher product prices.
Chalco is Chinas largest producer of aluminium products as well as its only producer of alumina.
Its alumina output meets about 70% of the countrys alumina demand.
The company is well positioned to benefit from Chinas continuing growth, gradual market consolidation and continued demand for aluminium from economic giants such as China and India.
Gazprom is the largest producer of gas in the world by reserves and production.
The Company increased its exposure to Gazprom because of its attractive valuations, huge reserve base and growing energy demand in emerging markets.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19
