qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:42 Page 27 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2012. BUSINESS REVIEW Principal Activity and Investment Status The Company is a public limited company in terms of the Companies Act 2006 and is an investment company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has been accepted as an approved investment trust by HM Revenue & Customs for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 April 2012 subject to continuing to meet the eligibility conditions of Section 1158 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 2010.
The Directors are satisfied that the Company intends to direct its affairs to ensure its continued approval as an investment trust.
Investment Policy The objective of the Company is to provide long-term capital appreciation for its shareholders through investment in companies operating in emerging markets or whose stocks are listed on the stock markets of such countries.
No material change will be made to this policy without shareholder approval.
The Investment Manager employs a bottom-up, value oriented, long-term approach to investing.
It focuses on the market price of a company relative to the Investment Managers evaluation of the companys long-term earnings, asset value and cash flow potential.
As it looks for investment opportunities, it focuses on specific companies and undertakes in-depth research to construct an action list from which it makes its buy decisions.
Before a purchase is made, it looks at the companys potential earnings and growth over a five-year horizon.
During its analysis, it also considers the companys position in its sector, the economic framework and political environment.
Risk is spread by investing in a number of countries and companies.
Where possible, investment will generally be made directly in the stock markets of emerging countries.
Where the Investment Manager determines appropriate, for example to gain access to markets closed to foreign portfolio investors, investment may be made in emerging markets through Collective Investment Schemes, although such investment is not likely to be substantial.
As at 31 March 2012 the Company had no such investments.
In addition, investment in companies listed on more developed countries stock exchanges may also be made where those companies have a significant source of their revenue from emerging countries.
The Investment Manager does not presently anticipate investing a significant part of the Companys assets in such companies.
Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML or the Investment Manager, the Investment Manager of the Company, will invest directly only in countries where it is satisfied that acceptable custodial and other arrangements are in place to safeguard TEMITs investments and in companies where there is evidence of satisfactory governance procedures.
It is intended that the Companys funds will normally be invested in equity investments.
However, the Investment Manager may invest in equity-related investments such as convertibles where there are believed to be advantages to so doing.
The portfolio may frequently be over-weight or under-weight against the MSCI Emerging Markets Index and may be concentrated into a more limited number of sectors, geographical areas or countries.
This is consistent with the stated investment approach of long-term value investing.
The Investment Manager evaluates investment opportunities with updated financial ratios on a daily basis, and, where opportunities are identified, adjusts the portfolio to seek optimal exposures to stocks which are assessed to be the best bargains in global emerging markets.
The Investment Manager searches for well-managed companies assessed as undervalued.
On the other hand, the Investment Manager sells companies that, in its opinion, are overvalued, typically when the earnings prospects or underlying net asset values are fully recognised by other investors.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27 339066 11 p27-42 Directors' Report.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:42 Page 28 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Investment Managers investment research and portfolio construction processes may be summarised in six steps: 1 Identify Opportunities A master list is compiled which is screened for securities that meet certain market capitalisation and liquidity criteria as determined by the Investment Manager: 2 Analyse Companies A detailed analysis of the companys industry and financial accounts is undertaken along with a visit to the company to interview management, assess its quality of product or services, analyse customers and competitors and ascertain competitive advantage: 3 Construct Action List Each company on this list has a specified buy and sell target.
This selection list is a dynamic list that is monitored continually: 4 Allocate Portfolio On a weekly basis, the portfolio is reviewed for consistency and to ensure that it complies with the Investment Managers investment committee guidelines: 5 Evaluate and Monitor Portfolio Once the portfolio has been constructed, each investment within the portfolio is reviewed against price targets set for the securities.
These targets are continually updated, with comparisons made with the sector in which the investee company operates.
Contact is also maintained with the company and its suppliers and staff: and 6 Risk framework This utilises a comprehensive, integrated investment risk management approach structured to ensure risks are recognised, rational and rewarded.
This investment risk program focuses on ensuring that the portfolio managers understand that the risks in the portfolio at the security, sector and country level, that these risks are consistent with their investment convictions, and have an opportunity for a commensurate reward.
The Investment Manager employs a global team of dedicated investment risk management specialists who work collaboratively with the portfolio managers to provide an independent perspective on portfolio risks and returns.
Additionally, all investment activities are subject to review and oversight from global risk committees covering particularly complex areas of risk, including complex securities, counterparty risk, valuation and liquidity.
The general policy of the Board is to be fully invested.
In response to market conditions, the Investment Manager may hold funds temporarily in cash or other appropriate assets.
Key Performance Indicators The following are considered key performance indicators for the Company: the return in net asset value per share compared to its benchmark: the movement in share price and discount: and the Ongoing Charges Ratio.
Performance The Investment Manager employs a value investing strategy and purchases companies trading at less than their assessed value.
In the year to 31 March 2012, the Companys net asset value per share produced a total return dividend re-invested of 10.8%.
While this was behind the Companys benchmark, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, which returned 8.2%, the Investment Manager remains confident that the portfolio is well positioned for long term growth.
Since launch, the Company is well ahead of the benchmark as the net asset value total return for TEMIT is 2,266% 15.0% per annum compared with a total return of 981% 11.1% per annum for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
The graphs on page 5 show the total return of TEMITs NAV and share price relative to the MSCI Emerging Markets Index and the relative annual total return of TEMITs NAV and share price against the MSCI Emerging Markets Index over the last 10 years.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 6 to 9 and the Investment Managers Report on pages 13 to 19 include a review of the main developments during the year and the investment outlook.
28 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 339066 11 p27-42 Directors' Report.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:42 Page 29 Share Capital and Discount The Board has powers to buy back the Companys shares as a discount control mechanism when it is in the best interests of the Companys shareholders.
The Board was authorised at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 22 July 2011 to buy back up to 49,439,171 shares representing 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital on that date.
The present authority expires on the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 20 July 2012.
The share price of TEMIT decreased by 10.8% to 588.5 pence as at 31 March 2012 from 660.0 pence as at 31 March 2011.
Over the year, the Companys share price discount to NAV has been in the range of 4.7% to 9.1%.
As at 31 March 2012, the discount had narrowed slightly to 7.5% from 8.1% at 31 March 2011.
Share Price Discount to NAV % 5.0 0.0 -5.0 -10.0 -15.0 -20.0 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 TEMIT Share Price Discount, based on a 15 day moving average During the year 50,000 shares of 25 pence each were repurchased, representing 0.02% of the issued share capital, at a cost to the Company of 0.3 million.
These shares were cancelled which resulted in a small uplift to the net asset value per share.
In the period from 1 April to 8 June 2012, no shares were bought back and cancelled.
Ongoing Charges Ratio The Ongoing Charges Ratio OCR was unchanged at 1.31% for the year end 31 March 2012 1.31%: 31 March 2011.
From the year ending 31 March 2012, the Ongoing Charges Ratio OCR replaces the Total Expense Ratio.
Prior year numbers have not been restated as the ratios are not materially different.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 29 339066 11 p27-42 Directors' Report.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:42 Page 30 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Costs associated with the purchase and sale of investments are taken to capital and are not included in the OCR.
Transaction costs totalled 183,000 for the year to 31 March 2012 2011: 209,000.
Results and Dividends The capital loss for the year was 281.5 million 2011: 314.4 million profit and the revenue profit was 26.1 million 2011: 20.3 million.
Revenue profits increased similarly to last year as a result of a number of companies paying out increased dividends following reductions in the years following the economic downturn in 2008.
The full results for the Company are disclosed in the Income Statement on page 48.
The Directors propose an ordinary dividend of 5.75 pence per share 2011: 4.25 pence.
The dividend represents a 35.3% increase on the amount paid last year.
If approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, to be held on 20 July 2012, the ordinary dividend will be payable on 25 July 2012 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 29 June 2012.
Gearing The Board has agreed that in exceptional circumstances, and for short periods, TEMIT may borrow up to 10% of its net assets.
During the year the Company did not utilise its short term borrowing facility.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The principal risks facing the Company, as determined by your Board, are summarised below.
The Board monitors risk on a quarterly basis as part of the Board meetings including benchmark and performance attribution, risk analysis, contributors and detractors, major overweight and underweights and portfolio information including purchases and sales.
In addition the Directors, on an annual basis, receive a comprehensive risk and control analysis identifying the areas of risk and mitigating controls which are in place.
As part of this review, the Directors also ensure that the Companys primary service providers have adopted an appropriate framework of controls, monitoring and reporting to enable the Directors to evaluate these risks.
Investment and Concentration risk The Company may invest a greater portion of its assets in the securities of one issuer, securities domiciled in a particular country, or securities within one industry.
In addition, emerging markets can be subject to greater price volatility and more rapid and severe re-rating than developed markets.
In periods of pronounced volatility, the differential between emerging market stocks, markets and countries decreases.
In such times, the benefits that diversification generally provides are reduced.
As a result of both these factors, there is the potential for increased concentration risk in terms of economic, business and political exposures which may result in greater fluctuation in the value of the portfolio.
Market risk Many of the companies in which TEMIT does or may invest are, by reason of the locations in which they operate, exposed to the risk of political or economic change.
In addition, exchange control, tax or other regulations introduced in any country in which TEMIT invests may affect its income and the value and marketability of its investments.
Investors in emerging markets may face settlement and custodial problems.
Furthermore, companies in emerging markets are not always subject to accounting, auditing and financial standards which are equivalent to those applicable in the UK and there may also be less government supervision and regulation.
These risks can increase the potential for losses in the Company and affect its share price.
For these reasons, a long-term approach to investing in emerging markets is taken.
30 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 339066 11 p27-42 Directors' Report.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:42 Page 31 Foreign currency risk Currency movements may affect TEMITs performance.
In general, if the value of sterling increases compared with a foreign currency, an investment traded in that foreign currency will decrease in value because it will be worth fewer UK pounds.
This can have a negative effect on fund performance.
Conversely, when, in general, sterling weakens in relation to a foreign currency, investments traded in that foreign currency will increase in value, which can contribute to an improvement in the Companys performance.
TEMIT does not hedge this risk.
Credit risk Certain transactions in securities that the Company enters into expose it to the risk that the counterparty will not deliver the investment purchase or cash in relation to sale or declared dividend after the Company has fulfilled its responsibilities.
Operational and custody risk Like many other investment trust companies, the Company has no employees.
The Company therefore relies upon the services provided by third parties and is dependent upon the control systems of the Investment Manager and the Companys service providers.
The security, for example, of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, accounting records and maintenance of regulatory and legal requirements depend on the effective operation of these systems.
These are regularly tested and monitored and an internal control report, which includes an assessment of risks together with an overview of procedures to mitigate such risks, is prepared by the Secretary and Administrator and reviewed by the Audit Committee annually.
The global custodian JPMorgan Chase Bank produces a bi-annual SSAE 16 ISAE 3402 report which is reviewed by its auditor and gives assurance regarding the effective operation of controls.
During the year the Audit Committee undertook a review of custody services provided by our global custodian JPMorgan Chase Bank which evaluated the level of risk for TEMIT across the custody network.
While there are inherent custody risks in investing in emerging markets, the review concluded that the custody network employed by TEMIT has appropriate controls in place to mitigate those risks, and that these controls are consistent with recommended industry practices and standards.
Key personnel The ability of the Company to achieve its investment objective is significantly dependent upon the expertise of the Investment Manager and its ability to attract and retain suitable staff.
The Investment Manager has endeavoured to ensure that the principal members of their management teams are suitably incentivised, but the retention of such staff cannot be guaranteed.
Regulatory risk The Company operates in an increasingly complex regulatory environment and faces a number of regulatory risks.
A breach of Section 1158 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 2010 would result in the Company being subject to capital gains tax on realised portfolio gains.
For the financial year commencing 1 April 2012, the Company will be subject to the new Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations.
Your Board is mindful of the compliance risk that new regulations produce: however the impact to TEMIT is considered to be limited and in certain respects has limited the risk of the Company in not achieving Investment Trust Company ITC status.
For example, the strict definition of what is considered a serious breach and therefore the loss of ITC status has been relaxed with the introduction of the minor breach classification.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 31 339066 11 p27-42 Directors' Report.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:42 Page 32 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The EU Commission is currently finalising the level 2 implementation measures for the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD which sets out rules for managing and or marketing alternative investment funds in the European Union.
TEMIT, and the Investment Trust industry as a whole, fall under the definition of an Alternative Investment Fund and will be subject to the provisions of this Directive.
The Company will be required to appoint an Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM and a depositary, and must adhere to the Directives rules on capital adequacy, daily operations, transparency, and requirements on the delegation of portfolio and risk management.
The Directive will come into effect from July 2013 with a one year transition period for companies to comply by July 2014.
Breaches of other regulations, such as the UKLA Listing Rules, could lead to a number of detrimental outcomes and reputational damage.
Further information on the risks that TEMIT is subject to including additional financial and valuation risks are also detailed in Note 13 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
FINANCIAL Share Capital Changes in the share capital of the Company are set out in Note 9 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Going Concern Having made suitable enquiries, including considerations of expenditure forecasts and the principal risks and uncertainties described within the Annual Report, the Directors are satisfied that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, as such, a going concern basis is appropriate in preparing the financial statements.
Creditor Payment Policy Investment transactions are settled by the Company in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant market.
While the Company follows no formal code, its policy is to agree the terms of payment at the start of business and ensure that the supplier is aware of the terms of payment.
Payment is made in accordance with these terms provided that the supplier is also complying with all the relevant terms and conditions.
For the year ended 31 March 2012 the number of trade broker creditor days was 1 day 2011: 1 day.
Auditor Deloitte LLP has expressed a willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution proposing its reappointment will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
The Audit Committee has recommended that Deloitte LLP be reappointed as the Companys auditor.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor was unaware and that each Director had taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor was aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provision of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
DIRECTORS Directors The Board currently comprises seven Non-Executive Directors, six of whom are independent from Franklin Templeton Investments, the group of companies associated with the Companys Investment Manager.
The Chairman is Non-Executive and independent from the Investment Manager.
Gregory Johnson is President and Chief Executive Officer of Franklin Resources, Inc.
He is also President of Templeton Worldwide Inc, the parent company of the Investment Manager.
He is therefore not an independent Director.
The Directors biographies are set out on pages 10 to 12.
32 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 339066 11 p27-42 Directors' Report.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:42 Page 33 The following were Directors during the year to 31 March 2012: Peter A Smith Chairman Neil A Collins Christopher D Brady Peter O Harrison Hamish N Buchan Gregory E Johnson Sir Peter Burt In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code all the Directors are retiring and offering themselves for re-election.
In light of this, and as all of the Directors are non-executive Directors, the Board does not consider it appropriate for the Directors to be appointed for a specified term as recommended by provision B.
2.3 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Boards policy on tenure is that all Directors will retire annually and may offer themselves for re-election.
The Board recommends the re-election of each Director, whose biographies are set out in this Annual Report, as they each continue to provide the Company with valuable guidance, experience and support.
The Chairman confirms that, following performance evaluation, each Directors performance continues to be effective and they demonstrate commitment to their role.
None of the Directors has a service contract with the Company.
The Board strongly supports the principle of boardroom diversity raised in Lord Davies review of Women on Boards.
The selection policy of the Board is to appoint the best qualified person for the job, by considering factors such as diversity of thought, experience and qualification.
The Board is satisfied that the current blend of skills and experience prompts informed decision making and does not deem it necessary to alter this mix at present.
In future, when the composition of the Board requires review, female candidates will be actively encouraged to apply.
The Directors meet at least four times per year and retain full and effective control over the Company through the monitoring of the management team of the Investment Manager and Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited FTIML the Secretary and Administrator.
The Board is responsible for investment policy and has a schedule of matters reserved for the resolution of the Directors for safeguarding shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The primary focus of the Directors at the board meetings is a review of the investment performance of the Company and associated matters such as liquidity, asset allocation, marketing investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
The Board also reviews the investment mandate, the long-term investment objectives, the performance of the Company and the appropriate guidelines within which the Investment Manager should operate.
The table below lists the number of scheduled board and committee meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there were 4 Board meetings, 3 Audit Committee meetings, 1 Nomination and Remuneration Committee meeting and 1 Management Engagement Committee meeting.
Nomination and Management Board Meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Engagement Committee Director Attended Meetings Attended Meetings Attended Meetings Attended Peter A Smith 4 3 1 1 Christopher D Brady 4 N A N A 1 Hamish N Buchan 4 3 N A 1 Sir Peter Burt 3 3 1 1 Neil A Collins 4 3 1 1 Peter O Harrison 4 3 N A 1 Gregory E Johnson 4 N A N A N A TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 33 339066 11 p27-42 Directors' Report.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:42 Page 34 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Nomination and Remuneration Committee The Board has a Nomination and Remuneration Committee, which currently comprises Sir Peter Burt Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Peter Smith and Neil Collins.
The role of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee is to review regularly the Board structure, size and composition and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that seem appropriate, to consider the rotation and renewal of the Board, approve the candidate specification for all Board appointments, approve the process by which suitable candidates are identified and short-listed, and to nominate candidates for consideration by the full Board, whose responsibility it is formally to make appointments.
The Committee also considers the effectiveness of individual Directors and makes recommendations to the Board in respect of re-elections.
The Committee keeps under review the balance of skills, independence, knowledge of the Company, experience and length of service of the Directors.
In addition, the Committee periodically reviews the level of Directors fees relative to other comparable companies and in the light of the Directors responsibilities.
In doing so, the Committee has access to independent research and advice from external sources.
The Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee will attend the Companys Annual General Meeting and will be prepared to respond to questions which may be raised by shareholders on matters within the Nomination and Remuneration Committees responsibilities.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee is available to shareholders on the TEMIT website www.
co. uk or on request via Client Dealer Services at Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited using the contact details provided on the inside back cover of this report.
Management Engagement Committee The Board has a Management Engagement Committee which comprises Peter Smith Chairman, Christopher Brady, Hamish Buchan, Sir Peter Burt, Neil Collins and Peter Harrison.
The role of the Management Engagement Committee is to review the performance of, and the contractual arrangements with, the Investment Manager.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Management Engagement Committee is available to shareholders on the TEMIT website www.
Performance Evaluation The Board has undertaken a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors including the Chairman.
The Board has also considered the independence of each Director.
The evaluation of the Board, of its Committees, and the performance of individual Directors, was facilitated by independent consultants, Trust Associates Limited.
Apart from reviewing the level of Directors fees in 2011 see page 44, Trust Associates Limited has no other connection with the Company.
The evaluation process was carried out through one to one interviews and discussions between Trust Associates Limited and each Director.
Trust Associates Limited also spoke to representatives from the Investment Manager and Corporate Stockbroker.
An evaluation of the Chairman by his fellow Directors was facilitated by Sir Peter Burt, the Senior Independent Director, who then met with the Chairman to discuss its content.
Formal performance evaluations will continue to take place at least annually with the appointment of an external facilitator every three years.
The performance and cost of service providers are considered annually by the Board.
34 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 339066 11 p27-42 Directors' Report.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:42 Page 35 Information and Professional Development New Directors are provided with an induction programme which is tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee.
Following appointment, the Chairman regularly reviews and agrees with Directors their training and development needs.
The Board is supplied, via the Secretary and Administrator, with regular information to enable the Directors to discharge their duties.
The Secretary and Administrator provides the Board with regular updates on regulatory issues and on the latest corporate governance rules and guidelines.
Directors Appointment Letters Each of the Directors has an appointment letter with the Company and such letters are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The terms of appointment provide that a Director will be subject to re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
The terms also provide that a Director may be removed following three months notice and that compensation will not be due on leaving office.
Directors Conflicts of Interest The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act sets out directors general duties.
Under the 2006 Act, a Director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a Director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The Companys Articles give the Directors authority to approve such situations.
There are safeguards which apply when Directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
Firstly, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to make the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Company maintains a register of Directors conflicts of interest which have been disclosed and approved by the other Directors.
This register is kept up to date and the Directors annually complete an updated conflicts of interest questionnaire disclosing any conflicts or potential conflicts.
Gregory Johnson is not present when the performance of the Investment Manager and the Secretary and Administrator are considered.
Indemnification and Insurance The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with each of the Directors.
These are qualifying third party indemnity provisions and are in force as at the date of this report.
This information is disclosed in accordance with Sections 236 2 and 236 3 of the 2006 Act.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against the Directors.
Remuneration The Companys policy on Directors remuneration, together with details of the remuneration of each Director who served in the year, is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 44.
The Boards policy is that the remuneration of Directors should be appropriate and comparable to that of other investment trusts similar in size, capital structure and investment objective.
The Directors are not eligible for bonuses, pension benefits, share options, long-term incentive schemes or other benefits in accordance with other long standing investment trusts.
TEMIT has no employees and therefore no retirement or health scheme obligations or policies in respect of employment, including the employment of disabled persons.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 35 339066 11 p27-42 Directors' Report.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:42 Page 36 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED No Director had notified the Company of any beneficial interest including any family interest existing either at the beginning or at the end of the year to 31 March 2012 in the Companys shares save as follows: 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Peter A Smith 10,000 10,000 Hamish N Buchan 15,000 15,000 Sir Peter Burt 4,000 4,000 Neil A Collins 7,000 7,000 Peter O Harrison 2,535 2,535 The Company has not received notification of any changes in the above interests as at 8 June 2012.
Substantial Shareholdings As at 8 June 2012 the Company had been notified that the following were interested in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company.
Name Number 8 June 2012 Number 31 March 2012 of shares Percentage of shares Percentage Lazard Asset Management LLC Group 22,330,534 6.77 23,072,447 6.99 City of London Investment Management Group 17,342,080 5.26 23,614,053 7.16 Templeton Investment Plan 13,808,674 4.19 14,182,467 4.30 Investec Wealth and Investment Limited 12,301,489 3.73 11,583,731 3.51 Legal & General Investment Management 11,224,437 3.40 11,728,194 3.56 PRINCIPAL SERVICE PROVIDERS Investment Manager During the year, Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML acted as Investment Manager to the Company under an investment management agreement and received from the Company a monthly fee at an annual rate of 1.00% of the total net assets of the Company.
The Board have examined the basis on which the Investment Manager is remunerated and considers that this flat rate ad valorem fee is appropriate and that it is not in the interests of shareholders to include a structured performance fee.
The investment management agreement between the Company and TAML is of an unlimited duration and may be terminated by either party but in certain circumstances the Company may be required to pay compensation to TAML of an amount up to one years management fee.
Compensation is not payable if at least one years notice of termination is given.
The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of investment management services to the Company on an ongoing basis and a formal review is conducted annually by the Management Engagement Committee which consists solely of directors independent of the Investment Manager.
Gregory Johnson is not present when the Investment Managers performance is reviewed.
When assessing the performance of the Investment Manager, the Board believes it is appropriate to make this assessment over a medium to long term timeframe which is in accordance with the long term approach taken to investment.
In the opinion of the Directors, the continuing appointment of TAML on the agreed terms is in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole.
The Directors believe that TAML is well positioned to act as Investment Manager to the Company and well resourced to identify attractive investment opportunities and this is evident by the Investment Managers performance to date.
36 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 339066 11 p27-42 Directors' Report.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:42 Page 37 Secretarial and Administration Managers During the year Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited FTIML acted as Secretary and Administrator of the Company.
The fee paid to FTIML for this is an annual rate of 0.20% of the total net assets of the Company, payable monthly.
The agreement between the Company and FTIML may be terminated by either party but in certain circumstances the Company may be required to pay compensation to FTIML of an amount up to one years secretarial and administration fee.
The Directors also keep under annual review the performance of FTIML as Secretary and Administrator.
Custodian JPMorgan Chase Bank acts as global custodian to the Company and receives a fee for the provision of custody and nominee services to the Company under a custody agreement which contains provision for the exclusion or limitation of liability as set out in the custody agreement.
The custody agreement may be terminated by either party giving the other 60 days notice.
Corporate Stockbroker The Companys corporate stockbroker during the year was Winterflood Securities Limited.
Registrars Equiniti Limited and Computershare Investor Services Limited manage the Companys registers of shareholders on the London Stock Exchange and New Zealand Stock Exchange respectively.
Orient Capital Limited provides share register analysis services.
Printer RR Donnelley provides typesetting, printing and mailing services for the Companys published literature.
Solicitor Dundas & Wilson CS LLP provides the Company with professional legal advice.
Auditor Deloitte LLP audits the Companys annual financial statements.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the Company applies the principles identified in the latest UK Corporate Governance Code 2010.
It also makes reference to the Companys adherence to the Code of Corporate Governance of the Association of Investment Companies AIC.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board considers that the Company has complied with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 throughout the year ended 31 March 2012.
AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code The Company is a member of the AIC.
The Board considers that the Company adheres to the principles and follows the recommendations of the AIC Code and, where appropriate, it provides explanations why and or details the steps it intends to take to bring the Company into line in the future.
By reporting against the AIC Code and by following the AICs Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide, the Company is meeting its obligations under the UK Corporate Governance Code and paragraph 9.8.
6 of the Listing Rules and as such the Company is not required to report further on issues contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code which are not relevant to the Company as explained in the AIC Guide.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 37 339066 11 p27-42 Directors' Report.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:42 Page 38 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The AIC Corporate Governance Guide and AIC Code can be found at www.
Additional Information for New Zealand Shareholders As a result of a requirement for Overseas Issuers listed on the New Zealand Stock Exchange, the following should be noted by New Zealand Shareholders: a The corporate governance rules and principles in TEMITs home exchange jurisdiction in the United Kingdom may differ from the New Zealand Stock Exchange corporate governance rules and the principles of the Corporate Governance Best Practice Code.
b Investors may find more information about the corporate governance and principles of TEMITs home exchange in the United Kingdom in the above Corporate Governance statement and online at http: www.
Nomination and Remuneration and Management Engagement Committees Details of the Companys Nomination and Remuneration Committee and Management Engagement Committee are given on page 34.
Schedule of Reserved Matters The Board has formally adopted a Schedule of Reserved Matters which details the matters which the Board has agreed are specifically reserved to them for their collective decision.
These matters include, inter alia, approval of the half yearly and annual financial statements, recommendation of the final dividend, approval of any preliminary announcements of the Company, approval of any changes to the Companys investment objective and or policy, appointment or removal of the Companys Investment Manager or its Secretary and Administrator, Board membership and Board committee membership and any major changes to the investment objective, philosophy or policy of the Company, other than any such changes delegated to the Investment Manager under the Investment Management Agreement.
The day to day investment management of the portfolio of the Company is delegated to the Investment Manager who manages the portfolio in accordance with the investment objectives of the Company as set by the Board.
Environmental, Social, Community and Ethical Issues As an investment trust, the Company has no significant direct social, community or environmental responsibilities.
Its ethical policy is focused on ensuring that its funds are properly managed and invested within the guidelines approved by the Board.
The Board receives regular reports on the policies and controls in place.
The Investment Manager invests in companies that it considers to be well managed and subject to appropriate corporate governance.
A well-managed company is considered to be one which complies with all the relevant legislation and which meets the environmental, social, community and ethical requirements of the country in which it operates.
It is important to recognise that local laws and requirements of emerging markets do not necessarily equate with those of developed countries.
Environmental, social, and governance issues have become increasingly important to companies worldwide as they seek to balance organisational goals with the expectations of their stakeholders in an increasingly complex operating environment.
When companies manage these stakeholder relationships effectively, they are more successful at managing risks and capturing opportunities placing them in a better position for long-term success.
As a long-term investor, the Investment Manager performs extensive bottom-up investment analysis, employing rigorous and comprehensive processes to assess both the risk and return potential of the investments it considers for the Company.
The depth of its research provides comprehensive insights into the many factors that affect the value of an investment, which may include environmental, social and governance issues.
The Investment Manager determines the extent to which various research inputs are included and weighted in its investment decisions.
38 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 339066 11 p27-42 Directors' Report.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:42 Page 39 Institutional Shareholder Voting and Engagement As an institutional investor, the Company recognises its responsibility that the companies in which it invests should aspire to appropriate levels of corporate governance.
As a matter of policy, the Company aims to utilise its votes in shares held in the relevant underlying portfolio companies at the annual general meetings of these companies.
The Company has engaged with the Investment Manager in relation to its approach to the Stewardship Code the Code.
The Company and the Investment Manager generally support the Principles of the Code as outlined below.
Ongoing monitoring of investee companies and dialogue with management are fundamental to the Investment Managers investment approach.
The strategy on intervention with investee companies is dealt with on a case by case basis and is usually a judgement made by the Investment Manager based on the research done on each investee company for the investment decision making progress.
In all cases, the Investment Manager holds regular review meetings with the senior management of investee companies.
In exceptional circumstances, the Investment Manager may provide a director to the investee company.
The Investment Manager considers the key objectives are to seek to obtain value for the Company and to comply with its fiduciary duties.
The level of engagement with investee companies derives from the fiduciary duties of the Investment Manager to the Company.
Thus, for example, in voting shares, the Investment Manager considers what would be in the best interests of the Company.
Similarly, there will be many instances in which actions such as a dialogue between the Investment Manager and the management of investee companies, or with other shareholders, may help to maximise shareholder value.
At the same time, there may be instances in which activism is not consistent with the Investment Managers fiduciary duty.
For example, in the process of company research and monitoring, a significant problem or risk may be identified and the Investment Manager may decide it is better simply to sell a position than seek to undertake a lengthy engagement with management.
Decisions involving when and how to engage with management or carry out collective engagement are matters of judgement.
Consequently, there are no set guidelines adopted on when this should occur.
The Investment Manager has adopted proxy voting policies and procedures which cover voting guidelines, processing and maintenance of proxy records and conflicts of interest.
Summary information on exercise of proxies is reviewed quarterly by the Board.
Voting records for the Company detailing the proxies voted for investee companies are not currently published.
The Company considers that there is limited demand for such detailed disclosure and therefore the administrative burden and expense is not justified.
Contact with Shareholders The Chairman of the Company is available for any shareholder questions and he has periodic meetings with the Companys major shareholders.
Furthermore, the Members of the Board are available during the year for any significant matters arising and are usually present in person at the Annual General Meeting.
At each Annual General Meeting of the Company the Investment Manager briefs shareholders on the investment outlook of the Company.
In addition, on behalf of the Board, it has periodic meetings with the Companys major shareholders to discuss aspects of the Companys performance.
Shareholders may contact the Members of the Board via Client Dealer Services at FTIML using the contact details provided on the inside back cover of this report.
Accountability and Audit The Board has an Audit Committee, which currently comprises Peter Harrison Chairman of the Audit Committee, Sir Peter Burt, Neil Collins and Hamish Buchan.
The Audit Committee plays an important role in the appraisal and supervision of key aspects of the Companys business including financial reporting and internal controls.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will attend the Companys Annual General Meeting and will be prepared to respond to questions which may be raised by shareholders on matters within the Audit Committees responsibilities.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 39 339066 11 p27-42 Directors' Report.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:42 Page 40 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Companys Audit Committee meets representatives of the Investment Manager and Secretary and Administrator, including their internal auditors and its Compliance Officer, who report as to the proper conduct of business in accordance with the regulatory environment in which both the Company and the Investment Manager operate.
The Companys external auditors also attend the Committee at its request, at least twice a year, and report on its work procedures, the quality of the Companys accounting procedures and their findings in relation to the Companys statutory accounts.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include review of the internal financial controls, risk monitoring, accounting policies, financial statements, the management contract, the auditors appointment, remuneration, independence, policy on supplying non-audit services, the effectiveness of the external audit and ensuring continued auditor independence.
During the year, the Audit Committee has engaged in reviews covering the Companys custody arrangements, in line with the discussion paper issued in February 2011 by the AIC: the disclosure associated with portfolio fair valuation policies: and an evaluation of the differing risk management practices used by the Investment Manager within the portfolio to mitigate investment risk.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee reflect the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Audit Committee is available to shareholders on the TEMIT website www.
Deloitte LLP was appointed auditor from 27 August 2009 after a rigorous tender process.
Non-audit work undertaken by Deloitte LLP for the year ended 31 March 2012 on behalf of TEMIT includes a review of the September 2011 Half Yearly Report.
An engagement letter is issued for all non-audit work and subsequently reviewed by the Audit Committee to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the auditor is safeguarded.
Risk Management Objectives and Policy The Company invests in equities and other investments for the long-term to achieve its investment objectives as stated on pages 27 and 28.
This creates potential exposure to the risks as stated on pages 30 to 32.
The Companys policy and objectives in relation to such risks is disclosed in Note 13 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
The risk management process accords with the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Internal Control The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that a sound system of internal controls of the Company is maintained to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The Audit Committee undertakes an annual review of the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls and the Directors believe that an appropriate framework is in place to meet the requirement of ensuring that a sound system of internal controls is in place by the Company.
The Board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing risks to which the Company is exposed.
This process is conducted throughout the year and has been conducted up to the date of signing of this report.
The Board has identified risk management controls in the key areas of business objectives, accounting, compliance, operations and secretarial as areas for the extended review and, if relevant, necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified.
It has to be understood that systems of internal control, however carefully designed, operated and supervised, can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Company does not have its own internal audit function but places reliance on the internal audit, compliance and other control functions of its service providers.
40 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 339066 11 p27-42 Directors' Report.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:42 Page 41 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Ordinary Business It is proposed to receive and adopt the Directors and Auditors Reports and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 and to approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2012.
It is proposed to declare an ordinary dividend of 5.75 pence per share, payable on 25 July 2012 to shareholders on the register as at close of business on 29 June 2012.
It is proposed to re-elect each of the Directors.
It is proposed to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor and to authorise the Directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Special Business The Special Business to be dealt with at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company relates to i the authority to allot equity securities up to 5% of existing issued share capital and to dis-apply shareholders rights of pre-emption for such allotment, ii the authority to make market purchases of shares, and iii to maintain the 14 clear days notice period for general meetings.
Authority for the Allotment of New Shares The resolutions to allot shares are set out in resolutions 13 and 14 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
These resolutions, if passed, will give your Directors power to allot for cash equity securities of the Company up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 4,122,679 being an amount equal to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2012 as if Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act did not apply This section requires, when shares are to be allotted for cash, such new shares first be offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings of shares, this entitlement being known as pre-emption rights.
The authorities contained in resolutions 13 and 14 will continue until the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2013 and your Directors envisage seeking the renewal of this authority in 2013 and in each succeeding year.
Your Directors will not make any allotment of new shares otherwise than in accordance with pre-emption rights unless the market offer price at the time of the allotment is greater than the net asset value per share.
Authority to Purchase Own Shares At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 22 July 2011, a Special Resolution was passed authorising the Company to purchase its shares in the market, a maximum of 14.99% of the shares in issue on 22 July 2011 or 49,446,666 shares, whichever is lower, up to the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2012.
The Directors are seeking renewal of the authority to purchase the Companys shares in the market, being a maximum of 14.99% of the shares in issue on 20 July 2012 or 49,439,171 shares, whichever is the lower, at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
Purchases will only be made for cash at a cost which is below the prevailing net asset value per share.
Under the rules of the UK Listing Authority, the maximum price which may be paid is the higher of a 5% above the average market value of the shares for the five business days before the purchase is made and b that stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buyback and Stabilisation Regulation.
The minimum price payable for the shares will be 25 pence per share.
Purchases will be funded either by using available cash resources, by selling investments in the portfolio or by borrowing.
The authority to purchase shares will only be exercised if to do so would be in the best interests of shareholders generally and would result in an increase in net asset value per share for the remaining shareholders.
Other than in accordance with a dispensation from the UK Listing Authority, no shares will be purchased by the Company during periods when the Company would be prohibited from making such purchases by the rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Directors envisage seeking the renewal of the relevant authority in 2013 and in each succeeding year.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 41 339066 11 p27-42 Directors' Report.
qxp:TEMIT 18 6 12 17:42 Page 42 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Notice period for general meetings At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 22 July 2011, a Special Resolution was passed authorising the Company to call general meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 days clear notice, up to the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2012.
The Directors are seeking renewal of the authority to call general meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 days clear notice, up to the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2013.
This resolution is required to reflect the implementation of the EU Shareholder Rights Directive which requires that all general meetings must be held on 21 days notice, unless shareholders agree to a shorter notice period.
The Directors only intend to call a general meeting on less than 21 days notice where the proposals are time sensitive and the short notice would clearly be an advantage to shareholders as a whole.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Directive before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
Recommendation The Directors believe all the resolutions proposed are in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole and recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of all the resolutions.
The results of the votes on the resolutions at the Annual General Meeting will be published on the Companys website www.
By Order of the Board Registered Office 5 Morrison Street Edinburgh EH3 8BH, UK Sara A MacIntosh for and on behalf of Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited Secretary 18 June 2012 42 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC
