THE GROUP COMPANY Market Background and Outlook continued This broad overview of debt markets obscures what is as Italy and Spain, its banks are heavily exposed to a relatively benign situation as far as listed real estate Central and Eastern Europe and its property companies companies are concerned.
As referred to in our tend to be amongst the most highly indebted in Europe.
introduction, listed real estate companies have proven Currency had a significant impact on returns.
In Sterling time and again that they are able to refinance at attractive the Swiss return was 8.6% due to the increasing value rates.
It is not just bank debt that is available to the listed of the Swiss Franc whilst Eurozone returns were reduced real estate companies.
Corporate bond markets remain by approximately 5% due to the falling value of the Euro.
open and we are seeing increasing involvement from insurance companies.
Most recently, Big Yellow, the selfSmall cap property shares generally underperformed large storage operator, secured 15 year debt from Aviva at caps as investors sought more liquid stocks irrespective of an average interest rate of 4.9% and Unite Group, a fundamentals.
There were a number of exceptions to this.
provider of student housing, secured 10 year debt from What we regard as the best manufacturers of property Legal & General at an average interest rate of 5.05%.
returns those small, active, entrepreneurial property Both these deals demonstrate that it is not just traditional companies that we have always favoured continued to assets that are attractive to lenders at the present time.
Amongst these, St Modwen Properties in the UK and Terreis in France stand out with total returns Property Shares of 5.1% and 3.3% respectively.
This was another year in which macro economic factors dominated shareholder returns.
In summary, those stocks With interest rates and bond yields so low, dividend yield with greatest exposure to peripheral Eurozone nations was an important driver of performance, although often such as Greece, Italy and Spain did worst and those with this was short-lived as stocks rose on the approach of the exposure to the strongest and safest economies such as ex-dividend date, only to fall back again shortly after.
The Switzerland, London or Germany did best.
average dividend yield in our sector was 5% at the year end, covered 1.3 times by recurring earnings.
Our own Markets were highly volatile.
Usually, market participants forecasts show continued earnings growth from the are able to assign probabilities to possible outcomes and companies we invest in for each of the next three years, come up with a range of scenarios against which to value which should support dividend growth at least in line companies.
At the current time, so many outcomes are with current forecasts of inflation.
In any sensible world possible and so few of them probable that markets are we would expect this to lend support to share prices.
Election results, comments However, we have grown to expect anything but a from politicians, headline statistics and gauges of rational approach in the short term.
consumer and business sentiment have all caused huge swings in market direction.
The EPRA Index moved There has been little in the way of corporate action over through a range of 28.5% over the year.
Beyond a handful of small placings, there underlying discount to net asset value of the index are only two real themes of note.
The first relates to constituent companies hit a low of 3.5% and a high Germany, where listed real estate companies principally of 24.5% over the period.
As we have commented residential issued over 1 billion in fresh equity.
We previously, this volatility in share prices was against a anticipate further equity issuance and possible IPOs in backdrop of not only overall stable asset values but the coming year.
The second concerns a growing level also growing earnings and dividends.
of interest from international investors towards European companies and assets.
Whilst the general body of equity At the country level, Switzerland was by far the strongest investors still see Europe as toxic and best avoided, a performer, with a total return of 6.9% in local currency.
handful of specialist investors have taken advantage of This was the only country to deliver positive depressed share prices and a shakeout in share registers performance over the period.
France, the UK and to build stakes.
Most interestingly, Simon Property Group Germany generated total returns in local currency of of the US has bought 28% of European shopping -3.7%, -3.9% and -5.3% respectively.
Sovereign wealth funds At the other end of the spectrum, Spain, Italy and Austria including Norges Bank, have also built up numerous returned negative total returns of -81.6%, -80.5% and disclosable positions in companies from Great Portland -32.2%.
Whilst Austria is not in the same economic boat Estates to British Land.
