THE GROUP COMPANY Directors Peter Salsbury, retired in 2000 as Chief Executive of Marks & Spencer plc M&S.
He now has a Management Consultancy practice specialising in Executive Coaching and Strategy and is Chairman of Molten Consultancy.
During his 10 years on the Board at M&S his responsibilities included Commercial Estates, Retail Operations, HR, as well as Sales and Marketing.
He also served on the Board of M&S Financial Services for 5 years.
He joined the Board of TRPIT in 1997, and succeeded as Chairman on 26 July 2004.
Peter Salsbury Chairman Caroline Burton, joined the Board of TRPIT Simon Marrison, joined the Board of TRPIT in June 2002.
She joined Guardian Royal on 28 September 2011.
He is the European Exchange plcs Investment Department in CEO and Chief Investment Officer for LaSalle 1973 and remained with the group until 1999.
Based in Paris From 1987 she was Managing Director since 1990 he has considerable experience of Guardian Asset Management, and, from in the European property arena.
She is a non-executive director of Rathbone Brothers plc, Blackrock Smaller Caroline Burton Simon Marrison Companies Trust plc, Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Ltd and a Member of the Management Committee of Hermes Property Unit Trust.
She advises a number of pension funds and charities.
Hugh Seaborn, joined the Board of TRPIT Paul Spencer CBE, joined the Board of TRPIT on 24 July 2007.
He is a Chartered Surveyor on 1 August 2007.
He is Chairman of State and has considerable experience in the Street Managed Pension Funds Ltd, the Rollsproperty arena: he is currently the Chief Royce Group plc Pension Fund and the BT Executive Officer of the Cadogan Estate and a Pension Fund.
He also sits on the Boards of member of the Council and Audit Committee WPP Group plc where he chairs the Audit of the Duchy of Lancaster.
From 2000 to Committee and Nipponkoa Insurance Group 2009, he was Chief Executive Officer of the Europe Ltd.
He is Chairman of the TRPIT Portman Estate and he is a past Chairman of Audit Committee.
Hugh Seaborn Paul Spencer the Westminster Property Association.
Richard Stone, was Deputy Chairman David Watson joined the Board of TRPIT on of Coopers and Lybrand C&L and in 1998 1 April 2012.
He is a Chartered Accountant became a member of the Global Board of and has had a distinguished career in the  until he joined the Financial Services Industry.
He spent 9 years as TRPIT Board in 2000.
He headed up C&Ls Finance Director of M&G Group plc, where he Corporate Finance Practice in the UK and was a director of four equity investment trusts, Europe, and was also an Insolvency and most recently at Aviva plc as Chief Finance Practitioner.
He brings a broad base of Officer of Aviva General Insurance.
He is business, financial and property experience to currently a non-executive director of Charles Richard Stone David Watson the TRPIT Board.
He is now Chairman of Taylor Consulting plc, Kames Capital plc and Drambuie Ltd and of Candover Investments Hermes Fund Managers Limited, where he is plc and a non-executive director of Henderson Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is the Senior Independent Director for TRPIT.
All directors are independent of the manager and are members of the Audit Committee.
