ORDINARY SHARES Managers Report continued increase over our expected earnings was due to the Exchange rates have been volatile over the period.
Three significant payments which Euro was at its strongest at the end of June and then fell, had moved from April to March in 2011, were once albeit with some rallies, to the financial year end.
The again paid in March in 2012 and did not, as was feared, peak dividend receipt period is April to June and therefore move back to April.
Income was further bolstered by the average exchange rate for our Euro denominated another company bringing forward a dividend ex date receipts was not markedly different to the average in the previously anticipated for late April 2012 to March.
Our fears of the impact of a weakening Euro A considerable number of companies from which we were therefore not an issue for the period under report.
receive significant dividends go ex between the end of Interest rates have not increased through the period, March beginning of April period and the exact timing of however our two year loan facility does bear a higher these will continue to be uncertain.
margin than the revolving one year facility.
This is the price As predicted the tax charge increased from 6.4% in 2011 for certainty of debt availability for a longer period, and is to 10.1%.
The tax charge in 2011 was exceptionally low reflected in the marginal increase in interest costs.
We do as a significant number of companies distributed earnings believe that it is important in the current environment to from capital accounts and therefore were not obliged to diversify our source of debt and debt maturity profile, even withhold tax on the payments even though these were, in though this may mean a marginal increase in cost.
To fact, regular distributions of the companies earnings.
We mitigate this, the use of CFDs was introduced and this correctly anticipated that this would not reoccur to the remains an effective method of gearing and acts as an same extent in 2012, and that the tax rate would increase additional source of competitively priced financing.
Whilst we continued to receive a small number Net property rental income has increased marginally.
of dividend receipts from capital reserves, and therefore At the gross level income has risen as a result of the free of withholding tax in 2012, we do not expect this to purchase of the office building in Vauxhall and the direct be much of a feature in the forthcoming financial year.
operation of the car park at the Colonnades in Bayswater.
At the interim stage the tax charge was 9.4%, the further However the successful lettings to Teva at Harlow were increase was due to a change in the mix of earnings, only possible following the surrender of the previous mainly UK franked and Property Income Distribution tenants short remaining lease term.
Costs incurred in the income, in the second half.
