THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued management fees and expenses, and incentivises the For the Sigma share class the performance has been manager to control all costs.
Previously management fees recalculated beginning on 1 April 2010.
This was the date were added back into the calculation to arrive at adjusted net the Board introduced the current, more appropriate and assets, these will no longer be added back.
stable small cap benchmark for the Sigma share class and the date on which the transition of the portfolio to meet In order for a Performance fee to be paid in any financial the share class objectives had been completed.
The result year, the Fund performance must exceed the performance is that at 31 March 2012 there is a carry forward of of the benchmark by over 1% the hurdle.
The underperformance of 1.2% in the Sigma share class.
performance fee is based on the performance in excess of All other terms of the Performance Fee arrangements the hurdle.
In the previous performance fee arrangements remain in place.
In particular the caps on total potential a hurdle of 2% was required, however, as noted above, performance fees payable have not altered.
fund management fees were previously added back in the calculation of performance.
The reduction of the hurdle In addition, a further cap has been imposed based on the from 2% to 1% reflects the fact that comparison of the Group Equity Shareholders Funds.
Total fees paid to the Fund performance is now on a net of costs basis rather Manager in any one year Management and Performance than a gross basis.
With management fees embedded in Fees may not exceed 4.99% of Group Equity the fund performance figures investors have greater Shareholders Funds.
transparency than was previously the case.
The Manager is Allocation of Costs between Revenue and Capital also incentivised to reduce all management costs.
On the basis of the Boards expected long term split of It is important that the Manager is incentivised over the long returns, in the form of capital gains and income in equal term.
Some investments are made with a long term view.
In proportions, the Group charges 50% of finance costs to the volatile markets we have experienced in recent years capital.
One-third of the management fee is deemed to capital preservation is paramount.
Although we expect the relate to the administration of the Company and is Manager to consistently outperform the benchmark, charged to revenue.
The remainder is split on the same providing it does this it should not be penalised for failing to basis as finance costs and 50% charged to capital.
The meet the hurdle when calculating performance fees payable overall result is that two-thirds of the management fee is in subsequent years.
Therefore, although the Manager must charged to revenue and one-third to capital.
All exceed the benchmark by more than 1% the hurdle in performance fees are charged to capital.
any financial period in order for a performance fee to be Allocation of Costs Between Share Classes paid, in the event that the benchmark is exceeded but the Each share class has its own management fee structure hurdle is not, that outperformance of the benchmark can be and is invoiced directly for management fees which are carried forward to offset past or future underperformance.
allocated between capital and revenue accounts on the These amounts can be used for offset purposes only and basis of allocation described above.
therefore cannot have the effect of creating a fee in a year Administration costs incurred specifically by a single share where a fee would not otherwise be payable or increasing class are charged to that share class.
The remaining corporate expenses are allocated to the Under the previous arrangements underperformance of share class in the proportion to their relative Net Asset the hurdle had been carried forward in years even where Values at the end of the previous accounting period.
there had been outperformance of the benchmark itself.
This had the effect of materially increasing the hurdle to Environmental Policy be applied despite cumulative long term outperformance The Company considers that good corporate governance of the various benchmarks in both share classes.
The extends to policies on the environment and has therefore Board believed that these arrangements were no longer adopted an environmental policy in respect of its acting as an incentive.
investments in both physical property and listed property companies.
Within the context of the overall aim of the For the Ordinary share class the performance has been Company to maximise shareholders returns, the directors recalculated incorporating the changes to the fee will seek to limit the Companys and its investee companies arrangements outlined above from 1 April 2007.
This impact on the environment and will comply with all relevant is the date on which the Fund moved from the SSSB legislation relating to our operations and activities.
Index to its current benchmark, the EPRA index.
This exercise is solely for the purpose of calculating any The environmental statements and behaviour of all the carry forward of out performance or underperformance.
companies in which the Company invests are taken into The result is that at 31 March 2012 there is a carry account in decision-making.
Good environmental forward of outperformance of 1.8% in the Ordinary share management can play a part in overall risk management class.
and also have a financial impact in terms of savings 52 TR Property Investment Trust
