THE GROUP COMPANY Market Background and Outlook continued 5 years, share prices should prove especially volatile.
This supply cannot overwhelm fragile demand.
For volatility is something that we as fund managers have international and domestic institutional investors alike, learnt to live with, if not to appreciate.
Unfortunately we this has focused their interest into a relatively small see little prospect of macro risks subsiding in the short number of cities and sub-markets beyond London term.
The situation in the Eurozone has improved in and Paris.
Secondary assets by virtue of lease length, some respects but not enough for your managers to have age of building, location or tenant quality continue full confidence in its short term prospects.
economic, political and structural issues to deal with that Offices will take many years to set right.
In last years report we identified London, Paris, Property Markets Stockholm, Oslo, Warsaw and Geneva as office markets Cross border investment continues to be intensely focused experiencing a recovery in demand and a decline in and as a consequence is fuelling capital value growth in vacancy.
Whilst the list has not grown much we would the key city states within our universe London and to a add most of the major German cities, Vienna and lesser extent Paris.
London has the necessary conditions Gothenburg.
In certain cities, such as Helsinki and for long term capital growth or at least capital preservation Frankfurt take up has been good but high vacancy for the more bearish of relatively fixed physical supply persists.
Scandanavia and Germany with their strong combined with the deepest property investment market in export markets have seen employment levels rise and Europe 3.3bn of transactions in Q1 2012.
Importantly it this is reflected in office demand.
However demand is is outside the Euro.
Whilst this theme has been running for very focused on high quality space.
Advances in air several years it shows no signs of abating.
In fact the handling, wireless technology and business practices geopolitical events of the last twelve months have merely have led to much more efficient use of office space.
Between 2007 and 2011 London As occupation densities have risen, tenants can afford to experienced inward investment of cross border capital of pay for quality.
Even in these top tier cities, take up is at 52bn, almost five times as much as Manhattan, New best merely ensuring modest increases in rental levels.
York and more than double the nearest rival Paris.
This However with growth both anaemic and concentrated capital has been invested in both commercial and the outlook for the remainder is bleak.
With double digit residential markets.
Knight Frank estimate that prime vacancy persisting, net rental values are still drifting lower residential values rose 11.2% in 2011 and 2.7% in Q1 in Amsterdam, Brussels, Dublin and Madrid.
It is not just investors: occupiers are also increasingly European cities, with the exception of Warsaw continue aware of the scarcity of the best space.
International luxury to suffer from oversupply with rental values falling.
brands are paying record rents on Bond Street and the largest listed retail property landlord in Covent Garden, London is a good example of just how focused office Carnaby and Soho Shaftesbury has vacancy of less than demand is.
The M25 market surrounds Greater London 1%.
Grade A office space availability is 5.1% in West End and has an office stock of approximately 130 million and 7.1% in the City of London.
In Paris, office rents rose sq ft with a long term average annual take up of in all submarkets except the inner suburbs last year.
2.6 million sq ft. Over each of the last 3 years it has Vacancy across Greater Paris is 7% and supply is very been 2.1 million sq ft and 2012 is showing no sign of tight with only 376,000 sq m circa 1% of stock being improvement on 2011.
All a very different story to delivered in 2012 and 2013 and two-thirds of that is Central London.
However the lack of new development pre-let.
These markets are not immune from the wider has seen vacancy fall from 8.7% to 8.3% and those economy.
However, the diversity of tenants is ensuring markets showing signs of rental growth are both closest steady demand.
In the City, it was the insurance and fund to London and tightly focused in the western quadrant: management sectors as opposed to traditional banking Uxbridge, Chiswick, Staines and further afield Guildford, that dominated take up last year whilst in the West End, Reading and Maidenhead.
Indeed, offices were the only technology, telecoms and media dominated rather than sector to show rental growth 2.7% in the IPD the traditional private banking and hedge fund occupiers.
quarterly data for the twelve months to March 2012.
The data highlights that Central London offices had rental Propertys defensive qualities remain its key attraction and that means investors are targeting above average income growth of 5.4% hence rents continued to fall elsewhere streams, strong covenants and sub-markets where new in the country, including the South East ex London.
