THE GROUP COMPANY Chairmans Statement continued class earnings for the year and a payout ratio which the Net Debt and Gearing Managers would expect to set the tone for future dividend Both share classes had modest gearing throughout the payments, subject of course to market conditions.
year which fluctuated between 4% and 14%.
The Ordinary share class started the year with net debt of Revenue Outlook 37m and finished the year with 45m.
The comparable Details of the revenue outlook are noted in each of the figures for Sigma are 11m and 6m.
The debt facilities managers reports.
In summary, our managers are continue to be a mixture of short and medium term advising the Board that, subject to unforeseen facilities.
Alongside the 15m 2016 debenture loan, the circumstances, they expect that the revenue for the Trust has a 50m one year variable rate multi-currency Ordinary share class will be in the order of 6.60p per facility with The Royal Bank of Scotland and a two year share, a decline of -6.6%.
The expectation of a decline in 30m facility with ING.
The Trust will continue to utilise the Ordinary share class revenue partially reflects the Contracts for Difference CFDs when appropriate to anticipation that the dates of some dividend receipts will obtain competitively priced gearing.
move back to April from March.
Underlying earnings in local currency from the companies we invest in are not Currencies expected to fall.
Once again I must highlight that only As in previous years, the portfolios exposure to foreign circa 40% of our revenue is received in Sterling and the currencies was not hedged at the income level.
Currency managers outlook is based on current exchange rates.
hedging continues to be applied at the asset level to ensure that the capital exposure to currencies is not The Managers expect revenue in the Sigma share class to materially different to that of the benchmarks.
increase by approximately 7.7% to 2.8p per share, reflecting continued growth in dividend receipts from the Over the year, Sterling appreciated against the Euro by companies we invest in.
Our medium term forecasts 6%: by 4.5% against the Swedish Krona, and 2.8% suggest that revenues will continue to grow beyond next against the Norwegian Krone.
The only European currency year, albeit at a reduced rate.
it weakened against was the Swiss Franc, by 1.8%.
Sterling has continued to strengthen post the year end.
Sigma Share Class Performance: Total Return since Inception 120 100 80 60 40 20 Sep 07 Mar 08 Sep 08 Mar 09 Sep 09 Mar 10 Sep 10 Mar 11 Sep 11 Mar 12 Benchmark Total Return TR Property Sigma Share Price Total Return TR Property Sigma NAV Total Return 8 TR Property Investment Trust
