SIGMA SHARES Managers Report continued Sales exceeded purchases by 4.3m, reducing gearing over ability to use CFDs we consider that we have sufficient the year, from 8% to 5%.
Our caution towards the flexibility to meet likely financing needs over the coming Eurozone is largely reflected in the repositioning of our period.
stocks rather than in the level of debt that we carry within Revenue the share class.
Over the year we increased exposure to the UK and Germany by 10%.
Germany now accounts for Revenue earnings per share increased by 1.2% from 2.57p in the year to March 2011 to 2.60p in the year to 25.2% of see-through exposure, only marginally behind the March 2012.
The majority of this German exposure is to residential investment within companies such as GSW and At the half year stage we were pointing to earnings of Deutsche Wohnen, which own large portfolios of rental around 2.40p.
The main reason for the difference between assets in key German cities.
German residential is an area of this and the year end result was a significant dividend due the market that we expect to continue to show good levels around the year end, which was anticipated to fall into April.
of capital and revenue growth in the medium term, backed In fact this dividend went ex on the last day of the financial by highly granular and relatively low risk income streams.
In addition, the tax charge at the year end at 7.5% is slightly lower than at the interim stage due to lower than Our French exposure totals 12.6%.
This is largely made anticipated withholding taxes in the second half.
up of holdings in a group of small, highly specialised companies including logistics investor and developer Although gearing has decreased over the period, finance Argan: Greater Paris operator Terreis, and retail and hotel costs are at the same level as the prior year.
These companies are prime examples of the Trust entered into a two year loan facility with ING.
the manufacturers of returns that we ideally seek out as This was allocated between the two share classes in the the core of the portfolio.
Fonciere Paris France, another same way as the one year revolving facility from RBS.
The Ile-fide-France focused investor and one of last years top two year loan facility does bear a higher margin and non- 20 positions, was acquired by a consortium of French life utilisation fee than the revolving one year facility, the price insurers during the year at a significant premium to its for certainty of debt availability for a longer period.
We have held FPF within the Trust stated for the Ordinary share class, we do believe that it is since its IPO in 2006, since when its total return has important in the current environment to diversify our been 25%, compared to the EPRA total return of -37.3%.
source of debt and debt maturity profile, even though this may mean a marginal increase in cost.
The use of CFDs is Exposure to Sweden has fallen over the year, from 15.9% also available as an additional method of gearing which is to 11.4%.
This partly reflects our view that the Swedish market is relatively fully valued compared to other markets.
However, we have also rotated out of Hufvudstaden, The dividend of 2.60p for the year is a full payout of the which over time has increased in size to the extent that it earnings.
We indicated in the last annual report that we can no longer be considered a small cap stock.
expected to be able to increase the ratio from the 84% seen in 2011 in the future.
The Sigma share class has We have less than 0.5% see-through exposure to Greece, Ireland or Spain.
This reflects now been in existence for almost five years.
The first three years saw a complete overhaul of the portfolio as the our holdings in Beni Stabili, IGD and Eurocommercial, which own high quality portfolios largely exposed to the inherited Ordinary share class stocks were divested and reinvested in the target small cap stocks in order to meet wealthier areas of Northern Italy.
the new share class objective.
The dividend payouts in the Debt, Gearing and Debenture first few years were cautious as we anticipated that The overall debt position in the share class fell from dividend receipts from the smaller cap stocks would be 11.9m to 7.4m over the year.
more erratic and less progressive.
In addition we were Gearing reduced from 8% to 5%.
We signed the two keen to leave ourselves with the ability to invest in year multi-currency facility with ING in May last year and fledgling companies that are focused on development renewed the one year facility with RBS in December.
opportunities and capable of delivering superior capital Together with the debenture maturing in 2016 and the returns.
However, having run an entirely small cap portfolio TR Property Investment Trust 33
