THE GROUP COMPANY Managers Report Ordinary Share Class & Sigma Share Class Market Background and Outlook Marcus Phayre-Mudge MRICS James Wilkinson MRICS Fund Manager Fund Manager Ordinary share class Sigma share class 8 June 2012 Introduction Property company revenues have proven to be remarkably resilient over the last few years.
Whilst UK We began last years Managers Report by highlighting GDP fell by over 7% peak to trough and the revenues the extreme polarity of property markets, in which good of all listed companies in the UK fell similarly between property rose in value and poor property declined.
The 2008 and 2009, the revenues of the largest listed real twelve months to the end of March 2012 has seen a estate companies remained broadly flat over this continuation of this theme.
Demand for prime office timeframe and outside the UK average revenues and retail properties in Central London especially the actually increased.
Rental income dominates the returns West End has rarely been stronger.
Both anecdotal that real estate investors receive over time and this evidence and research produced by Londons property relatively high, relatively secure income stream is what consultants shows that London remains one of the most attracts many investors to the sector.
We forecast that highly sought-after locations for domestic and revenues and dividends from the companies we invest international capital.
Conversely, investor demand for in will continue to show positive growth over the next Dutch or Belgian offices is scant and prices have been few years, albeit the dispersion of returns will not be falling throughout the year.
For this reason, we will remain selective in investing shareholders capital, seeking greatest This disparity between the best and worst is mirrored in exposure to the most attractive markets.
the significant differences between sovereign, corporate and consumer environments both within Europe and Listed property markets offer superior liquidity compared beyond.
We see no signs of this situation changing.
As property equity managers we are will remain a feature of our investment markets for the able to rapidly alter exposure in response to changing foreseeable future.
A glance at the portfolio exposure statistics contained in this report demonstrates that both portfolios In spite of the obvious issues facing Europe, we remain are currently heavily exposed to London offices and broadly positive about our markets.
Listed real estate German residential companies.
We firmly believe that companies enjoy favourable access to both debt and over time this focused approach to the best real estate equity capital compared to their private counterparts and companies operating in Europes most attractive markets the year brought a regular flow of announcements will generate superior returns for investors.
The companies we invest in report that whilst negotiations with banks are Liquidity, however, comes with a price tag that has been tough and bank margins the price of debt the bank particularly evident in the last few years: volatility.
Whilst charges over the base interest rate remain elevated, they real estate shares do provide returns in line with the best are able to secure the finance they need to manage their physical real estate returns over time and do so with the businesses profitably.
New equity has been rare but even benefit of best in class management and leverage, in the here there have been some encouraging trends.
German short term prices can move around independently of companies have raised over e1 billion of fresh equity in underlying asset prices.
This is the case against even the the last twelve months and we anticipate further capital most benign economic backdrop so it is hardly surprising being raised for this market over the coming year.
that at times of acute macro risk, such as during the last 10 TR Property Investment Trust
