SIGMA SHARES Managers Report continued for a number of years we are now confident that we can Revenue Outlook maintain a higher level of dividend whilst also having the We expect the underlying earnings from the companies in ability to pursue the lower yielding opportunities with the which we invest to continue to grow modestly.
In addition potential for significant capital out-performance.
a number of new companies have been added to the Shareholders can also be reassured that having built up a portfolio, which are expected to have a positive impact on significant level of revenue reserves in the Sigma class, the revenue earnings.
directors have the ability to maintain the dividend should However, a number of uncertainties remain.
The Euro earnings, for the short term, show some volatility.
exchange rate is almost 10% weaker than at this time last There continues to be the prospect of legal challenges to year with real risk of further weakening.
The timing of withholding taxes on dividends from certain European some significant dividends close to the year end, remains countries.
Progress has recently been made in the a factor.
The tax charge is also difficult to accurately European courts.
We have already submitted our own predict, particularly as the majority of the tax incurred is claims for some periods and will continue to make claims actually withholding tax on non-UK earnings.
tax rates are subject to change and rates vary between territories so changes to the geographic focus of the There is also the possibility of applying the current UK tax portfolio will impact upon the tax charge.
treatment of foreign dividends to earlier periods.
Revised tax returns have been submitted for earlier periods on the Overall, we expect a modest increase in earnings for the basis of the case currently being heard by the EU courts year to March 2013 to around 2.8 p per share.
At this stage the outcome is still James Wilkinson uncertain and accordingly no benefit has been recognised in the financial statements.
Fund Manager Sigma Share Class 8 June 2012 34 TR Property Investment Trust
