THE GROUP COMPANY Market Background and Outlook continued Retail generally rental values have not held up as well, reflecting As ever in retail it is about customer draw the winners the lack of GDP growth across Europe.
have been supra regional shopping centres, big box out Debt and Credit Markets of town with excellent communication infrastructure and The availability of debt for real estate investment remains luxury brand pitches.
The lack of wage growth, spending at low levels compared to historic averages.
Nonetheless, cuts and rising cost of living particularly food and fears that high debt refinancing needs between 2012 petrol has resulted in shrinking disposable income.
Rapid evolution in e-tailing is changing the way we all and 2014 would lead to further sharp falls in property shop.
In the UK, the 17.6m internet enabled mobile values have so far proven to be unfounded.
On the phone users registered in 2011 was double the 2009 whole, banks continue to take a pragmatic approach to figure.
Internet sales are now 10% of all retail sales their loan portfolios, reducing exposure as and when ex food and year on year growth was 20%.
Disposals of loan portfolios have Increasingly the retail offer is becoming a leisure increased over the last twelve months, as have the experience with high quality food offerings amongst the number of joint ventures between banks and investors.
The consequence is that dominant Many of these disposals are taking place at significant centres continue to win market share.
At the other end discounts to the original loan values.
That is not to say of the retail spectrum, convenience shopping is also that these discounts mark a further downturn in property critical and retail pitches in densely populated areas are pricing.
What is apparent is that market pricing of also faring well.
It is mid market products and sub property shifted to clearance levels some while ago regional centres which are being squeezed.
whilst the banks have continued to hold assets at inflated levels.
This is why we have often described the current The weakest performers have clearly been those markets overhang of debt refinancing as more of a problem for suffering the greatest austerity and Spain is a case in the banks than the real estate market.
European property companies with retail assets in Spain reported like-for-like sales volume falls of between The problem is particularly acute in Spain, where banks 5-15% in 2011.
More positively, demand for Central exposure to commercial real estate totals approximately London retail drove rental value growth of 5-10% as 340 billion or 400 billion including construction London continues to experience high levels of tourist as loans.
Approximately half of the 340 billion may be well as domestic demand.
Once again it is the lack of problematic according to the Bank of Spain and it is by supply which is a clear positive.
In the UK, there was only no means clear that Spains smaller lenders have 2.5 million sq ft of new shopping centres completed last sufficient capital to meet losses.
year and nearly half of that was Westfield Stratford.
This was 30% of the 2008 figure and less than 40% of the Banks have been supported in their approach by long term average.
For 2012 the figure will be zero and continuing low interest rates and ongoing support from in 2013 just 1.5 million sq ft dominated by Lands the Bank of England and ECB.
Most recently, the 3-year Securities Trinity Leeds scheme.
Longer-term Refinancing Operations mounted by the ECB pumped a trillion Euros into the European banking Distribution and Industrial system, boosting bank profit margins and helping to hold Take up in logistics was robust in core European markets down sovereign and corporate bond yields.
It looks likely particularly in the UK, Germany, France and Benelux.
that interest rates in the UK and Eurozone will remain Speculative construction remains appropriately subdued low for at least another 24 months, although this will and most development is tenant-led build to suit.
Much partly depend on what happens to inflation.
Based on of the take-up has been third party logistics business financial market pricing, expectations of inflation over associated with e-tailing.
Once again all the growth has the next 5 years are for 1.9% per annum in the been in prime locations airports, key city fringes Paris Eurozone and 3% per annum in the UK.
Of course, saw a 48% like-for-like increase in take-up in 2011 and these are averages of a great many individual views, both the best located motorway intersections.
With average higher and lower than the mid-point.
It is therefore by yields on prime logistics still over 7%, investment no means certain that anybody actually believes in them.
volumes were strong as investors were drawn to the high For now, therefore, inflation remains yet another medium income yield.
That sub-sector proved to be a stronger performer than the broader industrial market where term risk to our outlook.
