ORDINARY SHARES Managers Report continued new leasing activities and the cost of operating the car Direct Physical Property park have increased direct property expenses.
The physical property portfolio produced a positive total return for the 12 months of 12.0% made up of a capital In previous annual reports, we have commented on the return of 7.1% and an income return of 4.9%.
This prospect of challenging withholding taxes on dividends compares to a total return of the IPD Monthly Index from certain European countries.
Progress has recently of 6.6% made up of a capital return of -0.2% and an been made in the European courts.
Claims have been income return of 6.8%.
On a like for like basis, excluding submitted for some periods and we will continue to the purchase in the period, the total return was 13.5% make claims where appropriate.
There is also the comprising a capital return of 8.8% and an income return possibility of applying the current UK tax treatment of of 4.7%.
The outperformance was driven primarily by foreign dividends to earlier periods.
Revised tax returns asset management initiatives at Harlow and the have been submitted for earlier periods on the basis of Colonnades but also through yield compression across our the test case currently being heard by the European London focused portfolio.
The outcome is still uncertain and accordingly no In July we purchased Park Place, Vauxhall for a total benefit has been recognised in the financial statements.
cost of 8.25 million which reflects a net initial yield Revenue Outlook of 6.75% and a gross capital value of 320 per sq ft. We expect the underlying earnings in local currency This 25,000 sq ft office is 100% occupied and terms from the companies in which we invest to presents a number of opportunities to increase rents continue to grow modestly this year.
However, all the uncertainties we outlined for the At the Colonnades in Bayswater, the Waitrose rent review previous year remain.
As we approach our peak dividend was settled by third party determination.
The rent season for foreign income, the Euro is almost 10% increased by 14% 67,000 to 534,000 per annum.
weaker against Sterling than at this time last year with a Following the surrender of the car park lease with NCP, real risk of further weakening.
In addition, as highlighted we installed our preferred operator.
Vehicle crime has in previous years, there are a number of factors, not ceased and occupation is increasing.
We also completed within our control, which influence the tax charge.
We a further 20 residential lease extensions receiving in anticipate a marginally higher tax charge as dividend excess of 1.1 million in extension premiums.
We have payments by European companies from capital reserves now extended 28% of the 242 residential leases and we will be fewer than in the past two years.
Also the overall are in negotiation with a further 22 residents 9% of the mix of income impacts the tax charge, particularly the total who are seeking to extend.
proportion of UK income received as Property Income At Harlow, Teva have now leased the remainder of the Distributions or franked dividends.
The UK REITs do not building but on a phased basis.
On completion of the provide forecasts on the likely split between these two leases to Teva the whole property portfolios vacancy rate forms of dividend.
Once again, another key variable will fall to 0.5% 6.9% at March 2011. remains the timing of dividend ex dates falling either side of our March year end.
On a conservative basis, considering all the above Marcus Phayre-Mudge factors, we expect earnings of around 6.60p for the year Fund Manager Ordinary Share Class to March 2013.
8 June 2012 20 TR Property Investment Trust
