THE GROUP COMPANY Chairmans Statement continued Discount and Share Repurchases mid May is a case in point, European equities have now The Ordinary share price discount to net asset value fallen -10.2% from their mid March highs as investors started the year at 13.0% and ended the period at whilst appreciating the hugely positive solvency impact of 14.3%.
The average over the period was 8.5% as the the LTROs, return to focusing again on the unsolved discount tightened abruptly in the middle of the year.
The structural issues of Europe.
Against this backdrop of Sigma share price discount to net asset value started the instability, your managers intend to concentrate on year at 24.4% and ended the period at 23.9%.
The businesses with sound balance sheets, invested in markets average over the period was 21.1%.
A total of 0.45m which have the greatest likelihood of employment and 0.36% of issued shares were repurchased for wage growth or where the quality real estate has supply cancellation at an average price of 71.1p.
They are taking a defensive stance.
One consequence of the current turmoil is a greater divergence The Board pays close attention to the level of discount to of returns across countries, sectors and inevitably at the net asset value across each share class and careful company level.
This led to an increasing concentration of consideration has been given to the most appropriate exposure and the managers reports will elaborate.
means of optimising the situation for shareholders given the stated objectives of the Company and each share Unfashionable as it may be to offer an upbeat message I class.
The Board seeks to balance a number of would like to draw your attention to the revenue results considerations in formulating its policy.
These include the and outlook.
Our earnings are dividends and in the views of shareholders, the long term focus of each share Ordinary Share Class these are coupled with some direct class, the nature of each classs holdings and the need for property rental income.
Quality property companies are liquidity.
The Board consider that the long term objective continuing to benefit from high levels of tenant of each share class remains entirely appropriate.
Whilst it is occupancy coupled with low short term debt rates and cognisant of the short term benefits of share buybacks, it there is no sign of the ECB raising the reference interest is mindful of the need to balance such buybacks with rate.
Our larger investee businesses also have access to a longer term objectives and the desire of the majority of broad range of funding sources which continues to shareholders to maintain exposure to the sector in a liquid ensure lenders remain competitive.
It is the Boards view that it would be undesirable to are stable for the most secure companies.
Whilst rental shrink either share class to a level whereby liquidity would growth will continue to be hard to come by, most of our be constrained.
This is particularly relevant in the case of Continental European property companies income is also Sigma, where the market cap has fluctuated around the invariably index linked.
Tenant delinquencies also remain 100 million level over the last few years.
surprisingly low by historic standards.
Therefore, whilst there remains enhanced volatility in equity prices, the Outlook Whilst my introductory comments focused on the positive revenue outlook currently appears much more stable.
sentiment exhibited in the first three months of 2012 being the final quarter of our financial year, I also Peter Salsbury highlighted the persistent volatility in investor attitudes Chairman and therefore share prices.
Drafting these observations in 8 June 2012 TR Property Investment Trust 9
