THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued Developed Europe Index in Sterling adjusted to exclude Paribas Securities Services, and company secretarial services by Capita Company Secretarial Services.
those stocks with a market cap exceeding a defined level or Cap.
The Cap is redefined each year by reference to The significant terms of the investment management the overall capital movement of the Small Cap Index over agreement with Thames River are as follows: the preceding Financial Year.
For the year to 31 March Notice Period 2012 the Cap was 1.1bn.
For the year to 31 March The investment management agreements IMAs 2013, the Cap will be 0.97bn.
provide for termination of the agreements by either The constituents are reviewed annually.
In order to avoid party without compensation on the provision of not volatility, at the annual review, only companies with a less than 12 months written notice.
Sterling equivalent market capitalisation of 20% or more in Management Fees excess of the revised Cap will leave the benchmark.
Ordinary share class Existing EPRA Developed Europe constituents join only if The fee for the Ordinary share class for the period their Sterling equivalent market capitalisation is 20% or under review was a fixed fee of 2,782,500 plus an more less than the revised Cap.
During the year, any ad valorem fee of 0.20% pa based on the net asset company joining the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Developed value determined in accordance with the Association Europe Total Return Index will also join the small cap index of Investment Companies AIC method of if the Sterling equivalent of their market capitalisation is valuation of the Ordinary share class on the last day less than the defined Cap at the time of entry.
of March, June, September and December, payable On a total return basis the Sigma share class returned quarterly in advance.
-13.6% against a Benchmark total return of -12.1%.
The fee arrangements were reviewed at the end of the From 1 April 2012 the benchmark for the share class will financial year, and for the year to March 2013 the fixed be the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Small Cap Europe Net Total fee element will be reduced to 2,754,325 with no Return Index in Sterling.
This benchmark is calculated in change to the ad valorem fee.
The fee arrangements will exactly the same way as the previous benchmark, however, be reviewed once again at the end of the financial year.
it takes into account the fact that dividends are generally Sigma share class received net of withholding tax.
This is considered to be a The fee for the Sigma share class for the period closer representation of the Companys own position than under review was a fixed fee of 682,500 plus an the gross of tax benchmark, and will present a fairer ad valorem fee of 0.30% pa based on the net asset reflection of the Companys performance and also enable value determined in accordance with the AIC some simplification of the performance fee arrangement method of valuation of the Sigma share class on which is described in detail later in this Statement.
the last day of March, June, September and The performance for the financial year just ended and the December, payable quarterly in advance.
outlook for the forthcoming financial year are covered in The fee arrangements were reviewed at the end of detail in the Chairmans Statement, Market Background the financial year, and for the year to March 2013 the and Outlook and Sigma Share Class Managers Report on fixed fee element will be reduced to 675,675 with pages 6 to 14 and 31 to 34. no change to the ad valorem fee.
The fee Share Buy-back Activity arrangements will be reviewed once again at the end During the year to 31 March 2012, the Company of the financial year.
Since 1 April 2012 For both share classes the management fee includes to the date of this report, the Company repurchased fund accounting and administrative services, safe 250,000 Sigma shares.
custody and company secretarial services which are all Financial Instruments and the Management of Risk provided by third parties.
The Company has a direct By its nature as an investment trust, the portfolios of both contractual relationship with the parties providing share classes are exposed to market price risk, foreign these services and the fees incurred are deducted currency risk and interest rate risk.
The Companys policies from the gross fees due to Thames River.
This affords for managing these risks are outlined in note 11 to the Company a high degree of transparency and the financial statements.
Further information on the control in respect of these services.
management of risk and internal controls is contained in Performance Fees the Corporate Governance Report on pages 56 to 60.
In addition to the management fees, the Board has Management Arrangements and Fees agreed to pay the Investment Manager performance Throughout the period investment management services related fees in respect of an accounting period if have been provided by Thames River Capital LLP, certain performance objectives are achieved.
For the accounting, custodial and administrative services by BNP year under review the arrangements were: 50 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued Ordinary share class adjusted net asset attributable to the Sigma A performance fee is payable if the total return of shareholders.
If any fee exceeds the relevant cap 5% adjusted net assets attributable to Ordinary or 1% as applicable, such excess will be carried forward and applied to reduce any percentage shareholders, as defined in the IMA with Thames underperformance in future periods.
River, at 31 March each year outperforms the total return of the Companys Benchmark plus 2% the If the total return of Sigma equity shareholders funds hurdle rate : this outperformance expressed as a for any performance period is less than the hurdle rate percentage is known as the percentage for the relevant performance periods, such outperformance.
Any fee payable will be the amount underperformance expressed as a percentage will be equivalent to the adjusted net assets attributable to carried forward.
No fee will be payable unless the Ordinary shareholders at 31 March each year adjusted net assets for the particular share class multiplied by the percentage outperformance, then outperform the hurdle rate, after taking into account multiplied by 15%.
any accumulated percentage underperformance for The maximum performance fee payable for the previous periods to the extent it is not offset by the period is capped at 2% of the adjusted net assets overperformance offsets described above.
There were attributable to Ordinary shareholders.
However, if the no performance fees payable in the year ended adjusted net assets at the end of the period are less 31 March 2012 2011: nil.
than at the beginning of the period, the maximum At the end of the financial period the Board undertook a performance fee payable will be limited to 1% of the review of the performance fee arrangements with the adjusted net assets attributable to the Ordinary following objectives: shareholders.
Simplification of the performance fee calculation If any fee exceeds the relevant cap 2% or 1% as Increased transparency for shareholders applicable, such excess will be carried forward and Ensure attention to cost control applied to reduce any percentage underperformance Appropriate incentivisation of the Manager in future periods.
If the total return of Ordinary equity Enable the Manager to take long-term investment shareholders funds for any performance period is less decisions than the hurdle rate for the relevant performance The Manager and the Board have agreed to a number of periods, such underperformance expressed as a amendments to the performance fee arrangements to percentage will be carried forward.
No fee will be meet these objectives and to ensure that the Managers payable unless the adjusted net assets for the and the Shareholders interests are fully aligned.
The particular share class outperform the hurdle rate, after principal changes are set out below.
taking into account any accumulated percentage underperformance for previous periods to the extent it The performance fee payable to the Manager is is not offset by the overperformance offsets described calculated by reference to the change in shareholders above.
There were no performance fees payable in funds over each financial year, compared with the the year ended 31 March 2012 2011: nil.
performance of a benchmark index over the same period.
In order to make a valid comparison with the benchmark, Sigma share class the performance fee calculation requires a number of A performance fee is payable if the total return of adjustments to the closing shareholders funds in order to adjusted net assets attributable to Sigma shareholders, arrive at adjusted net assets for each share class.
To as defined in the IMA with Thames River, at 31 March simplify the calculation the number of these adjustments each year outperforms the total return of the has been reduced with some consequential changes to Companys Benchmark plus 2% the hurdle rate : the benchmark and hurdle rate.
this outperformance expressed as a percentage is known as the percentage outperformance.
Any fee From 1 April 2012 the Fund will use the net of tax version payable is the amount equivalent to the adjusted net of the existing indices FTSE EPRA NAREIT Developed assets attributable to Sigma shareholders at 31 March Europe Net Total Return Index in Sterling for the Ordinary each year multiplied by the percentage share class and FTSE EPRA NAREIT Small Cap Developed outperformance, then multiplied by 20%.
Europe Net Total Return Index in Sterling for the Sigma share class as the reference benchmarks.
As a result The maximum performance fee payable in any period adjustments for the income and withholding taxes suffered is capped at 5% of the adjusted net assets by the Fund will no longer need to be made.
attributable to Sigma shareholders unless the adjusted net assets at the end of the period are less than at Fund performance will be compared with the benchmark the beginning of the period when the maximum on a net of costs basis.
This ensures that the manager is performance fee payable will be limited to 1% of the rewarded on the same basis as the shareholders, i. e. net of TR Property Investment Trust 51
