THE GROUP COMPANY Market Background and Outlook continued Outlook shareholders.
As stated in our introduction, we are The macro situation in Europe remains difficult.
Few of us broadly positive about the overall trajectory of earnings, can remember such a prolonged period of negativity dividends and asset values.
Similarly, we see that listed towards the region from those both within and without real estate companies generally benefit from sound and most forecasters remain decidedly bearish.
It doesnt balance sheets, favourable access to capital and long help that the UK has slipped back into technical recession average lease terms.
and that much of the Eurozone will almost certainly follow, nor that recent elections in Greece and France have Nonetheless, we expect significant dispersion of returns changed the terms of the debate from a focus on austerity between the best and worst markets and the best and to strategies for growth, clouding the issues for worst property companies.
Nonetheless, the situation is better than it exposure to markets such as West End of London offices was twelve months ago, even if it does not always feel like and shops or Berlin residential, where demand from both it.
The ECB has taken important steps to inject liquidity into tenants and investors is strong and rents and capital the European banking market that have had a similar values are therefore rising, will continue to outperform.
effect to quantitative easing in the UK and US, boosting Conversely, those companies with exposure to poorer asset prices and increasing the velocity of money.
The markets such as Netherlands or Belgian offices will suffer.
main rescue funds within Europe the European Financial Some of these latter companies may be faced with the Stability Facility and the European Stability Mechanism need to issue new equity.
have effectively been merged and made semi-permanent and the IMF has seen its balance sheet, and therefore Successful real estate investment is not a passive activity.
Bank regulation and oversight also The best property companies are led by entrepreneurial continues to improve and bank balance sheets are slowly and creative business people who are able to manufacture being cleansed of toxicity.
Risk is concentrated in certain returns from the raw material at their disposal.
We remain countries and institutions one has only to consider the of the view that the best management teams will be able precarious condition of the Spanish regional banks to to outperform over the long term and that seeking to realise that major hurdles remain.
However, the fact that identify these teams is therefore an essential aspect of our we know where the risk resides and what form it takes is management of the Trust.
We believe that the current in itself a major step forward.
portfolios contain numerous examples of such companies and that given time they will demonstrate their ability to Beyond the macro issues, our main investment themes have not changed since the half year report to generate strong returns.
