THE GROUP COMPANY Managers Marcus Phayre-Mudge, Fund Manager Sigma Share Class up to 31 March 2011 Fund Manager Ordinary Share Class from 1 April 2011.
He joined Henderson Global Investors in January 1997, initially managing the direct property portfolio within the Trust and latterly focusing on real estate equities, managing a number of UK and Pan European real estate equity funds in addition to activities in the Trust.
Marcus moved to Thames River Capital in October 2004 where he is also fund manager of Thames River Property Growth & Income Fund Limited.
Prior to joining Henderson, Marcus was an investment surveyor at Knight Frank 1990 and was made an Associate Partner in the fund management division 1995.
He qualified as a Chartered Surveyor in 1992 and has a BSc Hons in Land Management from Reading University.
Marcus Phayre-Mudge James Wilkinson, Fund Manager Sigma Share Class from 1 April 2011.
James joined the Trusts team at Henderson in October 2002, taking responsibility for the direct property investments.
He was also a portfolio manager and member of the property securities team at Henderson.
James moved with Marcus to Thames River Capital in October 2004 gradually increasing his involvement in the equities component of the Trust.
James was appointed deputy fund manager of the Thames River Property Growth & Income Fund in 2007 and is currently the lead fund manager for the Thames River Real Estate Securities Fund.
Prior to joining Henderson he was Associate Partner at Healey & Baker Investment Managers where he spent six years.
James qualified as a Chartered Surveyor in 1998.
He has a BA Hons in Philosophy from University of East Anglia and an MA in Property Valuation and Law from City University Business School.
James Wilkinson Jo Elliott, Finance Manager, has been Finance Manager since 1995, first at Henderson Global Investors then, since January 2005, at Thames River Capital, when she joined as CFO for the property team.
She joined Henderson Investors in 1995, where she most recently held the position of Director of Property, Finance & Operations, Europe.
Previously she was Corporate Finance Manager with London and Edinburgh Trust plc and prior to that was an investment treasury analyst with Heron Corporation plc.
Jo has a BSc Hons in Zoology from the University of Nottingham and qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Ernst & Young in 1989.
Jo Elliott George Gay, Direct Property Fund Manager, has been the direct property fund manager since 2008.
He joined Thames River Capital in 2005 as assistant direct property manager and qualified as a Chartered Surveyor in 2006.
George was previously at niche City investment agent, Morgan Pepper where as an investment graduate he gained considerable industry experience.
He has an MA in Property Valuation and Law from City University.
George Gay Other members of Thames River Capitals Property Fund Management team include Alban Lhonneur, Daniel Winterbottom and Paul May.
Further details can be found at www.
co. uk TR Property Investment Trust 45
