ORDINARY SHARES Managers Report continued of Docklands.
Our increased investment in Derwent period at -1.05% was a strong outperformance of the London, Workspace and CLS Holdings alongside Great benchmark.
In March, the company announced that it Portland Estates and the purchase of the office building would take on debt and return approximately 50% of in Vauxhall all reflect our belief that business space in the equity to shareholders, principally Casino.
Greater London not just the core will generate greater The volatility of share prices last year was best illustrated returns than the rest of the UK.
With little prospect for by our two Italian positions, Beni Stabili and IGD.
Beni, rental growth in traditional office and retail sectors outside our more substantial holding, receives over 58% of its the conurbation, our remaining UK focus has been gross income from Telecom Italia and over 45% of its on specific submarkets: self storage Big Yellow and assets are in prime property in Milan, Rome and Turin.
Safestore, student housing Unite and residential This valuation underpinning did not prevent the stock land bank manufacturers St Modwen.
With so much falling 28% in November alone as investors in Italian debt weakness in secondary asset values we increased our fled and yields on 10 yr Italian sovereign bonds touched holdings in businesses with the firepower and agility to 7%.
We have added to our holding during the year take advantage of pricing distress.
Management track accepting short term volatility alongside the opportunity record is key and both London & Stamford and Max to buy exposure to good quality assets at large discounts.
Property are run by seasoned professionals.
Gearing, Debt and Debentures Scandinavia proved to be another good example of stock The overall debt position in the share class rose over the and city specific performance.
Finlands largest two listed year from 37m to 45m.
Borrowings peaked at the half companies are both heavily exposed to the Helsinki office, year 52m which reflected the acquisition of Park Place, industrial and retail markets.
The city has suffered from Vauxhall in late July.
Whilst the increase in the amount of an oversupply of commercial property generally for many net debt is modest, the fall in asset prices resulted in the years and these weak fundamentals coupled with gearing ratio rising from 7% to 10%.
We also analyse the inappropriate capital structures too much debt resulted see through gearing of the portfolio, where we add the in poor performance for both these companies.
We are assets and the debt of the companies in which we invest not expecting short term improvements and sold out of to the on-balance sheet assets and debt of the share class.
In Norway, fundamentals are sound in both Oslo The see-through gearing was 48.2%, whilst the and Stavanger but Norwegian Properties are struggling benchmark figure was 48.4%.
Although the share class has to capture this growth.
Our holding did not increase in on balance sheet debt, the unlevered physical property the year.
The Swedish exposure did alter over the year, assets which comprise 10% of assets broadly offset this.
becoming increasingly defensive, favouring the less geared businesses such as Hufvudstaden, whilst maintaining Revenue exposure to the principal cities Stockholm, Gothenburg Revenue earnings per share increased by 1.9% from and Malmo.
This led to an increased holding in Wihlborgs.
6.94p in the year to March 2011 to 7.07p in the year to March 2012.
Unibail remains our largest holding.
It was the best performing French stock over the year, returning 1.6% At the beginning of the financial year we were anticipating in local currency terms.
Such strong relative performance a fall in revenue.
The main reasons were the expectation resulted in the stock, at times, standing at a considerable that the timing of some dividend receipts which had premium to its asset value and I took the opportunity to moved from April to March in 2011 were likely to revert top slice on occasion.
The relative overweight position has to payment in April in 2012, effectively skipping our subsequently been rebuilt as markets sold off in April and financial year 2011 12.
We were also anticipating an May this year.
The other large noteworthy investment in increase in the tax charge.
Other uncertainties were France has been Mercialys.
Spun out from its parent fluctuations in the exchange rates of European currencies company Casino, the business owns neighbourhood versus sterling and the possibility of increasing interest shopping centres adjacent to Casino hypermarkets.
rates on our floating rate debt.
Uniquely in European property stocks it had, until recently, no gearing.
In such volatile times this lack of gearing In fact, Investment Income actually rose by 5.8% over proved very attractive and the stocks total return for the the year from 24.9m to 26.3m.
The majority of the 18 TR Property Investment Trust
