THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued Other Statutory Information Asset Value of each Ordinary share and similarly each Directors Interests in Shares Sigma shareholder has a weighted vote in accordance The directors interests in the share capital of the Company with the underlying Net Asset Value of each Sigma share.
are shown in the tables on page 53.
The procedure used to determine the relevant weighting of each share is outlined in the Articles.
The number of There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of votes given to each shareholder on a poll is determined the year in which a director of the Company is or was by multiplying the Share Voting Number by the number materially interested and which is or was significant in of shares held by each shareholder.
For each class of relation to the Companys business.
No director has a share the Share Voting Number is a number equal to contract of service with the Company.
the Net Asset Value of the assets attributable to that Payment of Suppliers class, divided by the number of shares in that class in It is the Companys payment policy for the current financial issue on the Voting Calculation Date a date six weeks year to obtain the best possible terms for all business.
The before the general meeting is convened.
The Net Asset Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which Values of the assets attributable to each class of shares is business will take place and it abides by these terms.
There calculated every day by the Administrator.
were no trade creditors at 31 March 2012 2011: same.
Restrictions on voting Donations Holders of Sigma shares do not have the right to vote at The Company made no political or charitable donations general meetings of the Company on resolutions which during the year 2011: nil.
relate only to the Ordinary shares, other than where the Share Capital Changes Board determines that such a resolution will have a At 1 April 2012 the Company had 256,225,000 Ordinary substantial adverse impact on the holders of Sigma shares and 124,472,000 Sigma shares in issue.
shares and or where it is a requirement of the Listing Since 1 April 2012 to the date of this report, the Rules that all shareholders are entitled to vote.
The same Company has made no market purchases for cancellation restrictions on voting apply to the holders of Ordinary of Ordinary shares and has repurchased 250,000 Sigma shares in relation to the Sigma shares.
No member shall be entitled to vote if he has been served At the AGM in 2011 the directors were given power to buy with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after back 38,408,128 Ordinary shares.
Since the AGM the failure to provide the Company with information directors have not bought back any Ordinary shares under concerning interests in those shares required to be this authority.
The outstanding authority is therefore provided under the Companies Act 2006.
This authority will expire at the 2012 Deadlines for voting rights AGM.
Also at the AGM in 2011, the directors were given power to buy back 18,695,828 Sigma shares of Votes are exercisable at the general meeting of the 12.5 pence each.
Since the AGM the directors have bought Company in respect of which the business being voted back 500,000 Sigma shares under this authority.
Votes may be exercised in person, outstanding authority is therefore 18,195,828 shares.
This by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by authority will also expire at the 2012 AGM.
will seek to renew the power to make market purchases of The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy Ordinary and Sigma shares at this years AGM.
forms of not less than 48 hours or such shorter time as Rights and obligations attaching to shares the Board may determine before the meeting not Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, excluding non-working days.
shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as Transfer of shares the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or if Any shares in the Company may be held in uncertificated there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make form and, subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated specific provision as the Board may decide.
Subject to the shares may be transferred by means of a relevant system.
Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and other shareholders Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
any of his certificated shares by an instrument of transfer Voting in any usual form or in any other form which the Board At a general meeting of the Company, when voting is by may approve.
The instrument of transfer must be a show of hands, each holder of Ordinary shares and executed by or on behalf of the transferor and in the each holder of Sigma shares has one vote.
If a poll vote case of a partly-paid share the transferee.
is called for then each holder of Ordinary shares has a weighted vote in accordance with the underlying Net 54 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without In addition at 31 March 2012 the following shareholders held giving any reason, decline to register any transfer of any over 3% of the voting rights on a non-discretionary basis: share which is not a fully paid share.
The Board may also % of Sigma share voting decline to register a transfer of a certificated share unless Shareholder rights the instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped or Reliance Mutual Insurance Society Ltd 6.56 certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Ltd 6.50 Board to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied CG Asset Management Ltd 4.95 by the relevant share certificate and such other evidence F&C Asset Management plc 4.49 of the right to transfer as the Board may reasonably Laxey Partners Ltd 4.14 require: ii is in respect of only one class of share: and Wells Capital Management Inc 3.73 iii if joint transferees, are in favour of not more than Henderson Global Investors Ltd 3.49 four such transferees.
Merseyside Pension Fund 3.23 The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of the See page 54 for further information on the voting rights of Ordinary Companys certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% and Sigma shares.
interest as defined in the Articles if such a person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Since 31 March 2012 to the date of this report, the Articles after failure to provide the Company with Company has not been informed of any notifiable changes information concerning interests in those shares required with respect to the Ordinary or Sigma share class holdings.
to be provided under the Companies Act 2006, unless ISAs the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an The Company has conducted its affairs, and will continue arms length sale as defined in the Articles.
to conduct its affairs, in such a way as to comply with the Significant Voting Rights Ordinary shares Individual Savings Accounts Regulations.
Both Ordinary % of Ordinary shares and Sigma shares can be held in Individual share voting Shareholder rights Savings Accounts.
Legal & General Investment Management Limited UK 3.49 Directors Indemnity Directors and Officers liability insurance cover is in place Declarations of interests in voting rights of the Company, in respect of the directors.
The Companys Articles of at 31 March 2012, are set out above.
Association provide, subject to the provisions of UK In addition, at 31 March 2012 the following shareholders legislation, an indemnity for directors in respect of costs held over 3% of the voting rights on a non-discretionary which they may incur relating to the defence of any basis: proceedings brought against them arising out of their % of Ordinary share voting positions as directors, in which they are acquitted or Shareholder rights judgement is given in their favour by the court.
Brewin Dolphin Limited 7.19 To the extent permitted by law and by the Companys Investec Wealth & Investment Ltd 5.90 Articles of Association, the Company has entered into HSBC Global Asset Management UK Limited 5.55 deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each director of the Quilter 4.71 Company in respect of liabilities which may attach to them 1 Rathbone Investment Management Limited 4.52 in their capacity as directors of the Company.
These Collins Stewart Wealth Management 3.56 provisions, which are qualifying third party indemnity Barclays Private Bank UK 3.55 provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act F&C Investment Management plc 3.21 2006, were introduced in January 2007 and currently 1 Caroline Burton, a non executive director of the Company, is also a remain in force.
non executive director of Rathbone Brothers plc Rathbone who Shareholder Information currently hold 11,573,223 Ordinary shares in the Company, representing circa 4.5 per cent.
of the total voting rights.
In her Further information on the Company can be found on capacity as a non executive director of Rathbone, Ms Burton has no pages 97 to 99. discretionary control over the Rathbone investment or voting rights in Going Concern the Company.
The Board has prepared forecasts which demonstrate that Significant Voting Rights Sigma shares % of Sigma the Company will be able to continue to meet its liabilities as share voting and when they fall due.
In addition to its cash and remaining Shareholder rights uncalled debt facilities, the assets of the Company consist Legal & General Investment Management Ltd. UK 3.53 mainly of securities which are readily realisable and, Declarations of interests in voting rights of the Company accordingly, it has adequate financial resources to at 31 March 2012, are set out above.
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
