Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Chairmans Statement & Business Review Governance Financial Statements Board of Directors Shareholder Information KeIth hAMILL 60 DAVID CLARK 65 Chairman Independent Non-executive Director Keith Hamill became Non-executive Chairman of Tullett Prebon plc in David Clark is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations December 2006 and is also Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
He was appointed as a Non-executive Director of Tullett He served as Chairman of Collins Stewart Holdings plc and subsequently Liberty in September 2000, to the Collins Stewart Tullett plc Board in March Collins Stewart Tullett plc from 2000 to 2006.
He is a Non-executive 2003, and subsequently became a Director of Tullett Prebon plc in Director of easyJet plc and Samsonite International SA.
David Clark worked for Bankers Trust, Commerzbank and accountant and was previously Chairman of Travelodge and Heath Midland Bank before being appointed Treasurer, Europe of HSBC Holdings Lambert, Finance Director of WH Smith, Forte and United Distillers and in 1992.
In 1995 he joined Bankgesellschaft Berlin AG becoming Managing a partner in Price Waterhouse.
He was also a member of the Urgent Issues Director of Bankgesellschaft Berlin UK plc until June 1999.
He was Senior Task Force of the Accounting Standards Board and Chairman of the Adviser to the Major Financial Groups Division of the Financial Services CBI Financial Reporting Panel.
He is a Non-executive Director of Westpac Europe Limited, a member of the Associate Parliamentary Group for Wholesale Financial Markets, Chairman of the Wholesale Markets Brokers teRRY SMIth MnZM 59 Association and also of the London Energy Brokers Association.
Chief Executive RogeR PeRKIn 64 Terry Smith started his career with Barclays Bank, became a stockbroker in 1984 with W Greenwell & Co. and subsequently worked at BZW and Independent Non-executive Director James Capel.
In 1990 he became the head of UK Company Research at UBS Philips & Drew.
In 1992 he joined Collins Stewart subsequently Roger Perkin joined the Board on 1 July 2012 and became Chairman of the Collins Stewart plc, becoming a Director in 1996 and Chief Executive in Audit Committee at the end of July 2012.
When Collins Stewart and Tullett Prebon demerged in December Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
He is a former partner at 2006, he became Chief Executive of Tullett Prebon plc.
He also became Ernst & Young LLP and spent 40 years in the accounting profession before Executive Chairman of Collins Stewart plc, a position which he held until retiring from the firm in 2009.
He is a Non-executive Director and 2009 when he became Deputy Chairman, finally resigning from the Board Chairman of the Audit Committee for both Nationwide Building Society of Collins Stewart plc in October 2010.
He is an Associate of the Chartered and Electra Private Equity plc and was formerly a Non-executive Director Institute of Bankers, has an MBA from The Management College, Henley at The Evolution Group plc until its acquisition in December 2011. and is a qualified Series 7 Registered Representative and Series 24 General He is a trustee of two charities, Chiddingstone Castle and Crime Securities Principal with FINRA.
In November 2010, Terry Smith launched Reduction Initiatives.
Fundsmith, a fund management company, of which he is Chief Executive and Chief Investment Officer.
In the New Zealand 2012 New Years StePhen PuLL 56 Honours list, Terry Smith was appointed a Member of the New Zealand Order of Merit for services to New Zealand-United Kingdom relations.
Independent Non-executive Director Stephen Pull was appointed as a Non-executive Director of Tullett Prebon plc PAuL MAInWARIng 49 in September 2011.
He is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Stephen Pull was Chairman of Corporate Finance Director Broking at Nomura between 2008 and 2011 following their acquisition of Paul Mainwaring qualified as a chartered accountant with Price Waterhouse Lehman Brothers Europe for whom Stephen worked from 2002 as Head of in 1987, and obtained an MBA from Cranfield School of Management in Corporate Broking, and then as Chairman of Corporate Broking.
From 1993 to 2000, he worked for Caradon plc in a number of held a number of other senior roles in the City, including Managing Director financial roles, including three years as Finance Director of MK Electric.
of Corporate Broking at Merrill Lynch and Head of UK Equity Sales at In 2000, he was appointed as Group Finance Director of TDG plc.
He was Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
appointed as Group Finance Director of Mowlem plc in 2005.
He was appointed to the Collins Stewart Tullett plc Board in October 2006, and RuPeRt RobSon 52 has been Finance Director of Tullett Prebon plc since December 2006.
Independent Non-executive Director AngeLA KnIght 62 Rupert Robson was appointed to the Board in January 2007.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Senior Independent Non-executive Director Nominations Committees.
He has held a number of senior roles in financial Angela Knight was appointed as a Non-executive Director of Tullett Prebon institutions, most recently Non-executive Director of London Metal plc in September 2011.
She is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Exchange Holdings Ltd and Non-executive Director of OJSC Nomos Bank, Nominations Committees.
Angela Knight is currently the Chief Executive Global Head, Financial Institutions Group, Corporate Investment Banking of Energy UK and a Non-executive Director of Brewin Dolphin Holdings plc and Markets at HSBC and Head of European Insurance, Investment Banking and Transport for London.
She was formerly the Chief Executive of the at Citigroup Global Markets.
He is Chairman of Charles Taylor plc and EMF British Bankers Association from 2007 to 2012 and the Chief Executive of Capital Partners.
the Association of Private Client Investment Managers and Stockbrokers from 1997 to 2006.
She was also formerly the Member of Parliament for Erewash from 1992 to 1997, serving as a Treasury Minister from 1995 to 1997.
Her previous non-executive director appointments include the Financial Skills Partnership, Lloyds TSB plc, Scottish Widows and LogicaCMG plc.
