Chairmans Statement & Business Review Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information LITIGATION OTC MARKET REGULATION Legal action continues to be pursued against BGC and former Progress continues to be made in the process of agreeing and employees in the USA in response to the raid on the business by implementing reforms designed to strengthen the financial system BGC in the second half of 2009.
The FINRA arbitration on the claim and to improve the operation of financial markets.
brought by the subsidiary companies in the United States directly affected by the raid is expected to continue through the first With respect to the operation of the OTC markets there are four half of this year.
The outcome of the arbitration is expected to be broad themes to the reforms: determined before the end of the year.
A separate action is being pursued by the Company and the directly affected subsidiaries in the requirement that certain derivatives contracts be cleared the New Jersey Superior Court, alleging, among other causes of through central counterparties with exemptions for some action, violations under the NJ RICO Act.
Depositions are being non-financial market participants : taken with respect to this action and the trial is expected to start before the end of the year.
the requirement for trades to be reported to trade repositories: The claim by BGC and certain of its affiliates, alleging that the enhanced pre and post trade transparency: and Company misappropriated data supplied to its information sales subsidiary in violation of a redistribution agreement, was heard in the requirement that trades in derivatives contracts which are arbitration under the rules of the American Arbitration Association.
required to be cleared be executed through regulated execution The arbitrators award was that the Company should pay BGC venues Swap Execution Facility SEF in the USA, and Organised $0.8m plus interest at the statutory rate from 1 January 2010.
Trading Facility OTF in Europe.
BGCs application for reasonable attorneys fees and costs was denied.
In November 2012 the New York Court granted the In the USA, the mandatory clearing of certain interest rate swaps Companys motion to confirm the award and denied BGCs motion and credit default index swaps is being phased in from March 2013. to vacate the award.
BGC have appealed those rulings to the New With respect to trade execution and reporting, although some key York State Appellate Division of the First Department.
areas remain under discussion, the final rules relating to SEFs are expected to be issued imminently, and these rules are expected to The 11.6m charge relating to major legal actions which is included come into force during this year.
We are well prepared for the as an exceptional item in the 2012 results reflects the costs implementation of these rules.
We are confident that we will incurred in bringing and defending these actions net of the qualify as a SEF and that we will be ready to offer trade execution adjustment to the provision established in 2011 for the estimated services that are compliant with the rules as they take effect.
cost of the resolution of the claim against the Company.
In Europe, the technical standards for the implementation of EMIR, which contains provisions governing mandatory clearing GOODwILL IMPAIRMENT requirements and trade reporting requirements for derivatives, are The carrying value of the goodwill attributed to each region is tested expected to be published in March 2013 and to come into effect in for impairment annually.
The estimated value for each region is 2014.
The proposals to revise the Markets in Financial Instruments compared with the balance sheet carrying value of the region, Directive MiFID, through the introduction of a new directive including goodwill, and any shortfall is recognised as an impairment MiFID II and a new regulation MiFIR, continue to be negotiated.
The value for each region is estimated based on value in MiFID II and MiFIR will contain provisions governing permissible use calculations reflecting projections of future cash flows and trade execution venues, governance and conduct of business assumptions on growth rates and discount rates.
Critically, the requirements for trading venues, with implementation expected to projections of future cash flows reflect the current performance be in 2015. and position of each business without taking into account further investment for growth or further action to reduce costs.
As we have previously commented, we agree with the objectives and support the direction of these reforms.
We believe that their Despite the action that has been taken to rebuild the scale of the introduction will be positive for our business as the proposals North American business since the raid in the second half of 2009, formalise the role of the intermediary in the OTC markets.
and to reduce costs, its performance weakened further during 2012.
The estimated value for the North America region based on its current performance and position is 123.0m less than the balance sheet carrying value, and this has been recognised as an impairment of the goodwill attributed to the region.
This non-cash charge has no impact on the regulatory capital position of the Company or on any of its financing arrangements.
