Chairmans Statement & Business Review Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Around three-quarters of the revenue is derived from Name OBJECTIVES, STRATEGY, BUSINESS MODEL AND RISK PROFILE Passing activities, where the business is not a counterparty to the trade, and where its exposure to a client is limited to outstanding Objectives invoices for commission.
The level of invoiced receivables is The Companys objective is to maximise returns to shareholders monitored closely, by individual client and in aggregate, and there over the medium to long term with an acceptable level of risk.
have been very few instances in the past few years when invoiced receivables have not been collected.
Strategy The strategy to achieve the Companys objective is to continue to The balance of the revenue is mainly derived from Matched build a business, operating as an intermediary in the wholesale OTC Principal activities, where the Group is the counterparty to both financial markets internationally, with the scale and breadth to sides of a matching trade and consequently bears counterparty deliver superior performance and returns, whilst maintaining credit risk during the period between execution and settlement strong financial management disciplines.
Once a Matched Principal transaction has settled usually 1-3 days after trade date, there is no ongoing risk for the The key actions to deliver this strategy are: business.
To mitigate settlement risk the business undertakes transactions on a strict Delivery versus Payment basis.
In the event develop and maintain strong pools of liquidity in all major that a client defaults prior to settlement in a Matched Principal financial products and all major financial centres: trade, our exposure is not to the principal amount but to the movement in the market value of the underlying instrument, and attract and retain key revenue producers: so the Groups exposure becomes a market risk.
This risk is mitigated by the use of central counterparty services and other development of electronic broking capabilities to support our default risk transfer agreements, where appropriate, and by taking voice broking expertise and ensure compliance with anticipated swift action to close out any position that arises as a result of a regulatory reforms: client default.
In addition to credit risk, the Groups Matched Principal activity also gives rise to limited market risk as a result of development of the Companys information sales business: the infrequent residual balances which result from the Groups inability to match client orders precisely.
development of value added post-trade services: The Group also brokers certain transactions as an Executing Broker, focus on maintaining contribution rates: and under an International Uniform Brokerage Execution Give-up agreement or equivalent, whereby the Group executes focus on maintaining an appropriately sized support cost base.
transactions on certain regulated exchanges as per client orders, and then gives-up the trade to the relevant client or its clearing Business model and risk profile member.
The Group is exposed to short term pre-settlement risk The Companys business model is based on generating a return during the period between the execution of the trade and the from providing a facilitation service to clients, enabling them to client claiming the trade.
This exposure is minimal, as under the trade efficiently and effectively.
This service can be provided, and terms of the give-up agreements the Group has in place with its good returns can be generated, without actively taking credit and clients, trades must be claimed by the end of trade day.
trade has been claimed, the Groups only exposure to the client is for the invoiced receivables.
In accordance with the risk appetite set by the Board the Group does not actively seek risk in order to generate a return but is The Groups broking activity gives rise to various operational risks.
willing to accept a limited amount of risk as a consequence of its These include the risk of business disruption, employee error and broking activities, principally counterparty credit risk and the failure of a business process or IT system, as well as the risk of operational risk.
This is reflected in the business model adopted litigation being brought against the Group.
by the Group whereby it acts only as an intermediary in the financial markets.
The Board has explicitly prohibited any active Discussion of the Groups risk management governance structure, taking of trading risk and the business does not trade for its own risk management framework, and risk profile is included on account.
However, whilst the Company does not actively seek to pages 16 to 21. assume risk as part of its business model, the Company is exposed to certain risks as a consequence of its broking activity, primarily to operational risk but also to a limited amount of credit and market risk.
The business of the Group is conducted through three distinct broking models: the Name Passing model also known as the Name Give-Up model : the Matched Principal model: and the Executing Broker model.
05 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review continued facilitation service that the business provides, rather than OVERVIEw fundamentally changing the way in which OTC markets operate.
Significant expenditure is being incurred on the regulatory Market conditions remained challenging throughout 2012 as the readiness project, which covers the development, launch and overall level of activity in the financial markets remained subdued, ongoing running costs of new electronic platforms and associated particularly during the second half of the year.
The financial results technology infrastructure, and additional compliance resources.
for 2012 demonstrate the benefit of the actions that have been In 2012 the charge in the income statement for these costs was taken to reduce costs and to maintain flexibility in the cost base, less than 1% of total revenue, but for 2013 the costs related to to strengthen the broking business in all three regions, and to the project are expected to represent around 2.5% of current continue to develop the Information Sales and Risk Management annual revenue.
The Company has again been ranked as the overall number one Little action has been taken to address the very serious interdealer broker in Risk magazines 2012 annual interdealer fundamental issues facing the worlds major economies.
However, rankings which were published in September.
Dealers across the the concerted efforts of governments and supranational bodies global wholesale banking market voted Tullett Prebon first place to kick the metaphorical can down the road through quantitative in 36 product categories, more than any other broker.
This is the easing, further flattening of yield curves and continuing to increase second time in three years that the Company has been ranked as both government borrowing and government commitments to the overall number one in the industry.
In November the Company private sector borrowing, have served to reduce volatility in the was named Best Broker for Forward FX for the twelfth year financial markets.
Volatility is one of the key drivers of activity in running and for Currency Options for the second consecutive year the financial markets, and reflecting the low levels of volatility in the annual FX Week Best Bank Awards, and in December was throughout most of 2012, market activity in most of the asset named the inaugural Interdealer Broker of the Year at the Futures classes in which the business operates was lower than in the and Options World International Awards 2012.
reflect the businesss delivery of flexible and innovative products, as well as best in class service.
Market volumes during 2012 were also adversely affected by the more onerous regulatory environment applicable to many of our We continued to take actions during the year to strengthen the customers, in particular commercial and investment banks, and by broking business in all three regions.
In Europe we opened an the uncertainty over the impact of the impending new regulations office in Madrid broking Fixed Income and Energy products and covering the trade, settlement and reporting of OTC derivative an office in Geneva broking Fixed Income products.
Both factors have reduced our customers ability and management control of our joint venture in Bahrain in the middle willingness to trade.
of the year, and we have recently further expanded our presence in the Middle East through the opening of an office in Dubai.
Revenue in 2012 was 7% lower than reported for 2011.
At constant The new senior management in the Americas have established a exchange rates, and excluding the acquisitions of Conveno and firm foundation for the business in the region.
We completed the Chapdelaine, revenue was 10% lower.
The effect on revenue of acquisition of the New York based Chapdelaine & Co. a leading lower levels of activity in the financial markets was more marked municipal bond broking business in January 2012.
Conveno, the during the second half of the year than during the first half.
interdealer broker business based in So Paulo, Brazil, which was At constant exchange rates, and excluding the acquisitions of acquired in August 2011, has continued to perform well and we Conveno and Chapdelaine, revenue in the second half of the have successfully expanded its activities to cover Equities and have year was 15% lower than in the same period in the prior year.
increased headcount in other products.
In Asia, we have invested in the development of the equity derivatives business in Hong Kong In anticipation of the challenging market conditions and in light and in our activities in the offshore Renminbi market.
of the increased costs faced by the business relating to electronic platform development and other costs related to impending We have continued to expand our electronic broking offering regulatory changes, action was taken at the end of 2011 and through the development and launch of platforms which provide during the first half of 2012 to reduce fixed costs and to maintain clients with the flexibility to transact either entirely electronically or flexibility in the cost base.
These actions, which were designed to via the businesss comprehensive voice execution broker network.
ensure that the business was well positioned to respond to less This hybrid model is consistent with the nature and operation of favourable market conditions by preserving the variable nature the majority of the OTC product markets which are not of broker compensation costs in relation to broking revenue, have characterised by continuous trading, and which therefore depend been effective.
Through this restructuring programme headcount upon the intervention and support of voice brokers for their was reduced by 220, over two-thirds from the front office, with an liquidity and effective operation.
annual reduction in fixed costs of 30m.
The costs associated with achieving these reductions are included as an exceptional item in Our hybrid interest rate swap platform, tpSWAPDEAL, was the results.
launched at the end of 2011 in London supporting Euro denominated interest rate swaps.
The interdealer market for We believe that we are well positioned to respond to and benefit interest rate swaps continues to be executed predominantly from changes in the way in which OTC product markets operate through voice brokers, but the platform shows streaming prices as a result of the regulatory reforms of these markets in both the from our main liquidity providing banks and the brokers are USA and Europe.
Our view of the current status of the regulatory increasingly using the platform for order entry and trade capture.
developments is set out below.
These reforms reinforce the role of the intermediary in the OTC markets, and we believe that the introduction of electronic platforms reflects an evolution of the 06 Chairmans Statement & Business Review Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information revenue, has increased by 15% in 2012 compared with 2011, and The product coverage of tpCREDITDEAL was successfully increased accounts for 23% of total revenue for the year.
As more electronic during the year to include emerging market and sovereign bonds.
platforms are launched, and more products and services are added The tpQUICKDEAL service, which offers clients focused liquidity to existing platforms, the proportion of total revenue accounted for auction sessions with real time electronic trade matching, has by products supported by electronic platforms is expected to been broadened during the year to cover more products that are continue to increase.
not otherwise supported by a hybrid platform.
tpSPOTDEAL, a specialist electronic trading venue for spot FX in G10 currency pairs Our key financial and performance indicators for 2012 compared in wholesale sizes, has started well following its launch during the with those for 2011 are summarised in the table below.
In order to second half of 2012, and has enhanced our existing spot FX voice give a more meaningful analysis of performance compared with model.
tpCADDEAL, a hybrid platform supporting the broking of the prior period, certain KPIs below are shown excluding Conveno Canadian government bonds which was launched during the year, and Chapdelaine.
has become an integral part of the service provided by our Toronto office.
Underlying operating profit in 2012 was 126.0m, 15% lower than reported for 2011, with the underlying operating margin at 14.8%, The pace of future platform launches in the USA will reflect the 1.5% points lower than the 16.3% reported for 2011.
Given that timing of regulatory requirements as well as market demand.
We intend to launch platforms in the USA for those products which are there is some operational leverage in the business, operating within the scope of the swap and security-based swap execution margins are adversely affected by lower levels of revenue, and the facility rules after those rules have been published in final form.
reduction in the underlying operating margin is primarily driven by the reduction in broking revenue.
The Information Sales business has continued to perform strongly.
The business retained the title of Best Data Provider Broker at The reduction in broking revenue primarily reflects the lower level the Inside Market Data Awards in May.
The award is determined of market activity.
This is evidenced by the reduction in average by an independent poll of end-users in financial businesses and revenue per broker which, at 479k for 2012, is 9% lower than for is a clear endorsement of the businesss ability to deliver the 2011.
The reduction in average revenue per broker is similar in all highest quality independent price data from the global OTC three regions.
Almost all of the markets.
The business has continued to expand its geographic reduction in average broker headcount is in North America.
reach, its customer base and the breadth of data it offers to customers.
During the year the business entered into a partnership Broker compensation costs as a percentage of broking revenue are agreement with an information services provider in India, and has unchanged reflecting the benefit of the actions taken to preserve become the first interdealer broker information provider to obtain the variable nature of broker compensation costs in relation to a licence to distribute data in China.
New data sets were introduced broking revenue.
Other broking front office costs have increased in the year covering the global OTC oil markets, equity derivatives, but this has been offset by lower broking support costs, driven by a and a Solvency II benchmark curves service in co-operation with 4% reduction in headcount, and by the growth of the higher margin IDS GmbH, an Allianz company, aimed at the insurance and asset Information Sales and Risk Management Services businesses.
The reduction in broking support headcount has been achieved despite an increase in the headcount in technology reflecting the In the post trade Risk Management Services business, the tpMATCH investment being made in the development, launch and ongoing platform, which assists clients in the management of interest rate support of new electronic platforms and associated infrastructure.
risk, has continued to increase revenue through the expansion of the number of currencies supported and through further gains in The year end broker headcount of 1,720 includes the 85 brokers market share.
The tpMATCH NDF platform, which enables traders who joined the business through the acquisition of Chapdelaine, to reduce date mismatch risk on non-deliverable forwards, has in addition to the brokers who have joined through the opening delivered significant revenue in its first full year.
of new offices and other new hiring.
This has more than offset the headcount that exited in the year through the restructuring Revenue from products supported by electronic platforms, programme.
together with Information Sales and Risk Management Services 2012 2011 Change Revenue 850.8m 910.2m -7% Underlying Operating profit 126.0m 148.4m -15% Underlying Operating margin 14.8% 16.3% -1.5% points Average broker headcount 1,615 1,652 -2% Average revenue per broker 000 479 524 -9% Broker employment costs: broking revenue 59.6% 59.6% no change Broker headcount year end 1,720 1,667 3% Broking support headcount year end 719 750 -4% Excluding the acquisitions of Conveno and Chapdelaine 07
