Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Directors Report Directors The Directors present their report, together with the audited The Directors who served throughout the year, except as noted, financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the were as follows: year ended 31 December 2012.
Keith hamill Principal activities Non-executive Chairman Tullett Prebon plc operates as an intermediary in wholesale financial markets facilitating the trading activities of its clients, in terry Smith particular commercial and investment banks.
The main subsidiary Chief Executive undertakings through which the Group conducts its business are set out in Note 39 to the consolidated financial statements.
Paul Mainwaring Finance Director Results and dividends The results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income David Clark Statement on page 46.
Independent Non-executive Director: Senior Independent Non-executive Director until 6 February 2012 The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 11.25p per ordinary share.
The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on Michael Fallon 16 May 2013 to ordinary shareholders whose names are on the Independent Non-executive Director resigned 4 September 2012 register at the close of business on 26 April 2013.
Angela Knight During 2012 Tullett Prebon plc paid a final dividend for 2011 of Independent Non-executive Director Senior Independent 11.25p per ordinary share and an interim dividend for 2012 of Non-executive Director from 6 February 2012 5.6p per ordinary share.
Roger Perkin Business review Independent Non-executive Director appointed 1 July 2012 The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be found on pages 05 to 25.
The Business Review is Stephen Pull incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
It includes an Independent Non-executive Director analysis of the development and performance of the Group during the year, the position of the Group at the end of the year, financial Rupert Robson and non-financial performance indicators, and information on the Independent Non-executive Director main trends and factors likely to affect the development, Biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 27. performance, and position of the business.
A description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group is included in the The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions Risk Management section of the Business Review.
for the benefit of its Directors which remain in place at the date of this report.
The principal employer of the Tullett Prebon Pension Information on environmental, employee, social and community Scheme has given indemnities to trustees of that scheme, including issues and policies and information about persons with whom the the Executive Directors and Chairman.
The Company maintains Group has contractual or other arrangements which are essential liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
to the business, is included in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of the Business Review.
Directors interests The interests all beneficial of those persons who were Directors This Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for, the at the end of the year in the ordinary share capital of the Company, members of the Company as a body, and no other persons.
together with comparatives for the previous year or the date of The Company, its Directors, employees, agents or advisers do not appointment, were as follows: accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and 2012 2011 such responsibility is expressly disclaimed.
By their nature, the Number Number statements concerning the risks and uncertainties facing the Keith Hamill 80,299 80,299 Group in this Annual Report involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ Terry Smith 9,645,510 9,645,510 materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements Paul Mainwaring 221,339 221,339 reflect knowledge and information available at the date of David Clark preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in Angela Knight this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Roger Perkin A separate Corporate Governance Report is included within this Stephen Pull 7,000 Annual Report on pages 30 to 34 and which is, where relevant, Rupert Robson 7,000 7,000 incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
The Corporate Governance Report includes the information that fulfils the There were no changes in the interests of the Directors in the requirements of section 7.2 of The Disclosure and Transparency ordinary share capital of the Company from the end of the year to Rules DTR with the exception of the information referred to in the date of this report.
6 which is included in this Directors Report.
28 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Chairmans Statement & Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Substantial interests The Tullett Prebon plc Employee Benefit Trust 2007 held 202,029 As at the year end, and at 4 March 2013, being the latest shares 2011: 202,029.
The beneficiaries of the trust are the practicable date before signing of this document, the following not employees of the Group, including the Executive Directors.
Under being Directors, their families or persons connected, within section Schedule 1 of the Companies Act 2006 the Executive Directors are 252 of the Companies Act 2006 had notified the Company in deemed to be interested in these shares.
accordance with DTR 5 that they were interested in the following Details of Directors share options are set out in the Report on voting rights of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Directors Remuneration.
31 December 4 March 2012 2013 Share capital and control % % Details of the issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year Lloyds Banking Group plc 12.9 10.9 are shown in Note 28 to the consolidated financial statements Jupiter Asset Management Limited 10.1 11.0 which is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
OppenheimerFunds, Inc 5.0 5.0 The Company has one class of ordinary shares, which carry no right Henderson Global Investors 5.0 5.0 to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Invesco Limited 5.1 5.0 Norges Bank 3.0 No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Policy of payment to suppliers The voting rights of the ordinary shares held by the Tullett Prebon plc It is the Groups policy that all transactions are settled in Employee Benefit Trust 2007 are exercisable by the trustees in accordance with relevant terms and conditions of business agreed accordance with their fiduciary duties.
The right to receive dividends with the supplier, provided all such terms and conditions have been on these shares has been waived.
Details of employee share schemes complied with.
The Company does not have any trade creditors.
are set out in Note 30 to the consolidated financial statements which Political and charitable donations is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
During 2012 no political or charitable donations were made by the There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the Group 2011: nil.
transfer of shares, which are both governed by the provisions of the Articles of Association the Articles and prevailing legislation.
Auditors The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the as auditor and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at transfer of securities or on voting rights, nor are there any the forthcoming AGM.
arrangements by which, with the Companys co-operation, Disclosure of information to the auditor financial rights carried by securities are held by a person other than Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this the holder of those securities.
Annual Report confirms that: With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Company is governed by its Articles, the UK Corporate Governance information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders and the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken were last amended at the Companys Annual General Meeting as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant AGM in May 2012.
As a consequence of this amendment to the audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is Articles, at each AGM all of the Directors who held office on the aware of that information.
date seven days before the Notice of that AGM must retire from This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance office and each Director wishing to serve again must submit with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. themselves for election or re-election by shareholders.
The powers of the Directors include the authorities to allot shares Annual General Meeting and to buy the Companys shares in the market as granted by The AGM of the Company will be held at 2.30pm on 9 May 2013. shareholders at the AGM.
At the last AGM resolutions were passed to Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are set out in authorise the Directors to allot up to a nominal amount of a separate Notice of Meeting which will be sent to all shareholders 36,268,645 ordinary shares subject to certain restrictions and to entitled to receive such Notice.
Only members in the register of purchase up to 21,761,187 ordinary shares.
Details of the shares members of the Company as at 6.00pm on 7 May 2013 or two issued during the year and up to the date of this Annual Report are days before any adjourned meeting will be entitled to attend and set out in Note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
Any proxy must be lodged with the Companys date of this Annual Report, no shares had been purchased in the registrars or submitted to CREST at least 48 hours before the AGM market under the authority granted at the 2012 AGM.
The allotment or any adjourned meeting.
and buy-back authorities will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM or, if earlier, on 1 July 2013, unless renewed before that time.
By order of the Board Further powers of the Directors are described in the Schedule of Justin hoskins Matters Reserved for the Board, which is available on the Company Secretary Companys website, and in the Corporate Governance Report on 5 March 2013 pages 30 to 34.
