Directors Report details on trade creditors are provided in Note 15 to the PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES & BUSINESS Financial Statements.
The average number of creditor STRATEGY days is 38 days 2011: 45 days.
The consolidated entitys principal activities during the course of the year were the exploration for precious SUPPLIERS and base metals, production of gold and ongoing development at the Sukari Gold Mine.
The Group has a It is Centamins policy that, subject to compliance considered growth path and strategy in place whereby with trading terms by the supplier, payments are made it seeks to maximise shareholder value from investment in accordance with terms and conditions agreed opportunities within Egypt and also other opportunities in advance with the supplier.
which may arise throughout the Middle East and Northern African regions.
DIVIDENDS No dividends have been declared or paid since the end BUSINESS REVIEW of the current and previous financial year.
The Groups The requirements of the business review are dividend policy for the coming year is to direct all cash contained in the operational and exploration review ows towards the organic growth of the Sukari Gold and management discussion and analysis sections of Mine.
The Groups policy will continue to be reviewed on this report and an overview of the principal risks and an annual basis.
uncertainties faced by the Group is provided on pages 44 to 51.
On pages 84 to 88 is set out information on CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE environmental, employee and social and community The statement on compliance with the UK Corporate matters.
All of these matters are incorporated by Governance Code for the reporting period is contained reference into this Directors Report.
CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION It is the Groups policy to settle all debts with creditors The Companys articles of association may be amended on a timely basis and in accordance with terms and by special resolution of the shareholders.
conditions agreed in advance with each creditor.
Further 58 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 CAPITAL STRUCTURE Issued capital including shares issued under the Loan Funded Share Plans and Deferred Bonus Share Plan below 1,101,397,381 Total shares in issue under the Loan Funded Share Plans 10,347,222 Unissued shares held under the Loan Funded Share Plan 210,000 Deferred Bonus Share Plan 1,000,000 ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS The Group is currently complying with relevant environmental regulations and has no outstanding environmental orders against it, to the best of our knowledge.
There is a current legal obligation under Egyptian Environmental Laws to perform site rehabilitation and restoration work, in addition to the requirement of the Sukari Concession Agreement, under Article XVI, to undertake the rehabilitation and restoration work.
The provision for restoration and rehabilitation for 2012 is set out in note 16 and has been estimated at US$5.5 million 2011: US$2.6 million.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS The Company has been notied that the following persons were, as at 25 March 2013, directly or indirectly interested in 3 per cent or more of the issued ordinary share capital of or voting rights in Centamin.
Investor Name Ordinary Shares % of issued share capital El-Raghy Family 70,945,086 6.44 Franklin Advisers, Inc. 44,854,132 4.07 The substantial shareholders do not have any different voting rights to other shareholders.
To the extent known to the Company: a No person other than the substantial shareholders has an interest of three per cent or more in the companys capital.
The Company is not aware of any persons who, directly or indirectly, jointly or severally, exercise or could exercise control over the Company: and b There are no arrangements, the operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change of control of the Company.
59 Directors Report The Company has entered into indemnity agreements POLITICAL DONATIONS with each Director to indemnify each Director to the Centamin does not make donations to any organisations extent permitted by applicable law and excluding any with stated political associations.
matters involving fraud, dishonesty, wilful default or bad faith on the part of a Director.
EMPLOYEES During the year, the Company paid a premium in respect Information relating to employees is contained on of a contract insuring the Directors and ofcers of the pages 84 to 85 in the corporate responsibility section.
Company and any related body corporate against a Centamin abides by anti-discrimination legislation in all liability incurred as a director or officer to the extent jurisdictions in which it operates.
These principles are permitted by law.
This provides insurance cover for any also set out in the Companys Code of Conduct which claim brought against Directors or ofcers for wrongful sets out the framework in which Centamin expects all acts in connection with their positions.
The insurance staff to operate.
provided does not extend to claims arising from fraud or dishonesty and it does not provide cover for civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed by law.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS As referred in Note 20 to the Financial Statements and in ROUNDING OF AMOUNTS the most recently led Annual Information Form AIF, the Group is involved in on-going litigation in respect of Amounts in the Financial Report and the Directors both the price at which Diesel Fuel Oil is supplied to the Report have been rounded off to the nearest thousand 2 mine at Sukari and the validity of the 160km exploitation dollars, unless otherwise stated.
Subsequent to year end the Company acquired a further DIRECTORS INTERESTS interest in Nyota Minerals Limited and Sahar Minerals Details of the interests of Directors and their connected Limited for US$1,163,969 and US$500,000 respectively.
persons in Centamins shares or in related derivate Pursuant to the provisions of the Concession Agreement, or financial instruments are outlined in the Directors any profit Share payments made to EMRA are due on Remuneration report on page 79. an annual basis at the end of SGMs financial year, being 30 June.
Based on the Companys calculation AUDITOR there was no profit Share due to EMRA as at 30 June Each of the persons who is a director at the date of 2012.
Furthermore, it is expected that there will be approval of this annual report confirms that: profit Share due to EMRA for the current SGM financial year ending 30 June 2013, based on budgeted s so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant production, gold price and operating expense forecasts.
audit information of which the Companys auditor Following discussions with EMRA, and with a view to is unaware: and demonstrating goodwill toward the Egyptian government, s the Director has taken all the steps that he ought subsequent to year end PGM has made an advance to have taken as a Director in order to make himself payment to EMRA of US$8,200,000.
Calculations aware of any relevant audit information and to for profit Share will be done annually on the audited establish that the Companys auditor is aware accounts of SGM and this advance payment will be of that information.
netted off against any future profit Share that becomes Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue payable to EMRA.
in ofce as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them There were no other significant events occurring will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual after the reporting date requiring disclosure in the General Meeting.
order of the Board, DIRECTORS INDEMNITY INSURANCE In accordance with Centamins articles of association and to the extent permitted by law, Centamin may Chris Aujard indemnify its Directors out of its own funds to cover General Counsel and Company Secretary liabilities incurred as a result of their ofce.
