Strategic Review We strive to set an example of a socially responsible industry through adopting a good neighbour policy.
Our growth strategy seeks to optimise exposure through modern times, we strive to set an example of a socially the mining value chain: exploration, development and responsible industry through adopting a good neighbour operations.
Whilst disciplined and sustainable growth policy.
We take every action to ensure Sukari has the on our existing projects remains a key focus, we continue minimum impact on the social environment, as well to evaluate potential opportunities to grow through the as to deliver positive benets to Egypt and the acquisition of projects which offer the potential for the community as a result of our investment.
Company to realise strong investment returns.
In 2012 we nurtured dialogue, maintained open 2013 will mark the year when the Stage 4 plant expansion channels of communication and built positive and is commissioned, the Sukari project concludes its constructive relations with all our stakeholders including investment phase and our annual capital expenditure the community in areas in which we operate.
The Board requirements for the mine begin to reduce signicantly.
approved principles and strategies for the pursuit of corporate sustainable development CSD initiatives.
Based on the Companys calculation there was no Net profit Share due to EMRA as at 30 June 2012, nor is any Our work force is remunerated well above the average likely to be due as at 30 June 2013.
Furthermore, it is for Egypt and our career development programmes expected that there will be profit share due to EMRA for are highly valued.
In general we enjoy a very positive the SGM financial year ending 30 June 2014, based on and constructive relationship with our employees.
production, gold price and operating expense forecasts.
Unfortunately, however, we had two strikes at Sukari Following discussions with EMRA and with a view to during the year.
The first was a legal strike and was settled demonstrating goodwill toward the Egyptian government, on the basis of a broad and above-ination increase an advance payment has been made subsequent to year in employee allowance payments.
The second strike end to the value of US$8.2 million.
was illegal, involving only a small element of our work force, and was settled with no pay increases and with the help of the Ministry of Labour.
These disputes are set Maintaining our Social License against a background of multiple and prolonged industrial Maintaining good community relations is a core part disputes in many quarters of the Egyptian economy.
of our operational strategy and corporate governance standards.
As the first mining company in Egypt in 11 Strategic Review Targets for 2013 Legal Actions For the year 2013, we project production of 320,000 Concession Agreement Court Case ounces at a cash operating cost of US$700 per ounce, On 30 October 2012, the Administrative Court in at international fuel prices, which will mark the third year Egypt handed down a judgment in relation to a claim of successive growth in output from Sukari, and another brought by, amongst others, an independent member step on the way to our long-term target for the project of the previous parliament, in which he argued for of 450-500,000 ounces per annum from 2015 the nullification of the agreement that confers on the onwards at an industry-competitive cost of production.
Group rights to operate in Egypt.
This agreement, the The key drivers of production growth this year will be Concession Agreement, was entered into between the a continued period of elevated head grades from both Arab Republic of Egypt, the Egyptian Mineral Resources the open pit and underground mines and increasing the Authority EMRA and Centamins wholly owned underground ore tonnes mined to 500,000t, as well as subsidiary Pharaoh Gold Mines PGM, and was commissioning of the Stage 4 plant expansion to double approved by the Peoples Assembly as Law 222 of 1994. the processing plants nameplate capacity to 10 million In summary that judgment states that, although the tonnes per annum.
Concession Agreement itself remains valid and in force, Although construction of Stage 4 was steady during the sufficient evidence had not been submitted to Court first half of 2012, the second half saw an impact from 2 in order to demonstrate that the 160km exploitation strikes at Sukari, in some of the ports and at some of the lease between PGM and EMRA had received approval local Egyptian suppliers, as well as temporary disruptions from the relevant Minister as required by the terms of to the operations fuel supply and gold exports, hence the Concession Agreement.
Accordingly, the Court our in-country working capital position.
This translated found that the exploitation lease in respect of the area of to delivery delays for key items, materials and services 2 160km was not valid although it stated that there was and thus a delay to the anticipated commissioning of the 2 in existence such a lease in respect of an area of 3km.
expanded plant, the bulk of which is now expected to Centamin, however, is in possession of the executed commence in the second half of 2013 and with completion original lease documentation which clearly shows that the before the end of the year.
As part of the implementation 2 160km exploitation lease was approved by the Minister of Stage 4 the Company is in discussions with EMRA and of Petroleum and Mineral Resources.
It appears that an other government departments in relation to securing the executed original document was not supplied to the Court.
necessary permits to increase daily ammonium nitrate Upon notication of the judgment the Group took various AN consumption and blasting accessories in order steps to protect its ability to continue to operate the to increase open pit mining rates to the required level to mine at Sukari.
These included both lodging a formal feed the expanded plant.
This process is expected to be appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court on completed during the year.
26 November 2012 and, in the first instance, lodging The capital expenditure programme for 2013 has an Objection to Enforcement in respect of the original two key focus areas: completion of the Stage 4 plant ruling with the Civil Court on 31 October 2012, which had expansion and the on-going development of the the effect of staying postponing implementation for an underground mine.
The total Stage 4 capital expenditure initial period.
In addition, in conjunction with the formal estimate is US$325 million including contingency, with appeal the Group applied to the Supreme Administrative US$228.5 million spent by the end of 2012 and the bulk Court to suspend the initial decision until such time as of the remaining capital expenditure due in 2013. the Court is able to consider and rule on the merits of The budget for the underground expansion is the appeal.
On 20 March 2013, the Court upheld this US$20 million and will take the new decline Ptah application thus suspending the initial decision and to its target depth below the existing area of operation.
providing assurance that normal operations will be able to Underground drilling will continue to test the potential continue whilst the appeal process is underway.
for significant resource and reserve expansion and the EMRA lodged its own appeal in relation to this matter on development of multiple production sources.
27 November 2012, the day after the Companys appeal was lodged.
Furthermore, in late December 2012, the Minister of Petroleum lodged a supporting appeal and shortly thereafter publicly indicated that, in his view, the terms of the Concession Agreement were fair and 12 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 that the exploitation lease was valid.
The Minister of companies operating in the gold mining sector in Egypt Petroleum also expressed support for the investment and were not entitled to such subsidies.
In November, the expertise that Centamin brings to the country.
We believe Group received a further demand from Chevron for the this demonstrates the governments commitment to our repayment of fuel subsidies received during the period investment at Sukari and the desire to stimulate further from late 2009 through to January 2012, amounting to investment in the Egyptian mining industry.
EGP403 million approximately US$60 million at current exchange rates.
We do not yet know when the appeal will conclude, although are aware of the potential for the process The Group has taken detailed legal advice on this matter in Egypt to be lengthy.
The Company has taken extensive and, in particular, on the opinion given by Legal Advice legal advice on the merits of its appeal from two leading Department of the Council of State and in June 2012 Egyptian law rms who have confirmed that the proper lodged an appeal against EGPCs decision in the 2 steps were followed with regard to the grant of the 160km Administrative Courts.
Again, the Group believes that its exploitation lease.
We therefore remain of the view that the grounds for appeal are strong and that there is a good appeal is based on strong legal grounds and will ultimately prospect of success.
However, as a practical matter, be successful.
In the event that the appellate court fails to and in order to ensure the continuation of supply whilst be persuaded of the merits of the case put forward by the the matter is resolved, the Group has since January Group, the operations at Sukari may be adversely effected advanced funds to our fuel supplier, Chevron, based on to the extent that the Companys operation exceeded the the international price for fuel.
2 exploitation lease area of 3km referred to in the original As at the date of this document, no decision had been court decision.
taken by the courts regarding this matter.
The Group The Company remains confident that normal operations remains of the view that an instant move to international at Sukari will be maintained whilst the appeal process fuel prices is not a reasonable outcome and will look is underway.
to recover funds advanced thus far should the court proceeding be successfully concluded.
However, Diesel Fuel Court Case management recognises the practical difficulties In January 2012, the Group received a letter from associated with re-claiming funds from the government Chevron to the effect that Chevron would only be able to and for this reason have fully provided against the supply Diesel Fuel Oil DFO to the mine at Sukari at prepayment of US$41.4 million, as an exceptional item.
international prices rather than at local subsidised prices, Refer to Note 6 of the Financial Statements for further which had the effect of adding approximately US$150 details on the impact of this exceptional provision per ounce to the cost of production.
It is understood that on the Groups results for 2012. the reason that this letter was issued was that Chevron No provision has been made in respect of the historic had received a letter instructing it to do so from the subsidies prior to January 2012 as, based on legal Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation EGPC.
advice, the Company believes that the prospects It is further understood that EGPC itself issued this of a court nding in its favour in relation to this matter instruction because it had received legal advice from remain very strong.
the Legal Advice Department of the Council of State an internal government advisory department that the 13
