Senior Management In addition to Centamins Directors listed above, Senior Management includes the following: Christopher Aujard Pierre Louw General Counsel and Chief Financial officer Company Secretary Pierre is a senior manager with more than 25 years Before joining Centamin hands-on experience in May 2011 Chris was within the Mining Industry the group Legal Director in both major and mid-tier and Company Secretary of gold and copper mining Royal London, a large UKcompanies.
Pierre is a based life assurer, prior to member of the South which he held senior legal African Institute of and company secretarial Professional Accountants and has extensive international positions at a number of major financial institutions and experience having worked in Tanzania, Australia, banks in London.
He has over 25 years experience Zambia and his native South Africa.
Pierre previously as a lawyer and has worked on corporate transactions worked as Finance Director for the Lumwana Copper in a variety of sectors and geographies.
Chris holds a Mine, an Equinox Limited development in Zambia from Masters degree in law from Cambridge University and 2005 to 2010.
Prior to joining Equinox, he worked as undergraduate degrees in law and science from Monash Business and Financial Manager for Geita Gold Mine University in Victoria.
AngloGold Ashanti in Tanzania for the period 2000 to end 2004.
During this time he served as Honorary Heidi Brown Treasurer on the Chamber of Mines of Tanzania and as Company Secretary an executive member of the Tanzanian Tax Stakeholders resigned 31 December Forum representing the Tanzanian Mining sector.
He 2012 has held management roles in the AngloGold corporate ofce where he worked as Divisional Manager and Heidi Brown is a Fellow with JCI Johannesburg Consolidated Investment Co Chartered Secretary FCIS, where he started his career in 1986.
Pierre holds a FCSA with over 15 years National Diploma in Financial Accounting from the experience in the finance University of Johannesburg and completed a Leadership and securities industries.
Development Programme through the University of She holds a Graduate South Africa UNISA.
Certicate of Applied Finance and Investment and a Diploma of Financial Advising through the Financial Services Institute of Australasia.
Heidi remains the Company Secretary of the Companys Australian subsidiaries and Centamin Limited.
56 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 Andrew Pardey Andrew Davidson Head of Business Chief Operating officer Development and Investor in current position since Relations since 13 August 29 May 2012 2012 Andrew Pardey was appointed Chief Operating Prior to joining Centamin officer in May 2012 after in August 2012, Andy having been General Davidson worked for nine Manager-Operations at years as a mining analyst, the Sukari Gold Mine including three years since 2008.
He was a as an equity research major driving force in bringing Sukari into production, Director at the London-based investment bank Numis having joined during the mines construction phase.
Before this, Andy was a senior exploration Andrew holds a BSc in Geology and has over 25 years geologist within the mining industry, including six experience in the mining and exploration industry, having years with Ashanti Goldelds closely involved in the previously held senior positions in Africa, Australia and discovery and development of the world-class Geita other parts of the world with Guinor Gold Corporation, project in Tanzania.
Andy holds an MSc in Mineral AngloGold Ashanti and Kalgoorlie Consolidated Gold Project Appraisal from the Royal School of Mines and a Mines KCGM.
He is also a Member of the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining.
Youssef El-Raghy General Manager - Egyptian Operations An officer graduate of the Egyptian Police Academy, Youssef El-Raghy held senior management roles within the Egyptian Police force for a period in excess of ten years, having attained the rank of captain, prior to joining the Group.
He has extensive contacts within the government and industry and maintains excellent working relationships with all of the Companys stakeholders within Egypt.
