14 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Chief Executives Review RevieW Of the yeaR tough economic climate, we are committed delivered further profit and customer it is important that to doing everything we can to help our growth in an environment of low gas prices customers.
We have made sure that energy and we have successfully integrated recent Centrica makes a fair and choices are simple and transparent, and acquisitions into the business.
We continue we lead the way in standards of customer to see North America as an attractive reasonable return so that service, innovation, help for the vulnerable market to deploy capital, both upstream we can continue to make and energy efficiency.
The weak economy and downstream, for growth and for value.
continues to have an adverse impact on We remain on track to deliver our Groupour contribution to society British Gas Business.
However we were wide 500 million cost reduction able to deliver strong double-digit profit programme, sharpening the business and and to invest.
in 2012, we growth in British Gas Services, largely maintaining our competitive edge.
At the through tight cost control coupled with incurred a tax charge of same time we have retained our absolute continuing high standards ofservice.
focus on safety which continues to be a over 1 billion and invested Upstream at Centrica Energy, we continue core priority across all our activities.
Our to invest to secure energy supplies for the downstream businesses have continued over 2 billion to secure UK.
We completed three acquisitions of their significant reduction in accident rates.
gas and oil assets, delivering a step change Upstream operations had no significant new sources of energy in annual production and strengthening the process safety events in 2012 and geographic spread of our portfolio.
In continue to implement their rigorous for the Uk, well in excess power, our Lincs offshore wind farm has programme of process safety management generated first power and will be fully systems.
At a Group level we have of our profits.
While market developed a more comprehensive process conditions remain challenging for gas-fired to provide greater assurance of HSE Strong performance in 2012 allows plants the nuclear fleet performed well, compliance to the Board and Executive.
us to contribute our fair share with increased output and seven year life This strong safety culture is reflected in our Centrica performed well in 2012 in a extensions for Hinkley Point B and performance, with the lost time injury challenging environment, delivering year on Hunterston B.
In nuclear new build, while frequency rate LTIFR falling by 20%.
year adjusted earnings growth of 5%.
This significant progress has been made, there reflects a combination of organic growth Overall, Centrica is delivering consistent remains uncertainty about overall project and enhanced scale from recent acquisitions earnings growth and it is this which allows costs and the construction schedule.
and investments, in the UK, Norway and us to make our fair contribution to the These factors, in particular the lengthening North America, as well as a continued economy and society through investment, time frame for a return on the capital focus on cost efficiency across the Group.
employment, tax payments and dividends.
invested in a project of this scale, has led As a result we have been able to grow the us to conclude that participation is not Helping our customers in full-year dividend by more than the rate of right for Centrica and in February 2013 we difficulttimes inflation for the 13th year in succession, in announced our decision not to participate.
Taking the lead in making energy addition to launching a 500 million share choices simple and transparent repurchase programme in early 2013.
In Centrica Storage, we delivered an In February 2013, Ofgem announced that increase in profit through strong Downstream at British Gas, we are facing it was preparing for final proposals and a operational and commercial performance.
increased costs in supplying energy, most statutory consultation to be published In North America, at Direct Energy we of which are external to the Group.
In this around the end of March 2013 on its reforms Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15 Business Review Chief Executives Review wE hAvE tAKEn thE LEAD DUrinG 2012 in heLping MORe hOUSehOLdS Save eneRgy and SUppORting the peOpLe WhO need thE MOSt hELP.
Sam Laidlaw Chief Executive to make the household energy market Innovation in North America simpler, clearer and fairer for consumers.
In North America, greater competition hOW dO We MeaSURe These follow on from initial findings has been welcomed by regulators and published in March 2011 and updated customers in our core markets, Texas and Up againSt OUR proposals announced in October 2012. the US North East.
The headline proposals are a welcome growth have increased the size of our step forward for the industry and will help business and we now have 3.5 million to improve customer trust, engagement and residential energy customer accounts understanding.
However, it is important that and around 6 million residential energy Our key performance these positive developments do not have and services accounts intotal.
indicators can be found the unintended consequence of restricting We continue to focus on providing choice and innovation.
We have already on page 18 attractive and innovative products to implemented a number of changes our residential and business customers, consistent with the headline proposals, building on our Group-wide expertise in including simplifying our tariff structures and vulnerable customers received the Warm competitive markets.
Our prepaid Power publishing price comparison information to Home Discount, now worth 130 off their to Go product in Texas continues to grow, make it easy for customers to ensure they annual bill.
We are also at the forefront of while in the US North East the introduction are on the most appropriate British Gas measures to help people use less energy, of Free Power Saturdays has encouraged tariff for them.
installing insulation for nearly 700,000 customers to rephase their electricity use customers during the year.
Customer service, cost efficiency and to off-peak times.
We are specifically innovation remain at the heart of everything Despite the squeeze on household tailoring offers for small business we do.
British Gas operating costs fell year budgets, British Gas Services performed customers while continuing to deliver high on year, but not at the expense of service, well.
We improved retention rates across levels of service.
Our energy services as our Net Promoter Score NPS our product range demonstrating the value business gives us the ability to differentiate increased once again, to 30, and we which customers place on our services.
ourselves from our competitors with were awarded the top five star rating for However, in current economic conditions additional higher margin propositions.
customer service from Consumer Focus.
it is difficult to attract new customers and In Ontario, restrictions on competition Our improved online platform handled 13% we also saw a reduction in boiler continue to make it difficult for us both to more transactions than in 2011, achieving installation volumes, down 10% from last retain customers and attract new ones.
We a better customer experience and lower year.
The economic impact was seen more no longer view this business as core and costs.
Our new Remote Heating Control clearly in British Gas Business, leading to are managing costs to continue serving our product allows customers to monitor and lower profitability and a reduction in the existing customers as efficiently as possible.
control their energy use when they are number of accounts served in a highly away from the home, and we have now competitive market.
We are therefore taking Securing sustainable and installed over 800,000 smart meters for steps to put this business on a stronger affordable energy supplies homes and businesses substantially footing for long-term growth, including The Group invested 2.7 billion of capital more than any other UK energy supplier.
introducing new systems to improve levels in 2012, helping to secure supplies for the of customer service, at lower cost.
Around 2 billion of that was invested We also spend more than any other energy time, we also expect to achieve growth in in North Sea gas and oil assets, including supplier on those who are most in need of business services, particularly through the completion of three acquisitions.
In 2012, 400,000 of our most Energy Performance Contracts.
materially increased the scale and 16 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Chief Executives Review RevieW Of the yeaR COntinUed geographic diversity of the business and the UK Governments Electricity Market Norway is now a core part of our portfolio, Reform and Gas Strategy both indicating with a number of attractive producing, a long-term role for gas-fired generation.
Over However, the sources of UK gas are the past three years we have developed changing, with North Sea reserves declining significant capabilities in upstream and and becoming more expensive to develop.
midstream, leaving us well placed for This places more reliance on imported futuregrowth.
pipeline gas and particularly LNG, and leaves the UK increasingly exposed to We achieved first gas from our Ensign, global gas prices.
Seven Seas and Atla development projects during the year, with first gas expected At the same time, the nature of low carbon power investments in the UK is changing, from York and Rhyl in the coming weeks.
with affordability for consumers In early 2013, we had positive results increasingly the focus of attention.
Projects from exploration drilling at Rodriquez and are becoming larger in scale, with higher Whitehaven.
However we recorded a lower capital costs and longer construction level of drilling success in 2012 than in SOURCing and times, while the fixed price nature of the previous years, including a development pROCURing the Right Contract for Difference mechanism means well failure at Ensign which resulted in a that output will no longer act as a hedge pre-tax write-off of 73 million.
Construction eneRgy at the Right against downstream price volatility.
has now begun at the 1.4 billion Cygnus pRiCe project.
Cygnus is the largest gas discovery Against this backdrop, our vision is to be in the Southern North Sea in the last 25 the leading integrated energy company, years and will create 4,000 jobs during the with customers at our core.
We have construction phase, predominantly in the Read about Centrica refreshed our strategic priorities to position UK.
At peak production it will be able to Centrica to best advantage in this Energys activities meet the demand of nearly 1.5 million demanding but exciting new world: on page 26 UKhomes.
Innovate to drive growth and service We achieved first power from our 270MW excellence we see attractive value, aligned to our Lincs offshore wind farm in the year.
When Lead with great service and efficient core competencies.
In this context, we fully operational by the second half of 2013 operations announced in October that we would not it will be able to meet the annual demand of Enable our customers to control their proceed with plans to build two dedicated more than 200,000 homes.
We were also energy use in a simpler, smarter, more biomass plants, following recent clarification granted planning consent for 580MW at efficient way on the regulatory framework indicating a the Race Bank offshore wind farm project.
Grow in selected markets, building on Government preference for coal conversion.
We are willing to commit 200million for our leading capabilities Earlier this month, we also announced that the project, and are in discussion with a Integrate our natural gas business, linked we would not participate in the construction financial partner and the Government to our core markets of up to four new nuclear reactors in the concerning the economic framework.
Grow and diversify our exploration and UK.
While we believe that nuclear power Investment in the existing nuclear fleet is production portfolio for value has an important role to play in the UKs ongoing, with the expectation for nuclear Develop our midstream business to energy mix, the likely cost and timescale plant life extensions for the AGR fleet now integrate along the gas value chain of this project led us to conclude that it seven years on average, compared to the Maintain a low carbon power hedge was not in the best interests of Centrica five previously assumed.
In gas-fired and invest where we see value shareholders for us to participate.
generation we have recently sanctioned a Increase our returns through efficiency turbine blade upgrade at our 1.2GW South New strategic priorities to reflect and continued capital discipline Humber power station.
We also have changing market conditions Further develop organisational strong capabilities in gas storage, and two World gas markets are evolving and we capability potentially attractive projects, Baird and have to evolve with them.
Shale gas in Continuously focus on safety Caythorpe.
However the market remains North America and LNG globally have Deliver value to shareholders challenging for new gas storage projects transformed the landscape.
Gas will and we will only invest if the returns are These strategic priorities apply across our continue to play a major role in the UK, appropriate for the level of risk undertaken.
businesses in the UK, North America and both in heating the overwhelming majority internationally.
In order to reinforce delivery of homes and businesses and as part of a However, as with all our investment of the priorities we are moving to an diverse fuel mix for power generation, with options, we will only deploy capital where Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 Business Review Chief Executives Review international functional organisation with In North America too, service, innovation Our focus in UK power generation will be to a new management structure, aligned to and cost efficiency will remain a core focus.
preserve our existing power hedge, investing our core competencies downstream and But the continued liberalisation of markets where we have a competitive advantage and upstream.
And we will do all this with the in the United States, and the undeveloped see attractive returns.
We retain a number clear objective of increasing our returns, nature of energy services provision, offer of offshore wind opportunities, at Race Bank through efficiency and continued capital an opportunity to grow our customer base, and in the Irish Sea.
However, we will only discipline.
Chris Weston will lead the both organically and through acquisition.
invest for value and will seek to reduce our international downstream business, as We will continue to evaluate both bolt-on equity ownership through partnering where we build on our distinctive capabilities in and larger acquisitions but remain focused appropriate.
We also retain options to build service, systems, energy services and on returns and will only transact where we new CCGTs.
However spark spreads remain efficiency, in the UK and North America.
We will use our UK expertise and at historically low levels and much will Mark Hanafin will lead the international experience to develop our protection plan depend on the final outcome of Electricity upstream business as we continue to offerings in North America and we will Market Reform and the implementation of develop opportunities along the gas value increase the level of energy and services a capacity market in the UK.
chain and invest where we see attractive bundling over time.
Over the next three to Increase our returns through efficiency value.
Both Chris and Mark have extensive five years we are targeting a doubling of and continued capital discipline experience in the UK and North America, profitability in the North America downstream In 2013, Centrica faces new challenges, and are therefore well placed to take on business, through a combination of organic including the loss of free carbon the task ahead.
growth and acquisitions, with Direct Energy allowances.
But we will continue to benefit downstream becoming a more material Innovate to drive growth and service from our cost reduction programme, from part of the Group.
excellence organic growth and also from the full-year Integrate our natural gas business, Underlying household energy consumption impact of acquisitions, both upstream in linked to our core markets in the UK will continue to fall as appliances gas and oil production and in North In an increasingly global market, we must and homes become more efficient.
In this context, it is vital that we secure gas from a wider range of sources However with the UK increasingly exposed continue to focus on operational efficiency, and will consider at which stages of the supply to global gas prices, and non-commodity reducing costs wherever possible for the chain we can add value, expanding the costs expected to rise year on year, benefit of customers and shareholders.
scope of our activities where appropriate.
affordability will remain an important issue.
All this must be done without in any way The aim is to connect sources of energy By contrast, the low gas price environment compromising our strong focus on health to our customers, building an integrated in North America makes affordability less and safety.
international business focused on the of an issue, and favourable market Centrica has a robust balance sheet and Atlantic basin.
conditions in the United States offer a generates strong cash flows and we retain good opportunity for growth.
On both The UK and Norway will remain an a number of investment opportunities sides of the Atlantic, the roll-out of smart important part of our upstream investment across the Group.
This combination, allied meters will give customers a new level of and activity, as we look to maintain an to our expertise and experience both control over their energy use and we need appropriate energy hedge.
We will invest upstream and downstream, defines to be innovative in the way we help them in assets with a link to existing hubs while Centricas core capabilities.
However, meet their evolving energy needs.
looking to divest non-core assets.
However, we will maintain capital discipline, as In the UK, we have developed a leading with the development of North Sea fields evidenced by our recently announced 500 online platform and leading customer becoming increasingly expensive, million share repurchase programme, only systems.
We will also take advantage of particularly in the UK, we will refresh our investing where we see value.
Our aim now our strong positions in energy services focus on value.
In North America we will is to use those strengths to innovate and and smart meters to develop exciting new consider both conventional and grow while adapting to a rapidly evolving propositions, with offerings increasingly unconventional assets, and there is also energy world, serving our customers and tailored to the needs of individual potential for gas exports later in the decade.
Through relentless focus on Overall, we will invest where we see value service excellence, innovation and cost across our international portfolio, delivering efficiency, we aim to maintain stable annual production in the range 75mmboe to margins in residential energy supply, and 100mmboe.
In addition, we will look to build target continued expansion in residential on our existing midstream capabilities and Sam Laidlaw services.
In business energy we have positions along the gas value chain, focusing Chief Executive laid the groundwork for future growth, on asset optimisation and gas contracting 27 February 2013 although in the near term market with an emerging LNG presence, provided conditions remain challenging.
we can do so in a capital efficient manner.
