12 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Chief Executives Review OUr BUSinESS MODEL: an integRated eneRgy LandSCape the energy chain demonstrates how Centrica plays a major part in every aspect of energy from sourcing it to saving it.
Each link in the energy chain is critical to our success and helps us to deliver our vision to be the leading integrated energy company, with customers at our core.
CEnTRICA EnERGy PAGE 26 dIRECT EnERGy PAGE 32 We SOURCe and geneRate it We invest in gas and oil reserves from the We generate power through our fleet of Our five UK onshore and offshore wind seas around the UK to secure vital combined cycle gas turbine power farms generate renewable power.
We have stations, with eight stations in the UK and offshore wind farm generated its first natural gas assets in the UK, Norway, the three plants in Texas.
We also generate power in the second half of 2012 and in Netherlands, North America and Trinidad power through our equity interest in EDF 2013 it will provide energy to more than and Tobago.
Energy Nuclear Generation which operates 200,000 homes.
In North America, we eight UK nuclear power stations.
secure the electrical output from numerous Texan wind farms.
6 6.8mmboe 28twh 31 million gas and liquids produced power generated customer accounts Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business Review Chief Executives Review CEnTRICA EnERGy PAGE 26 CEnTRICA STORAGE PAGE 30 dIRECT EnERGy PAGE 32 We pROCeSS, StORe and tRade it With the UK increasingly dependent on Our UK onshore gas terminals ensure high In the UK and North America, we trade imported gas, our storage capability helps quality gas enters the UKs transmission gas and power to ensure British Gas and ensure security of gas supply to homes system.
The Barrow terminals process gas Direct Energy customers have a reliable and businesses.
Our Rough storage facility from our Morecambe fields in the East Irish and competitive energy supply.
We have is the largest in the UK, making up more Sea while the terminal at Easington, in East extended our presence to include liquefied than 70% of national storage capacity and Yorkshire, processes gas from the Rough natural gas LNG imports.
Shipping LNG meeting around 10% of peak day demand.
storage facility and from early 2013, a where the gas is cooled to liquid form We store gas at Rough for a large number newly constructed facility at Easington for ease of transport now plays an of customers, including utilities, gas traders will process gas from the York field.
important part in the way we secure the and gas producers.
BRITISh GAS PAGE 22 dIRECT EnERGy PAGE 32 We SUppLy, SeRviCe and Save it We supply energy to millions of homes and consumption and costs.
We offer an We save energy by helping customers businesses in the UK and North America, increasing number of innovative low to improve energy efficiency, offering and provide peace of mind with central carbon, energy efficient products and free insulation and embracing new heating, boiler and cooling maintenance services, including installing solar panels, technologies with smart meters playing and breakdown cover products.
insulation and ground and air source a vital role as the enabling technology in heating.
We are also installing solar the smart connected home.
Our recently By rolling out smart meter technology, we canopies to charge the first fully electric launched Remote Heating Control are ending the need for estimated bills, cars in the UK.
product means customers can monitor providing customers with accurate, and control their central heating systems real-time information on energy from outside the home via the internet.
