Strategy | Our strategy Estimated pharmaceutical market growth 2011 to 2016 South East Africa Europe Non EU countries & East Asia 10.5% 2% 13.9% Middle East North America Indian Subcontinent 7.5% 1.6% 13.3% Japan Europe Latin America 2.6% EU countries 13.2% Oceania 0.6% CIS 2.5% Compound annual growth rate.
Building trust economic growth, especially in Emerging innovative science in that we believe The pharmaceutical industry faces a Markets.
While the hurdles to adopting new that innovative science must be the challenge in building and maintaining products have been raised, there remains foundation for procuring differentiated, trust, particularly with governments and a willingness to pay for differentiated, novel medicines that benefit patients regulators.
The last 10 years have seen innovative medicines.
and for which payers will pay a significant increase in the number of excellence in development and We further believe that AstraZeneca has settlements between innovator companies commercialisation in that we believe the skills and capabilities to take advantage and governmental and regulatory authorities we have strong commercial franchises of these opportunities and turn them into for violations of a variety of laws.
These and capability in developing, marketing long-term value.
We will do this by exploiting include breaches of sales and marketing and selling primary care, specialty and further developing our competitive practices, inducements of physicians to care-led and specialty care products.
advantage: an innovation and science-led administer a companys products and organisation capturing the best of biologics, We are currently completing the strategic breaches of anti-trust legislation.
For small molecules, immunotherapies and review that we began in 2012.
We plan to some audiences, there is a perception antibody engineering.
hold a Capital Markets Day in March 2013 that pharmaceutical companies place to provide a more detailed exposition Our revised strategy is to compete as their commercial goals above the interests of our strategic priorities.
a global biopharmaceutical business of patients, physicians and payers.
delivering great medicines to patients Changes to the Senior Executive Team Companies are taking steps to change through innovative science and excellence In January 2013, we unveiled changes to this perception by embedding a culture in development and commercialisation: our Senior Executive Team that came into of ethics and integrity, adopting higher immediate effect.
Membership of the SET standards of governance and improving global in that we believe we combine has been expanded to include increased relationships with employees, shareholders global reach with local customer representation of AstraZenecas scientific and other stakeholders.
relationships and have the ability expertise, key products and key markets.
to meet healthcare needs in both Changes included the creation of: Our strategy developed and developing markets efficiently and effectively three senior R&D roles responsible for AstraZenecas mission is to make the most biopharmaceutical in that we will discovery and early-stage development meaningful difference to health through develop both chemical small molecule in small molecules: discovery and great medicines.
and biological large molecule medicines early-stage development in biologics: Our strategic review has confirmed our available by prescription, targeting those and late-stage development belief that biopharmaceuticals remain an product categories where medical three roles representing the commercial attractive business, with strong underlying innovation or brand equity will continue regions: North America: Europe: and drivers of demand: expanding and ageing to enable us to make acceptable levels International.
populations, a growing chronic disease of return on our investments burden, and increasing wealth through 20 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Estimated pharmaceutical market growth 2011 to 2016 2% 10.5% 0.6% 1.6% 2.6% 13.3% 7.5% 13.9% 10.5% 2.5% 13.2% A further role will be responsible for global A third phase of restructuring was Medium-term planning assumptions portfolio and product strategy, bridging announced in February 2012.
This We believe challenging market conditions the R&D and sales organisations.
An phase, comprising initiatives across the will persist in 2013, including continued appointment will be made at a later date.
supply chain, SG&A and R&D, carries an government interventions in price.
The estimated programme cost of $2.1 billion revenue impact from the loss of exclusivity The new SET structure is designed to approximately $1.7 billion in cash costs.
will also continue to affect our performance.
provide sharper management focus on Restructuring costs of $1,558 million In the context of the ongoing update to our key pipeline assets, product portfolio associated with this third phase were our strategy, we have withdrawn the and key regions, as well as devolving and taken in 2012, together with $261 million planning assumptions for revenue and accelerating decision making.
It draws that was charged in the fourth quarter margin evolution for the period 2010 to 2014 heavily from the leadership talent within of 2011.
Most of the remaining costs of that we had outlined in January 2010.
AstraZeneca, with the six new members approximately $300 million will be taken being internal appointments.
To date, actions involving around membership of the SET, together with 6,300 of the estimated 7,300 positions information about individual members to be impacted in connection with this and their responsibilities, is shown in the phase of the programme have been Senior Executive Team section on pages completed.
When completed, this phase 108 and 109. is expected to deliver an estimated Restructuring $1.6 billion in annual benets by the Since 2007, we have undertaken significant end of 2014, of which approximately efforts to restructure and reshape our $350 million was realised by the end business to improve long-term of 2012. competitiveness.
These restructuring programmes have The first phase was completed in 2009. been delivering their targeted benets, and are designed to continue to provide the The second phase, which featured a headroom to make appropriate investments significant change programme in R&D, to drive future growth and value, such as began in 2010.
The restructuring actions Emerging Markets commercial infrastructure for this phase of the programme were and expansion of our research capabilities completed in 2011, at a total programme in biologics.
Headcount changes associated with this phase, involving an estimated 9,000 positions, were also completed.
Total annual benets of $1.9 billion were to be delivered by the end of 2014 in connection with this phase of the programme, of which $1.5 billion had been achieved by the end of 2012.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 21 Performance | The value of innovation Innovation means benefits for healthcare systems Healthcare systems around the world are under pressure, working with limited resources to meet the growing demand for healthcare.
Innovative medicines offer benets that go beyond improving patient outcomes, helping to deliver economic efficiencies and supporting more effective allocation of scarce resources.
For example, the introduction of antacid Hreceptors followed by proton-pump 2 inhibitors had an almost overnight impact on the cost of surgery by eliminating the need for many gastric operations and follow-up post-operative care.
The redundancy of surgical intervention freed up resources to be invested more efficiently elsewhere.
The decrease in costs associated with hospital care for cardiovascular diseases is estimated to be almost four times larger than the increase in costs of cardiovascular medicines that deliver improved patient outcomes and overall efficiencies for healthcare systems.
22 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information We are working more closely than ever before with the people who pay for healthcare to make sure we can answer their questions about the value of our medicines in delivering better, cost-effective healthcare to patients, including evidence about a medicines use in the real world once it has been approved.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 23
