Strategy | Our business model Our strategic context AstraZeneca competes as a global biopharmaceutical business delivering great medicines to patients through innovative science and excellence in development and commercialisation.
R&D Creation and acquisition of Application for patents to protect Clinical development intellectual property through the intellectual property assets programmes to determine safety innovative R&D developed in a potential medicine and efcacy of the potential medicine and generate further intellectual property rights and data for regulatory submissions In this section, we describe our business neurological disorders, cancer, and medicines development to understand model and review the key growth drivers respiratory and inammatory conditions.
where the greatest clinical needs are.
and challenges that the pharmaceutical This is the core of our commitment to As we develop our medicines we gather sector faces.
Successful not only the clinical data required for pharmaceutical innovation, delivered regulatory approval but also the health We then describe AstraZenecas response responsibly, improves health for patients, economics cost benefit and value-in-use to these factors and the ongoing update to brings benets to stakeholders and delivers data required by payers.
our strategy a strategy that seeks to make long-term shareholder value.
a real difference to patient health, deliver An essential element of our business long-term value for our shareholders, and The process of getting a medicine to model is the creation and protection of add value for our other stakeholders and market, from initial discovery, through our underlying intellectual property assets.
development to approval and launch is risky, This process is outlined in the diagram costly and time consuming.
The development of a new medicine thousands of compounds initially analysed, requires a significant investment of Our business model only a few make it through all stages of resources over a period of 10 or more Improving health is one of the toughest development.
The gure overleaf illustrates years before product launch, with no challenges facing the world today.
Despite the process we follow.
Our activities cover guarantee of success.
For this to be all the advances in recent decades, the the entire life-cycle of a medicine and start a viable investment, the resulting new prevalence of major diseases is on the with the identication of an unmet medical medicine must be safeguarded from increase.
The worlds population is growing need, and the scientific search for a being copied with a reasonable amount and ageing.
Health awareness and patients potential medicine.
The process continues of certainty and for a reasonable period expectations are rising while healthcare through the phases of clinical trials and of time.
This allows time to generate a systems everywhere are under pressure.
drug development, regulatory submission, return on our investment and to reinvest It will take a sustained and significant effort and a medicines launch.
After launch, in new pharmaceutical innovation.
to drive continued progress in healthcare.
our life-cycle management process The loss of key product patents has including line extensions is designed As a global biopharmaceutical company, affected a significant proportion of sales to ensure a medicines continued safe AstraZeneca has a key contribution to in recent years and will continue to do use and to explore its potential for treating make.
Our skills and resources are so.
A key goal for our planning process other diseases or extending its use into focused on the discovery, development, is therefore to ensure that we sustain the additional patient populations.
manufacturing and commercialisation cycle of successful innovation and, as of patent-protected medicines that make As the gure overleaf shows, we work in a result, continue to refresh our portfolio a meaningful difference to patients facing partnership with others to deliver the highest of patented products and so generate some of the worlds most serious health quality new medicines to market rapidly.
challenges: heart disease, diabetes, For example, we work with those who pay gastrointestinal disorders, infection, for our medicines and health technology appraisers early on and throughout a 12 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Sales and marketing Period of intellectual property Expiry of intellectual property protection for an innovative rights and commoditisation of medicine which allows a return knowledge which typically sees to be made on the investment generic versions of a medicine undertaken entering a market Distinctive capabilities selling primary care, specialty care-led Health connects us all AstraZeneca has clear strengths that and specialty care products.
We know we cannot deliver on our allow us to create value for patients Strong Emerging Markets presence.
We commitment to improve healthcare on our and for shareholders: combine global reach with local customer own.
We work closely with others in the relationships.
We do this particularly well healthcare community to understand their Good underlying science.
External in Emerging Markets, where we invested needs and challenges, and how we can opinion leaders confirm that we early and where our decentralised combine skills and resources to achieve have strong disease knowledge, approach to sales and marketing has common goals.
To be able to do this, research portfolios, and related allowed us to develop and act on local people must have confidence in both what technology platforms in a number customer insight.
For example, we are the we do and how we do it.
We know that their of areas, particularly in oncology, second largest pharmaceutical company trust depends on us acting with integrity and respiratory and inammation.
and staying true to our core values.
Few pharmaceutical companies As we look ahead, the future success of The principles of Courage, Collaboration in the world, if any, can match the an innovation-driven R&D-based business and Creativity frame our values.
They combination of capabilities that such as AstraZeneca must be based on the describe what we stand for as a company, we have in small molecules, biologics, twin foundations of a focus on patients and and the behaviours we need to demonstrate immunotherapies and antibody great science.
We are one of only a handful to achieve our strategic priorities.
These capabilities allow of companies to span the entire life-cycle values reect our belief that health connects us to produce combination therapies of a medicine from discovery, early and us all.
They guide our actions and shape such as drug antibody conjugates late-stage development to the global the culture that underpins our drive for and bispecics and customisable commercialisation of primary care, specialty business success.
molecules, both targeted to specic care-led and specialty care medicines.
Using these skills and capabilities we can Strong therapy area franchises, brands make a real difference to the health of a and commercial capability.
Over the broad range of patients in disease areas past decade, we have developed strong where there is unmet medical need in commercial franchises that address more than 100 markets around the respiratory, cardiovascular, oncology world.
We also harness these skills and and neuroscience diseases.
We continue capabilities in partnership with others, to develop these strong therapeutic area such as the relationships we have with positions: for example, Brilinta Brilique BMS and Amgen.
and the diabetes portfolio we are commercialising jointly with BMS provide the next phase of development for our cardiovascular and metabolic disease franchise.
We have strong commercial capability in developing, marketing and AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 13
