Corporate Governance | Board of Directors as at 31 January 2013 1 2 3 7 8 9 1 Leif Johansson 61 the US and Europe.
He is a doctor of veterinary 5 Bruce Burlington 64 Non-Executive Chairman of the Board, medicine cole Nationale Vtrinaire dAlfort, Non-Executive Director and member of the Chairman of the Nomination and Maisons-Alfort and holds an MBA from LInstitut Audit Committee and the Science Committee Governance Committee and member Suprieur des Affaires, Jouy-en-Josas.
Appointed as a Director in August 2010. of the Remuneration Committee 3 Simon Lowth 51 Bruce Burlington is a pharmaceutical product Elected as a Director in April 2012 and became Executive Director development and regulatory affairs consultant Non-Executive Chairman of the Board on and Chief Financial officer and brings extensive experience in those areas 1 June.
Leif Johansson is also the Chairman to the Board.
He is also a non-executive board Appointed as a Director and as CFO in of global telecommunications company, member of Cangene Corporation and the November 2007, and served as Interim LM Ericsson, a position he has held since International Partnership for Microbicides, CEO from June to September 2012.
From 1997 until 2011, he was Chief and a member of the scientific advisory boards Lowth is also a Non-Executive Director of Executive of AB Volvo, one of the worlds leading of the International Medical Foundation and Standard Chartered PLC.
He was previously manufacturers of trucks, buses, construction H. Lundbeck A S. Previously he spent 17 years at ScottishPower Energy where he was Finance equipment, drive systems and aerospace with the FDA, serving as director of the FDAs Director, a position he left following completion components.
He spent a significant part of Center for Devices and Radiological Health as of the sale of the company to Iberdrola S. A. his early career at AB Electrolux, latterly as well as holding a number of senior roles in the His move to ScottishPower followed 15 years Chief Executive from 1994 to 1997.
He was Center for Drug Evaluation and Research.
After experience with the global management a Non-Executive Director of BMS from 1998 leaving the FDA he served in a series of senior consultancy, McKinsey & Company, where he to September 2011, serving on the boards audit executive positions at Wyeth now part of Pzer.
advised leading multinational companies on a committee and compensation and management wide range of strategic, financial and operational 6 Graham Chipchase 50 development committee.
He has an engineering degree from Non-Executive Director the European Round Table of Industrialists Cambridge University and an MBA from and member of the Audit Committee and the International Advisory Board of the the London Business School.
He holds board positions Elected as a Director in April 2012.
Graham 4 Genevive Berger 58 at Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA and Chipchase is the Chief Executive of global Non-Executive Director Ecolean AB.
He holds an MSc in engineering consumer packaging company, Rexam PLC.
and member of the Science Committee from Chalmers University of Technology, He was appointed to the position in 2010 after Gothenburg, and has been a member of previous service at Rexam as Group Director, Elected as a Director in April 2012.
Genevive the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Plastic Packaging 2005-2009 and Group Berger is Chief Science officer at Unilever PLC Sciences since 1994.
He became Chairman Finance Director 2003-2005.
Prior to joining and a member of the Unilever Leadership of the Academy in 2012.
Rexam, he was Finance Director of Aerospace Executive.
She holds three doctorates Services at global engineering group, GKN plc, in physics, human biology and a medical 2 Pascal Soriot 53 from 2001 to 2003.
After starting his career with doctorate.
She was appointed Professor of Executive Director Coopers & Lybrand Deloitte, he held a number Medicine at Universit Pierre et Marie Curie, and Chief Executive officer of finance roles in the industrial gases company, Paris in 2006.
From 2003 to 2008 she was Pascal Soriot was appointed as a Director and The BOC Group plc now part of The Linde Professor and Hospital Practitioner at lHpital as CEO in October.
From 2010 to September fide la Piti-Salptrire, Paris.
He is a Fellow of the 2012, he served as Chief Operating officer of Institute of Chartered Accountants in England she has held include Director of the Biotech Roche AGs pharmaceuticals division.
Prior and Agri-Food Department, then Head of the and Wales and holds an MA Hons in chemistry to that, he was CEO of Genentech, a biologics from Oriel College, Oxford.
Technology Directorate at the French Ministry business, and led its successful merger with of Research and Technology 1998-2000 : Roche.
He joined the pharmaceutical industry Director General, Centre National fide la in 1986 and has worked in senior management Recherche Scientique 2000-2003 : roles throughout the world in a number of major and Chairman of the Health Advisory Board companies since then.
He brings to AstraZeneca of the EU Commission 2006-2008.
She was a significant breadth of experience in both a non-executive board member of Unilever established and emerging markets, strength from 2007 to 2008 before being appointed of strategic thinking, a successful track record to her current position and was a Non-Executive of managing change and putting strategy into Director of Smith & Nephew plc from 2010 operation, as well as the ability to lead a diverse to 2012. organisation having lived in Australia, Japan, 106 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 4 5 6 10 11 12 7 Jean-Philippe Courtois 52 9 Nancy Rothwell 57 11 John Varley 56 Senior independent Non-Executive Director, Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director, Chairman and member of the Audit Committee of the Science Committee, member Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and member of the Nomination of the Remuneration Committee and the Appointed as a Director in February 2008.
Nomination and Governance Committee and Governance Committee Jean-Philippe Courtois has close to 30 years experience in the global technology industry.
Appointed as a Director in April 2006.
Nancy Appointed as a Director in July 2006.
John Varley was formerly Group Chief Executive He is President of Microsoft International and Rothwell oversees responsible business on a board member of PlaNet Finance.
Previously behalf of the Board, as is described more fully in of the Barclays Group, having held a number of senior positions with the bank during his career, he was Chief Executive officer and President of the Responsible Business section from page 48.
Microsoft EMEA and has served as co-chairman She is a distinguished life scientist and academic including that of Group Finance Director.
He brings additional international, executive of the World Economic Forums Global Digital and is the President and Vice-Chancellor of the Divide Initiative Task Force and on the European University of Manchester.
She is also President business leadership experience to the Board.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Commission Information and Communication of the Society of Biology and Co-Chair of the Technology Task Force.
In 2009, he also served Prime Ministers Council for Science and BlackRock, Inc. and Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, Chairman of Business Action as an EU Ambassador for the Year of Creativity Technology.
Previously she has served as and Innovation and in 2011 was named as President of the British Neuroscience Association on Homelessness and of Marie Curie Cancer Care, President of Business Disability Forum, one of Techs Top 25 by The Wall Street and has been on the councils of the Medical Journal Europe.
Research Council, the Royal Society, the and Honorary President of the UK Drug Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Policy Commission.
8 Rudy Markham 66 Research Council, the Academy of Medical 12 Marcus Wallenberg 56 Non-Executive Director, Chairman Sciences and Cancer Research UK.
of the Audit Committee, member of the Non-Executive Director 10 Shriti Vadera 50 and member of the Science Committee Remuneration Committee and the Nomination and Governance Committee Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Director in April 1999. and member of the Audit Committee Appointed as a Director in September 2008.
Marcus Wallenberg has international business Appointed as a Director in January 2011.
Shriti experience across a broad range of industry Rudy Markham takes a particular interest on behalf of the Board in SHE assurance.
He has Vadera has significant experience of emerging sectors, including the pharmaceutical industry markets, and knowledge of global finance and from his directorship with Astra prior to 1999. significant international business and financial experience, having formerly held a number public policy.
She is a Non-Executive Director He is the Chairman of Skandinaviska Enskilda of BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited.
She Banken AB, AB Electrolux, Saab AB and LKAB, of senior commercial and financial positions worldwide with Unilever, culminating in his advises funds, governments and companies, and a Non-Executive Director of Investor AB, and has recently undertaken a number of Stora Enso Oyj, Temasek Holdings Limited and appointment as Chief Financial officer of Unilever.
He is currently Chairman and Noninternational assignments including advising the Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation.
the Republic of Korea as Chair of the G20, the Executive Director of Moorelds Eye Hospital Other ofcers of the Company at 31 January NHS Foundation Trust and a non-executive government of Dubai on the restructuring of 2013 included members of the SET, as set Dubai World, Temasek Holdings, Singapore on member of the boards of United Parcel Services out on pages 108 and 109, and Adrian Kemp, Inc. Standard Chartered PLC and Legal & strategy and Allied Irish Banks on restructuring Company Secretary.
He is also a non-executive member of the board of the UK Foreign and She was Minister in the UK government from Commonwealth Ofce, a member of the 2007 to 2009, most latterly in the Cabinet Ofce supervisory board of CSM NV, a Fellow and Business Department, working on the of the Chartered Institute of Management governments response to the financial crisis.
Accountants and a Fellow of the Association From 1999 to 2007, she was on the Council of Corporate Treasurers.
He served as a of Economic Advisers, HM Treasury focusing Non-Executive Director of the UK Financial on business and international economic issues.
Prior to that she spent 14 years in investment banking with S G Warburg UBS in banking, project finance and corporate finance specialising in emerging markets.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 107 Corporate Governance | Senior Executive Team as at 31 January 2013 1 2 3 7 8 9 1 Pascal Soriot 5 Paul Hudson 7 Mark Mallon Executive Vice-President, International Chief Executive officer Executive Vice-President, North America Mark Mallon was appointed as Executive See page 106.
Paul Hudson was appointed Executive Vice-President, North America in January Vice-President, International in January 2 Simon Lowth 2013 and is responsible for the growth and 2013 and leads AstraZenecas commercial Chief Financial officer operations in North America.
In this capacity, performance of AstraZenecas commercial See page 106. businesses in regions including Asia Pacic, he is accountable for driving growth and maximising the contribution of North America Russia, Latin America, the Middle East and 3 Katarina Ageborg Africa.
Since joining AstraZeneca in 1994, to AstraZenecas global business.
Paul joined Chief Compliance officer AstraZeneca in 2006 as Vice-President and Mark has held a number of senior sales Katarina Ageborg was appointed Chief and marketing roles including Regional Primary Care Director, UK.
Pauls most recent Compliance officer in July 2011 and has role with AstraZeneca was President of Vice-President for Asia Pacic, President overall responsibility for the design, delivery of AstraZeneca China and head of marketing, AstraZenecas Japanese business.
He has and implementation of AstraZenecas served as a Standing Board Member of Japan sales and commercial operations for compliance responsibilities.
Since joining AstraZeneca in Japan.
Mark has a degree Pharmaceuticals Manufacturers Association AstraZeneca in 1998, she has held a series and EFPIA in Japan.
Previously, Paul was in chemical engineering from the University of senior legal roles supporting Commercial of Pennsylvania and an MBA in marketing and President of AstraZenecas business in and Regulatory and most recently led the Spain.
Before AstraZeneca, Paul worked finance from the Wharton School of Business.
Global IP function from 2008 to 2011.
Prior to for Schering-Plough, where he held senior 8 Briggs Morrison joining AstraZeneca, she established her own global marketing roles.
Paul received a degree Executive Vice-President, law rm in Sweden and worked as a lawyer in economics from Manchester Metropolitan Global Medicines Development practising on both civil and criminal cases.
University and a DipM from the UKs Chartered Institute of Marketing.
Dr Briggs Morrison was appointed Executive 4 Ruud Dobber Vice-President, Global Medicines Development Executive Vice-President, Europe 6 Bahija Jallal in January 2013 and leads our global late-stage Executive Vice-President, MedImmune Ruud Dobber was appointed as Executive development organisation for both small Vice-President, Europe in January 2013 and Dr Bahija Jallal was appointed Executive molecules and biologics.
He joined AstraZeneca leads AstraZenecas commercial operations Vice-President, MedImmune in January in 2012 from Pzer, where he was Head of in Europe.
In this capacity, Ruud is responsible 2013 and is responsible for biologics research, Medical Excellence, overseeing development, for sales, marketing and commercial operations development and clinical activities.
Bahija medical affairs, safety and regulatory affairs across AstraZenecas businesses in the 27 is tasked with advancing the biologic pipeline for Pzers human health businesses.
Briggs has EU member states.
Ruud joined AstraZeneca of drugs.
Bahija joined MedImmune as a track record of successfully developing novel in 1997 and has held a number of senior Vice-President, Translational Sciences in 2006 medicines in roles at both Pzer and Merck.
commercial roles including Regional Viceand has held roles of increasing responsibility.
Briggs has a biology degree from Georgetown President of AstraZenecas European, Middle Prior to joining AstraZeneca, Bahija worked University and a medical doctorate from the East and African division and Regional Vicewith Chiron Corporation where she served University of Connecticut.
Briggs has also President for the Groups Asia Pacic region.
as Vice-President, Drug Assessment and undertaken an internship and residency in Since 2012, Ruud has been an Executive Development.
Bahija received a masters degree internal medicine at the Massachusetts General Committee Member of EFPIA.
In 2011, Ruud in biology from the Universit fide Paris VII and Hospital, a fellowship in medical oncology was the Chairman of the Asia division of her doctorate in physiology from the Universit at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and a Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers Pierre et Marie Curie, Paris.
She conducted post-doctoral research fellowship in genetics of America.
Ruud commenced his career her postdoctoral research at the Max-Planck at Harvard Medical School.
as a scientist, researching in the eld of Institute of Biochemistry in Martinsried, immunology and ageing.
She is a member of the American in immunology from the University of Leiden Association of Cancer Research, the American in the Netherlands.
Association of Science, the Pharmacogenomics Working Group and is a member of the Board of Directors of the Association of Women in Science.
108 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 4 5 6 10 11 12 9 Menelas Pangalos 11 David Smith The SET position of Executive Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, Innovative Executive Vice-President, Global Portfolio & Product Strategy is currently Medicines Operations & Information Services vacant, pending the appointment of an individual for this role.
Menelas Mene Pangalos, was appointed David Smith joined AstraZeneca in 2006 During 2012, Martin Mackay, President, Global Executive Vice-President, Innovative Medicines as Executive Vice-President, Operations.
He in January 2013 and leads AstraZenecas leads AstraZenecas global manufacturing and R&D below left and Tony Zook, Executive Vice-President, Global Commercial Operations small molecule discovery research and supply organisation and is also responsible for early development activities.
Mene joined the Safety, Health and Environment, Regulatory below right served as SET members.
With effect from 15 January 2013, these two roles AstraZeneca from Pzer, where he was Senior Compliance, Procurement and Engineering Vice-President and Chief scientific officer functions and has overall responsibility for IS.
were eliminated and the newly-constituted SET shown above was appointed.
Martin and Tony of Neuroscience Research.
Previously, Mene He spent his early career in pharmaceuticals, held senior discovery and neuroscience initially with the Wellcome Foundation in the left the Company at the end of February 2013. roles at Wyeth and GSK.
He subsequently spent nine years in the his undergraduate degree in biochemistry consumer goods sector working for Este at the Imperial College of Science and Lauder Inc. and Timberland LLC in senior Technology, London and earned a doctorate supply chain roles.
In 2003, he returned in neurochemistry from the University of London.
to the pharmaceutical sector and joined He is a Visiting Professor of Neuroscience Novartis in Switzerland.
In the UK, Mene 12 Lynn Tetrault sits on the Medical Research Council and Executive Vice-President, the Innovation Board for the Association Human Resources & Corporate Affairs of the British Pharmaceutical Industry.
Lynn Tetrault was appointed Executive Vice- 10 Jeff Pott President, Human Resources & Corporate General Counsel Affairs in 2007, having previously been VicePresident, Corporate Affairs.
She has also Jeff Pott was appointed General Counsel in January 2009 and has overall responsibility held the role of Vice-President HR, Global Drug Development and Vice-President, for all aspects of AstraZenecas Legal and IP function.
He joined AstraZeneca in 1995 and has HR in AstraZenecas US business following the merger between Astra and Zeneca.
worked in various litigation roles, where he has had responsibility for IP, anti-trust and product She started her career in private law practice where she specialised in general corporate liability litigation.
Prior to joining AstraZeneca, he spent five years at the US legal rm Drinker and healthcare law.
She joined Astra USA in 1993 as Associate General Counsel in the Biddle and Reath LLP, where he specialised in pharmaceutical product liability litigation and companys legal department.
She received her bachelors degree from Princeton University anti-trust advice and litigation.
He received his bachelors degree in political science from and her law degree from the University of Virginia Law School.
Wheaton College and his Juris Doctor Degree from Villanova University School of Law.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 109
