Additional Information | Shareholder Information Documents on display The Articles and other documents concerning the Company which are referred to in this Annual Report may be inspected at the Companys registered ofce at 2 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD.
Taxation for US residents The following summary of material UK and US federal income tax consequences of ownership of Ordinary Shares or ADRs held as capital assets by the US resident holders described below is based on current UK and US federal income tax law, including the US UK double taxation convention relating to income and capital gains, which entered into force on 31 March 2003 the Convention.
This summary does not describe all of the tax consequences that may be relevant in light of the US resident holders particular circumstances and tax consequences applicable to US resident holders subject to special rules such as certain financial institutions, entities treated as partnerships for US federal income tax purposes, persons whose functional currency for US federal income tax purposes is not the US dollar, tax-exempt entities, or persons holding Ordinary Shares or ADRs in connection with a trade or business conducted outside of the US.
US resident holders are urged to consult their tax advisers regarding the UK and US federal income tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of Ordinary Shares or ADRs in their particular circumstances.
This summary is based in part on representations of JPMorgan as depositary for ADRs and assumes that each obligation in the deposit agreement among the Company, JPMorgan and the holders from time to time of ADRs and any related agreements will be performed in accordance with its terms.
The US Treasury has expressed concerns that parties to whom American depository shares are released before shares are delivered to the depositary pre-release, or intermediaries in the chain of ownership between holders and the issuer of the security underlying the American depository shares, may be taking actions that are inconsistent with the claiming, by US holders of American depository shares, of foreign tax credits for US federal income tax purposes.
Such actions would also be inconsistent with the claiming of the reduced tax rates, described below, applicable to dividends received by certain non-corporate US resident holders.
Accordingly, the availability of the reduced tax rates for dividends received by certain non-corporate US resident holders could be affected by actions that may be taken by parties to whom ADRs are pre-released.
For the purposes of this summary, the term US resident holder means a beneficial owner of Ordinary Shares or ADRs that is, for US federal income tax purposes, a citizen or resident of the US, a corporation or other entity taxable as a corporation created or organised in or under the laws of the US, any state in the US or the District of Columbia, or an estate or trust the income of which is subject to US federal income taxation regardless of its source.
This summary assumes that we are not, and will not become, a passive foreign investment company, as discussed below.
UK and US income taxation of dividends The UK does not currently impose a withholding tax on dividends paid by a UK company, such as the Company.
For US federal income tax purposes, distributions paid by the Company to a US resident holder are included in gross income as foreign source ordinary dividend income to the extent paid out of the Companys current or accumulated earnings and profits, calculated in accordance with US federal income tax principles.
Because the Company does not maintain calculations of its earning and profits under US federal income tax principles, it is expected that distributions generally will be reported to US resident holders as dividends.
The amount of the dividend will be the US dollar amount received by the depositary for US resident holders of ADRs or, in the case of Ordinary Shares, the US dollar value of the pounds sterling payments made, determined at the spot pound sterling US dollar rate on the date the dividend is received by the US resident holders, regardless of whether the dividend is converted into US dollars, and it will not be eligible for the dividends received deduction generally available to US corporations.
If the dividend is converted into US dollars on the date of receipt, US resident holders of Ordinary Shares generally should not be required to recognise foreign currency gains or losses in respect of the dividend income.
They may have foreign currency gain or loss if the amount of such dividend is converted into US dollars after the date of its receipt.
Subject to applicable limitations and the discussion above regarding concerns expressed by the US Treasury, dividends received by certain non-corporate US resident holders of Ordinary Shares or ADRs may be taxable at favourable US federal income tax rates.
US resident holders should consult their own tax advisers to determine whether they are subject to any special rules which may limit their ability to be taxed at this favourable rate.
Taxation on capital gains Under present UK law, individuals who are neither resident nor ordinarily resident in the UK, and companies which are not resident in the UK, will not be liable for UK tax on capital gains made on the disposal of their Ordinary Shares or ADRs, unless such Ordinary Shares or ADRs are held in connection with a trade, profession or vocation carried on in the UK through a branch or agency or other permanent establishment.
A US resident holder will generally recognise US source capital gains or losses for US federal income tax purposes on the sale or exchange of Ordinary Shares or ADRs in an amount equal to the difference between the US dollar amount realised and such holders US dollar tax basis in the Ordinary Shares or ADRs.
US resident holders should consult their own tax advisers about the treatment of capital gains, which may be taxed at lower rates than ordinary income for non-corporate US resident holders and capital losses, the deductibility of which may be limited.
Passive Foreign Investment Company PFIC rules We believe that we were not a PFIC for US federal income tax purposes for the year ended 31 December 2012.
However, since PFIC status depends on the composition of our income and assets and the market value of our assets including, among others, less than 25% owned equity investments from time to time, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for any taxable year.
If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which Ordinary Shares or ADRs were held, certain adverse tax consequences could apply to US resident holders.
206 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Information reporting and backup withholding Payments of dividends and sales proceeds that are made within the US or through certain US-related financial intermediaries may be subject to information reporting and backup withholding, unless i the US resident holder is a corporation or other exempt recipient or ii in the case of backup withholding, the US resident holder provides a correct taxpayer identication number and certies that it is not subject to backup withholding.
The amount of any backup withholding from a payment to a US resident holder will be allowed as a credit against the holders US federal income tax liability and may entitle the holder to a refund, provided that the required information is supplied to the Internal Revenue Service IRS ontime.
Certain US resident holders who are individuals and under proposed US Treasury regulations, certain entities, may be required to report information relating to securities issued by non-US persons or foreign accounts through which the securities are held, generally on IRS Form 8938, subject to certain exceptions including an exception for securities held in accounts maintained by US financial institutions.
US resident holders should consult their tax advisers regarding their reporting obligations with respect to the Ordinary Shares or ADRs.
UK inheritance tax Under the current Double Taxation Estates Convention the Estate Tax Convention between the US and the UK, Ordinary Shares or ADRs held by an individual shareholder who is domiciled for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention in the US, and is not for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention a national of the UK, will generally not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individuals death or on a chargeable gift of the Ordinary Shares or ADRs during the individuals lifetime, provided that any applicable US federal gift or estate tax liability is paid, unless the Ordinary Shares or ADRs are part of the business property of a permanent establishment of the individual in the UK or, in the case of a shareholder who performs independent personal services, pertain to a xed base situated in the UK.
Where the Ordinary Shares or ADRs have been placed in trust by a settlor who, at the time of settlement, was a US domiciled shareholder, the Ordinary Shares or ADRs will generally not be subject to UK inheritance tax unless the settlor, at the time of settlement, was a UK national, or the Ordinary Shares or ADRs are part of the business property of a permanent establishment of the individual in the UK or, in the case of a shareholder who performs independent personal services, pertain to a xed base situated in the UK.
In the exceptional case where the Ordinary Shares or ADRs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and US federal gift or estate tax, the Estate Tax Convention generally provides for double taxation to be relieved by means of credit relief.
UK stamp duty reserve tax and stamp duty A charge to UK stamp duty or UK stamp duty reserve tax SDRT may arise on the deposit of Ordinary Shares in connection with the creation of ADRs.
The rate of stamp duty or SDRT will generally be 1.5% of the value of the consideration or, in some circumstances, the value of the Ordinary Shares.
However, following a recent ruling in the UK, there is no 1.5% SDRT charge on the issue of Ordinary Shares or, where it is integral to the raising of new capital, the transfer of Ordinary Shares into the ADR arrangement.
No UK stamp duty will be payable on the acquisition or transfer of existing ADRs provided that any instrument of transfer or written agreement to transfer is executed outside the UK and remains at all times outside the UK.
An agreement for the transfer of ADRs will not give rise to a liability for SDRT.
A transfer of or an agreement to transfer Ordinary Shares will generally be subject to UK stamp duty or SDRT at 0.5% of the amount or value of any consideration, provided, in the case of stamp duty, it is rounded to the nearest 5.
Transfers of Ordinary Shares into CREST will generally not be subject to stamp duty or SDRT unless such a transfer is made for a consideration in money or moneys worth, in which case a liability to SDRT will arise, usually at the rate of 0.5% of the value of the consideration.
Paperless transfers of Ordinary Shares within CREST are generally liable to SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the value of the consideration.
CREST is obliged to collect SDRT from the purchaser on relevant transactions settled within the system.
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security holders There are no governmental laws, decrees or regulations in the UK restricting the import or export of capital or affecting the remittance of dividends, interest or other payments to non-resident holders of Ordinary Shares or ADRs.
There are no limitations under English law or the Articles on the right of non-resident or foreign owners to be the registered holders of, or to exercise voting rights in relation to, Ordinary Shares or ADRs or to be registered holders of notes or debentures of Zeneca Wilmington Inc. or the Company.
Exchange rates The following information relating to average and spot exchange rates used by AstraZeneca is provided for convenience: SEK US$ US$ GBP Average rates statement of comprehensive income, statement of cash ows 2010 7.2504 1.5453 2011 6.5059 1.5996 2012 6.7782 1.5834 End of year spot rates statement of financial position 2010 6.7511 1.5422 2011 6.9050 1.5443 2012 6.5176 1.6171 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 207 Additional Information | Corporate Information Corporate Information History and development The Board may exercise all the powers Subject to the provisions of the Companies of the Company of the Company to borrow money.
Variation Act 2006, the Company has the right AstraZeneca PLC was incorporated in of these borrowing powers would require to redeem the Redeemable Preference England and Wales on 17 June 1992 under the passing of a special resolution of the Shares at any time on giving not less the Companies Act 1985.
It is a public Companys shareholders.
than seven days written notice.
limited company domiciled in the UK.
The All Directors must retire from ofce at There are no specic restrictions on Companys registered number is 2723534 the Companys AGM each year and the transfer of shares in the Company, and its registered ofce is at 2 Kingdom may present themselves for election or which is governed by the Articles and Street, London W2 6BD telephone 44 re-election.
Directors are not prohibited, prevailing legislation.
From February 1993 until upon reaching a particular age, from The Company is not aware of any April 1999, the Company was called Zeneca submitting themselves for election or agreements between holders of shares Group PLC.
On 6 April 1999, the Company re-election.
that may result in restrictions on the transfer changed its name to AstraZeneca PLC.
Within two months of the date of their of shares or that may result in restrictions The Company was formed when the appointment, Directors are required to on voting rights.
pharmaceutical, agrochemical and specialty beneficially own Ordinary Shares of an chemical businesses of Imperial Chemical Action necessary to change the rights aggregate nominal amount of at least Industries PLC were demerged in 1993. of shareholders $125, which currently represents In 1999, the Company sold the specialty In order to vary the rights attached to any 500 shares.
Also in 1999, the class of shares, the consent in writing of Company merged with Astra of Sweden.
Rights, preferences and restrictions the holders of three-quarters in nominal In 2000, it demerged the agrochemical attaching to shares value of the issued shares of that class or business and merged it with the similar As at 31 December 2012, the Company had the sanction of an extraordinary resolution agribusiness of Novartis to form a new 1,246,779,548 Ordinary Shares and 50,000 passed at a general meeting of such company called Syngenta AG.
Redeemable Preference Shares in issue.
The Ordinary Shares represent 99.98% and In 2007, the Group acquired MedImmune, General meetings the Redeemable Preference Shares represent a biologics and vaccines business based AGMs and other general meetings, as 0.02% of the Companys total share capital in the US.
from time to time may be required, where these percentages have been calculated by a special resolution is to be passed or a The Group owns and operates numerous reference to the closing mid-point US$ GBP Director is to be appointed, require 21 clear R&D, production and marketing facilities exchange rate on 31December 2012 as days notice to shareholders.
Its corporate ofce is at published in the London edition of the the Companies Act 2006, other general 2 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD.
As agreed by meetings require 14 clear days notice.
the shareholders at the Companys AGM Articles For all general meetings, a quorum of held on 29 April 2010, the Articles were Objects two shareholders present in person or by amended with immediate effect to remove The Companys objects are unrestricted.
proxy, and entitled to vote on the business the requirement for the Company to have Any amendment to the Articles requires transacted, is required unless each of the an authorised share capital, the concept of the approval of shareholders by a special two persons present are corporate which was abolished under the Companies resolution at a general meeting of the representatives of the same corporation: Act 2006.
Each Ordinary Share carries Company.
or each of the two persons present are the right to vote at general meetings of proxy of the same shareholder.
The rights and restrictions Directors attaching to the Redeemable Preference The Board has the authority to manage Shareholders and their duly appointed Shares differ from those attaching to the business of the Company, for example, proxies and corporate representatives are Ordinary Shares as follows: through powers to allot and repurchase entitled to be admitted to general meetings.
its shares, subject where required to The Redeemable Preference Shares Limitations on the rights to own shares shareholder resolutions.
Subject to certain carry no rights to receive dividends.
There are no limitations on the rights to exceptions, Directors do not have power The holders of Redeemable Preference own shares.
to vote at Board meetings on matters in Shares have no rights to receive notices which they have a material interest.
Property of, attend or vote at general meetings Substantially all of our properties are held except in certain limited circumstances.
The quorum for meetings of the Board is freehold, free of material encumbrances They have one vote for every 50,000 a majority of the full Board, of whom at and are t for their purpose.
least four must be Non-Executive Directors.
On a distribution of assets of the In the absence of a quorum, the Directors do Company, on a winding-up or other return not have power to determine compensation of capital subject to certain exceptions, arrangements for themselves or any the holders of Redeemable Preference member of the Board.
Shares have priority over the holders of Ordinary Shares to receive the capital paid up on those shares.
208 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012
