Strategy | Life-cycle of a medicine Life-cycle of a medicine We provide medicines that make a real difference in the treatment of some of the worlds most serious diseases.
The advances made through innovation improve healthcare for more people and make our business model sustainable.
Increased external collaboration Customer orientation Operational efficiency From the earliest phases in a medicines At an early stage we incorporate payer As early as Phase I studies we begin to development to late-stage or on-market, considerations into everything we do to develop a manufacturing route to ensure we work with academia, external clinicians help ensure the economic and therapeutic the manufacturing process is robust and industry to access the best science.
value of our medicines is understood.
See the Supply See the Partnering to improve health See the Driving commercial success and Manufacturing section from page 40. section from page 31. section from page 37.
Discovery phase and development phases 10-15 years Investment period Investment in discovery, development and commercialisation of patentprotected medicines.
3 12 Find potential Pre-clinical studies Phase I studies Phase II studies Phase III studies medicine Undertake studies in Studies designed to Studies designed to Studies, typically Identify the unmet the laboratory and in understand how the evaluate effectiveness in large groups of medical need and animals to understand potential medicine is of the medicine, patients, designed market opportunity.
if the potential medicine absorbed in the body, typically using small to gather information Undertake laboratory should be safe to distributed around it and groups of patients.
about effectiveness research to nd a introduce into humans excreted: also determine and safety of the During Phase II potential medicine and in what quantities.
an appropriate dosage medicine and evaluate studies, design a that should be potent, and identify side effects.
the overall benefit risk Determine likely Phase III programme selective, and absorbed These studies typically prole in the specic efcacy, side effect to deliver data into and well tolerated take place in small disease and patient prole and maximum required for regulatory by the body.
groups of healthy segments in which the tolerable dose estimate approval and pricing human volunteers or, in medicine will be used.
Begin the process in humans.
and or reimbursement certain cases, patients.
of seeking patent throughout the world.
protection for the potential medicine.
14 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Yet the discovery, development and commercialisation of a medicine is a risky, long and complex process.
This is an overview of the life-cycle of a medicine, which demonstrates our business model in practice.
R&D productivity Global orientation Note: This is a high level overview of the We are focused on We are building on our leading position process and is illustrative only.
It is neither improving the quality and in commercialising medicines in intended to, nor does it, represent the quantity of our R&D which Established Markets by using new sales life-cycle of any particular medicine or of includes reducing function channels and pursuing further growth every medicine discovered and or developed costs and investing in new in Emerging Markets.
See the Sales b by y y A As str tra aZeneca, or the probability of success talent, critical capabilities, and Marketing section from page 37. o or r a appr pprova ovall o of a f an any y A straZeneca medicine.
as well as partnerships and For m r mo or re i e in nfo for rm m mati atio on s n se ee e the Research and deals.
See the Research Development se ec ct tiion on f fr rom om page pag 30. and Development section from page 30.
Launch phase 5-10 years 20 years Returns period Reinvestment of returns from period of patent protection into next generation of innovative medicines.
5 6 4 7 Regulatory submission Launch new medicine Post-launch research Patent expiry and pricing Raise awareness of and development and generic entry Seek approval from patient benefit and Studies to further understand Typically, when patents regulatory authorities appropriate use.
the safety prole of the medicine protecting the medicine to manufacture, market in larger populations.
expire, generic versions Clinicians begin to and sell the medicine.
of the medicine may prescribe medicine and Work to consider potential additional enter the market.
Submit package of clinical patients begin to benefit.
diseases which might be treated data which demonstrates by the medicine or better ways Market and sell medicine: the safety prole and of administering the medicine.
continuously monitor, efcacy of a medicine to record and analyse Submit data packages with requests regulatory authorities.
They reported side effects: for line extensions.
Regulatory decide whether to grant review need to update authorities review the data to assess marketing authorisation the side effect warnings the benets and risks of using the based on the medicines to ensure that patients medicine in the new disease or safety prole, effectiveness wellbeing is maintained.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 15
