Performance | Therapy Area Review Therapy Area Review As outlined in the Strategy section from page 12, we are one of only a handful of companies to span the entire life-cycle of a medicine from discovery, early and late-stage development to the global commercialisation of primary, specialty care-led and specialty care medicines.
This process is summarised in the This Therapy Area Review reects the For a list of all our potential new products Life-cycle of a medicine diagram on page range of our activities.
This includes the and product life-cycle developments, 14, and in the subsequent Business Review work of our small molecule and biologics see the Pipeline by Therapy Area table section from page 30, we explore how we groups, responsible for discovery and opposite and the Development Pipeline apply our resources, skills and capabilities development projects up to and including table from page 199.
For details of patent to the various elements of that process Proof of Concept, as well as our Global expiries of our key marketed products, see in furtherance of our business strategy.
Medicines Development GMD organisation, the Patent expiries section on page 36. which progresses products through This Therapy Area Review contains Indications for each product described late-stage development, registration and information about the six Therapy in this Therapy Area Review may vary from post-launch development activities.
This Areas in which our efforts are focused: country to country and local prescribing Therapy Area Review also draws on the Cardiovascular, Gastrointestinal, Infection, information should be referred to for expertise of our Commercial organisation Neuroscience, Oncology, and Respiratory country-specic indications for any which ensures our science is connected & Inammation.
For each research area particular product.
We embed we review our pipeline from early projects Many of our products are subject to customer insights into our R&D strategy through to launched brands.
Information about material legal based on our interactions with healthcare the business environment, trends and proceedings can be found in Note 25 providers, patients, regulators and payers.
other factors that have influenced our to the Financial Statements from page 184.
This approach helps us to prioritise resources decision to focus on diseases in these Details of relevant risks are set out in the and optimise our portfolio, thereby delivering six areas, our strategic objectives Principal risks and uncertainties section medicines that customers value and which for each and our progress towards from page 75. meet their needs.
While the focus of this achieving these objectives.
We include Therapy Area Review is on our key marketed information about our 2012 focus and key products, many of our other established developments relating to our marketed products are key to certain markets medicines and how they are designed within Emerging Markets and, taken to make a meaningful difference for together, represent an important part patients.
We also report on the potential of AstraZenecas business.
new products and product life-cycle developments in our pipeline that reect our commitment to maintaining a ow of innovation that adds value for our shareholders and to society.
The last portion of Aptium was sold in July.
Astra Tech was sold to DENTSPLY International Inc. on 31 August 2011.
50 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Pipeline by Therapy Area at 31 December 2012 Phase I Phase II Phase III Line extensions Registration # # AZD1722 Brilinta Brilique Axanum Forxiga Cardiovascular dapagliozin Forxiga Brilinta Brilique EUCLID # insulin add on dapagliozin Brilinta Brilique # # Forxiga metreleptin PEGASUS-TIMI 54 dapagliozin # Bydureon EXSCEL high CV risk # Bydureon Dual Forxiga # Chamber Pen dapagliozin # triple therapy Forxiga dapagliozin Kombiglyze XR metformin FDC # Komboglyze FDC # # Forxiga SaxaDapa FDC dapagliozin Onglyza DPP-4 # SAVOR-TIMI 53 tralokinumab Entocort Gastrointestinal Nexium peptic-ulcer bleeding # ATM AVI AZD5847 CAZ AVI Infection # CAZ104 MEDI-550 CXL Q-LAIV Flu Vaccination MEDI-557 # Zinforo MEDI-559 ceftaroline # # # AZD1446 AZD3241 naloxegol Diprivan Neuroscience # # NKTR-118 AZD3293 AZD3480 MEDI5117 AZD5213 AZD6765 AZD1208 AZD4547 Faslodex Oncology st # 1 line advanced breast cancer AZD2014 fostamatinib # # Iressa AZD5363 MEDI-551 treatment beyond progression # # AZD8330 MEDI-573 ARRY 424704 # MEDI-575 AZD9150 olaparib # MEDI0639 # selumetinib # MEDI3617 AZD6244 # ARRY-142886 MEDI4736 # tremelimumab MEDI-565 # MEDI6469 # moxetumomab pasudotox # volitinib # # # AZD8848 AZD2115 brodalumab Symbicort BAI Respiratory & # # asthma COPD AZD7594 AZD5069 fostamatinib # # MEDI2070 AZD5423 lesinurad Inammation # MEDI4212 benralizumab # # MEDI-551 mavrilimumab # # MEDI5872 MEDI-546 # MEDI7814 MEDI7183 # # MEDI9929 MEDI8968 # RDEA3170 sifalimumab tralokinumab # Partnered product.
Key showing movements in 2012 Kombiglyze XR in the US: Komboglyze FDC in the EU.
Addition No change Progression New ling Approved launched AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 51 Performance | Therapy Area Review Cardiovascular $183.8bn Wordwide market value Therapy area world market Our marketed products MAT Q3 12 $bn Cardiovascular diseases Diabetes 1 4 Crestor rosuvastatin calcium is a statin Forxiga dapagliozin is a selective and used for the treatment of dyslipidaemia and reversible inhibitor of human .
In some markets glucose co-transporter 2 SGLT2 inhibitor 5 it is also indicated to slow the progression indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise 1 of atherosclerosis and to reduce the risk as a once daily oral medication to improve 4 of first cardiovascular CV events.
glycaemic control in adult patients with Type 2 Atacand candesartan cilexetil is an 2 diabetes mellitus as add on combination st angiotensin II antagonist used for the 1 line therapy or as monotherapy in metformintreatment of hypertension and symptomatic intolerant patients.
Komboglyze saxagliptin and metformin Seloken Toprol-XL metoprolol succinate HCl is an immediate release xed-dose 3 2 is a beta-blocker once daily tablet used combination indicated as an adjunct to diet for 24-hour control of hypertension and and exercise to improve glycaemic control for use in heart failure and angina.
in adult patients with Type 2 diabetes Tenormin atenolol is a cardioselective mellitus inadequately controlled on their 1 High blood pressure 51.15 beta-blocker used for hypertension, angina maximally tolerated dose of metformin pectoris and other CV disorders.
alone or those already being treated with 2 Diabetes 40.97 Plendil felodipine is a calcium antagonist the combination of saxagliptin and 3 Others 39.8 used for the treatment of hypertension metformin as separate tablets.
4 Abnormal levels of blood 4 and angina.
Kombiglyze XR saxagliptin and metformin cholesterol 37.25 3 Zestril lisinopril dihydrate is an XR is an extended release xed-dose 5 Thrombosis 14.59  enzyme inhibitor combination indicated as an adjunct to diet used for the treatment of a wide range and exercise to improve glycaemic control of CV diseases, including hypertension.
in adults with Type 2 diabetes mellitus Axanum acetylsalicylic acid ASA and when treatment with both saxagliptin and esomeprazole is a xed-dose combination metformin is appropriate.
4 indicated for prevention of CV events Onglyza saxagliptin is a DPP-IV inhibitor in high-risk CV patients in need of daily used for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes.
4 low-dose ASA treatment and who are Byetta exenatide injection is an injectable at risk of gastric ulcers.
medicine indicated to improve blood sugar Brilinta Brilique ticagrelor is an oral glucose control along with diet and antiplatelet for the treatment of acute exercise in adults with Type 2 diabetes coronary syndromes ACS.
4 Bydureon exenatide extended release injectable suspension is an injectable medicine indicated to improve blood sugar glucose along with diet and exercise in adults with Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
4 Symlin pramlintide acetate is an injected amylin analogue for the treatment of Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes in patients with inadequate glycaemic control on meal-time insulin.
1 Licensed from Shionogi & Co. Ltd. 2 Licensed from Takeda Chemicals Industries Ltd. 3 Licensed from Merck.
4 Co-developed and co-commercialised with BMS.
AstraZeneca is one of the world leaders Crestor is the only statin with an Cardiovascular diseases in cardiovascular CV medicines, working atherosclerosis indication in the US which is Hypertension high blood pressure and to improve the treatment of diseases that not limited by disease severity or restricted dyslipidaemia abnormal levels of blood cause 17 million deaths each year.
to patients with coronary heart disease.
A cholesterol damage the arterial wall which competitor to Crestor, atorvastatin Lipitor, We aim to build on our strong position, may lead to atherosclerosis.
CV events was available in generic form in the US from with a particular focus on thrombosis driven by atherosclerotic disease remain late 2011, and from May several generic blood clotting, atherosclerosis hardening the leading cause of death in the western atorvastatin products have become of the arteries, metabolic diseases, and world.
Lipid-modifying therapy, primarily available in the market.
Despite statins, is a cornerstone for the treatment improvements in the quality of diagnosis Fewer than half the people thought to of atherosclerosis.
and treatment, the unmet medical need have high levels of low-density lipoprotein Acute coronary syndromes ACS is an remains high and these disease areas, cholesterol LDL-C so-called bad umbrella term for sudden chest pain and and their complications, continue to grow cholesterol are diagnosed and treated.
other symptoms due to insufficient blood worldwide both in Established Markets Of treated patients, only about half reach their supply ischaemia to the heart muscle.
and Emerging Markets as a consequence doctors recommended cholesterol targets ACS is the acute culmination of ischaemic of the spread of a westernised lifestyle.
Study data has heart disease.
There remains a significant shown that the usual 10mg starting dose of We are developing potential new therapies need to improve outcomes and reduce Crestor is more effective at lowering LDL-C using a variety of approaches, including the costs of treating ACS.
and produces greater achievement of LDL-C small molecules, antibodies, peptides goals than commonly prescribed doses Our 2012 focus and proteins, to address unmet medical of other statins.
Crestor also produces an Globally, Crestor has continued to gain need in the treatment of obesity, diabetes increase in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol market share by value since its launch and heart disease.
HDL-C so-called good cholesterol across in 2003, with its differentiated prole in the dose range and has again been shown managing cholesterol levels and its more to reduce atherosclerotic plaque in the recent label indications for slowing the SATURN study published in 2011. progression of atherosclerosis and reducing the risk of CV events in some markets.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 53 Performance | Therapy Area Review patient health.
The benefit of Brilinta Brilique Crestor continues to face increasing countries.
It has been approved in 88 on CV thrombotic events, including CV challenges from generic products.
Patents countries, including the US, Canada and mortality, observed in patients who have protecting Crestor have been subject Brazil under the trade name Brilinta and had an ACS event supports continued to a number of challenges in different in the EU, Iceland and Norway under the study in other areas of CV disease.
Details of these matters trade name Brilique.
Additional marketing The current PARTHENON programme are included in Note 25 to the Financial authorisations and regulatory submissions is designed to include more than 51,000 Statements from page 184. are planned for 2013. patients worldwide.
Atacand continues to be an important Clinical studies treatment option for patients with GALAXY, is our long-term global Diabetes hypertension and symptomatic heart clinical research programme for Crestor failure.
Atacand is approved for the investigating links between optimal lipid Type 2 diabetes is a chronic progressive treatment of hypertension in over 125 control, atherosclerosis and CV morbidity disease and patients often require multiple countries and for symptomatic heart failure and mortality.
The programme has medications to control their condition.
Most patients completed over 29 studies involving The disease continues to grow as a with hypertension fail to reach their approximately 64,000 patients in over 57 consequence of western lifestyles and it treatment goals with the use of a single countries.
The ongoing studies in GALAXY increasingly affects people at a younger anti-hypertensive treatment and xed-dose and our investigator sponsored studies age.
There are a number of established combinations of two or more antiprogramme aim to complete our oral generic and branded classes, such hypertensives are commonly prescribed understanding of the product prole as biguanides and sulfonylureas.
However, for patients to improve efcacy and for Crestor.
newer classes such as oral dipeptidyl attainment of treatment goals.
Atacand Plus peptidase IV DPP-IV inhibitors and GLP-1 PEGASUS-TIMI 54, a 21,000 patient study, candesartan cilexetil hydrochlorothiazide agonists are successfully entering the market is ongoing in over 30 countries.
The study is a xed-dose combination of Atacand by offering effective blood sugar control examines the ability of Brilinta Brilique and the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide, and improved tolerability.
Several new plus aspirin to prevent adverse CV events indicated for the treatment of hypertension classes of drugs are in development in safely compared with aspirin alone in in patients who require more than one this area, including sodium-glucose higher-risk patients one to three years anti-hypertensive therapy.
CV safety of after a heart attack.
these new classes has been given particular In July, AstraZeneca announced plans to emphasis in recent regulatory reviews Axanum is a single capsule of low-dose conduct the EUCLID study, a global clinical and guidance documents provided by ASA and esomeprazole the active trial involving 11,500 patients with peripheral the FDA and other regulatory authorities.
It is indicated for artery disease PAD, a condition affecting prevention of CV events in high-risk CV Our 2012 focus approximately 27 million people in Europe patients in need of daily low-dose ASA AstraZeneca continues its worldwide and North America.
EUCLID, which treatment and who are at risk of gastric diabetes alliance with BMS to co-develop began enrolling patients in early 2013, is ulcers.
Low-dose ASA is a mainstay of and co-commercialise two compounds a randomised, double-blind, parallel group, therapy for patients at high risk of having discovered by BMS: Onglyza and Forxiga multi-centre study evaluating the efcacy a CV event such as a heart attack or for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes.
of Brilinta Brilique monotherapy compared stroke.
Up to 30% of high-risk CV patients to clopidogrel monotherapy in reducing Onglyza is a DPP-IV inhibitor used for identied as being at gastrointestinal GI the primary endpoint a composite of CV the treatment of Type 2 diabetes and has risk discontinue or take deliberate breaks death, myocardial infarction or ischaemic been submitted for regulatory review in 94 from their low-dose ASA and one of the stroke in patients with PAD.
countries and approved in 81, including main reasons is GI problems, placing them the US, Canada, Mexico, the EU, India, Both PEGASUS-TIMI 54 and EUCLID at risk of a CV event after discontinuation.
are part of the PARTHENON programme, Following the first national approval in an AstraZeneca-funded comprehensive, the EU in August 2011, Axanum is now Forxiga is a first-in-class SGLT2 inhibitor long-term and evolving global research approved in 27 countries and has been developed with BMS as a once daily initiative designed to address unanswered launched in 11 countries.
oral therapy for the treatment of adult questions in atherothrombotic disease patients with Type 2 diabetes.
In November, Brilinta Brilique is an oral antiplatelet and to investigate the impact of Brilinta Forxiga was approved in the EU to improve treatment for ACS in a new chemical class Brilique on reducing CV events and death.
glycaemic control in adult patients with called  The PARTHENON programme is part Type 2 diabetes.
Forxiga is intended to be which are selective adenosine diphospate of AstraZenecas commitment to used as an adjunct to diet and exercise in ADP receptor antagonists that act on understand and advance treatments combination with other glucose-lowering the P2Y12 ADP-receptor.
Brilinta Brilique for CV diseases in an effort to improve medicinal products, including insulin, or remains under regulatory review in 23 54 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information as a monotherapy in metformin-intolerant Byetta, a twice daily injectable medicine Clinical studies patients.
With the European approval, indicated to improve blood sugar glucose The SAVOR-TIMI 53 saxagliptin assessment Forxiga is now approved in 31 countries control along with diet and exercise of vascular outcomes recorded in patients with six additional countries under regulatory in adults with Type 2 diabetes mellitus, with diabetes mellitus trial, which has review.
Additional submissions are planned has been submitted for regulatory review completed recruitment, is designed to for 2013. in 92 countries and approved in 88, determine whether treatment with Onglyza including the US, the EU and Japan.
when added to a patients current standard In January 2012, AstraZeneca and BMS of care will result in a reduction in a composite received a Complete Response Letter from Bydureon, which is a weekly injectable CV endpoint CV death, non-fatal myocardial the FDA requesting additional clinical data medicine indicated to improve blood sugar infarction, non-fatal ischaemic stroke to allow a better assessment of the benefit glucose, along with diet and exercise, in compared to placebo.
This trial, involving risk prole for Forxiga.
AstraZeneca and adults with Type 2 diabetes mellitus, has 16,500 adult patients with Type 2 diabetes BMS have since had discussions with the been submitted for regulatory review in 51 with a history of established CV disease or FDA, which have resulted in a path forward countries and approved in 39, including multiple risk factors, is also designed to full for NDA resubmission.
Additional data from the US, the EU and Japan.
a post-marketing requirement for the FDA.
ongoing clinical studies will be submitted Symlin, an injected amylin analogue for the to further support the benefit risk prole In June, AstraZeneca and BMS announced treatment of Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes in of Forxiga with resubmission targeted for results from a Phase III clinical study that patients with inadequate glycaemic control mid-2013.
showed that Forxiga 10mg demonstrated on meal-time insulin, is approved in the US.
significant reductions in blood sugar levels Komboglyze, an immediate release During the year, our research activities glycosylated haemoglobin levels, or HbA1c xed-dose combination indicated as on anti-arrhythmics to treat atrial brillation compared with placebo at 24 weeks when an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve were terminated.
either agent was added to existing sitagliptin glycaemic control in adult patients with therapy with or without metformin in adult Type 2 diabetes mellitus inadequately In the pipeline patients with Type 2 diabetes.
The results controlled on their maximally tolerated dose We expanded our CV research to include were maintained over a 24 week extension of metformin alone or those already being End Stage Renal Disease ESRD and and similar results were observed when treated with the combination of saxagliptin Chronic Kidney Disease CKD, with the the data was analysed by subjects and metformin as separate tablets, has licensing of an NHE3 inhibitor from Ardelyx.
The study also been submitted for regulatory review The NHE3 inhibitor is a novel approach demonstrated significant reductions in total to treating sodium and uid retention in in 34 countries and is approved in the body weight and fasting plasma glucose patients with renal impairment.
EU plus Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, levels in patients taking Forxiga added to Switzerland and Canada.
Metreleptin is a leptin analogue under sitagliptin with or without metformin, with Kombiglyze XR, an extended release development for the treatment of rare results maintained throughout the duration xed-dose combination indicated as an forms of inherited or acquired lipodystrophy, of the study extension.
adjunct to diet and exercise to improve an orphan disease characterised by the EXSCEL EXenatide Study of Cardiovascular glycaemic control in adults with Type 2 deterioration or loss of the bodys adipose Event Lowering is designed to determine if diabetes mellitus when treatment with both tissue.
This compound is part of the Amylin there are favourable CV effects of exenatide saxagliptin and metformin is appropriate, portfolio that AstraZeneca and BMS are treatment, using Bydureon exenatide has been submitted for regulatory review in co-developing.
Completion of the Biologics extended release injectable suspension.
38 countries and is approved in 17 countries, Licence Application submission to the FDA The EXSCEL study started in 2010 and including the US, Brazil, Mexico and India.
is anticipated in the first half of 2013. is planned to run until 2017.
The study In August, AstraZeneca and BMS has enrolled patients during 2012 and is confirmed that, following the completion designed for 9,500 patients.
of BMSs acquisition of Amylin, AstraZeneca and BMS had expanded their worldwide diabetes alliance to include the codevelopment and co-commercialisation of Amylins portfolio of products related 25m 347m to diabetes and other metabolic diseases with a primary focus on a franchise of By 2030, almost 25 million people will die 347 million people worldwide have diabetes.
GLP-1 agonists for the treatment of Type 2 from CV disease, mainly from heart disease WHO projects that diabetes deaths will diabetes.
The products include Byetta, and stroke.
CV diseases are projected to increase by 60% between 2008 and 2030.
remain the single leading cause of death.
Source: WHO Fact Sheet September 2012 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 55 Performance | Therapy Area Review Gastrointestinal Our marketed products Nexium esomeprazole magnesium is the first proton pump inhibitor PPI used for the treatment of acid-related diseases $38bn to offer clinical improvements over other PPIs and other treatments.
Worldwide market value Losec Prilosec omeprazole is used for the short-term and long-term treatment of acid-related diseases.
Entocort budesonide is a locally acting corticosteroid used for the treatment of inammatory bowel disease.
Therapy area world market MAT Q3 12 $bn 2 1 1 PPI proton pump inhibitors 22.1 2 Other 15.94 For a detailed narrative explanation of the financial performance of our products please see the Geographical Review from page 70.
Our financial performance World US Western Europe Established ROW Emerging Markets Prior year Reported CER Reported Reported CER Reported CER Reported CER World Sales growth growth Sales growth Sales growth growth Sales growth growth Sales growth growth sales 2012 $m % % $m % $m % % $m % % $m % % $m Nexium 3,944 11 10 2,272 5 417 45 41 476 12 11 779 7 11 4,429 Losec Prilosec 710 25 24 30 21 188 22 17 316 29 29 176 20 20 946 Others 198 24 25 145 44 38 17 11 6 9 29 29 161 Total 4,852 12 11 2,447 4 643 39 34 798 20 19 964 1 4 5,536 2011 Nexium 4,429 11 12 2,397 11 762 37 39 540 19 10 730 18 20 4,969 Losec Prilosec 946 4 11 38 21 242 4 10 447 2 7 219 12 15 986 Others 161 21 19 101 33 46 2 2 7 17 17 7 17 133 Total 5,536 9 11 2,536 10 1,050 30 33 994 11 2 956 9 10 6,088 56 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information We aim to develop our position in In August, AstraZeneca announced that it In the pipeline gastrointestinal GI treatments by continuing had entered into an agreement with Pzer Our activities in the eld of inammatory to focus on our existing proton pump for the OTC rights for Nexium.
Under the bowel disease include clinical stage inhibitors PPIs and the development of new terms of the agreement, Pzer will acquire testing of two antibodies in collaboration therapies for irritable bowel syndrome IBS the exclusive global rights to market Nexium with Amgen that target IL-13 and a4b7.
and inammatory bowel disease IBD.
In addition, we have expanded our GI research to include IBS and IBD with Our 2012 focus Nexium continues to face increasing the NHE3 inhibitor programme, including Nexium is marketed in more than 125 challenges from generic products.
Patents the lead compound RDX5791 which we countries and is available in oral tablet, protecting Nexium have been subject licensed from Ardelyx in October.
capsule and sachet for oral suspension to a number of challenges in different and intravenous i. v. dosage forms, for the jurisdictions.
Details of these matters treatment of acid-related diseases.
Nexium are included in Note 25 to the Financial is also approved for use in children from the Statements from page 184. age of one month in the US and from the Losec Prilosec, used for the short-term age of one year in Europe and other markets.
and long-term treatment of acid-related Nexium capsules were launched in Japan diseases, was first launched in 1988 and is in September 2011 after a Japan-specic approved for the treatment of GERD and development programme.
We continue to maintain Nexium is an effective short-term and certain patent property covering Losec long-term therapy for patients with Prilosec.
Losec Prilosec is available both gastroesophageal reux disease GERD.
as a prescription-only medication and, Nexium is also approved for the healing in some countries, as an OTC medication and prevention of ulcers associated with where it offers consumers a more effective NSAID therapy and for the treatment self-medication option for the treatment of patients with the rare gastric disorder, of heartburn compared with antacids Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.
2 in combination with antibiotics, is also In October, AstraZeneca and Ironwood approved for use for the treatment of announced an agreement to co-develop duodenal ulcers caused by Helicobacter and co-commercialise in China Ironwoods pylori infection in the US, Europe and other product linaclotide, a guanylate cyclase-C markets.
Nexium is also approved for this GC-C agonist used for the treatment of use in children from the age of four years irritable bowel syndrome with constipation approvals vary between countries.
IBS-C and chronic idiopathic constipation Nexium i. v. is used as an alternative CIC in China.
Ironwood markets the dosage form when oral administration product under the name Linzess in the is not suitable.
Clinical trial applications for linaclotide for this use in children from the age of have been led with the SFDA.
one month in the US and from the age of one year in Europe and other markets.
In addition, it is approved in Europe and other markets for the prevention of peptic-ulcer bleeding.
10%-20% In developed countries, the prevalence range for GERD is 10% to 20% of the population.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 57 Performance | Therapy Area Review Infection Our marketed products Respiratory syncytial virus RSV Synagis palivizumab is a humanised MAb used for the prevention of serious lower $91.1bn respiratory tract disease caused by RSV in paediatric patients at high risk of acquiring Worldwide market value RSV disease.
Serious bacterial infections 1 Zinforo ceftaroline fosamil is a novel injectable cephalosporin used in communityacquired pneumonia CAP and complicated skin and soft tissue infections CSSTI.
2 Cubicin daptomycin is a cyclic lipopeptide anti-bacterial used for the treatment of Therapy area world market serious infections in hospitalised patients.
MAT Q3 12 $bn 3 Merrem Meronem meropenem is a carbapenem anti-bacterial used for the treatment of serious infections in 5 hospitalised patients.
4 Inuenza virus FluMist Fluenz inuenza vaccine live, 3 intra-nasal is an intra-nasal live, attenuated, 1 trivalent inuenza vaccine.
2 Licensed from Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 3 Licensed from Dainippon Sumitomo.
58 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information We aim to build a leading franchise immunoprophylaxis in the marketplace Cubicin is used for the treatment of serious in the treatment of infectious diseases indicated for the prevention of RSV in gram-positive infections in hospitalised through continued commercialisation paediatric patients at high risk of serious patients and is sold by AstraZeneca in of brands such as Synagis, Merrem RSV disease.
Synagis is administered selected territories in Asia, Europe and Meronem, FluMist Fluenz and Cubicin, by intra-muscular injection.
Cubicin was submitted the registration and launch of Zinforo for marketing approval by the SFDA in In the pipeline in the EU, and through our other ongoing China in September for the additional We are developing a live intranasal vaccine development programmes.
indication of complicated skin and skin for the prevention of lower respiratory tract structure infections.
We also aim to make effective use of our illness caused by RSV in otherwise healthy structural and genomic-based discovery infants.
The lead vaccine candidate Merrem Meronem remains the leading technologies and antibody platforms, in clinical development is in Phase I. carbapenem anti-bacterial which is vaccines and continued small molecule approved in most countries outside Japan.
and biologics research into novel Serious bacterial AZD9773 formerly known as CytoFab, approaches in areas of unmet medical was a potential treatment for severe sepsis infections need.
Complementing our biologics licensed from Protherics Inc. now part capabilities, we are building a small World demand for antibiotics and novel of the BTG plc group.
In August, further molecule anti-viral platform based on therapeutic approaches remains high and development of AZD9773 was halted in-house capabilities and external will continue to grow due to escalating after negative Phase llb study results.
collaborations, focused on respiratory resistance and the increased risk of serious viruses, such as respiratory syncytial In the pipeline infections in both immuno-suppressed virus RSV and human rhinovirus.
Following the acquisition of Novexel in 2010, patients and ageing populations.
Many we are working with Forest on future joint bacterial infections currently have few global development programmes, including Respiratory satisfactory treatment options, prompting CAZ AVI a combination of ceftazidime and demand for new and better therapies.
syncytial virus avibactam, CXL a combination of ceftaroline Our discovery and early development and avibactam and ATM AVI a combination platforms focus on the identication of Approximately half of all infants are infected of aztreonam and avibactam.
The CAZ AVI pathogen-directed approaches, with a with RSV during the first year of life and Phase III programme was initiated in 2011 nearly all children in the US have been particular emphasis on multi-drug resistant and includes seven trials to confirm the infected by the time they reach their second gram-negatives and methicillin resistant efcacy and tolerability of CAZ AVI in adult birthday.
RSV is the most common virus staphylococcus aureus MRSA.
patients with complicated intra-abdominal that causes lung and airway infections in Our 2012 focus infections, complicated urinary tract infections infants and young children.
It is the leading Zinforo is a novel injectable cephalosporin, or nosocomial pneumonia.
Patients with cause of hospitalisations and admissions developed in collaboration with Forest, infections which are resistant to commonly to paediatric intensive care units in the first which is approved for use in the EU.
used antibiotics will also be included in the year of life.
Premature babies earlier than Zinforo provides broad coverage against Phase III programme.
CXL is in Phase II 36 weeks gestational age, especially those common causative pathogens, such development for serious infections where less than 32 weeks and babies with chronic as staphylococcus aureus, including coverage against MRSA and streptococci lung disease or congenital heart disease are MRSA, a cause of serious and difficult as well as common gram-negative resistant at increased risk of contracting serious RSV to treat complicated skin infections, strains is required.
disease than full-term healthy babies.
streptococci in complicated skin infections, Our early research and development efforts and streptococcus pneumoniae and Our 2012 focus aim to address multi-resistant bacterial  staphylococcus aureus Synagis is used for the prevention of strains expressing , MSSA in community acquired pneumonia.
serious lower respiratory tract disease for which very few, if any, treatment options Forest markets ceftaroline in the US under caused by RSV in children at high risk of exist.
We are collaborating with regulatory the brand name Tearo.
In August, the the disease.
It was the first MAb approved authorities to design the clinical trials for European Commission granted marketing in the US for an infectious disease and has these programmes.
This makes become the global standard of care for Zinforo the only approved cephalosporin RSV prevention.
Approved in 83 countries monotherapy in the EU with demonstrated worldwide, Synagis remains the only clinical efcacy against MRSA in difficult to treat complicated skin infections.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 59 Performance | Therapy Area Review In the pipeline a novel anti-tubercular oxazolidinone Inuenza virus The MAA for the quadrivalent live antibiotic, progressed to Phase IIa trials Inuenza is the most common vaccineattenuated inuenza vaccine formerly in South Africa, with support from preventable disease in the developed world.
known as MEDI3250 was submitted The National Institute of Allergy and According to WHO estimates, seasonal in September in the EU.
inuenza results in three to five million cases Malaria is another disease for which of severe illness and up to half a million Neglected tropical there remains a tremendous medical deaths globally each year, primarily among need.
Our collaboration with Medicines diseases the elderly.
Rates of infection are highest for Malaria Ventures has progressed during among children.
As part of our commitment to make 2012 according to plan, and is currently a contribution to improving health in Our 2012 focus focused on the discovery of a new class the developing world, we are working FluMist is a trivalent live, attenuated of malaria medicines.
We anticipate that to nd new, improved treatments for nasally delivered vaccine approved for the this collaboration will continue to progress neglected tropical diseases.
Our strategy prevention of disease caused by inuenza through discovery stages in 2013. is collaborative and seeks to leverage virus subtypes A and B in eligible children In 2012, we extended our range of internal investment and expertise in and adults.
FluMist is approved for eligible external collaborations with new screening tuberculosis TB and malaria.
For individuals in seven countries including agreements with the Liverpool School other neglected tropical diseases, the US, Canada and Brazil.
of Tropical Medicine and the Drugs for we participate in open innovation and In February 2012, AstraZeneca received Neglected Diseases Initiative.
In these knowledge-sharing platforms, enabling approval from the FDA for FluMist collaborations, AstraZeneca shares the use of AstraZeneca assets and Quadrivalent inuenza vaccine live, compounds with external partners infrastructure by external partners.
intra-nasal, formerly known as MEDI3250, with a view to identifying new leads against TB remains a complex research area in in the prevention of inuenza.
This marks a variety of diseases of the developing which collaborations play an important the first four-strain inuenza vaccine, world, including leishmaniasis, sleeping role.
Our discovery collaboration with the and the only intra-nasal four-strain vaccine, sickness, river blindness and Chagas Global Alliance for TB Drug Development approved by the FDA.
We also actively participated continues to work towards progressing seasonal inuenza vaccines currently in the WIPO Re:Search initiative, promoting suitable compounds through to the lead available in the US are trivalent, containing open innovation for the discovery of optimisation stage.
Research funded by three strains two strains of type A inuenza novel treatments.
a Wellcome Trust grant under the R&D A H1N1 and A H3N2 and one B lineage for Affordable Healthcare in India initiative, strain.
FluMist Quadrivalent contains four which will be used to identify novel lead strains two type A strains and two type B molecules for the treatment of TB, continues.
lineages to help provide broad protection Our most advanced programme, AZD5847 against circulating inuenza A and B.
25,000 5m According to a 2008 study, every year at Worldwide, annual epidemics of influenza least 25,000 patients in the EU alone die result in about three to five million cases from an infection caused by multidrugof severe illness and up to 500,000 deaths.
resistant bacteria, and estimated additional Source: left WHO Bulletin, Volume 89, 2011 healthcare costs and productivity losses Source: above WHO Fact Sheet April 2009 are at least 1.5 billion.
60 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Neuroscience $145.3bn Wordwide market value Therapy area world market Our marketed products MAT Q3 12 $bn Psychiatry Seroquel IR quetiapine fumarate is an for use in intensive care sedation and atypical anti-psychotic drug generally conscious sedation for surgical as well 4 approved for the treatment of schizophrenia as diagnostic procedures.
1 and bipolar disorder mania, depression Vimovo naproxen esomeprazole 3 and maintenance.
magnesium 375 20-500 20mg delayedSeroquel XR an extended release release tablet is generally approved for 1 formulation of quetiapine fumarate is symptomatic relief in the treatment of generally approved for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis and schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, major ankylosing spondylitis in patients at risk depressive disorder MDD and, in some of developing NSAID-associated gastric countries, for generalised anxiety disorder and or duodenal ulcers.
Naropin ropivacaine is used as a long-acting local anaesthetic for surgical Analgesia and anaesthesia anaesthesia and acute pain management.
Zomig zolmitriptan is used for the acute Xylocaine lidocaine is a widely used, treatment of migraines with or without aura 1 Psychiatry 62.18 short-acting local anaesthetic for topical and Zomig Nasal Spray is indicated for 2 Neurology 44.27 and regional anaesthesia.
the acute treatment of cluster headache EMLA lidocaine and prilocaine is used 3 Analgesia 32.95 in some territories.
as a local anaesthetic for topical application 4 Anaesthesia 5.94 Diprivan propofol is an intravenous to prevent pain associated with injections general anaesthetic used in the induction and supercial surgical procedures.
and maintenance of general anaesthesia, 1 Licensed from Pozen.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 61 Performance | Therapy Area Review There is still significant unmet medical The team is focused on target identication Neurology need in the areas of chronic pain, cognitive to Proof of Concept studies, with high level Alzheimers disease remains one of the disorders and other serious central nervous focus on personalised medicine and largest areas of unmet medical need.
innovative approaches to early clinical Product development in this therapy development.
The Virtual iMed is designed Our aim is to strengthen our position in area is particularly difficult due in part to bring together scientific advances of the neuroscience through our experience with to the challenges of establishing efcacy biotechnology and academic world and to Seroquel XR and to discover and develop in clinical studies.
Current treatments, which develop their potential through the scientific, new drug candidates with meaningful doctors consider inadequate, target the commercial and geographical reach therapeutic advantages, primarily in symptoms, not the underlying cause, of AstraZeneca.
Alzheimers disease, neuropathic pain of the disease.
Most, if not all, marketed control and depression.
Many of these We will consider any treatments for treatments will face patent expiry by 2015. debilitating illnesses have no effective psychiatric, neurological or analgesic Disease modication, delivered through treatments and, for others, current therapies disorders affecting the central or peripheral biologics and or small molecule treatments, are poorly effective, leaving major unmet nervous system which have a solid is clearly the hope for Alzheimers disease medical need.
scientific basis, a high probability to deliver patients and for patients with other meaningful new medicines to patients, Rapid progress is being made in neurodegenerative disorders such as and will provide an acceptable return on understanding diseases of the brain, Parkinsons disease.
We will be looking at indications driven by technological advances in elds diagnostics, disease modiers in both areas that affect smaller numbers of patients.
including genetics, cell biology, imaging are expected to allow for earlier intervention We will focus on selected populations and informatics.
However, despite these and better clinical outcomes.
Unfortunately, of patients whose disease biology makes advances there have been very few novel the first wave of disease modiers is still them ideally suited for a particular treatment treatments delivered during the last 10 several years away.
and we will test our therapeutic candidates to 15 years and it is clear that a new way In the pipeline in those populations first.
Where treatments of working is required which captures Alzheimers disease is dened and show promise in such selected patient advances in neuroscience and harnesses characterised by the presence of the groups, we will include a broader range them through the drug development protein amyloid beta Abeta deposits of patients with the same disease or other life-cycle.
Present understanding of the disease states that might benefit from AstraZeneca responded in 2012 by creating pathophysiology of Alzheimers disease the approach.
For example, a treatment a new neuroscience Innovative Medicines suggests that alterations in Abeta production, that works on a fundamental disease Unit Virtual iMed made up of a team of distribution or aggregation lead to Abeta process in neurons that eventually causes approximately 40 scientists conducting deposition which in turn impacts neuronal neurodegeneration might be best examined discovery and development externally, viability and function.
A second protein initially in patients with Huntingtons disease.
through a network of partners in academia altered in Alzheimers disease is tau.
That same therapy could be as well suited and industry.
The team is based in Cambridge, Our portfolio comprises small molecule for Parkinsons disease, amyotrophic lateral Massachusetts, US and Cambridge, UK.
and biologic projects addressing both sclerosis ALS or other disorders.
The locations are strongly associated with tau and amyloid, as well as exploring new neuroscience research and the team works mechanisms based on the developments closely with partners such as the Karolinska in disease understanding.
The Virtual iMed Our research pipeline is also exploiting is designed to be exible, independent opportunities presented by emerging and lean in its structure.
Scientists are biologic therapies and contains empowered to make decisions quickly.
projects directed at modulating protein accumulation and signalling for a number of neurodegenerative diseases.
In addition, the continued progress of technology platforms directed at facilitating the transport of macromolecules into the central nervous system compartment may provide benets to patient health.
62 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Through our collaborations with the Our 2012 focus In the pipeline Karolinska Institute in Sweden, the Banner Seroquel XR has been approved in 85 AZD6765, a low-trapping NMDA Alzheimers Institute in the US, the National countries for schizophrenia, 81 countries N-methyl-D-aspartate channel blocker Institute of Radiological Sciences in Japan for bipolar mania, 72 countries for bipolar to address the needs of patients with and others, our R&D capabilities in positron depression, 61 countries for bipolar severe treatment-refractory depression, emission tomography PET imaging maintenance, 65 countries for major has progressed into Phase IIb development.
of the human brain continues to progress.
depressive disorder MDD and nine Phase IIa results presented in December AstraZenecas amyloid PET ligands may countries for generalised anxiety disorder.
demonstrated anti-depressant efcacy enable us to detect Alzheimers disease following single and repeated intravenous Patents protecting Seroquel XR have early and to assess drug effects in Alzheimers infusions in patients who have shown been subject to a number of challenges disease.
We have discovered and taken inadequate response to multiple oral in different jurisdictions.
In some cases, into patient studies one F-18 and two C-11 therapies.
An ongoing Phase IIb study the patents have been found to be invalid.
amyloid PET ligands which are being is designed to establish a chronic treatment Details of these matters are included developed as research biomarkers.
regimen in this difficult to treat patient in Note 25 to the Financial Statements population.
Additional early-stage research A new alliance involving several academic from page 184. programmes are also focusing on this area.
centres, named A5, is a novel, openIn March 2012, top-line results from the architecture alliance with four leading remaining Phase III studies investigating Analgesia and academicians that was launched in July efcacy, tolerability and safety of TC-5214, to investigate potential new Alzheimers anaesthesia as an adjunct therapy to an anti-depressant disease treatments.
The initiative is focused in patients with MDD who did not respond The small number of currently approved on the role of apoliprotein E ApoE in adequately to initial anti-depressant products in the neuropathic pain market Alzheimers disease.
ApoE is considered treatment, were released.
RENAISSANCE 4 will come off patent between 2014 and second only to age as a risk factor for the and RENAISSANCE 5, both of which are 2017.
However, few new products are development of Alzheimers disease.
Drug efcacy and tolerability studies, did not in development and the unmet medical discovery efforts involving ApoE have been meet the primary endpoint of change need for improvements in both efcacy hampered by challenging biology and on the Montgomery-Asberg Depression and tolerability is such that the market a lack of suitable in vivo models.
In addition Rating Scale total score after eight weeks remains highly attractive.
In Asia, neuropathic to ApoE, the A5 alliance will focus on of adjunct treatment with TC-5214 as pain drugs are gaining approval, shifting identication, validation and risk reduction compared to placebo.
These studies cultural and medical treatment barriers.
of other drug targets for treatment of conclude the RENAISSANCE programme The chronic nociceptive pain market, Alzheimers disease.
Based on the totality of including osteoarthritis and chronic the results, AstraZeneca and Targacept low back pain, is steadily growing due Psychiatry decided not to pursue a regulatory ling to ageing populations combined with for TC-5214 as an adjunct treatment for Globally, more than 350 million people of longer life expectancy across all regions, patients with MDD.
We terminated the all ages suffer from depression WHO 2012. including Asia.
TC-5214 collaboration with Targacept, with Despite this, psychiatric illness remains Opioids are considered the gold standard all rights and licences granted under the under-detected, under-diagnosed and for efcacy for moderate to severe pain licence agreement reverting to Targacept.
under-treated, and current treatments across pain segments.
However, opioid pain leave substantial unmet medical need.
control comes with unwanted side effects Three National Institute of Mental Health such as bowel dysfunction.
There remains sponsored effectiveness studies in the a high unmet medical need for products US have reported treatment response that enable continued opioid pain control rates in depression, bipolar disorder and by reducing or eliminating side effects.
schizophrenia to be less than 50%, with low around 30% rates of remission and poor compliance.
Clear opportunities exist for novel approaches targeting dened patient sub-groups not adequately treated with current generic broad spectrum agents.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 63 Performance | Therapy Area Review Biologics are an emerging treatment In the pipeline option for pain control and this is an area Naloxegol formerly NKTR-118, licensed in which we have an active interest.
from Nektar Therapeutics, is a once daily, oral, peripherally acting opioid receptor It is believed that advances in the antagonist under investigation for treatment understanding of the mechanisms which of opioid-induced constipation OIC as lead to neuropathic pain will allow for a side effect of prescription opioid pain improved patient segmentation and potential medication.
Positive top-line results from increases in the success rate of drug two Phase III trials and one safety extension development.
We are exploring smaller trial in patients with non-cancer related treatments in focused pain areas where pain and OIC, a common side effect of patients can be selected on the basis of prescription opioids, were announced symptomatic characteristics within the overall in November.
Additional analyses and development and regulatory approach.
Our 2012 focus Our research pipeline is exploring Vimovo, 375 20-500 20mg delayed-release biologic therapies and contains projects tablets, co-developed by AstraZeneca directed at modulating afferent signalling, and Pozen, is a xed-dose combination inammation associated with pain, and of enteric-coated naproxen an NSAID, the interplay between the immune and and immediate-release esomeprazole, nervous systems.
Projects are directed a stomach acid-reducing proton pump at targeting well-dened patient segments, inhibitor PPI.
Vimovo is generally approved with subset selection based on, for example, for symptomatic relief in the treatment an increase in particular inammatory of rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis markers in osteoarthritis and pancreatitis.
and ankylosing spondylitis in patients We continue to focus on areas of high at risk of developing NSAID-associated unmet medical need, and thus, in addition gastric and or duodenal ulcers.
Vimovo to osteoarthritis, we are also active in is also indicated for treatment in patients researching novel therapies for neuropathic where lower doses of naproxen or of other pain.
Efforts to access targets in the central NSAIDs are not considered sufficient.
nervous system compartment, such as the Following FDA approval in April 2010, spinal cord and the brain, continue to be Vimovo launched in the US in July 2010. facilitated by solid progression of technology In October, Vimovo received positive platforms designed to transport biologics agreement for approval in 23 European from the periphery to the central nervous member states.
450m At any time, more than 450 million people worldwide are affected by mental, neurological or behavioural problems, and the rate is steadily rising.
Source: WHO Press Release October 2006 64 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Oncology Our marketed products Arimidex anastrozole is an aromatase inhibitor used for the treatment of breast $61.5bn cancer.
Zoladex goserelin acetate implant, 1 in one and three month depots, is a Wordwide market value luteinising hormone-releasing hormone LHRH agonist used for the treatment of prostate cancer, breast cancer and certain benign gynaecological disorders.
Casodex bicalutamide is an anti-androgen therapy used for the treatment of prostate cancer.
Iressa getinib is used as an epidermal Therapy area world market growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase MAT Q3 12 $bn EGFR-TK inhibitor that acts to block signals for cancer cell growth and survival in advanced non-small cell lung cancer.
Faslodex fulvestrant is an injectable 4 oestrogen receptor antagonist used for the treatment of hormone receptor-positive metastatic breast cancer for post- 1 3 menopausal women whose disease has progressed following treatment with prior endocrine therapy.
Nolvadex tamoxifen citrate remains a widely used breast cancer treatment outside the US.
2 Caprelsa vandetanib is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of symptomatic or progressive medullary thyroid cancer 1 Chemotherapy 23.34 MTC in patients with unresectable non-operable locally advanced or 2 Monoclonal antibodies 18.85 metastatic disease.
3 Small molecule TKIs 11.02 4 Hormonal therapies 8.31 1 Depots are subcutaneous or intra-muscular injections.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 65 Performance | Therapy Area Review We aim to build on our position as one of NSCLC.
Outside the EU, indications In the pipeline the world leaders in cancer treatment with are being sought or expanded from the Our early oncology pipeline includes a range st established brands such as Zoladex and pre-treated setting to include 1 line of novel compounds that target signalling Arimidex and growing brands such as patients whose tumours harbour activating pathways believed to be pivotal in cancer Faslodex and Iressa.
mutations of the epidermal growth factor cell growth and survival as well as DNA receptor EGFR.
In the EU, Iressa is the first repair mechanisms.
Despite set-backs Our future growth will be driven through personalised medicine for the treatment of in earlier Phase II trials, olaparib, a poly targeting the right treatments, both small adults with locally advanced or metastatic ADP-ribose polymerase PARP inhibitor, molecules and biologics, to the right patients, NSCLC with activating mutations.
continues in Phase II trials in relapsed using companion diagnostics where ovarian cancer, gastric cancer and germline appropriate.
This approach is driving the Faslodex 500mg is now approved in 65 BRCA mutation positive cancers.
Olaparib growth of Iressa and is a key focus in the countries including the member states has been approved to begin Phase III in development of our early stage portfolio.
It offers an 2013 pending the results of ongoing trials.
additional, efcacious, hormonal therapy Our 2012 focus option for patients with hormone-receptor Selumetinib, a potent mitogen-activated Arimidex, first launched in 1995, remains positive advanced breast cancer.
It is given protein kinase MEK inhibitor licensed a leading global hormonal therapy for by once monthly injections and is approved from Array BioPharma, Inc. continues patients with early breast cancer.
This for the treatment of hormone-receptor in Phase II development.
success is largely based on the extensive positive advanced breast cancer in long-term efcacy and safety results of We are also developing potential new post-menopausal women whose disease the ATAC study, which showed Arimidex cancer drugs using a variety of biologics has progressed following treatment with to be signicantly superior to tamoxifen at approaches.
Our investigational biologics a prior endocrine therapy.
We are now preventing breast cancer recurrence during are directed towards molecular targets exploring the efcacy and safety of Faslodex and beyond the five year treatment course.
with a strong role in cancer progression st 500mg compared to Arimidex in the 1 line and incorporate innovative technologies, Zoladex, a luteinising hormone-releasing advanced breast cancer setting hormoneproviding the potential to eliminate cancer hormone LHRH agonist, is approved in nave patients in the Phase III FALCON trial.
cells in more effective ways.
Within biologics, 120 countries for the treatment of prostate Caprelsa ghts cancer through two proven we continue to progress a discovery cancer, breast cancer and certain benign mechanisms: blocking the development and clinical pipeline that is balanced gynaecological disorders.
In non-metastatic of tumour blood supply by inhibition of the across different anti-tumour approaches, prostate cancer, Zoladex has been shown vascular endothelial growth factor pathway including disrupting cancer cells ability to to improve overall survival, both when used and by inhibiting the growth and survival of grow or communicate growth factor and in addition to radical prostatectomy and the tumour through EGFR and rearranged survival signalling, modulating the blood when used in addition to radiotherapy.
In during transfection RET pathways.
supply that tumours need to grow vascular breast cancer, Zoladex is widely approved Caprelsa was approved by the FDA and modulation and activating a patients own for use in advanced breast cancer in granted Orphan Drug status in April 2011, immune system to eliminate cancer cells pre-menopausal women.
In a number and was approved in the EU in February immune-mediated therapy.
of countries, Zoladex is also approved 2012 for the treatment of medullary thyroid for the adjuvant treatment of early stage We currently have five investigational cancer MTC in patients with unresectable pre-menopausal breast cancer as biologics in Phase I clinical trials and four locally advanced or metastatic disease.
an alternative to and or in addition to in Phase II clinical trials.
Additional drug Caprelsa is also approved in Canada and chemotherapy.
Zoladex offers proven candidates are expected to progress into remains under review by other regulatory survival benets for breast cancer patients clinical trials in 2013.
Moxetumomab agencies around the world.
is a monoclonal antibody approved to begin Phase III testing in hairy cell Casodex and Zoladex are both leading leukemia in 2013. endocrine therapies for the treatment of prostate cancer.
Casodex is used as a 50mg tablet for the treatment of advanced prostate cancer and as a 150mg tablet for the treatment of locally advanced 13.1m prostate cancer.
Iressa is approved in 89 countries and Deaths from cancer worldwide are is one of the leading epidermal growth projected to continue rising, with an factor receptor-tyrosine kinase EGFR-TK estimated 13.1 million deaths in 2030. inhibitors in Japan and the Asia Pacic region where it is marketed for pre-treated Source: WHO Fact Sheet February 2012 advanced non-small cell lung cancer 66 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Respiratory & Inammation Our marketed products Symbicort pMDI budesonide formoterol in a pressurised metered-dose inhaler is $64bn a combination of an inhaled corticosteroid and a fast onset, long-acting betaagonist 2 used for maintenance treatment of asthma Wordwide market value and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD, including chronic bronchitis and emphysema in the US.
Symbicort Turbuhaler budesonide formoterol in a dry powder inhaler is a combination of an inhaled corticosteroid and a fast onset, long-acting betaagonist 2 used for maintenance treatment of asthma Therapy area world market and COPD.
In asthma, it is also approved MAT Q3 12 $bn for Maintenance And Reliever Therapy SMART.
Symbicort Turbuhaler is used in most parts of the world outside the US.
Pulmicort Turbuhaler budesonide in 4 a dry powder inhaler is an inhaled corticosteroid used for maintenance 1 treatment of asthma.
Pulmicort Respules budesonide 3 inhalation suspension is a corticosteroid administered via a nebuliser for the treatment of asthma in both children and adults.
Rhinocort budesonide is a nasal steroid 2 used as a treatment for allergic rhinitis hay fever, perennial rhinitis and nasal polyps.
Oxis Turbuhaler formoterol in a dry 1 Asthma 22.78 powder inhaler is a fast onset, long-acting betaagonist used for the treatment of 2 Other 19.84 2  symptoms in asthma 3 COPD 13.18 and COPD.
4 Rhinitis 8.19 Accolate zarlukast is an oral leukotriene receptor antagonist used for the treatment of asthma.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 67 Performance | Therapy Area Review We aim to build on our strong position Our 2012 focus LABA products.
AstraZeneca in the respiratory and inammation area Symbicort improves symptoms and is required to conduct a trial comparing through the growth of key products, with provides a clinically important improvement Symbicort Inhalation Aerosol with Pulmicort new indications and market launches, in the health of many patients with either to evaluate the risk of serious asthma including chronic obstructive pulmonary asthma or COPD by providing effective outcomes hospitalisations, intubation, disease COPD, as well as through and rapid control of the symptoms.
death in 11,700 adult and adolescent developing a strong pipeline of novel patients.
Recruitment in the trial is ongoing.
Symbicort pMDI is indicated in the US for small molecule and biologics approaches the treatment of asthma in patients 12 years In the pipeline to COPD and asthma.
The COPD indication was Building on our capabilities in combinations We aspire to enter the rheumatology approved and launched in the US in early and inhaler device development demonstrated market through our biologics pipeline 2009.
In June 2010, the US Prescribing through our experience with Symbicort, and targeted small molecule approaches Information was updated to include the FDAs we are aiming to further improve the such as fostamatinib.
With our acquisition new recommendations for appropriate use mainstay of treatment for COPD patients of Ardea we have expanded our of asthma medications containing LABAs.
by combining bronchodilators, being inammation focus to include gout.
The class label changes for all LABAdeveloped in collaboration with Pulmagen containing products are specic to the Therapeutics Synergy Limited, with inhaled treatment of asthma and do not apply anti-inammatory compounds such as COPD and asthma to the treatment of COPD.
inhaled selective glucocorticoid receptor According to WHO, COPD, a serious agonists AZD5423, which continues in Symbicort Turbuhaler was originally lung disease that includes chronic bronchitis Phase II, being developed in collaboration launched in markets outside the US in 2000 and or emphysema, is currently the with Bayer Schering Pharma AG.
Additionally, and in Japan in 2010 for the treatment of fourth leading cause of death worldwide, we are targeting inammation in COPD adult asthma and is co-promoted in Japan with future increases anticipated.
Current using oral routes of administration with with Astellas Pharma, Inc.
The COPD treatment has recently demonstrated AZD5069, a CXCR2 antagonist that targets indication and the SMART treatment the potential for some survival benefit neutrophils which is in Phase II.
MEDI8968, regimen were approved in Japan in 2012. but the impact of medication on the an  receptor MAb, and course of the disease is small and the Symbicort SMART Symbicort Maintenance benralizumab, an anti-interleukin-5 receptor prognosis of the COPD patient remains And Reliever Therapy provides improved MAb, are both in Phase II development poor.
In asthma, unmet medical need for asthma control including less risk for for severe to very severe COPD.
patients whose asthma is inadequately exacerbations relative to comparators We are targeting uncontrolled asthma controlled by current treatments and simplies asthma management focusing on reducing the rate of annual remains an important issue and disease through the use of only one inhaler for asthma exacerbations through small normalisation is currently not optimally both maintenance and relief of asthma molecule approaches such as a CRTh2 achieved by any approved treatment.
As well as being a cost-effective receptor antagonist and toll-like receptor 7 treatment, the Symbicort SMART approach The typical treatment for both COPD and agonists being developed in collaboration reduces the usage of both inhaled and asthma is a xed-dose combination of an with Dainippon Sumitomo.
Biological oral corticosteroids compared to other inhaled corticosteroid ICS with a long-acting treatments in Phase IIb include benralizumab treatment options.
betaagonist LABA for example Symbicort 2 and tralokinumab, a MAb that targets or for COPD specifically, an inhaled Pulmicort is one of the worlds leading interleukin-13.
Also, in Phase II, brodalumab long-acting muscarinic antagonist as either inhaled corticosteroids for the treatment is an anti-interleukin-17 receptor MAb monotherapy or adjunctive to ICS LABA of asthma and is available in several forms.
being developed in collaboration with treatment.
Other major asthma treatments Teva has had an exclusive licence to sell Amgen for asthma.
include monotherapy ICSs, oral leukotriene a generic version of Pulmicort Respules In April 2012, AstraZeneca and Amgen receptor antagonists and or oral steroids in the US since 2009.
Pulmicort continues agreed to jointly develop and commercialise for severe disease and in combination to face increasing challenge from generic five MAbs from Amgens clinical inammation with antibiotics for exacerbations, as well products.
Patents protecting Pulmicort have portfolio including brodalumab.
The as a MAb targeting allergic asthma for been subject to a number of challenges collaboration will provide Amgen with moderate to severe asthma patients.
Details of these additional resources to optimally progress recent years, studies employing patientmatters are included in Note 25 to the its portfolio, and Amgen will benefit from the centric tools, such as the asthma control Financial Statements from page 184. strong respiratory, inammation and asthma questionnaire, have revealed surprisingly low Clinical studies development expertise of AstraZenecas asthma control at all severities, highlighting In April 2012, the FDA provided AstraZeneca biologics capabilities.
The collaboration an underestimated medical need.
with a Post-marketing Requirement for will also capitalise on AstraZenecas global a Symbicort LABA safety study, designed commercial reach in respiratory and to be pooled with similar studies with other gastrointestinal diseases.
68 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information in rheumatoid arthritis.
The ongoing Phase In 2012, we continued to invest in several Rheumatology and gout III programme, called OSKIRA, commenced novel multi-functional MAbs in inammatory Rheumatoid arthritis is currently treated with in September 2010.
In the Phase IIb dose and autoimmune conditions.
Sifalimumab, generic disease-modifying anti-rheumatic nding study OSKIRA-4, fostamatinib as a which targets interferon-alpha, continued agents and, where the relevant criteria are clinical development with an ongoing Phase monotherapy met the first primary objective met, biologic disease-modiers.
There IIb study in patients with SLE.
MEDI-546, showing a statistically significant superior remains a need for novel effective treatments which targets the Type I IFN receptor, DAS28 score change from baseline since only about a third of patients treated continued in a Phase IIb study in patients compared to placebo at six weeks at the with biologics achieve their treatment goals.
Mavrilimumab, which targets 100mg twice daily dose and the 100mg We anticipate that the rheumatoid arthritis the alpha sub-unit of the granulocytetwice daily for a month followed by 150mg market will experience modest annual macrophage colony stimulating factor once daily dose, but not at the 100mg growth over the next decade.
Sales of the receptor, continues in Phase IIb for patients twice daily for a month followed by 100mg biologic tumour necrosis factor TNF alpha with rheumatoid arthritis.
The OSKIRA-4 study blockers accounted for 72% of major market did not meet its second primary objective rheumatoid arthritis sales in 2012.
Use as all fostamatinib monotherapy doses Dermatology of other biologic approaches is expected were inferior to adalimumab monotherapy Psoriasis is a chronic disease in which the to increase due to new entrants, new at week 24 based on DAS28.
The safety immune system causes the skin cells to subcutaneous formulations and use earlier and tolerability findings for fostamatinib grow at an accelerated rate.
Instead of being in the treatment pathway.
Novel oral drugs as reported in the OSKIRA-4 study were shed, the skin cells pile up, causing painful targeting intra-cellular signalling pathways generally consistent with those previously and itchy, red, scaly patches that can bleed.
may provide anti-TNF-like levels of efcacy observed in the TASKi Phase II programme.
Up to 12 million patients are diagnosed with and potentially more convenient dosing, Results from the ongoing Phase III OSKIRA psoriasis across the US and Europe each especially in patients who currently are programme are anticipated in the first half year.
Despite various treatment options not taking or are ineligible to take injectable of 2013 and would form the basis for moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, biologic agents.
many patients do not meet their therapeutic Current treatment of systemic lupus In June, AstraZeneca acquired Ardea, a goals including resolution of underlying erythematosus SLE focuses on San Diego, California-based biotechnology inammation, clearing of symptoms and suppressing symptoms and controlling company focused on the development improving quality of life.
Biologics are disease ares, and in the case of lupus of small molecule therapeutics.
Ardeas currently used in moderate to severe patients nephritis preventing renal failure.
Although clinically most advanced product candidate, who are candidates for, or are unresponsive a biologic has recently been launched lesinurad formerly known as RDEA594, to, phototherapy or systemic therapy.
for SLE, significant unmet medical is currently in Phase III development.
In the pipeline need remains.
Most emerging biologic Lesinurad is a selective inhibitor of URAT1, As mentioned previously, in 2012 AstraZeneca agents are likely to be used initially after a transporter in the proximal tubule cells of and Amgen entered into an agreement failure of standard therapies including the kidney that regulates uric acid excretion to jointly develop brodalumab, which has corticosteroids and immunosuppressants from the body.
The Phase III programme commenced Phase III development in or in combination in order to provide is exploring lesinurad as an oral, once daily patients with moderate to severe plaque incremental benefit, prevent ares and allow treatment for the chronic management psoriasis.
In addition, brodalumab is being reduction of high-dose chronic steroid use.
of hyperuricaemia in patients with gout.
considered in a Phase IIb development Regulatory lings are planned in the US Gout is a chronic, painful, debilitating programme in psoriatic arthritis.
and Europe for the first half of 2014.
We arthritis caused by elevated serum uric also plan to develop and commercialise acid due to overproduction and or under lesinurad in China and Japan.
Gout is the second most common arthritis after osteoarthritis and is the most common form of arthritis in men over 40.
In the pipeline Fostamatinib was in-licensed from 30% Rigel Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in 2010.
Fostamatinib is a potential first-in-class oral spleen tyrosine kinase SYK inhibitor Some 235 million people currently Total deaths from COPD are projected being evaluated for a rheumatoid arthritis suffer from asthma.
It is the most common to increase by more than 30% in the next indication.
It is thought to block reversible chronic disease among children.
10 years without interventions to cut risks.
signalling in multiple cell types involved Source: WHO Fact Sheet May 2011 Source: WHO Fact Sheet November 2012 in inammation and tissue degradation AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 69
