Strategy | Our industry World pharmaceutical markets sales World US Western Europe $bn 2.5% $bn 0.4% $bn -0.8% 12 839 12 330 12 181 11 818 11 329 11 182 10 780 10 315 10 181 Established ROW Emerging ROW $bn 1.5% $bn 11.1% 12 139 12 189 Data based on world market sales using AstraZeneca market 11 137 11 171 denitions as set out in the Market denitions table on page 209.
Source: IMS Health, IMS Midas Quantum Q3 2012 including 10 131 10 152 US data.
On the supply side, the industry faces an Growth drivers Our industry ongoing and significant R&D productivity Expanding patient populations Introduction challenge.
R&D costs have risen signicantly The world population is expected to rise The pharmaceutical industry has doubled over the past decade, while industry-wide from its current level of some seven billion in value since 2000, driven by a large probability of success from pre-clinical to and reach nine billion by 2050.
In addition, number of FDA approvals in the second half launch continues to decline.
For example, the number of people who can access of the 1990s and by the increased use of the median large pharmaceutical company healthcare continues to increase, particularly medicines around the world in the wake success rate for 2007 to 2011 in delivering among the elderly.
Globally, it is estimated of global economic growth in that period.
a compound from pre-clinical studies that between 2000 and 2050, the number Now, many of the drivers of demand and to launch was 2%.
These factors are of people aged 60 years and over will supply in the industry are under pressure.
considered in more detail below.
increase from 605 million to two billion.
Nonetheless, as the gure above shows, The industry remains highly competitive.
Faster-developing economies, such the world pharmaceutical market grew by Our competitors are other large researchas China, India and Brazil, offer new 2.5% in 2012.
Average revenue growth in based pharmaceutical companies that opportunities for the pharmaceutical Established Markets was 1.5% while that discover, develop and sell innovative, industry to help an expanding number of in Emerging Markets was over seven times patent-protected prescription medicines patients who can benefit from innovative higher at 11.1%.
The top five pharmaceutical and vaccines, as well as smaller medicines.
Developing markets now markets in the world remained the US, biotechnology and vaccine companies, and represent approximately 85% of the world Japan, Germany, France and China, with companies that produce generic medicines.
population and over 22% of the worlds the US representing 39.3% of global While many of our peers are confronting pharmaceutical revenues.
similar challenges, strategically these revenues in those markets therefore challenges are being met in different ways.
continued to grow faster than those On the demand side, underlying For example, while some companies have in Established Markets in 2012.
As the demographic trends remain favourable pursued a focused strategy, others have Estimated pharmaceutical market growth to long-term industry growth.
These diversied by acquiring or building branded 2011-2016 gure on page 20 shows, are outlined below.
However, securing generics businesses or consumer portfolios, we expect this trend will continue.
recognition through reimbursement arguing that this enables them to better approval and reward through favourable Unmet medical need meet changing customer needs and pricing and sales for innovation is becoming In most developed markets, ageing smooth risk for shareholders.
more difficult, as there are intensifying populations and certain lifestyle choices pricing pressures, particularly in Established While most companies continued to pursue such as smoking, a poor diet and lack of Markets which are facing rising healthcare their existing strategies in 2012, there were exercise drive an increased incidence of costs.
Our challenge is to work with exceptions with some companies moving non-communicable diseases NCDs such governments and other payers to ensure away from diversication.
Key trends across as cancer, cardiovascular metabolic and they understand the value of pharmaceutical the industry included ongoing efforts to respiratory diseases which require long-term innovation in order for us to achieve improve R&D innovation and productivity, management.
In 2008, almost two-thirds of adequate commercial returns on our expansion of geographic scope, especially deaths globally were from NCDs and 80% investment.
We also face increased in Emerging Markets and Japan, and the of those were in lower and middle income competition from generic medicines as pursuit of operational efficiency.
For example, in South Asia some of the worlds most successful drugs was an increase in business development it is estimated that deaths from NCDs will come off patent.
Finally, greater regulatory and partnering at all stages of product increase from half to almost three-quarters constraints are being placed on the development, with a continued increase of all deaths between 2008 and 2030.
It is pharmaceutical industry by governments in peer collaboration.
also estimated that nearly one-third of the and those who pay for medicines.
worlds diabetes patients will come from 16 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information R&D productivity 150 125 100 75 50 25 0 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 FDA approvals R&D spend $bn R&D spend by the top 500 pharmaceutical and biotech companies.
Source: Evaluate Pharma for R&D spend: FDA for approvals.
India and China by 2030, by which date The number of new drugs approved by compounds are identied early, before its prevalence in Brazil is expected to have the FDA rose from 30 in 2011 to 39 in significant costs have been incurred increased by two-thirds.
This marks the greatest increase in reducing costs and improving process annual approvals since 2004.
However, the efficiency, using Lean business Advances in science and technology average forecast sales from these products improvement tools such as Six Sigma Innovation leading to new drugs is critical five years post-launch is lower than the and outsourcing if we are to address unmet medical need.
forecasts for products approved in 2010, a  business model Existing drugs will continue to be important reecting the shift away from broad primary that includes academic collaborations in meeting the growing demand for care indications to more specialist drugs.
and co-development agreements that healthcare, particularly with the increasing provide for the sharing of development use of generic medication.
At the same To ensure it delivers a sustainable return on risks and costs with external partners time, advances in disease understanding its R&D investment, the industry is working looking externally for high quality science, and the application of new technologies to increase its probability of success in technologies, targets, drug candidates, will be required to ensure the delivery of developing commercially viable new drugs and or entire drug pipelines.
Such approaches include and is moving to a lower, more exible cost personalised healthcare and predictive base.
It does so at a time when regulators Regulatory requirements science, as well as new types of therapy.
and payers are demanding more and better Our industry continues to be highly With advances in the technologies for the evidence of comparative effectiveness of regulated.
This reects public interest in design and testing of novel compounds, compounds, which lengthens development ensuring access to safe, effective and high new opportunities exist for the use of times and increases development costs.
quality medicines that are responsibly innovative small molecules as new tested, manufactured and commercialised.
The industry is using the full range of medicines.
The use of large molecules, Given the nature and geographic scope innovative technologies to achieve and or biologics, has also become an important of our business, we maintain important accelerate product approvals.
Additionally, source of innovation, with biologics among relationships with health authorities greater emphasis has been placed on the most commercially successful new worldwide as they assess the safety, demonstrating Proof of Concept, which products.
Forecasts for 2018 predict efcacy and quality of medicines.
These delivers candidate drugs with supporting that of the worlds top 100 pharmaceutical include the FDA in the US, the EMA in the data demonstrating that the drug results products, 49% of sales will come from EU, the Japan Pharmaceuticals and Medical in a clinical change with an acceptable biologics.
This compares with only 34% Device Agency and the SFDA in China.
endpoint or surrogate in patients with in 2011 and 17% in 2004.
In 2012, the US re-authorised the Prescription companies now pursue R&D in both small Drug User Fee Act and the EU continued molecules and biologics.
Organisationally, companies are addressing to implement pharmacovigilance legislation.
productivity challenges in a variety of ways.
The challenges These measures share the common goals These include: R&D productivity of protecting patient safety, creating greater Improving R&D productivity is a critical focusing on a dened set of therapeutic transparency in the regulatory process challenge for the pharmaceutical industry.
areas and exiting those where success throughout a products life-cycle and taking As shown in the diagram above, global has been poor greater account of the patient perspective investment in pharmaceutical R&D reached restructuring R&D organisations in the regulatory process.
There is also an estimated $134 billion in 2012, a 94% to create clearer accountabilities and a global trend, led by the EU, to increase increase from $69 billion in 2002.
However, smaller, more entrepreneurial units public access to the documentation the annual growth in R&D spend has revamping decision making and companies submit to health authorities slowed in recent years.
governance, so that unsuccessful in support of marketing authorisations.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 17 Strategy | Our industry Estimated pharmaceutical sales 2016 North America Latin America Europe Non EU countries $371.8bn $117bn $21.8bn Europe CIS EU countries Middle East $35.5bn $211.5bn $18bn Africa South East Oceania $30.6bn & East Asia $16.9bn Indian Subcontinent $194.1bn Ex-manufacturer prices at CER.
Japan $127.4bn So far as the development of biosimilars In another trend, health technology In 2012, pressures on pricing included is concerned, health authorities continue assessors and payers are increasingly the implementation of a variety of drug to face the challenge of developing assessing not only the safety of products price control mechanisms and other robust standards to ensure their safety, but also their relative effectiveness regulatory reforms, as well as the effectiveness and quality.
Consequently, there is a introduction of xed hospital tariffs which information on biosimilars, see the Patent heightened interest by health authorities can act as a method of controlling drug expiries and genericisation section below.
in both comparative clinical effectiveness costs by incentivising hospitals to choose and the ongoing benefit risk assessment cheaper generic alternatives over Efforts to harmonise regulations globally of medicines after they have been patent-protected medicines.
continue, yet the number of regulations approved.
This is resulting in a greater and their impact continue to multiply.
In the US, the Affordable Care Act has focus on incorporating validated health Clinical trials that support the registration already had a direct impact on healthcare outcome measures into clinical of products in a given regulatory jurisdiction activities despite the fact that many of the trials and the development of clinical must be relevant to a variety of patient healthcare coverage expansion provisions comparative evidence.
Programmes using foreign of the Affordable Care Act do not take clinical trial data also need to meet each However, it remains the case that when effect until 2014.
For example, in 2010 there individual health authoritys requirements applications are supported by strong data was an increase in the mandatory Medicaid and be relevant to their population.
Health and compelling benefit risk propositions, rebates.
In addition, the pharmaceutical authorities continue to redene patient regulators are approving drugs that address industry, including AstraZeneca, is making safety assessment processes.
In addition, unmet medical need.
prescription drugs more affordable to senior in emerging pharmaceutical markets, citizens through, for example, helping Pricing pressure health authorities are developing their own to close the coverage gap in the Medicare The pricing and reimbursement environment individual requirements and safety initiatives.
in many markets continues to be highly The industry continues to work with One impact of the growing complexity challenging.
Most pharmaceutical sales are policymakers and regulators with a view and globalisation of clinical studies, and generated in highly regulated markets where to ensuring that they strike a balance the pressure on industry and healthcare governments and private payers, such as between containing costs, improving budgets, has been an increase in industry insurance companies, exert various levels outcomes and promoting an environment collaborations with health authorities.
These of control on pricing and reimbursement.
are driving innovation and streamlining Cost-containment, including containment regulatory processes, as well as dening of spending on pharmaceuticals, continues In August 2011, as part of the bipartisan and clarifying approval requirements for to be a focus.
A wave of austerity agreement to raise the federal debt new technology and approaches such programmes following the current global ceiling, the US Congress created as personalised healthcare.
They are also economic downturn further constrain the Joint Select Committee on deficit accelerating the development of treatments healthcare providers and tougher economic Reduction Committee.
The Committee that address public health priorities.
conditions constrain those patients who was empowered to recommend a pay directly for their medicines.
Additional package of $1.2 trillion in cost savings challenges may arise if suppliers and with the requirement that, if the Committee distributors face credit-related difficulties.
failed to reach an agreement, the savings At the same time, significant extra resources would be achieved through across are required by pharmaceutical companies the board spending cuts sequestration.
to demonstrate to payers the economic as well as therapeutic value of medicines.
18 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Estimated pharmaceutical sales 2016 $bn $21.8 $35.5 $211.5 $371.8 $127.
4 $29.7 $18 $30.6 $194.1 $117 $16.9 The Committee discussions ended without Elsewhere, in China, the triennial maximum expire, it can also occur where the validity reaching an agreement and, barring future retail drug price review took place in 2012, of patents is disputed or successfully action by Congress, sequestration was to with more stringent rules being imposed challenged before expiry.
Such early take effect on 2 January 2013.
Sequestration compared with previous rounds of cuts, challenges by generics have increased would have impacted most federal while in Japan biennial cuts are expected with generics companies increasingly government healthcare programmes with to continue.
In Latin America, pricing willing to launch products at risk, for broad reductions in federal government is increasingly controlled by governments, example, prior to resolution of the relevant spending.
On 3 January 2013, President for example in Colombia and Venezuela.
This trend is likely to Barack Obama signed a bill that avoided continue, resulting in significant market More information regarding the impact sequestration.
The bill allowed the US presence for the generic version during of price controls and reductions, as well Congress and the President an additional the period in which litigation remains as the impact of healthcare reform in the two months to address the sequestration unresolved, even though the courts US, can be found in the Principal risks challenge.
As Congress and the President may subsequently rule that the innovative and uncertainties section from page 75. continue to discuss how to reduce product is properly protected by a valid The principal aspects of price regulation government expenditure, some policymakers patent.
The unpredictable nature of in our major markets are described further may look to the pharmaceutical industry to patent litigation has led innovators to in the Geographical Review from page 70. help achieve the cost savings they seek.
seek to settle such challenges on terms Patent expiries and genericisation acceptable to both innovator and generic In Europe, governments have issued We are in the middle of a period in which manufacturer.
However, some competition new legislation on mandatory discounts, some of the biggest selling drugs the authorities have sought to challenge the clawbacks and referencing rules, driving industry has ever produced face patent scope and or availability of this type of prices down, especially in the distressed expiry.
As a consequence, payers, settlement agreement.
economies of Greece, Portugal and Spain.
physicians and patients in Established It has been estimated that in Greece, Biologics have, to date, sustained longer Markets will have access to low price, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain the life-cycles than traditional small molecule generic alternatives in many important pharmaceutical industry accommodated pharmaceuticals and have faced less classes of primary care drugs.
For example, price cuts and discounts of more than generic competition.
This is due to in the US in 2012, generics constituted 7 billion in 2010 and 2011, which amounted a more complex manufacturing process 84% of the market by volume.
to 8% of the industrys turnover in these for biologics compared with small molecule countries.
In Germany, Europes largest Patents only protect pharmaceutical medicines.
It is also due to the inherent pharmaceutical market, manufacturers are products for a nite period and the expiry difficulties in producing a biosimilar which, now required to prove the additional benefit or early loss of patents often leads to the as a biological equivalent, rather than of their drugs over existing alternatives.
Generic versions of an exact chemical copy, could require by showing additional benefit can the drug drugs are very competitive with signicantly additional clinical trials.
However, with avoid being transferred to the German lower pricing than the innovator equivalents.
regulatory authorities in Europe and the This is partly due to lower investment by reference pricing system, where, for each US continuing to implement abbreviated generic manufacturers in R&D and market drug group, a single reimbursement level approvals pathways for biosimilar versions, development.
While generic competition or reference price is set.
innovative biologics are likely to become has traditionally occurred when patents increasingly subject to competition from biosimilars.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 19
