Additional disclosures the separate BP claims program in respect of claimants not in the Exhibits Economic and Property Damages class as determined by the Economic and Property Damages Settlement Agreement or who have requested to The following documents are filed in the Securities and Exchange opt out of that settlement.
Fines, penalties and claims administration Commission SEC EDGAR system, as part of this Annual Report on Form costs are not covered by the trust fund.
Under the terms of the Trust 20-F, and can be viewed on the SECs website.
Agreement, BP has no right to access the funds once they have been Exhibit 1 Memorandum and Articles of Association of BP p. l. c. contributed to the trust fund.
BP will receive funds from the trust fund Exhibit 4.1 The BP Executive Directors Incentive Plan only upon its expiration, if there are any funds remaining at that point.
BP Exhibit 4.2 Amended BP Deferred has the authority under the Trust Agreement to present certain resolved Annual Bonus Plan 2005 claims, including natural resource damages claims and state and local Exhibit 4.3 Amended Directors Secondment Agreement for response claims, to the Trust for payment, by providing the trustees with R W Dudley all the required documents establishing that such claims are valid under Exhibit 4.4 Amended Directors Service Contract and Secondment the Trust Agreement.
However, any such payments can only be made on Agreement for R W Dudley the authority of the trustee and any funds distributed are paid directly to Exhibit 4.5 Amended Directors Service Contract and Secondment the claimants, not to BP.
The Trust Agreement is governed by the laws of Agreement for Dr B E Grote the State of Delaware.
Exhibit 4.6 Directors Service Contract for I C Conn On 30 September 2010, BP entered a pledge and collateral agreement in Exhibit 4.7 Directors Service Contract for Dr B Gilvary favour of John S Martin, Jr and Kent D Syverud the Pledge Agreement, Exhibit 7 Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges which pledged certain Gulf of Mexico assets as collateral for the trust fund Unaudited funding obligation.
The pledged collateral consists of an overriding royalty Exhibit 8 Subsidiaries included as Note 45 to the Financial interest in oil and gas production of BPs Thunder Horse, Atlantis, Mad Statements Dog, Great White and Mars, Ursa and Na Kika assets in the Gulf of Exhibit 10.1 Trust Agreement dated as of 6 August 2010 among BP Mexico.
A wholly owned company called Verano Collateral Holdings LLC Exploration & Production Inc. John S Martin, Jr and Kent Verano has been created to hold the overriding royalty interest, which D Syverud, as individual trustees, and Citigroup Trustwas capped at $1.25 billion per quarter and $17 billion in total.
Verano pledged the overriding royalty interest to the Trust as collateral for BPs Delaware, N. A. as corporate trustee, as amended by an remaining contribution obligations to the Trust.
An event of default under Addendum, dated 6 August 2010 the Pledge Agreement arose if BP failed to make any contribution under Exhibit 11 Code of Ethics the Trust Agreement when due or otherwise failed to observe certain Exhibit 12 Rule 13a 14 a Certifications other obligations, subject to specified cure periods.
Following an event of Exhibit 13 Rule 13a 14 b Certifications# default, the trustees were entitled to exercise all remedies as secured Exhibit 99.1 Judgment in a Criminal Case and Order as to BP parties in respect of the collateral, including receipt of royalty interests Exploration and Production, Inc. in United States of from the pledged assets, having all or part of the limited liability company America v. BP Exploration and Production, Inc. dated interests registered in the trustees name and selling the collateral at 29 January 2013 public or private sale.
The Pledge Agreement was governed by the laws of Exhibit 99.2 Consent of defendant BP p. l. c. dated 3 October 2012 the State of Texas.
On 9 November 2011 the Pledge Agreement and the Exhibit 99.3 Final Judgment and Order as to defendant BP p. l. c. in related overriding royalty interest conveyance and mortgage were Securities and Exchange Commission v. BP p. l. c. dated amended and restated such documents collectively referred to as the 10 December 2012 Amended and Restated Pledge Agreement to change the overriding Incorporated by reference to the companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended royalty interest effective as of 1 October 2011 to $14.7 billion.
Beginning 31 December 2010. on 2 January 2012, and on the first business day of each subsequent Incorporated by reference to the companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended calendar quarter, the overriding royalty interest is recalculated as the 31 December 2011.
Incorporated by reference to the companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended remaining outstanding contributions owed by BP to the Trust as of that 31 December 2004. date multiplied by a factor of 1.45.
On 2 January 2012 the overriding Incorporated by reference to the companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended royalty interest was recalculated as $7.1 billion.
Restated Pledge Agreement also changed the definition of an event of # Furnished only.
Included only in the annual report filed in the Securities and Exchange Commission EDGAR default to be a failure by BP to make required payments pursuant to the system.
terms of the Trust Agreement.
BP completed its trust funding obligation during the fourth quarter of 2012, and the Amended and Restated Pledge Agreement was terminated in accordance with its terms as of The total amount of long-term securities of the Registrant and its subsidiaries authorized under any one instrument does not exceed 10% of 16 November 2012. the total assets of BP p. l. c. and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
The company agrees to furnish copies of any or all such instruments to  the SEC on request.
Transactions between the group and its significant jointly controlled entities and associates are summarized in Financial statements Note 24 on page 218 and Note 25 on page 219.
In the ordinary course of its business, the group enters into transactions with various organizations with which certain of its directors or executive officers are associated.
Except as described in this report, the group did not have material transactions or transactions of an unusual nature with, and did not make loans to, related parties in the period commencing 1 January 2012 to 19 February 2013.
Additional disclosures 175 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 176 Additional disclosures BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
