Cautionary statement Information about this report This document should be read in conjunction with the cautionary statement on page 32.
Frequent abbreviations This document constitutes the Annual Report and Accounts in accordance with UK requirements and the Annual Report on Form 20-F in accordance with the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, ADR for BP p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2012.
A cross reference to Form 20-F requirements American depositary receipt.
ADS This document contains the Directors Report, including the Business Review and Management American depositary share.
The Directors Remuneration Report is on pages 127-145.
The consolidated financial statements of the group are on pages 177-286 and the Barrel bbl 159 litres, 42 US gallons.
corresponding reports of the auditor are on pages 179-181.
The parent company financial statements of BP p. l. c. and corresponding auditors report are on pages PC2-PC11 and page PC1 b d respectively.
The statement of directors responsibilities, the independent auditors report on the annual report boe and accounts to the members of BP p. l. c. and the parent company financial statements of BP p. l. c. Barrels of oil equivalent.
and corresponding auditors report do not form part of BPs Annual Report on Form 20-F as led with the SEC.
GAAP Generally accepted accounting practice.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 and BP Summary Review 2012 may be downloaded from bp.
No material on the BP website, other than the items identied as BP Annual Gas Report and Form 20-F 2012 or BP Summary Review 2012, forms any part of those documents.
BP p. l. c. is the parent company of the BP group of companies.
The company was incorporated in Hydrocarbons 1909 in England and Wales and changed its name to BP p. l. c. in 2001.
Where we refer to the Crude oil and natural gas.
company, we mean BP p. l. c. Unless otherwise stated, the text does not distinguish between the IFRS activities and operations of the parent company and those of its subsidiaries, and information in this International Financial Reporting Standards.
document reects 100% of the assets and operations of the company and its subsidiaries that were consolidated at the date or for the periods indicated, including minority interests.
BPs primary share Liquids listing is the London Stock Exchange.
Ordinary shares are also traded on the Frankfurt Stock Crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
Exchange in Germany and, in the US, the companys securities are traded on the New York Stock LNG Exchange in the form of ADSs see page 154 for more details.
The term shareholder in this report means, unless the context otherwise requires, investors in the LPG equity capital of BP p. l. c. both direct and indirect.
As BP shares, in the form of ADSs, are listed on Liqueed petroleum gas.
the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, an Annual Report on Form 20-F is led with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
Ordinary shares are ordinary fully paid shares in BP mb d p. l. c. of 25 cents each.
Preference shares are cumulative first preference shares and cumulative Thousand barrels per day.
second preference shares in BP p. l. c. of 1 each.
mboe d Thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Trade marks of the BP group appear throughout this Annual Report and Form 20-F in italics.
They include: mmboe ampm Million barrels of oil equivalent.
Aral mmBtu ARCO Million British thermal units.
BP BP Ultimate MW Castrol Megawatt.
Castrol CRB Castrol EDGE NGLs Castrol Magnatec Natural gas liquids.
Designer Water PSA Field of the Future Production-sharing agreement.
LoSal Project 20K RC Pushing Reservoir Limits Replacement cost.
Veba Combi-Cracking VCC SEC EcoBoost is a trade mark of Ford Motor Company.
The United States Securities and SkyMine is a trade mark of Skyonic Corporation.
Permasense is a trade mark of Permasense Limited.
Registered ofce and our worldwide Our agent in the US: headquarters: BP p. l. c. BP America Inc. Certain denitions 1 St Jamess Square 501 Westlake Park Boulevard For denitions of certain financial and London SW1Y 4PD Houston, Texas 77079 contractual terms see pages 98-99.
UK US Tel 44 0 20 7496 4000 Tel 1 281 366 2000 Key performance indicators Denitions for our group KPIs are Registered in England and Wales No.
2 Business review: Group overview BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
