Under the settlement agreements with co-owners Anadarko and MOEX, The pension and other post-retirement benefit assumptions at December and with Cameron International, the designer and manufacturer of the 2012, 2011 and 2010 are provided in Financial statements Note 37 on Deepwater Horizon blowout preventer, with M-I L. L. C, M-I, the mud page 239. contractor, and with Weatherford, the designer and manufacturer of the The assumed rate of investment return, discount rate, inflation rate and float collar used on the Macondo well, BP has agreed to indemnify the US healthcare cost trend rate have a significant effect on the amounts Anadarko, MOEX, Cameron, M-I and Weatherford for certain claims reported.
A sensitivity analysis of the impact of changes in these arising from the accident.
It is therefore possible that BP may face claims assumptions on the benefit expense and obligation is provided in Financial under these indemnities, but it is not currently possible at this time to statements Note 37 on page 239. reliably measure any obligation in relation to such claims and therefore no In addition to the financial assumptions, we regularly review the amount has been provided as at 31 December 2012. demographic and mortality assumptions.
Mortality assumptions reflect Business economic loss claims received by the DHCSSP to date are being best practice in the countries in which we provide pensions and have paid at a significantly higher average amount than previously assumed by been chosen with regard to the latest available published tables adjusted BP in formulating the original estimate of the cost of the PSC settlement.
where appropriate to reflect the experience of the group and an Further, the settlement agreement has been interpreted by the claims extrapolation of past longevity improvements into the future.
A sensitivity administrator in a way that BP believes is incorrect resulting in a higher analysis of the impact of changes in the mortality assumptions on the number and amount of claims being determined.
As more fully described benefit expense and obligation is provided in Financial statements Note in Legal proceedings on pages 162-169, this matter has been considered 37 on page 239. by the court and on 5 March 2013, the court affirmed the claims Actuarial gains and losses are recognized in full within other administrators interpretation of the settlement agreement and rejected comprehensive income in the year in which they occur.
BPs position as it relates to business economic loss claims.
BP strongly disagrees with the ruling of 5 March 2013, and intends to pursue all available legal options, including rights of appeal, to challenge this ruling.
 Given the inherent uncertainty that exists as BP pursues all available legal options to challenge the recent ruling, and the higher number of claims contractors received and higher average claims payments than previously assumed by BP, which may or not continue, management has concluded that no Essential contracts reliable estimate can be made of any business economic loss claims not BP has contractual and other arrangements with numerous third parties in yet received or processed by the DHCSSP.
support of its business activities.
This report does not contain information about any of these third parties as none of our arrangements with them is BPs current estimate of the total cost of those elements of the PSC considered to be essential to the business of BP.
settlement that can be estimated reliably, which excludes any future business economic loss claims not yet received or processed by the Suppliers and contractors DHCSSP, is $7.7 billion.
If BP is successful in its challenge to the courts Our processes are designed to enable us to choose suppliers carefully on ruling, the total estimated cost of the settlement agreement will, nevertheless, be significantly higher than the current estimate of $7.7 billion, merit, avoiding conflicts of interest and inappropriate gifts and because business economic loss claims not yet received or processed are entertainment.
We expect suppliers to comply with legal requirements not reflected in the current estimate and the average payments per claim and we seek to do business with suppliers who act in line with BPs determined so far are higher than anticipated.
If BP is not successful in its commitments to compliance and ethics, as outlined in our code of challenge to the courts ruling, a further significant increase to the total conduct.
We engage with suppliers in a variety of ways, including estimated cost of the settlement will be required.
However, there can be no performance review meetings to identify mutually advantageous ways to certainty as to how the dispute will ultimately be resolved or determined.
the extent that there are insufficient funds available in the Trust fund, payments under the PSC settlement will be made by BP directly and Creditor payment policy and practice charged to the income statement.
For further information see Financial Statutory regulations issued under the UK Companies Act 2006 require statements Note 36 and Note 43 and Risk factors on pages 38-44. companies to make a statement of their policy and practice in respect of the payment of trade creditors.
In view of the international nature of the groups operations there is no specific group-wide policy in respect of Pensions and other post-retirement benefits payments to suppliers.
Relationships with suppliers are, however, Accounting for pensions and other post-retirement benefits involves governed by the groups policy commitment to long-term relationships judgement about uncertain events, including estimated retirement dates, founded on trust and mutual advantage.
Within this overall policy, salary levels at retirement, mortality rates, rates of return on plan assets, individual operating companies are responsible for agreeing terms and determination of discount rates for measuring plan obligations, conditions for their business transactions and ensuring that suppliers are assumptions for inflation rates, US healthcare cost trend rates and rates of aware of the terms of payment.
utilization of healthcare services by US retirees.
These assumptions are based on the environment in each country.
Materialcontracts Determination of the projected benefit obligations for the groups defined On 6 August 2010, BP entered into a trust agreement with John S Martin, benefit pension and post-retirement plans is important to the recorded amounts for such obligations on the balance sheet and to the amount of Jr and Kent D Syverud, as individual trustees, and Citigroup Trustbenefit expense in the income statement.
The assumptions used may Delaware, N. A. as corporate trustee the Trust Agreement which vary from year to year, which will affect future results of operations.
Any established the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust the Trust to be funded differences between these assumptions and the actual outcome also in the amount of $20 billion the trust fund over the period to the fourth affect future results of operations.
During the fourth quarter of 2012, BP made a final contribution to the Trust to complete the funding of the full $20-billion Pension and other post-retirement benefit assumptions are reviewed by commitment.
The trust fund is available to satisfy legitimate individual and management at the end of each year.
These assumptions are used to business claims that were previously administered by the Gulf Coast determine the projected benefit obligation at the year-end and hence the Claims Facility GCCF, state and local government claims resolved by BP, surpluses and deficits recorded on the groups balance sheet, and pension final judgments and settlements, state and local response costs, and and other post-retirement benefit expense for the following year.
In 2013, natural resource damages and related costs.
The trust fund is available to when we adopt the revised version of IAS 19 Employee benefits see satisfy claims that were previously processed through the transitional Note 1 for further information, we will be required to apply the same rate court-supervised claims facility, to fund the qualified settlement funds of return on plan assets as we use to discount our pension liabilities.
We established under the terms of the settlement agreements with the expect this accounting change to adversely impact our earnings by Plaintiffs Steering Committee PSC administered through the courtapproximately $1 billion on a pre-tax basis, with no impact on cash flow.
supervised settlement program, and to satisfy claims processed through 174 Additional disclosures BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
