Our strategy Through our strategy we aim to create a distinctive platform for value growth over the long term.
Our seismic technology helps minimize field appraisal and development risk.
The above In 2011 we put forward a 10-point plan that Our strategic priorities model of a hydrocarbon field in the Gulf of outlined what could be expected from BP over Mexico shows large salt deposits obscuring Our aim is to be an oil and gas company the next three years.
During 2012 we worked a hydrocarbon reservoir.
that grows over the long term.
We will seek towards the milestones we had set out for to continually enhance safety and risk 2014.
We refined our plans and communicated management, earn and keep peoples trust, further information on our longer-term and create value for shareholders.
We will strategic objectives beyond 2014. continue to simplify our organization and fine Through this work and the actions taken to tune the portfolio.
We will focus on efficient strengthen the group, BP enters 2013 a more execution in our operations and our use of focused oil and gas company with promising capital.
We will build capability through the opportunities and a clear plan for the future.
pursuit of greater standardization and BPs strengthened position, distinctive increased functional expertise.
capabilities, strong financial framework and BP Energy Outlook 2030 projects that world Upstream portfolio simplication vision for the future provide the foundation demand for energy will continue to grow.
In We have divested a significant proportion for our long-term strategy.
This strategy is helping to meet this demand, BP has a large of our operated assets while still retaining intended to ensure BP is well positioned for suite of opportunities the legacy of years of virtually all our future major projects and the world we see ahead.
success in gaining access to and developing around 90% of our proved reserves.
This allows us to select and invest Our financial framework a in those projects with the potential to provide Divested Retained a We expect our organic capital expenditure the highest returns.
We will prioritize value 110 20,000 18,000 13 to be in the range of $24-27 billion per year rather than seek to grow production volume through to the end of the decade, with for its own sake.
We will concentrate on 90% investment prioritized towards the Upstream higher quality assets in both our Upstream and segment.
All investments will continue to be Downstream segments, starting with safety 68% subject to a rigorous capital allocation review and the delivery of strong and growing cash process.
We expect to make around $2-3 billion of a Organic capital expenditure excludes acquisitions and asset divestments per year in order to constantly exchanges.
We will target gearing See footnote d on page 16. in the 10-20% range while uncertainties Operated Operated Operated Reserves remain.
Our intention is to increase installations wells pipelines km bn boe shareholder distributions in line with BPs a Since April 2010. improving circumstances.
BP Summary Review 2012 15 The Skarv floating production, storage and offloading unit one of the major project start-ups in 2012 on tow in a Norwegian fjord.
10-point plan Launched in October 2011 and set out in BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011, our 10-point plan described our intentions for building a stronger, safer BP.
What you can expect 1 A relentless focus on safety and managing risk through the systematic application of global standards.
2 We will play to our strengths in exploration, deep water, giant fields and gas value chains.
3 Stronger and more focused with an asset base that is high graded and higher performing.
4 Simpler and more standardized with fewer assets and operations in fewer countries: more We will pursue new opportunities by applying conventional and unconventional resources.
streamlined internal reward and performance We expect to continue to invest in giant our distinctive strengths of relationships, management processes.
technology and a strong balance sheet.
Our fields, where this expertise is particularly 5 Improved transparency through reporting TNK-BP valuable.
past experience of co-ordinating complex as a separate segment and breaking out the numbers for the three downstream businesses.
projects around the world can help us to gain We believe our ability to integrate complex access to new areas.
gas value chains is another key strength.
What you can measure We intend to hold a portfolio of gas positions 6 Active portfolio management to continue by selected according to expected returns, with completing $38 billion of disposals over the four Business model years to the end of 2013, in order to focus on our a balance across conventional and For more information on our distinctive strengths.
We will optimize these strengths and how we create value see 7 We expect to bring new upstream projects through our trading activities.
pages 10-14. a onstream with unit operating cash margins around b We are committed to Russia and the Middle double the 2011 average.
East areas where we have a long history.
8 We are aiming to generate an increase of around 50% Upstream in net cash provided by operating activities by 2014 Downstream c compared with 2011.
Our analysis indicates that oil offers us the We believe BP has world-class downstream most attractive opportunities.
Our investments 9 We intend to use half our incremental operating operations with a strong and improving track cash for reinvestment, half for other purposes.
will therefore be biased to oil.
We also believe record of performance in recent years.
We there will be opportunities to create high 10 Strong balance sheet with intention to target our will continue to focus on safe and reliable d level of gearing in the lower half of the 10-20% returns from advantaged gas assets.
operations and excellent execution, together range over time.
with disciplined investment and portfolio We have a long track record of value creation management.
Our focus on portfolio quality through exploration.
We will invest in our will include improving the margin capability of strong incumbent positions and look for new all of our businesses, and a focus on investing opportunities.
Deepwater developments can in attractive markets.
provide good opportunities for companies with the requisite expertise.
We will utilize our As the world changes, we expect to increase scale and capability as we invest further in this our exposure to growth markets and demand area.
We believe we are able to manage scale from new consumers.
and complexity, and improve the recovery of Longer-term objectives Maintain momentum on safety and risk reduction.
Develop and apply new technologies that access new hydrocarbons or extract and a Unit cash margin is net cash provided by operating activities for process them more efficiently.
the relevant projects in our Upstream segment, divided by the total number of barrels of oil and gas equivalent produced for the Upstream relevant projects.
It excludes dividends and production for TNK-BP.
b Generate strong returns within a disciplined financial framework.
Assuming a constant oil price of $100 per barrel.
c Assuming an oil price of $100 per barrel and a Henry Hub gas Deliver growth through increased reinvestment in higher return opportunities.
The projection assumes the completion of the agreed transaction with Rosneft and receipt of Maintain our strong incumbent positions and a diversified portfolio of deep water, giant fields the projected Rosneft dividend and excludes BPs share of the TNK-BP dividends from operating cash flow for 2011 and 2014. and gas value chains.
The projection includes BPs payment commitments under the Department of Justice and SEC settlements.
It does not reflect Build material new positions for the long term.
any cash flows relating to other liabilities, contingent liabilities, settlements or contingent assets arising from the Gulf of Mexico Downstream oil spill which may or may not arise at that time.
We are not able e to reliably estimate the amount or timing of a number of Grow free cash flow.
d Gearing refers to the ratio of the groups net debt to net debt Reduce our exposure to refining when not part of an integrated value chain.
plus equity and is a non-GAAP measure.
e Free cash flow: net cash provided by operating activities less Re-orientate the geographic mix of our downstream footprint to growth markets.
net cash used in investing activities.
