Business 15 Customers, markets and products services include email, hosted Microsoft collaboration services and webhosting.
Global managed networked IT services market bn Connectivity services 1,200 We offer networking services to support customers voice and data communications needs.
This includes the design, installation and 1,000 management of leased lines, Ethernet services, IP virtual private network IPVPN services, structured cabling, and local area 800 networkingsolutions.
600 IT services We offer IT services through our three IT services businesses: BT Engage 400 IT: BT iNet, and BT Business Direct.
Services include data centres, unied communications and security solutions.
We also provide 200 hardware, computing support services and consultancy.
We work with most leading vendors including Cisco, Microsoft, Citrix, HP, NetApps 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 andSymantec.
Large corporate and public sector customers Source: IDC custom data.
Based on calendar years The large corporate and public sector customer segment is our largest There are regional differences in market growth rates.
The UK is a highly segment in terms of external revenue.
It is served by BT Global Services.
competitive market and we continue to see pricing pressure as well as declines in more traditional telecoms services as customers switch to Customers newer technologies.
However, there is increasing potential in highWe provide large corporate and public sector customers with a range of growth economies as domestic companies expand globally, and global network, IT and professional services.
We provide services to some of companies enter new markets.
the largest companies in the world.
We serve: Managed networked IT services market size by geography 87% of the FTSE100 companies US UK ASIA PACIFIC 64% of the Fortune 500 companies 322bn 56bn 161bn 90% of Interbrands annual ranking of the worlds most valuablebrands the worlds top stock exchanges, leading broker-dealers and biggestbanks.
We also supply services to national and local government organisations and other public sector bodies in the UK and in 16 countries around theworld.
In the UK we are one of the largest suppliers of networked IT services for the UK government Government.
The Government, as a whole, is our largest customer.
Except as described on page 19, we have a normal customer and supplier relationship with the Government.
Markets The global information and communications technology ICT market serving large corporate and public sector customers is very fragmented in terms of products, suppliers, and standards.
Estimates of market size vary, but IDC value the total global ICT market REST OF THE WORLD WESTERN EUROPE TOTAL serving corporate and public sector customers at 1,327bn.
Within the 138bn 198bn 875bn total global ICT market our core products and services most closely align to a segment dened as managed networked IT services.
This market has been impacted by economic conditions, as customers delay projects or reduce ICT budgets.
The global managed networked IT services Source: IDC custom data market is estimated to be worth 875bn and is predicted to grow over the next four calendar years.
875 926 984 1,046 1,110 Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
