10 Business Who we are and what we do We are one of the worlds leading communications services companies.
Our main activities are providing and managing data and voice networks and providingarange of services over these networks.
In the UK we are a leading communications services provider, Our customers benefit from our global scale and operating model.
selling products and services to consumers and small and mediumProducts are sold globally, and customers are served locally in their own sized enterprises SMEs.
In the UK and globally we are a leading countries and sectors by teams who understand their specic business provider of managed networked IT services for many of the largest challenges and create locally relevant solutions.
We call this operating multinational corporations, domestic businesses and national and local globally and delivering locally.
We also sell wholesale telecoms services to We organise ourselves to serve four strategic industry sectors and four communications providers CPs in the UK and around the world.
geographic regions: How we are organised Global Global Global Global banking & commerce consumer government Our customers are at the heart of everything we manufacturing, financial packaged & health logistics & do and this is reected in the way we organise our markets goods pharmaceuticals business.
We have four customer-facing Iines of business: BT Global Services: BT Retail: BT Wholesale, and Openreach.
These are supported by two internal UK service units: BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate.
EMEA & Latin America BT Group US & Canada BT Global BT Retail BT Wholesale Openreach Services Asia Pacic BT Innovate & Design BT Operate We have operations around the world so that we can serve the domestic and international needs of our customers.
We operate domestic businesses in key markets in Continental Europe such as Italy, Germany, BT Global Services Benelux, France and Spain, and have local network infrastructure BT Global Services is a global leader in managed networked IT services, including high-speed bre networks in 24 major European cities.
We serving the needs of customers in more than 170 countries worldwide.
operate in 45 countries across the Middle East and Africa.
In Latin We provide services to around 7,000 large corporate and public sector America we operate in 22 countries.
In the US and Canada we serve customers.
Our corporate customers operate in a wide range of sectors customers from ofces in 35 key cities.
We serve 18 countries in the Asia including banking and financial services, manufacturing, logistics, Pacic region including India, China, Malaysia, Singapore, South Korea, pharmaceuticals, and consumer packaged goods.
We serve customers Japan and Australia.
We are investing in high-growth regions such as in the public sector in the UK, including central government and local Asia Pacic, Latin America and Middle East and Africa, recruiting more councils as well as public sector organisations outside the UK.
Globally people and improving our portfolio and our network infrastructure.
we provide transit and other wholesale services to global carriers.
BT Global Services revenue by sector 3% 6% 18% Corporate customers 47% Public sector UK & overseas Financial institutions Transit Other global carrier 26% Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
