Governance Reports of the Board Committees party can give the other at least three months notice of termination and Retention shares the appointment automatically terminates in the event of a director not Awards of retention shares are used by exception only and principally as being re-elected by shareholders.
The appointment of a non-executive a recruitment or retention tool.
As a result, shares currently under award director is terminable on notice by the company without compensation.
are not generally subject to a corporate performance target.
The length At the end of the period, the appointment may be continued by mutual of the retention period before awards vest is exible, although this agreement.
Further details of appointment arrangements for nonwould normally be three years unless the Committee agrees otherwise.
executive directors are set out on page 82.
The letters of appointment The shares are transferred at the end of the specified period if the are open for inspection by the public at the registered ofce of the individual is still employed by BT and any performance conditions are company.
No awards of retention shares were made to executive directors, but two senior executives were granted an award in 2012.
Non-executive directors remuneration Share options Seven of the directors on the Board are non-executive directors who, in accordance with BTs Articles of Association, cannot individually vote No share options have been awarded under the Global Share Option on their own remuneration.
Non-executive remuneration is reviewed by Plan GSOP since 2004 and there is no intention to award options the Chairman and the Chief Executive, and discussed and agreed by the in 2013.
Details of share options held by directors at the end of the Board.
Non-executive directors may attend the Board discussion but financial year are shown in the table on page 87. may not participate in it.
Clawback In line with the approach taken by the executive directors, no increase in The rules of the executive share plans provide for a clawback of fee is proposed for any non-executive director in 2013. unvested awards in circumstances where the Committee becomes aware The basic fee for non-executive directors is 62,000 per year 2011: of facts which would, in its discretion, justify such reduction.
There are additional fees for membership and chairing a Board Committee, details of which are given in the table below: Other share plans The Chairman and executive directors may participate in BTs allAdditional employee share plans, the Employee Sharesave Scheme, Employee Committee Members fee Chairmans fee Share Investment Plan ESIP and Allshare International, on the same Audit & Risk 15,000 15,000 basis as other employees.
Remuneration 10,000 10,000 Nominating & Governance 7,500 5,000 Dilution Other Board Committees 5,000 5,000 Treasury shares are generally used to satisfy the exercise of share optionsand the vesting of share awards for the executive and all-employee share plans.
At the end of 2012, treasury shares equivalent to 9.2% of the Patricia Hewitt, as Senior Independent Director, chair of the issued share capital would be required for these purposes.
It is estimated Remuneration Committee, chair of the BT Pensions Committee and a that treasury shares equivalent to approximately 2.2% of the issued share member of the Audit & Risk Committee, receives total fees of 159,500 capital will be required for all the employee share plansin2013.
Phil Hodkinson receives an additional annual fee of 72,500 as chairman of the EAB a Board Committee.
Other matters An additional fee of 2,000 per trip is paid to those non-executive directors travelling regularly from overseas on an inter-continental basis Service agreements to Board and Board Committee meetings.
It is group policy for the Chairman and executive directors to have service agreements, approved by the Committee, providing for one To align further the interests of the non-executive directors with those years notice by the company and six months notice by the director.
of shareholders, the companys policy is to encourage these directors All of the service agreements contain provisions dealing with the to purchase, on a voluntary basis, BT shares to the value of 5,000 removal of a director for poor performance, including in the event of each year.
The directors are asked to hold these shares until they retire early termination of the contract by BT.
The contracts of the Chairman, from the Board.
This policy is not mandatory.
Current shareholdings are Ian Livingston, Tony Chanmugam and Gavin Patterson entitle them on shown on page 83. termination of their contract by BT to payment of salary and the value No element of non-executive remuneration is performanceof benets pension benets including life cover, health cover, dental related.
Non-executive directors do not participate in BTs bonus or cover and car until the earlier of 12 months from notice of termination employee share plans and are not members of any of the company or the director obtaining full-time employment.
No director will receive pensionschemes.
a bonus or other payments on a change of control.
The Committee reviewed during the year arrangements for senior executives leaving Committee evaluation under good leaver circumstances and the role of the Committee in the exercise of discretion in those circumstances.
The Committee reviews its performance with Board members and other participants.
We continued to strengthen the Committees performance, Non-executive directors letters of appointment for example by providing time before each meeting for private discussions between members and its advisors.
Non-executive directors have letters of appointment.
They are appointed for an initial period of three years.
During that period, either Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview 82 Governance Reports of the Board Committees Directors service agreements and letters of appointment The dates on which directors initial service agreements letters of appointment commenced and the current expiry dates are as follows: Expiry date of current service agreement or letter of Chairman and executive directors Commencement date appointment Sir Michael Rake 26 September 2007 The contract is terminable by the company on 12 I Livingston 1 June 2008 months notice and by the director on six months T Chanmugam 1 December 2008 notice.
G Patterson 1 June 2008 Non-executive directors Letter of appointment was for an initial period of P Hodkinson 1 February 2006 three years.
The appointment was extended for three years in February 2012. Letters of appointment were for an initial period of J E Daniels 1 April 2008 three years.
The appointments were extended for P Hewitt 24 March 2008 three years in March 2011.
Letter of appointment is for an initial period of three T Ball 16 July 2009 years.
N Rose 1 January 2011 Letters of appointment are for an initial period of J Whitbread 19 January 2011 three years.
Letter of appointment is for an initial period of three K Richardson 1 November 2011 years.
There are no other service agreements, letters of appointment or material contracts, existing or proposed, between the company and the directors.
There are no arrangements or understandings between any director or executive officer and any other person pursuant to which any director or executive officer was selected to serve.
There are no family relationships between the directors.
The appointment of non-executive directors is terminable by the Company or the director on three months notice with automatic termination in the event of not being re-elected byshareholders.
Outside appointments The Committee believes that there are significant benets, to both the company and the individual, from executive directors accepting nonexecutive directorships of companies outside BT.
The Committee will consider up to two external appointments of which only one may be to the Board of a major company, for which a director may retain the fees.
Ian Livingston receives an annual fee of 25,000 as a non-executive director of Celtic and an additional annual fee of 5,000 for chairing the audit committee.
Gavin Patterson is a non-executive director of British Airways for which he receives an annual fee of 50,000 and the benefit of free BA ights.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
