Governance Reports of the Board Committees This part of the Report is a summary of key elements of our directors resources HR and pension issues.
The Committee regularly consults the remuneration.
Pages 84 to 88 are subject to audit.
Chief Executive, the Group People Director, the HR Director, Reward and Employee Relations, and the Company Secretary.
The Remuneration Committee Remuneration principles This section describes the membership and role of the Committee.
Our policy remains to maintain a competitive remuneration package Who we are that will attract, retain and motivate a high quality top team, avoid Patricia Hewitt chairs the Remuneration Committee, made up of excessive risk taking and align their interests with those of shareholders.
independent non-executive directors, which met five times during the We believe in pay for performance against challenging targets.
Committee attendance is set out below.
Patricia Hewitt and Eric to set base salaries below the median for our comparator group, while Daniels were members throughout 2012. setting stretching goals for the annual bonus including deferred shares and long-term incentive shares.
Committee members A significant proportion of the total remuneration package is therefore Meetings variable and linked to corporate performance.
The Committee Eligible reviews the performance targets regularly to ensure that they are Member to attend Attended both challenging and closely linked to the groups strategic priorities.
Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt Chair 5 5 Furthermore, because a large part of the remuneration package is a Tony Ball 33 delivered in shares and senior executives are required to build up a significant shareholding themselves, they are directly exposed to the Eric Daniels 5 5 same gains or losses as all other shareholders.
b Nick Rose 22 c Carl Symon 33 The Committee believes that the free cash ow and revenue performance measures set are challenging, and the financial a Tony Ball was appointed to the Committee on 5 May 2011. b performance necessary to achieve awards towards the upper end of the Nick Rose was appointed to the Committee on 14 December 2011. c Carl Symon retired from the Committee on 13 January 2012. range for each target, is stretching.
Targets for threshold performance are established at above market consensus at the time they are set.
In addition to the Committee members, the Chairman and Chief In setting directors remuneration, the Committee takes account of the Executive are invited to attend meetings, except in instances where remuneration of other companies of similar size and complexity, using their own remuneration is discussed, or other circumstances where their a comparator group dened with the assistance of our independent attendance would not be appropriate.
The Committee also takes into account the pay and employment conditions of all our employees.
Our role BT operates in a number of different environments and has many The Remuneration Committee agrees the framework for the employees who carry out diverse jobs across a number of countries: remuneration of the Chairman, the executive directors and certain all employees, including directors, are paid by reference to the senior executives.
This includes the policy for all cash remuneration, market rate executive share plans, service contracts and termination arrangements.
The Committee approves salaries, bonuses and share awards for performance is measured and rewarded through a number of executive directors and certain senior executives.
The Committee performance-related bonus schemes across the group approves new executive share plans and any changes and makes business unit performance measures are cascaded down through recommendations to the Board which require shareholder approval and theorganisation oversees their operation.
The Committee also determines the basis on which awards are granted under the executive share plans to executives BT offers employment conditions that reect our values and are reporting to the senior management team.
commensurate with a large publicly listed company, including high standards of health and safety and equal opportunities BT operates all-employee share plans which are open to all The Committee's terms of reference are employees and executive directors alike available on our website at www.
com committees BT offers benets which are available to everyone.
Advisors The Committee continues to keep under review the relationship of risk The Committee received advice during the year from independent to remuneration.
The Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee is a member remuneration consultants Towers Watson and from Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte of the Remuneration Committee and the Chair of the Remuneration LLP replaced Towers Watson during the year following a competitive Committee is also a member of the Audit & Risk Committee.
The largest tender exercise conducted by the Committee.
The independent single driver of on-target remuneration remains adjusted free cash remuneration consultants attended Committee meetings when major ow 30% of the Chief Executives variable pay at target, reecting the remuneration issues were discussed.
Deloitte LLP also provided the importance of free cash ow to invest in the business, reduce net debt, company with advice on corporate and indirect taxes, regulatory and support the pension fund and pay progressive dividends.
risk issues, pensions and additional consultancy services.
Towers Watson also provided the company with consultancy services on general human Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview 78 Governance Reports of the Board Committees The Committee is also satisfied that the incentive structure for senior Annual bonuses in 2012 were assessed by the Committee based executives does not raise environmental, social or governance ESG on a number of factors.
The annual bonus structure for 2012 is set risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
Part of the outbelow: annual bonus depends upon an individual assessment of each senior executives personal contribution to ESG measures, including results of Chief Executive and Group Finance Director annual the regular employee surveys and health and safety outcomes.
bonus structure The Committee retains absolute discretion to reduce variable 10% compensation in light of risk and the groups overall performance.
We 25% would only use this in exceptional circumstances.
15% Remuneration in 2012 Adjusted EPS Remuneration for 2012 is set out below.
Adjusted free cash ow Customer service 25% Salaries 25% Personal objectives Salaries are reviewed annually.
A salary increase was received by ESG executive directors in June 2011.
The executive directors have requested that the Committee not consider them for any salary increase for the year 2013 and accordingly executive director salaries will remainunchanged.
CEO BT Retail annual bonus structure 10% Annual bonus 20% Executive directors are eligible for an annual bonus based on corporate 15% performance targets, ESG measures and individual targets.
The customer service element of annual bonus is only paid if a minimum Adjusted EPS EPS threshold is achieved.
The annual bonus is paid in two elements, Adjusted free cash ow a cash element, and a deferred element paid in shares.
The deferred 20% Customer service share element is subject to clawback provisions as set out on page81 15% Personal objectives and deferred shares must be held for three years before they vest.
There are no additional performance conditions on the deferred shares, BT Retail objectives other than a requirement for continued employment, and there is no 20% ESG matching of deferred shares by the company.
The Committee considers that awarding shares on a deferred basis acts as a retention measure For the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, the customer and contributes to the alignment of management with the longservice element of bonus was increased from 20% to 25%, and personal term interests of shareholders.
Deferred shares awarded to executive objective element increased from 10% to 15%.
Both adjusted EPS directors in 2012 and in previous years are set out on page 85.
Annual and adjusted free cash ow were reduced from 30% to 25% of bonus.
bonus payments are not pensionable.
Similarly the CEO of BT Retail also had the proportion of bonus relating to The levels for bonus element are set out below.
adjusted EPS and adjusted free cash ow both reduced from 30% to 20%, with 15% of bonus now subject to BT Retail metrics and the proportion attributable to personal objectives increased from 10% to 15%.
Level of bonus for executive directors The two financial targets for the annual bonus are two of our key Chief Executive Executive directors performance indicators and have a direct impact on shareholder value, Annual cash bonus target 125% salary target 100% salary while customer service and broader objectives are vital to the companys maximum 200% salary maximum 150% salary long-term health and growth.
We do not publish details of the adjusted Deferred bonus in target 125% salary target 75% salary EPS and adjusted free cash ow targets in advance, since these are shares maximum 200% salary maximum 112.5% salary market sensitive and commercially condential.
The Committee is, Total bonus target 250% salary target 175% salary however, satisfied that the measures are appropriate and that the maximum 400% salary maximum 262.5% salary targets are stretching.
In calculating adjusted EPS specic items are excluded as set out on page 28.
The measure for free cash ow within the annual bonus is adjusted free cash ow.
Adjusted free cash ow represents the cash generated from operations after capital expenditure and nancing costs but before specic items and pension deficit payments.
In 2011 the measure was reported free cash ow.
The use of adjusted free cash ow more closely Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview Governance Reports of the Board Committees aligns remuneration metrics with results delivered by the group's trading Remuneration in 2013 activities and key measures of performance in our reported results.
The Committee concluded a review of remuneration strategy during the Customer service is measured by rigorous and challenging right year.
The measure for free cash ow will be changed to a normalised first time and customer issue reduction metrics across each line of basis consistent with our financial outlook to remove the impact of business.
Although we will keep these measures under review, they are the cash tax benefit relating to pension deficit payments.
This change directly linked to cost reductions as well as to customer satisfaction and will apply to both the 2013 annual bonus and ISP 2012 awards.
Committee is not proposing any other changes to remuneration policy and structure for 2013.
The ESG measure is aligned to our strategy and is assessed by the Chief Executive for each senior executive, and by the Chairman for the Chief The Committee has considered the level of total remuneration that Executive himself.
Assessment is based upon BTs regular employee would be payable under different performance scenarios and is satisfied survey as well as health and safety and sustainability measures.
that, as the graph below illustrates, executive pay remains closely The Committee are satisfied that the targets set out are appropriate and aligned with shareholders interests.
stretching, for example adjusted EPS growth of 13% was around target performance.
Comparison of BTs potential total compensation for the Ian Livingstons cash bonus represented 145.3% of his current salary Chief Executive under various performance scenarios, with 2011: 157.25%, Tony Chanmugams cash bonus represented 113.1% reference to the BT pay benchmarking comparator group of his current salary 2011: 118.5% and Gavin Pattersons cash bonus m represented 107.6% of his current salary 2011: 123%.
The cash element of the annual bonus is set out in the table on page 84.
12 The deferred share element of the bonus is set out on page 85.
10 Incentive Share Plan 8 The long-term share element of executive remuneration is the Incentive 6 Share Plan ISP.
Details of the ISP arrangements are set out below.
The Chief Executive received an award of incentive shares with a value 4 of 2.5x salary 2011: 2.5x salary.
Other executive directors received 2 awards with a value of 2x salary 2011: 2x salary.
The awards of incentive shares under the ISP during the year, incentive shares awarded 0 in prior years, and the vesting of incentive shares awarded in June 2009 Minimum Target Maximum under the ISP are set out on page 86.
Performance delivered Proportion of xed and variable remuneration The composition of each executive directors performance-related Upper market range Lower market range BT remuneration, excluding pension, is as follows: Minimum performance Base salary only.
Target performance Base salary plus on-target annual bonus plus target vesting Ian Livingston on long-term incentives.
Maximum performance Base salary plus maximum annual bonus and maximum a 21.05 26.32 52.63 2013 target vesting on long-term incentives.
Appropriate share price growth assumptions have been incorporated in all b 2012 actual 33.53 48.95 17.52 scenarious illustrated.
The table below sets out the proposed ISP 2012 awards that are Tony Chanmugam expected to be made in June 2012.
The performance criteria for the a 2013 target 26.67 26.67 46.67 awards is set out below.
b 2012 actual 42.51 48.43 9.06 a Director ISP Award Ian Livingston 1,078,088 shares Gavin Patterson Tony Chanmugam 498,834 shares a 2013 target 26.67 26.67 46.67 Gavin Patterson 531,469 shares b 2012 actual 41.00 44.69 14.31 a ISP grant to be awarded.
An estimate of the number of shares awarded calculated using the closing market share price on 8 May 2012.
Fixed Variable cash Variable shares a Target remuneration comprises current base salary, on-target annual cash bonus and the expected value of awards under the deferred bonus and incentive share plans.
b Actual remuneration comprises base salary, actual cash bonus and the value received from deferred shares and incentive shares awards granted in 2008 and vested in 2011 during the financial year.
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Total direct compensation Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
