24 Strategy Our strategy In order to identify further cost reduction opportunities we regularly Our business model benchmark the cost of running our infrastructure compared with other large telecoms operators around the world.
The fact that we have cut We believe that we have a sustainable business model.
costs and improved service helps us to be much more competitive in the market place but we recognise that there are further opportunities and It is built on creating and delivering value for our also lessons to be learned from beyond the telecoms sector.
We are confident that the model supports our aim to grow the value of the business and our Details of the contributions to our cost transformation strategy for doing so by investing in and focusing on 41 made by our lines of business can be found in the our six strategic priorities.
Performance section on page This confidence is based on the recognition that customers value our Investing for the future products and services, which are an integral part of modern life for both Our industry has undergone radical change in recent years.
We can see an even greater role looking demand more from communications services and competition is forward, driven by: increasing.
By being more efficient in customer service delivery and transforming our cost base we can provide services on a more the fundamental need of individuals and organisations to competitive basis and improve our cash generation, which in turn means communicate and interact we can invest in the future of the business and drive growth.
the wider availability of higher performance xed networks We are focusing our investments around three broad objectives across the wider availability of business-critical network-based IT services the business.
These are to: the wider adoption of network-based IT services including cloudbased services Defend and grow the value we add for our customers As well as providing basic communications products, we have made the superior cost and bandwidth performance of xed networks over investments so that we can provide higher value services.
For example, wireless networks super-fast bre-based broadband for consumer and business customers the increased desire of individuals and organisations to act in the UK, managed networked IT services for large corporate and public sustainably.
sector customers, and managed services for our wholesale customers.
BT Global Services is adding further value by offering industry-specic Our business model is underpinned by strong market positions in solutions and expertise to customers.
We have also made investments in combination with some market-leading assets and resources.
This is a customer service and billing and in our virtual data-centres.
difficult combination for competitors to replicate, and we are confident that our business model is sustainable.
That is why we continue to invest in the business, foster innovation, maintain a strong cost focus, drive to Capture opportunities in converging markets deliver superior customer service, and pursue paths to growth.
The way that customers buy our products and services is changing.
Services which were once bought separately are increasingly bought together, in bundles.
This convergence creates both threats and Our strategic priorities opportunities.
We have been investing to broaden the range of services we provide to customers as we expand into converging markets.
In 2012 we made progress against our six strategic Examples include broadband and pay-TV in consumer markets and xed priorities although the challenges we faced during the and mobile services in SME markets.
year meant we performed better in some areas than Capture opportunities in international markets others.
We have continued to invest in high-growth regions where customers want to expand.
We have strengthened our position by investing You can read more about the achievements of our in assets, people and technology to serve multinational and large 41 lines of business in the Performance section on page domestic customers on a global basis.
For example, as our customers have expanded into Asia Pacic and Latin America, so we have grown Driving broadband-based consumer services our capability in these regions.
We have new technology showcases in Broadband connectivity is now available to 99% of UK premises and New Delhi and Shanghai and a new secure operations centre in Sydney.
it has become central to peoples lives, so the core of our consumer Network and customer service improvements have been achieved strategy is based on building and maintaining a competitive, and we have hired new people in key markets.
In February 2012 we differentiated broadband offer for our customers.
There are several announced plans to expand operations across Turkey, the Middle East elements to this: and Africa.
offer competitively priced bundles of broadband services with telephony and TV Competitively priced bundles drive both the acquisition of new customers and the retention of existing ones, slowing the rate of line losses to competitors.
This also increases Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
