2 Overview Chairmans introduction Our contribution to the UK Our pension fund We contribute to the UK directly and indirectly One of our biggest responsibilities is to our in many ways.
We look after the critical copper pension fund and I am pleased that we have access network, employ over 73,000 people, agreed the 2011 triennial funding valuation contribute around 3bn a year in taxes, and are and recovery plan with the Trustee.
Because of major investors in research and development.
our improved financial performance we were able to make a lump sum payment of 2bn The roll-out of our bre network is one of the into the fund, giving greater certainty to our fastest privately funded programmes in the pensioners and helping to reduce the size of world.
We are bringing bre broadband to future deficit payments we would otherwise cities, towns and rural areas across the UK and have to make.
aim to pass around two-thirds of UK premises by the end of 2014.
This will dramatically Our people and the Board change consumers online experience and Watch my video online at enhance the way businesses can operate, As a result of our progress over the last www.
com annualreport bringing significant economic benets to three years, around 20,000 of our people ourcountry.
stand to benefit from their employee share plans in 2013.
We are also recognising the As ofcial communications services partner achievements in our UK business by paying of the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic each of our UK team members a 250 bonus in Games we are contributing vital infrastructure, We have made addition to their normal pay increase.
delivering a single communications network across 94 locations to make this the most Since I joined BT I have worked to streamline significant progress connected Games ever.
And we are delivering and refresh the Board, to make sure we have the project on schedule.
the right team to deliver our objectives.
You for all our stakeholders can read about the changes in the Governance section of this report.
Our global presence We serve some of the largest companies in Our future the world, but the regulatory backdrop often means we cant serve customers as efficiently While our aim remains to drive profitable as we want to.
So internationally we continue revenue growth, the challenging environment Our shareholders to press for policy and regulatory change, we are facing makes this more difficult, but we We have delivered a very strong performance with the aim of achieving a competitive believe our strategy will continue to deliver over the last three years.
This means we have level playing eld in particular, open and long-term value for our shareholders.
been able to pay sustainable and progressive fair wholesale access to communications dividends.
For 2012 the Board is proposing a networks.
We only seek across the world final dividend of 5.7p, up 14%, giving a full similar conditions to those in the UK.
There has year dividend of 8.3p, up 12% over last year.
been progress, but we want to see this move We continue to pursue a prudent financial faster as it is vital to innovation, growth and strategy, to make sure we can invest in the Sir Michael Rake jobsworldwide.
business, support our pension scheme, reduce Chairman net debt and reward you, our shareholders.
By 9 May 2012 Our communities following this approach we expect to be able We believe we have a responsibility to give to grow dividends by 10% 15% per year for something back to the communities in which the next three years.
we operate through contributions of over 30m in time, cash and in-kind support, through some 50,000 days of employee volunteering, through our environmental and energy savings programmes, and through support for charities such as Sport Relief and digital inclusion initiatives, we contribute to making a better future for our communities.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
