12 Board of Directors Sir Michael Rake Ian Livingston Tony Chanmugam Gavin Patterson e a a a e d f f Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director CEO, BT Retail Appointed to the Board as Appointed as Chief Executive Appointed to the Board as Appointed to the Board as Chairman on 26September on 1 June 2008, and on the Group Finance Director on CEO, BT Retail on 1 June 2008.
Age 58 Age 44 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Sir Michael has financial, risk, Ian has financial, risk, Tony has experience in finance, Gavin has experience in sales, and international business operational, sales and risk and the management and marketing and operations.
and professional services marketing and international delivery of large contracts.
He He was formerly Managing expertise gained during his business experience.
He joined was formerly CFO, BTRetail Director, Consumer Division, time as chairman of KPMG Dixons Group in 1991 after and Managing Director, BT Retail and before joining BT International from 2002 to working for 3i and Bank of BTEnterprises and, from 1997 was managing director of the 2007.
He previously held other America International.
His to 2004, he was CFO and consumer division of Telewest.
roles in KPMG from 1974. positions at Dixons spanned then Chief Operating officer Other appointments include A Chartered Accountant, he operational and financial roles of BT Global Solutions.
He is a Non-executive director of was knighted in 2007 for his in the UK and overseas.
services to the accountancy Chartered Accountant.
Other appointments include None outside BT.
Other appointments include Non-executive director Chairman of easyJet, senior and chairman of the audit independent director of committee of Celtic.
Barclays and a non-executive director of McGraw-Hill.
SirMichael is also vicepresident of the RNIB, a member of the board of the Transatlantic Business Dialogue, the Prime Ministers Business Advisory Group and the WEF International Business Council.
Key to membership of Board Committees a g d Operating Nominating & Governance Equality of Access Board e b Audit & Risk Sustainable and Responsible Business c f Remuneration BT Pensions BT Group plc Summary financial statement & notice of meeting 2012 13 Tony Ball J Eric Daniels Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt Phil Hodkinson c c c e g d d b d f b d f Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on 16July 2009.
Age 54 Senior Independent Director in Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience July 2009.
Age 63 Tony brings international Eric has global business Phil has experience in the business expertise in addition experience, particularly Skills and experience financial sector as well as to finance, operational, sales in financial and consumer Patricia brings experience risk, control, governance and and marketing experience.
He was group chief of running large complex sustainable business.
Prior to From 1999 to 2003, Tony executive of Lloyds Banking organisations, government his retirement in 2007, Phils was chief executive of BSkyB.
Group until March 2011. affairs, public policy and roles included group finance He has also held a number of Formerly, he was chairman international business.
Patricia director of HBOS, chairman of senior executive positions in and chief executive of Zona stepped down as an MP at Insight Investment and Clerical broadcasting and telecoms Financiera.
She was Medical and chief executive of businesses in the UK, US and Secretary of State for Health Zurich Life and Eagle Star Life.
Other appointments include Continental Europe.
from 2005 to 2007 and Trade Director of Russell Reynolds Other appointments include and Industry and Cabinet Other appointments include Associates and a trustee Non-executive director of HM Minister for Women from 2001 Chairman of the supervisory of the UK Career Academy Revenue & Customs, Business to 2005. board of Kabel Deutschland, Foundation.
in the Community, Travelex and and on the boards of the Other appointments include Resolution.
Also a trustee of Olympic Delivery Authority Independent non-executive Action Medical Research and London 2012 and the Spanish director of Groupe Eurotunnel BBC Children in Need.
SA and chair of the UK India Business Council and Katha Childrens Trust.
14 Board of Directors continued Karen Richardson Nicholas Rose Jasmine Whitbread c e b b Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on 1November 2011.
Age 48 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience With a 25 year career in the Nick brings experience Jasmine has experience in UK technology and software in finance, risk, control, and global businesses and industry, Karen brings governance and international corporate social responsibility experience in technology business expertise and has and sustainable business.
Karen was a record of innovation and She was appointed chief previously a board member delivery.
He was chief financial executive of Save the Children of i2Group and from 1998 officer of Diageo prior to his International in 2010, having to 2005 Karen worked for retirement in December 2010, joined Save the Children in the NASDAQ-listed software having joined the board in 2005. company Epiphany Inc, latterly 1999.
Other appointments include as chief executive officer.
Other appointments include Governor of Dragon School Other appointments include Chairman of Williams Grand Trust.
Director of magi-com formerly Prix Holdings, on the board of Hi5 Networks Inc, a social BAE Systems and chairman of networking website, and Edwards Group.
