16 Business Customers, markets and products Market demand is driven by many factors, but our customers tell us that calls, email, instant messaging and web conferencing, by allowing their they need to: communications infrastructure, mobile phones, desktop computers and applications to work together.
reduce costs and improve efficiency by rationalising networks, using cloud computing and improving workforce effectiveness by BT Advise using exible working and collaboration tools As well as providing physical products, we provide consulting, systems position themselves for growth by improving the service they integration and managed services.
BT Advise experts help customers provide to their end-customers as well as accessing new high-growth more effectively solve business problems and advise them on products markets around the world and services developed specifically for our key industry sectors.
manage risk by improving their ability to protect their networks Wholesale customers and IT systems from cyber attacks.
The wholesale telecoms customer segment in the UK and the Republic Products and services of Ireland is served through Openreach, BT Wholesale and BT Ireland.
Internationally it is served mainly through Global Telecoms Markets, the We build and run global networks and provide services such as UCC, wholesale arm of BT Global Services.
customer relationship management CRM, data centre services and managed security solutions supported by professional services skills.
We We provide our wholesale customers with access to our platforms, skills deliver value by combining our network, IT and professional services.
and technology, making our investments and economies of scale work for their benefit.
This promotes competition, delivers end-customer To make it easier for customers to buy from us we group our products choice, avoids infrastructure duplication and encourages innovation.
and services into clear categories, which address different business needs.
They are: Customers BT Connect Openreach provides access products to around 490 CPs, including xed We supply a range of network services that connect our customers and mobile operators and ISPs.
Openreachs largest customers include employees and sites to their customers and the world.
We deliver BT Retail, Sky and TalkTalk.
access and connectivity through many industry standard technologies including Ethernet, DSL, multiprotocol label switching MPLS, satellite BT Wholesale provides services to over 1,400 CPs, including xed broadband, IP networks, telephone systems, private telephone lines, and mobile operators, ISPs, broadcasters, resellers and infrastructure analogue private circuits and managed local area networks LANs.
We manage and support the network and services requirements Super-fast bre-based broadband is also available.
of a number of national UK operators including KCOM Group, Virgin Media, Orange UK, Vodafone, O2 and MBNL.
BT Compute Outside the UK we provide wholesale telecoms services to over 1,000 We offer customers a reliable IT platform for their business applications, CPs across more than 170 countries.
data storage and security, hosted in a secure and controlled environment in our global BT data centres and connected over the Markets internet or our global IP network.
We provide a new generation of cloud-based services, giving our customers the exibility and agility Some of our markets are being impacted by the current difficult that comes from a cloud computing environment.
However, the need to reduce costs will encourage more network sharing and outsourcing and our MNS solutions are well BT Assure positioned to help our wholesale customers.
In addition, demand for The security of companies networks and IT systems is becoming more data and connectivity for all types of users is driving growth in demand important as the threat of cyber crime increases.
We provide a range of for our wholesale products and services.
security products and services including rewalls, web access security, intrusion prevention and event monitoring which form the basis of UK a global security management system, combined with a professional In March 2011 Analysys Mason valued the addressable UK wholesale services capability.
The largest sector, worth an estimated 9.4bn per year, is wholesale telecoms, which includes data, BT Contact broadband, voice and mobile services plus some value-added services With our range of CRM services we help customers to deal with their like contact centres and content distribution.
The IT services sector, end-customers efficiently and to improve their customers experience.
worth an estimated 3.6bn, covers cloud services, enterprise solutions Our products allow our customers to be contacted by their end-customers and managed network services.
using different methods including email, web chats and phone calls, using Today we primarily address the wholesale telecoms sector but we are either automated systems or dedicated customer relationship employees active, and expanding into, the IP-based service sector where future working in physical or cloud-based contact centres.
BT One In the UK our competitors include Cable & Wireless Worldwide, Virgin Our UCC products let our customers communicate more efficiently with Media and Colt Group, as well as a range of equipment vendors.
their employees, suppliers, customers and business partners and so reduce costs and build a more sustainable organisation.
Our products let them take part in almost any kind of communication, through phone Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview Business 17 Customers, markets and products Europe and overseas Bandwidth demand We are Europes largest telecoms services wholesaler by revenue, The wholesale market is adopting next generation communications accounting for around 18% of total European wholesale revenue.
services for data connectivity, such as Ethernet, IP voice and higher speed broadband over copper and bre.
Bandwidth growth is accelerating as customers move onto higher speed broadband services, European wholesalers by revenue something which has resulted in capacity on our network increasing by 18% eight times over the past six years.
The UKs spectrum auction expected in 2013 and the subsequent 43% introduction of 4G Long Term Evolution LTE services are likely to BT signicantly increase demand for mobile data services.
We are working 13% France Telecom with all UK mobile operators to help them efficiently meet this challenge.
Deutsche Telekom Telecom Italia Products and services 11% Telefonica We sell to wholesale customers through Openreach or BTWholesale Other 7% 8% depending on the product or type of customer.
Openreach offers its products on an equivalent basis to all CPs consistent with BTs Undertakings see page19.
BT Wholesale offers a range of managed Source: Ovum, Aug 2011 based on 2010 data products and services, many of which are based on the access products that Openreach provides to all CPs.
Internationally, we compete with the wholesale divisions of local incumbents and alternative network operators as well as global Wholesale Line Rental WLR wholesale telecoms companies.
Openreach sells WLR which is used by CPs to offer telephony services using their own brand, pricing structure and billing, but using our network.
CPs Wholesale broadband do not need to invest in additional equipment or infrastructure to use WLR.
Our broadband footprint reaches more than 99% of UK homes and businesses, making us the UKs largest wholesale provider of broadband Local Loop Unbundling LLU in terms of reach.
We sell to CP customers who have their own As an alternative to buying WLR, CPs can rent the copper lines between broadband infrastructure but choose our services outside their own BTs exchanges and customer premises from Openreach to provide voice network footprints, as well as providing managed wholesale services to and broadband services using their own equipment.
ISPs and other parts of BT.
Wholesale broadband For those CPs who wish to invest in building their own networks BT Wholesale offers a range of wholesale broadband services, delivered Openreach rents the copper access lines to the CPs who put their own over copper and bre.
Our traditional broadband products, including equipment in the exchanges.
This is called Local Loop Unbundling IPstream, Datastream and IPStream Connect, offer speeds of up LLU.
The competitive market place for broadband has stimulated to 8Mbps ADSL.
Wholesale Broadband Connect WBC, our next growth in LLU.
generation family of broadband products, offers speeds up to 20Mbps Openreach continues to see a steady rise in the number of unbundled ADSL2 over copper.
We also offer broadband services over bre.
WBC exchange areas, which over the last three years has risen by around 11%.
FTTC offers downstream speeds of up to 40Mbps and up to 80Mbps and WBC FTTP offers speeds of 100Mbps and 110Mbps.
Gifgfik`fe f] leYle[c [ oZ Xe j Xe[ Zfee Zk [ gi d`j j Our WBC copper and bre services are certied as meeting the % mandatory Government security assurance levels required to support 100 93% Public Services Network PSN opportunities in the UK.
89% 85% 84% 82% 80 Details of these services are available at 60 www.
com, ' 44% 40 37% 36% 33% Super-fast bre-based broadband is provided by Openreach through our Generic Ethernet Access GEA product.
There are two variants of 20 GEA, FTTC and FTTP.
FTTC uses bre to provide high connection speeds 0 from the exchange to a street cabinet near to customer premises, and a copper line for the final connection to the premises.
FTTP uses bre 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 for the whole route from the exchange to the customer.
We plan to launch a 330Mbps downstream product during 2013 and are testing % households served by unbundled exchanges Source: a1Gbpsservice.
BT and Post Ofce data % unbundled exchanges Details of these services are available at www.
co. uk Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
