Strategy 23 Our strategy Our aim and strategy Our aim is to drive shareholder value by making BT a better business with a better future.
We have made good progress towards this goal in 2012, despite the challenging conditions.
reduction in the level of repair work outstanding to, on average, only Our strategy one and a half days activity.
We have also improved our delivery performance for new copper lines.
We worked with industry to establish Our ambition remains to drive profitable revenue a target lead-time of 14 days, and were performing consistently better than this by the end of the year.
growth but the economic and regulatory headwinds we are facing will make this more challenging.
We made progress in other areas.
For example, in BT Retail we aim to deal with customer queries in one call, without the need for customers Our strategy focuses on three key areas: to call us back.
We saw the number of queries dealt with in one contact increase by 20% in BT Consumer.
As a result of our right first time customer service delivery programme we reduced customer faults by 5% in BT Global Services.
cost transformation A variety of initiatives to improve reliability led to a 15% reduction in faults being handled by BT Wholesale.
We believe the changes we have made, and will make in the next These three areas, which we explain below, are the foundations for financial year, will deliver signicantly improved service levels for making BT a better business.
They build on one another: the better ourcustomers.
we serve our customers and improve our processes, the less time and money we have to spend on putting things right.
This is a major driver Details of the performance on customer service delivery of our cost transformation and frees up resources for us to invest in 41 for each of our lines of business can be found in the providing products and services for the future.
Performance section on page By investing in our six strategic priorities, outlined below, we expect to Cost transformation grow the value of the business.
We have been taking a phased approach to cost transformation.
The first phase focuses on the efficiency of our expenditure in areas such as Customer service delivery labour costs, consultancy spend and procurement from third parties.
Customer service is core to our strategy and we always try to improve The second phase tackles right first time process re-engineering and the experience we provide to our customers.
In practice this means the reduction of overhead costs.
The third phase looks at in-sourcing trying to do things right first time keeping our promises, being easy and output-based pricing.
All these phases continue across the business to contact and straightforward to deal with.
It means keeping our with a particular focus on end-to-end process re-engineering to customers informed and taking prompt action to put things right when improve service and reduce costs still further.
To improve our customer experience further we also focus on reducing faults and removing the need for customers to call us.
Specic activities during the year have included reviewing the way that bundled orders ow through the organisation: the sales process for Right first time is our key measure for customer service see page4.
some of our more complex products: training and development of our It measures how often we keep the promises we make to customers.
As people: and broadband faults.
Cost transformation is as much about well as improving service, keeping more promises reduces work needed cost avoidance as it is about reducing the unit cost of specic items to put things right and so reduces our costs.
In 2012 we achieved a or activities and the success that we have had in reducing broadband 3.0% improvement in this measure, following a 3.0% improvement in faults in the network has allowed us to offset some of the extra costs 2011 and a 10.5% improvement in 2010.
In addition we reduced faults associated with the increase in copper line volumes.
handled and calls about problems by 6.2% in the year.
Overall, we made good progress with our cost transformation activities In the first half of the year the theft of copper cable grew signicantly, during 2012.
We reduced operating costs by 933m or 6%, with increasing the number of faults suffered by customers.
We have worked savings across all our main cost categories.
This represents a cumulative with the police, Government, media and other stakeholders to raise reduction in operating costs of 2.9bn over the last three years.
awareness of cable theft and to take action to reduce it.
Cable theft declined in the later part of the year thanks to this collective effort, but All of our lines of business have contributed to the progress made on more work is needed.
We have invested in a number of innovations to cost transformation.
Our two internal service units, BTID and BTO, have help prevent cable theft and to catch the people who commit it.
delivered benets to the customer-facing lines of business by targeting and driving lower delivery and operational costs.
This has been achieved This cable theft, together with increased repair work related to the through vendor rationalisation and greater focus on automation demands for higher speed broadband and an increase in demand of processes and operations.
The emphasis has now moved to the for new lines, led to a 19% increase in engineer visits.
We recruited rationalisation of our network and IT infrastructure and implementing a additional engineers and improved our efficiency resulting in a lean approach to our operations.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
