Performance 41 Line of business performance We have made progress during the year, both on an operational basis with some improved measures, and nancially.
However, the economic climate has been challenging.
We expect to increase our revenue by around 500m in BT Global Services these regions over the medium term.
In 2012 we further consolidated our position as a global Cost transformation leader in managed networked IT services.
We have We have continued to improve the efficiency of our operations helping focused on improving our performance and serving to deliver a 4% reduction in net operating costs 2011: 7% reduction.
We achieved this through: our customers better.
We continued to sign contracts with large corporate and public sector customers and to increasing our use of shared service centres for contract delivery make investments to extend our global capabilities and working with our external suppliers to improve contract terms have further reduced our cost base.
rationalising our network assets and our operations removing redundant third party circuits from our inventory Key facts improving our billing operations and promoting e-billing rationalising our property portfolio and associated infrastructure.
Order intake of 6.7bn Products and services Investments in Asia Pacic, Latin America, Turkey, In September 2011 we introduced new names for our products and the Middle East and Africa services to improve the way we sell to our customers.
These new names make it easier for customers to understand our portfolio and for Relaunch of product portfolio our sales community to sell it.
They also help to differentiate us from competitors by making our products more recognisable.
See page 16 for more details on our new products and services categories.
Operating cash ow of 183m In December 2011 we announced the formation of BT Advise, which brings together the BT Global Services experts who deliver consulting, Operating performance systems integration and managed services around the world under one team.
Customers will benefit from engaging with a team made up of Investing for the future 4,500 highly skilled professionals who apply industry-leading processes We continued to invest in high-growth regions where our customers and methodologies.
The investments we announced last year in Asia Pacic We have also invested in growth areas including MPLS, Ethernet, UCC, are progressing well with new technology showcases in New Delhi and CRM, security, mobility and cloud services.
We also continue to invest in Shanghai, a new secure operations centre in Sydney, a range of product industry-specic products and services such as our BT Unied Trading refreshes and launches, and the hiring of around 200 professionals voice service which we launched in 12 global financial centres.
across the region in the key customer markets of Australia, China, Hong Kong, India, Japan and Singapore.
As a result our Asia Pacic order pipeline has grown and we are converting it into orders.
Contracts Our investment to support our customers and improve our services In October 2011 we announced a series of investments in Latin has resulted in contract wins around the world with an order intake of America.
Through recruiting around 200 new staff, increasing our 6.7bn in 2012, a reduction of 8% which is more than accounted for professional services capabilities, opening new centres of excellence by the lower level of contract renewals in the year.
We are seeing the and implementing a wide range of network and customer service benets from our investments in Asia Pacic, Latin America and Turkey, improvements, we aim to better support global customers investing the Middle East and Africa where the combined order intake was up in Latin America and help large Latin American companies expand over 60% on last year.
In February 2012 we also announced a series of investments in Turkey, the Middle East and Africa.
Global companies investing in the region, as well as local companies expanding further aeld, will gain access to a broader portfolio of services and will be supported by around 150 additional highly qualied staff, including professional services specialists.
Across these three regions revenue increased by Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview 42 Performance Line of business performance Contracts signed in 2012 included: NHS contracts 2012 was our busiest year ever in the delivery of our large NHS contracts Customer Contract and communications services.
We rolled out four additional electronic patient record systems to major hospitals in London and the South of European Parliament Two framework contracts covering a wide range of networked IT services, including the supply of England.
Around 220,000 NHS staff now use our clinical information network equipment and applications systems in more than 80 NHS organisations.
We also doubled the capacity of the internet gateway for N3, the secure national broadband NATO A contract with NATOs Consultation, Command network we have built and manage for the NHS, providing faster and Control Agency NC3A, to provide a internet access for healthcare staff.
On the Spine, the secure database communications network connecting more than and messaging service BT has also developed, more than 30m Choose 70 locations spread across the NATO nations and and Book appointments have been made since the service was the Balkans launched, with 39,000 being made on average each working day.
Lancashire County A contract to deliver ICT for the County Council Council and schools as well as the back-ofce services for Customer service delivery human resources, payroll, the customer service We focused our efforts on improving customer satisfaction across a wide centre and procurement range of metrics and made improvements in many areas.
Through our Anglo American A global managed networked IT services contract right first time programme we reduced customer faults by 5% and covering all Anglo Americans networking improved the way we handle calls from customers.
We take feedback requirements at several hundred locations around from our customers in many ways: through customer surveys: through the world our global account management teams, and through customer events where we discuss our strategy and their experience of working with Bristol-Myers Squibb A contract extension for global network services us.
That feedback helps us identify opportunities to improve overall including wide area and local area networks, customer satisfaction with our services.
as well as remote access, voice, and telephony infrastructure Financial performance The Brazilian Post Ofce A contract to connect more than 7,000 sites, and Telegraph Company including corporate, regional and local ofces all a a Correios over the country 2012 2011 2010 Year ended 31 March m m m CLSA Asia Pacic A contract for a managed voice, data and trading Revenue 7,809 8,059 8,522 Markets systems solution across 14 countries in the Asia Pacic region, the UK and the US Underlying revenue excluding transit 1% 4% Serco Australia A contract to install and manage communications Net operating costs 7,182 7,466 8,065 infrastructure and run a range of IT services for the new Fiona Stanley hospital in EBITDA 627 593 457 Western Australia Depreciation and amortisation 712 734 815 Operating loss 85 141 358 During 2012 we continued to execute on our largest customer contracts.
Capital expenditure 560 498 599 Operating cash ow 183 119 482 London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games a BT is delivering a single communications network across 94 locations Restated.
See page 111. including 34 competition venues.
Every ofcial photograph and sports In 2012 underlying revenue excluding transit decreased by 1% 2011: report and millions of calls, emails, texts and tweets will be carried over 4% decrease partly reecting the challenging environment in certain BTs communications network.
We are carrying all the broadcast pictures markets.
Revenue decreased by 3% 2011: 5% decrease including a for every sporting moment outside the Olympic Park.
BT is providing 168m decline in transit revenue, a 55m impact from disposals and a 80,000 connections, 16,500 xed telephone lines, 14,000 mobile SIM 21m favourable impact from foreign exchange movements.
cards, 10,000 cable TV outlets, 5,500km of internal cabling and 1,800 wireless access points.
The London 2012 Delivery Programme team has Revenue from networked IT services decreased by 1% 2011: broadly hit key milestones by successfully completing the installation of FTTP in at mainly due to the impact of disposals.
Calls and lines revenue the athletes village on schedule.
This will serve 2,818 ats, providing decreased by 9% 2011: 14% decrease reecting the continued trend the athletes and coaches staying here with free BT Innity super-fast of customers migrating to alternative IP-based services, however the broadband throughout the Olympic and Paralympic Games.
The London rate of decline has slowed.
Transit revenue decreased by 27% 2011: 2012 Delivery team has also nalised the design for the Games-time 20% decrease largely due to the impact of mobile termination rate website ahead of schedule.
This is expected to be visited by over a billion reductions in Europe.
people during Games-time, with over 200 million unique visitors.
Net operating costs decreased by 4% 2011: 7% decrease or by 1% 2011: 6% excluding transit costs, disposals and foreign exchange movements.
This reects the continued progress from our cost saving initiatives as set out above.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
