24 Strategy Our strategy In order to identify further cost reduction opportunities we regularly Our business model benchmark the cost of running our infrastructure compared with other large telecoms operators around the world.
The fact that we have cut We believe that we have a sustainable business model.
costs and improved service helps us to be much more competitive in the market place but we recognise that there are further opportunities and It is built on creating and delivering value for our also lessons to be learned from beyond the telecoms sector.
We are confident that the model supports our aim to grow the value of the business and our Details of the contributions to our cost transformation strategy for doing so by investing in and focusing on 41 made by our lines of business can be found in the our six strategic priorities.
Performance section on page This confidence is based on the recognition that customers value our Investing for the future products and services, which are an integral part of modern life for both Our industry has undergone radical change in recent years.
We can see an even greater role looking demand more from communications services and competition is forward, driven by: increasing.
By being more efficient in customer service delivery and transforming our cost base we can provide services on a more the fundamental need of individuals and organisations to competitive basis and improve our cash generation, which in turn means communicate and interact we can invest in the future of the business and drive growth.
the wider availability of higher performance xed networks We are focusing our investments around three broad objectives across the wider availability of business-critical network-based IT services the business.
These are to: the wider adoption of network-based IT services including cloudbased services Defend and grow the value we add for our customers As well as providing basic communications products, we have made the superior cost and bandwidth performance of xed networks over investments so that we can provide higher value services.
For example, wireless networks super-fast bre-based broadband for consumer and business customers the increased desire of individuals and organisations to act in the UK, managed networked IT services for large corporate and public sustainably.
sector customers, and managed services for our wholesale customers.
BT Global Services is adding further value by offering industry-specic Our business model is underpinned by strong market positions in solutions and expertise to customers.
We have also made investments in combination with some market-leading assets and resources.
This is a customer service and billing and in our virtual data-centres.
difficult combination for competitors to replicate, and we are confident that our business model is sustainable.
That is why we continue to invest in the business, foster innovation, maintain a strong cost focus, drive to Capture opportunities in converging markets deliver superior customer service, and pursue paths to growth.
The way that customers buy our products and services is changing.
Services which were once bought separately are increasingly bought together, in bundles.
This convergence creates both threats and Our strategic priorities opportunities.
We have been investing to broaden the range of services we provide to customers as we expand into converging markets.
In 2012 we made progress against our six strategic Examples include broadband and pay-TV in consumer markets and xed priorities although the challenges we faced during the and mobile services in SME markets.
year meant we performed better in some areas than Capture opportunities in international markets others.
We have continued to invest in high-growth regions where customers want to expand.
We have strengthened our position by investing You can read more about the achievements of our in assets, people and technology to serve multinational and large 41 lines of business in the Performance section on page domestic customers on a global basis.
For example, as our customers have expanded into Asia Pacic and Latin America, so we have grown Driving broadband-based consumer services our capability in these regions.
We have new technology showcases in Broadband connectivity is now available to 99% of UK premises and New Delhi and Shanghai and a new secure operations centre in Sydney.
it has become central to peoples lives, so the core of our consumer Network and customer service improvements have been achieved strategy is based on building and maintaining a competitive, and we have hired new people in key markets.
In February 2012 we differentiated broadband offer for our customers.
There are several announced plans to expand operations across Turkey, the Middle East elements to this: and Africa.
offer competitively priced bundles of broadband services with telephony and TV Competitively priced bundles drive both the acquisition of new customers and the retention of existing ones, slowing the rate of line losses to competitors.
This also increases Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview Strategy 25 Our strategic priorities the number of products that customers buy from us, driving up We believe we have four key differentiators which make us stand out in consumer average revenue per user ARPU the marketplace: maintain differentiation against competitors, and continue our global assets, people and technology dual-brand strategy with Plusnet We include a range of features industry experience and solutions free with our BT Broadband services to differentiate us from other suppliers.
The Plusnet brand addresses the cost-conscious consumer innovation and new solutions, based on our strength in the UK with a simple broadband offer professional services people and capabilities in BT Advise.
launch higher broadband speeds and create new services that Our strategy is to make use of these differentiators to create competitive exploit these speeds Our BT Innity service meets customers advantage.
We are investing globally to make improvements in the growing demand for improved speed performance.
Our higher areas our customers tell us are important to them.
For example, we speeds set us apart from ISPs only offering DSL services, and allow improved sales coverage in the UK, invested in our network in key cities, us to compete more effectively against Virgin Medias fastest built out propositions across the four industry sectors we target, hired cable speeds.
Where bre is not yet deployed, we have been professional services people across the world in key portfolio areas and migrating our retail broadband customers onto our next generation invested in key growth geographies.
copper-basedproduct We will build our global reputation in managed networked IT grow and enhance our TV services Our TV service is differentiated servicesby: from traditional pay-TV competitors as it is more oriented to video on-demand and catch-up TV, and is more interactive.
We will expanding our global business by investing in high-growth regions improve our service adding a number of features over the coming such as Asia Pacic, Latin America and Turkey, the Middle East and years.
In 2013 we plan to launch our YouView service, which Africa, recruiting more people and improving our portfolio and our combines free digital channels with free on-demand content from network infrastructure public service broadcasters delivered over broadband.
We are also developing our relationships with our customers by building and investing in multicast infrastructure to deliver additional channels enhancing industry-based solutions focusing on our four strategic over our IP network.
industry sectors innovating around our core portfolio of product families by Being the Brand for Business for UK SMEs investing in growth areas including MPLS, Ethernet, UCC, CRM, Our aim is to become the first choice for SMEs in all their xed and security, mobility and cloud services, as well as professional services mobile communications and IT needs.
capabilities In xed communications for SMEs we face significant competition in a substantially improving customer experience by reducing the fragmented market but we believe we have many advantages including number of customer incidents, making our operations more efficient, national coverage, a broad portfolio of products and services, and and improving overall customer satisfaction with our service.
strong sales channels in all segments of the market.
We are looking to improve the products and services we sell and how we sell them to The wholesaler of choice protect and grow our market position.
We aim to be the wholesaler of choice in the UK and in the international We are also looking to improve the way we offer mobile services and are telecoms services market.
developing capabilities to combine xed and mobile services as part of an integrated offer.
There are two dimensions to what we mean by wholesaler of choice.
The first refers to our ambition of being the obvious choice During the year we withdrew from selling IT hardware to other resellers for customers based on the products we sell and the quality of the and have focused on selling a combination of services and hardware to service we deliver.
The second dimension is that customers can choose our end-customers.
to engage with us as a wholesale supplier in a number of ways, for We will focus in the future on services to support our customers example, through Openreach for access products, or through BT as they move to new models for delivery of their IT, such as cloud Wholesale for value-added products.
These will increasingly involve managed hosting of During the year Openreach saw growth in its copper base and the first data and applications and greater integration between IT and LLU operators buying its bre-based broadband service.
saw growth in the Wholesale Ethernet and IP Exchange markets but a decline in revenues associated with transit and wholesale broadband BT Global Services a global leader due to the migration to LLU.
We are already a leader in the market for managed networked Looking ahead to 2013, we expect a variety of issues, such as regulatory IT services.
We have been recognised by Gartner, Inc. a leading charge controls and other regulatory pressures to continue to have an information technology research and advisory company, as being effect on our wholesale business.
We are working to identify growth in the leaders quadrant in their recent analysis of global network opportunities that will help mitigate the impact.
a Gartner, Inc. Magic Quadrant for Global Network Service Providers, 24 April 2012.
Authors Neil Rickard ID Number G00226786.
Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings.
Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner's research organisation and should not be construed as statements of fact.
Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or tness for a particular purpose.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview 26 Strategy Our strategic priorities Our future plans include: speeds allow businesses to increase exible and remote working saving money on ofce overheads and improving the work-life balance creating opportunities for growth, by investing in bre broadband, of employees.
Businesses are also able to use high quality voice and Ethernet and IP voice services and in our portfolio of managed video calls helping them to reduce time and money spent on travel, service solutions while still gaining the benefit of direct customer contact.
This also helps improving customer experience through continuing investment in lower CO emissions.
2 fault prevention, automation and self-service tools In March 2012 we announced that we were upgrading the copper reducing our cost base signicantly, while increasing the skills and access network within our FTTC footprint by increasing the spectrum productivity of our people.
allocation at cabinets, so that the copper running from cabinets to the premises could support broadband speeds of up to 80Mbps downstream and up to 20Mbps upstream.
Further advances are The best network provider possible for instance vectoring, which is an advanced technique We aim to be the best network provider in the UK by providing the right to reduce the impact of noise on copper lines and increase available products to suit customers needs.
We try to improve network reliability dataspeeds.
and make it easier for customers to do business with us.
Our future plans include: UK access network launching our commercial 330Mbps FTTP product Our access network is a critical national asset and we take our commercially launching FVA, which provides voice service over FTTP guardianship seriously.
Through it we play a major part in peoples lives connections both at home and at work, managing and investing in the infrastructure that delivers telephony and broadband services throughout the UK.
We making our FTTP service available in areas that are already served by continue to invest in our copper network by upgrading its capacity and FTTC, through the introduction of our FTTP on demand service improving its efficiency.
establishing a pilot for our bre-only exchange programme in Deddington, Oxfordshire.
The pilot will provide CPs with the We also continue to roll-out WBC, our next generation copper opportunity to build and test a suite of new products that will broadband product, offering speeds of up to 20Mbps downstream, and run over bre alone and help the industry better understand the are on track to enable exchanges serving around 90% of UK premises opportunities arising from a bre-only world during spring 2013. delivering further improvements to network rationalisation, UK bre efficiency and reliability.
One of the most important things we are doing is building a bre broadband network throughout the UK.
We are investing 2.5bn A responsible and sustainable business leader on a commercial basis to make bre broadband available to around Our aim is to create a better future for our business, its stakeholders two-thirds of UK premises by the end of 2014.
Looking beyond this, and the environment by being a responsible and sustainable business we believe that Broadband Delivery UK BDUK funds, together with leader.
In 2012 contracts worth more than 2.7bn with large corporate funds from local government and other sources, as well as further and public sector customers requested information on our sustainability private investment, could see around 90% of UK premises having credentials, making sustainability a basic requirement of doing business.
access to bre broadband in approximately the next five years.
We have We use a materiality process to determine the social and environmental indicated that we would be willing to invest further funds of around issues that are important to our stakeholders and relevant to 1bn should we win a sufficient share of the public funds being made ourbusiness.
available through competitive tenders to support bre roll-out.
We are competing for BDUK funds and have won the bid in Lancashire and We have seven corporate responsibility CR related key performance are the preferred supplier for Rutland.
We are also rolling out bre in indicators KPIs that we use to measure our progress.
We identify Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly and Northern Ireland, funded by publicthese with this symbol and provide information on how we have privatepartnerships.
performed against these KPIs in the Performance section on page 48.
We believe bre is our future, with customer demand for higher speeds being the driving force behind our bre broadband deployment.
Fibre See our Better Future report for more information at broadband dramatically improves the online experience for customers, www.
com betterfuture whether they are consumers or businesses.
Consumers are able to The Committee for Sustainable and Responsible Business oversees watch HD movies on demand, download albums in seconds, enjoy our corporate responsibility, environment and community activities, online multiplayer gaming and catch up with friends and family with including charitable expenditure and the Better Future strategy for live video calls.
The key factor, however, is the ability for everyone in the maximising our contribution to society.
household to be able to participate in these activities online, all at the same time.
You can read more in the Report of the Committee for Fibre broadband also creates new ways of using the internet.
For 75 Sustainable and Responsible Business on page businesses, the additional bandwidth available both upstream and downstream enhances efficiency.
For example, the faster upstream Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview Strategy 27 Our strategic priorities Energy and carbon emissions Creating a better future We are a large consumer of energy and in the UK we spent around Our Better Future strategy brings together everything we are doing to 250m on energy in 2012.
Electricity use, after purchase of low be a responsible and sustainable business leader.
Examples of the ways and zero carbon intensity electricity, makes up 70% of our direct we are creating a Better Future can be found throughout this annual carbonemissions.
report but everything we are doing supports our focus areas: Our strategy is to: Better connected improve our energy efficiency generate our own renewable electricity Better with less purchase low and zero carbon intensity electricity.
Our energy efficiency programme is decoupling energy use from Better lives business growth.
Despite increased volumes we reduced our energy consumption by 3.3%, against our target 2% reduction from 2011.
In 2012 we delivered Better business practice energy saving programmes which will save 21.9m per year.
Engaging with suppliers to reduce emissions We work closely with our suppliers to reduce their environmental impact.
FTSE4Good We are pleased to have become the first company in the world to have product carbon footprints independently certied by the Carbon Trust to the new Greenhouse Gas Protocol Product Standard.
The independent Better connected verication covers three of our most popular consumer products: the BT We believe that the greatest impact we can have on society is by Home Hub, our wireless router: the BT Vision digital set-top box: and providing reliable and secure networks to allow the services needed for the BT Graphite 2500 DECT phone.
people and businesses to thrive.
Getting this right is also essential for building trust in BT, which contributes to the value of our brand.
Better lives Our people and technology are helping to build skills and increase Access to bre broadband efficiency for our charity and community partners, allowing them A recent independent report predicts that bre broadband will result in to concentrate on providing help and support to their communities.
significant economic benets for the UK as a whole.
Given our bre rollOur community investment activities provide a source of pride in the out, this makes us a key contributor to the economic health of the UK.
company, helping motivate and engage our people.
Increasing digital literacy Our supply chain We also recognise our role in increasing digital literacy, which can help We source skills, products and services from many countries, enrich the interactions between individuals, and give them access to contributing to economies around the world.
However, environmental essential services that are more frequently online.
Some initiatives and labour regulations may be poorly enforced in some countries and currently underway include Get IT Together, which aims to help people local standards are sometimes lower than we consider acceptable.
We in the UK discover the digital world through the help of a friend or use an in-house team to check the ethical standards in our supply chain family member.
in order to manage any risks.
Better with less Supporting our customers We believe that we can be a force for net good by helping individuals We have been providing assistance and services for older and and businesses to live within the planets environmental constraints.
We disabled customers in the UK since 1984.
We are committed to continually seek to minimise our own environmental footprint through helping them make the most out of our products and services, and efficient use of energy and natural resources.
We can have a greater overcome communication challenges wherever possible.
We have impact by helping customers reduce their environmental footprint brought together our most helpful products and services in one through the use of our services.
place, the Including You website, along with the latest news, advice and information to make it easier to get the most from our products, Environmental management including broadband.
Our Environmental Management System has been certied to the international standard ISO 14001 since 1999 in the UK.
Our certication now covers our operations in Belgium, Ireland, Germany, For more information see www.
com includingyou Netherlands, Italy and Spain.
ISO 14001 requires us to demonstrate Better business practices compliance with environmental laws and regulations, effectively control We have a long track record of investing in our people and running our environmental risks, and demonstrate continual improvement.
We set business with high ethical and supply chain standards.
improvement targets, and report annually on our progress.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
