12 Business How we are organised this work effectively Openreachs operational, engineering and systems UK Consumers capabilities are separate from the rest of BT.
The UK consumer customer segment is served by the BT Consumer and BT Ireland divisions of BT Retail.
BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate Our customer-facing lines of business are supported by two internal Customers service units, BT Innovate & Design BTID and BT Operate BTO.
There are around 26m households in the UK and this is growing slowly, currently at a rate of around 1% every year, due to an increasing BT Innovate & Design population and demographic changes.
We can reach almost all of these households with our consumer products and services.
BTID designs, develops, tests and deploys IT systems, processes, networks, products and services.
These are either used by, or sold At 31 March 2012 we had a total of 10.9m consumer xed lines in the through, the customer-facing lines of business to end-customers in UK with around 10m active voice lines lines where the consumer also the UK and around the world.
BTID aims to develop cost-efficient, buys calls from us.
We had around 6.3m retail broadband customers exiblesolutions.
including business customers, of which over 550,000 now take BT In addition, BTID manages and delivers our long-term technology Innity, our super-fast bre-based broadband service.
At 31 March strategy and our global research and innovation activities, including our 2012 our BT Vision customer base was over 700,000. worldwide patent portfolio see page 30.
Markets BT Operate The UK consumer market for xed calls and lines, broadband and TV services is highly competitive, with more than 100 companies offering BTO manages our core voice, data and TV networks, and IT applications voice and or broadband services.
The market has concentrated over the which represent the core infrastructure over which we run our portfolio last few years and there are now several strong players.
The four highest of products and services.
market shares are held by BT, Virgin Media, Sky and TalkTalk.
BTO is also responsible for managing our energy consumption and the strategy for reducing our future carbon footprint see page48.
Fixed calls and lines In addition, BTO manages the physical and cyber security of About 84% of households in the UK have a xed telephone line and ouroperations.
this percentage has been steady for the last two years.
There are currently 23.9m xed lines to households in the UK, some of which take more than one line, up 0.5% compared with last year.
Fixed lines Customers, markets and products have remained important to customers as they need them to receive broadband services.
Around 15% of UK households have only a mobile We serve a number of different customer groups phone and about 1% of UK households have no type of telephone at all.
The number of call minutes from xed lines has been in decline for some in the UK and around the world.
In this section we time, with our total call minutes down 11% in the year, as customers are explain who our customers are and the trends we increasingly using mobile phones, email, social networking and other see in the markets where we operate, as well as the kinds of communication as alternatives.
products and services we offer customers in response We have the largest share of xed lines to households in the UK at 47%, to market trends.
although this has been on a declining trend due to the increasingly competitive nature of the market.
The three main competitors to BT for xed calls and lines are Virgin Media, Sky and TalkTalk.
How we are organised to serve our customers Customers Large corporate & UK Consumers UK SMEs Wholesale customers public sector customers BT Retail BT Global Services BT Wholesale Openreach Customer-facing units Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview Business 13 Customers, markets and products WiWinetworks allow customers to access the internet out of the home Market share of UK consumer lines at hotspot locations as an alternative to using mobile networks.
We are a leader in this eld with the largest winetwork in the UK with more than 4m hotspots.
These are a mix of BT Openzone sites in premium 35% locations such as hotels, transport hubs and shopping centres, and BT Fon sites in customers homes and premises.
There is a trend for 47% premium locations to offer access to winetworks for free.
We offer free wiconnectivity to our BT Broadband and BT Innity customers BT across our entire network.
Competition in wihas increased with Sky Virgin Media who bought The Cloud in January 2011, O2 and Virgin Media all Other 18% investing in their networks.
Pay-TV services Source: Ofcom Telecommunication Market Data Tables, Dec 2011 There are four main platforms supporting pay-TV services in the UK: cable and satellite, which account for over 90% of subscriptions, and Broadband digital terrestrial and internet protocol TV IPTV services.
BT Vision is The UK has one of the highest levels of broadband availability in Europe, our IP-enabled TV service.
with 99% of premises being able to receive a type of broadband connection and around 67% currently having a xed broadband Pay-TV subscriptions connection.
At 31March 2012 there were around 21m xed cable There were 14.3m pay-TV subscriptions in the UK in December 2011 and digital subscriber line DSL broadband connections to homes and penetration has now reached 53% of all households.
Sky has the and businesses in the UK, up by 6% over last year.
BT, Virgin Media, largest market share with 67% of subscriptions.
BT was not allowed to Sky and TalkTalk are the largest broadband providers in the UK.
We offer TV services for many years and so started offering services much are the largest broadband provider with a 30% share of the total later.
We now have around a 4% market share.
broadband market including cable and a 37% share of the DSL, LLU and bre broadband market at 31March 2012.
Mobile operators Market share of pay-TV subscriptions O2 and Everything Everywhere also have a significant share of the xed broadband market and a number of other players make up the 3% 4% remainder of the market.
BTs retail broadband market share 26% % 40 Satellite Cable 37% 67% 36% IPTV 35% 35% 35 34% Digital terrestrial 30% 30 29% Source: Screen Digest, Dec 2011 27% 27% 27% 25 On-demand TV Technological developments are bringing the TV and internet together.
20 A number of companies have already launched TV services over the internet in the UK, including Sky, LoveFilm and Netix.
There is also Q4 2008 Q4 2009 Q4 2010 Q4 2011 Q4 2012 considerable choice in free online catch-up TV services, such as BBC iPlayer, ITV Player and others.
There are an estimated 4m TV sets in the Source: Market share of broadband base DSL LLU bre cable UK that are connected to the internet, via games consoles, set top boxes BT and market data Market share of broadband base DSL LLU bre and smart TVs.
There is also a growing number of IP-connected devices such as tablets and smartphones that can be used to view TV content in Broadband speed has become increasingly important as consumers or out of the home.
have more devices and use more data-intensive applications.
Average This trend will become increasingly important and will allow richer downstream speeds have steadily increased as we have invested on-demand and interactive TV services, provided that there is suitable in upgrading networks and as customers have migrated to higher regulatory intervention to allow fair access to premium content.
Higher upstream speeds are also becoming more important for customers for activities such as sharing large les, video communications and online gaming.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
