14 Business Customers, markets and products customers, with fewer than 50 employees, account for over 90% of Products and services ourcustomers.
BT Retail sells calls, lines and broadband into the consumer market under two brands: BT and Plusnet.
Under our BT Innity brand we offer Markets super-fast bre-based broadband using bre-to-the-cabinet FTTC and bre-to-the-premises FTTP technology.
We also offer a pay-TV The SME market for xed and mobile communications and IT services service, BT Vision.
In order to win and retain customers it is important in the UK is very fragmented and highly competitive, with competitors for us to offer all three services and to package them together in exible varying by the customer segments they serve and the products and bundles to meet customer needs and respond to competition.
We offer services they offer.
Overall the market has been impacted by the current customers a wide choice of packages of calls, broadband and pay-TV economic conditions.
They offer our best value to customers and encourage take-up of additional services.
When choosing their lines and calls, broadband Fixed telecoms services and pay-TV, more than half of UK consumers now buy two or more of The SME market for xed voice is declining with call volumes falling those services from the same supplier.
due to substitution by mobile, wireless, email and voice over IP VoIP and the impact of the current economic conditions.
BT has a 49% Voice services market share of lines in the total UK business market but there is a lot of We provide xed lines and a choice of calling plans, including a range of competition with over 300 resellers as well as xed network operators.
unlimited options to meet customer preferences for evening, weekend Competition varies by market segment with key competitors including and peak-time calling.
All options include free calling features such as Daisy, TalkTalk, Virgin Media, XLN, Alternative Networks, Cable & call waiting and free inclusive 0800 and 0845 minutes.
We also offer Wireless Worldwide, Colt Group and KCOM Group.
alternative payment options such as Line Rental Saver which reduces the line rental charge if customers pay for a whole year upfront.
We are IT services the only company to provide BT Basic, a simple, low-cost telephone The IT services market has experienced challenging conditions in service available to people who are on low incomes.
recent years with low revenue growth.
However, there is growing interest in new service and business models, including cloud-based Broadband services such as managed hosting of IT applications and data, and We sell broadband services under the BT, Plusnet and BT Innity brands unied communication and collaboration UCC tools.
These provide with a wide range of speeds.
BT Broadband and BT Innity have a range companies with greater control and exibility to manage their costs.
Key of options for usage limits and bundled call plans, and include our competitors in the SME IT services market include Computacenter, SCC, free wireless Home Hub, free online storage and security services and Phoenix IT, Kelway, Dimension Data, Logicalis and 2E2.
unlimited access to our wihotspots.
Mobile The SME mobile market is growing, in particular in areas such as For details of our broadband products see mobile data access and machine-to-machine services.
com a significant growth in smartphones which is driving growth in data volumes.
The leading operators in the mobile market are Vodafone, O2 and Everything Everywhere and we have a small but growing share.
BT Vision Our BT Vision TV service offers customers standard Freeview channels, the ability to pause, record and rewind live TV and a catch-up service Products and services from the BBC, ITV, Channel 4 and Channel 5.
Customers get a Vision We have a broad portfolio of products and services covering xed box, which allows them to stream over 5,600 hours of on-demand telephony, IT and mobility ranging from simple standalone services to programming, including BBC iPlayer, and to download high denition managed services and complex customised solutions.
We sell to smaller HD and 3D content.
We currently offer a choice of two subscription customers through four channels: call centres: 41 Local Businesses, packages, Essential and Unlimited, and the option to subscribe to Sky which are not part of BT but are independently owned companies that Sports 1 and 2, inclusive with the ESPN channel.
exclusively sell our products and services: non-exclusive relationships with indirect partners, and online sales via bt.
For larger customers UK Small and medium-sized enterprises we operate desk-based and eld-based account management teams.
One of our strategic priorities is to be the Brand for Business for UK Voice services SMEs so this is an important customer segment for us.
The UK SME We provide a full range of xed voice services from standard calls market is mainly served by the BT Business division of BT Retail.
and lines to fully managed ofce phone systems and contact centre solutions.
As well as traditional voice, we increasingly sell VoIP services.
Customers We have a mobile virtual network operator MVNO agreement with In the UK there are estimated to be 4.5m SMEs, ranging in size from sole Vodafone and sell mobile voice and data services.
traders to businesses with up to 1,000 employees.
The communications and IT needs of these customers vary considerably, depending on Broadband and internet factors such as size, number of sites in which they operate, their industry We provide a range of internet access options including: BT Business sector and their maturity.
Broadband over copper: BT Innity for Business over FTTC and FTTP: BTNet dedicated internet access, and mobile broadband.
Other internet We serve around 1m SME customers across the UK from small startups to medium-sized businesses with up to 1,000 employees.
Small Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
