Governance Reports of the Board Committees This part of the Report is a summary of key elements of our directors resources HR and pension issues.
The Committee regularly consults the remuneration.
Pages 84 to 88 are subject to audit.
Chief Executive, the Group People Director, the HR Director, Reward and Employee Relations, and the Company Secretary.
The Remuneration Committee Remuneration principles This section describes the membership and role of the Committee.
Our policy remains to maintain a competitive remuneration package Who we are that will attract, retain and motivate a high quality top team, avoid Patricia Hewitt chairs the Remuneration Committee, made up of excessive risk taking and align their interests with those of shareholders.
independent non-executive directors, which met five times during the We believe in pay for performance against challenging targets.
Committee attendance is set out below.
Patricia Hewitt and Eric to set base salaries below the median for our comparator group, while Daniels were members throughout 2012. setting stretching goals for the annual bonus including deferred shares and long-term incentive shares.
Committee members A significant proportion of the total remuneration package is therefore Meetings variable and linked to corporate performance.
The Committee Eligible reviews the performance targets regularly to ensure that they are Member to attend Attended both challenging and closely linked to the groups strategic priorities.
Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt Chair 5 5 Furthermore, because a large part of the remuneration package is a Tony Ball 33 delivered in shares and senior executives are required to build up a significant shareholding themselves, they are directly exposed to the Eric Daniels 5 5 same gains or losses as all other shareholders.
b Nick Rose 22 c Carl Symon 33 The Committee believes that the free cash ow and revenue performance measures set are challenging, and the financial a Tony Ball was appointed to the Committee on 5 May 2011. b performance necessary to achieve awards towards the upper end of the Nick Rose was appointed to the Committee on 14 December 2011. c Carl Symon retired from the Committee on 13 January 2012. range for each target, is stretching.
Targets for threshold performance are established at above market consensus at the time they are set.
In addition to the Committee members, the Chairman and Chief In setting directors remuneration, the Committee takes account of the Executive are invited to attend meetings, except in instances where remuneration of other companies of similar size and complexity, using their own remuneration is discussed, or other circumstances where their a comparator group dened with the assistance of our independent attendance would not be appropriate.
The Committee also takes into account the pay and employment conditions of all our employees.
Our role BT operates in a number of different environments and has many The Remuneration Committee agrees the framework for the employees who carry out diverse jobs across a number of countries: remuneration of the Chairman, the executive directors and certain all employees, including directors, are paid by reference to the senior executives.
This includes the policy for all cash remuneration, market rate executive share plans, service contracts and termination arrangements.
The Committee approves salaries, bonuses and share awards for performance is measured and rewarded through a number of executive directors and certain senior executives.
The Committee performance-related bonus schemes across the group approves new executive share plans and any changes and makes business unit performance measures are cascaded down through recommendations to the Board which require shareholder approval and theorganisation oversees their operation.
The Committee also determines the basis on which awards are granted under the executive share plans to executives BT offers employment conditions that reect our values and are reporting to the senior management team.
commensurate with a large publicly listed company, including high standards of health and safety and equal opportunities BT operates all-employee share plans which are open to all The Committee's terms of reference are employees and executive directors alike available on our website at www.
com committees BT offers benets which are available to everyone.
Advisors The Committee continues to keep under review the relationship of risk The Committee received advice during the year from independent to remuneration.
The Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee is a member remuneration consultants Towers Watson and from Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte of the Remuneration Committee and the Chair of the Remuneration LLP replaced Towers Watson during the year following a competitive Committee is also a member of the Audit & Risk Committee.
The largest tender exercise conducted by the Committee.
The independent single driver of on-target remuneration remains adjusted free cash remuneration consultants attended Committee meetings when major ow 30% of the Chief Executives variable pay at target, reecting the remuneration issues were discussed.
Deloitte LLP also provided the importance of free cash ow to invest in the business, reduce net debt, company with advice on corporate and indirect taxes, regulatory and support the pension fund and pay progressive dividends.
risk issues, pensions and additional consultancy services.
Towers Watson also provided the company with consultancy services on general human Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
