28 Strategy How we measure our progress Running an ethical business Customer service improvement Operating ethically is not only the right thing to do, but is required Our strategy starts with customer service and we always try to improve by regulators and customers alike.
To make sure that we are running the experience we provide to our customers.
Right first time is our our business to the high standards we expect of ourselves, we have a key measure for customer service.
It measures how often we keep number of processes in place to make sure our people understand what is the promises we make to our customers.
As well as improving service, expected of them.
We offer extensive training each year on our statement keeping more promises reduces the work needed to put things right and of business practice, which we revise regularly to make sure we meet the so reduces our cost.
highest legally required standards in the countries in which we operate.
This is supported by a number of ethical policies, including AntiFor further details of customer service improvement Corruption and Bribery and Gifts and Hospitality.
Our condential 23 see page hotline is now operational in 62 countries providing 96% coverage of our employee population.
People and engagement Our resources Our people are crucially important for the delivery of our services and therefore our reputation and success.
They are our public face and are Our resources are the things we need to deliver our the talent behind our innovation.
Many of them are things that make us We know that engaged employees deliver better performance for the different and that set us aside from our competitors business.
Because of this we have a number of initiatives in place to and give us an advantage in our markets.
We deal with enhance their well being, and to make sure that work-life balance is maintained through exible working practices.
our resources in a responsible and sustainable manner.
Health and safety Brand and reputation Looking after the health, safety and well being of all our people is a The BT brand is an important business asset and a key resource.
We have comprehensive management systems to know that it is effective in making sure our products and services are help make our workplaces as safe as possible.
considered by customers of all types, in communicating our strengths, and in acting as a guide to our behaviours.
We are consistently assessed as one of the worlds most valuable brands.
For example, we ranked 86 How we measure our progress in Brand Finances Global 500 of the worlds top brands in 2012.
We measure our progress by three performance People who buy things from us do not just choose us for the obvious benets of our products and services.
They are buying into a set indicators: adjusted earnings per share: adjusted free of values, and a rich heritage.
Despite the diversity of our markets, cash ow, and customer service improvement see our the brand associations are remarkably consistent we are seen as key performance indicators on page 4. relevant to people, and they trust and like us as a brand.
In 2011 we began a two-year programme of renewing our trademark licences Adjusted earnings per share around the world to provide confidence that the value of our brand is adequatelyprotected.
Adjusted earnings per share represents the adjusted profit after taxation for the year attributable to our shareholders divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue.
As it excludes the impact of specic People items it provides an important measure of our financial performance in a Our people are a key resource: we rely on them to deliver our strategy consistent manner.
and we are proud of what they achieve for our business.
At 31 March 2012 our people resources were equivalent to 89,015 full time employees of which 73,845 were based in the UK.
For further details of adjusted earnings per share 53 see page Working environment Adjusted free cash ow It is important to match the resources available to our customers needs.
To help achieve this we have people on many different types of working Free cash ow is an important measure of our financial performance and arrangements.
These include part-time, term-time and job share.
They our progress against our strategic priorities.
It represents the cash we help to match the exibility required for the business with peoples own generate from operations after capital expenditure and finance costs and aspirations for a work-life balance.
reects the cash available to invest in the business, repay debt, support the pension scheme and pay dividends.
Our free cash ow measure We continue to support an inclusive working environment where people changed from reported free cash ow to adjusted free cash ow in 2012 can develop their careers and expect to be treated fairly, regardless of to align with management incentive arrangements as detailed on page78.
their race, sex, religion beliefs, disability, marital or civil partnership Adjusted free cash ow is before the cash impact of specic items.
status, age, sexual orientation, or caring responsibilities.
We also work with specialist agencies to enable the recruitment of people with disabilities and we run a retention service to ensure that people can stay For further details of adjusted free cash ow 53 with us even if their capabilities change.
see page Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
