Performance 41 Line of business performance We have made progress during the year, both on an operational basis with some improved measures, and nancially.
However, the economic climate has been challenging.
We expect to increase our revenue by around 500m in BT Global Services these regions over the medium term.
In 2012 we further consolidated our position as a global Cost transformation leader in managed networked IT services.
We have We have continued to improve the efficiency of our operations helping focused on improving our performance and serving to deliver a 4% reduction in net operating costs 2011: 7% reduction.
We achieved this through: our customers better.
We continued to sign contracts with large corporate and public sector customers and to increasing our use of shared service centres for contract delivery make investments to extend our global capabilities and working with our external suppliers to improve contract terms have further reduced our cost base.
rationalising our network assets and our operations removing redundant third party circuits from our inventory Key facts improving our billing operations and promoting e-billing rationalising our property portfolio and associated infrastructure.
Order intake of 6.7bn Products and services Investments in Asia Pacic, Latin America, Turkey, In September 2011 we introduced new names for our products and the Middle East and Africa services to improve the way we sell to our customers.
These new names make it easier for customers to understand our portfolio and for Relaunch of product portfolio our sales community to sell it.
They also help to differentiate us from competitors by making our products more recognisable.
See page 16 for more details on our new products and services categories.
Operating cash ow of 183m In December 2011 we announced the formation of BT Advise, which brings together the BT Global Services experts who deliver consulting, Operating performance systems integration and managed services around the world under one team.
Customers will benefit from engaging with a team made up of Investing for the future 4,500 highly skilled professionals who apply industry-leading processes We continued to invest in high-growth regions where our customers and methodologies.
The investments we announced last year in Asia Pacic We have also invested in growth areas including MPLS, Ethernet, UCC, are progressing well with new technology showcases in New Delhi and CRM, security, mobility and cloud services.
We also continue to invest in Shanghai, a new secure operations centre in Sydney, a range of product industry-specic products and services such as our BT Unied Trading refreshes and launches, and the hiring of around 200 professionals voice service which we launched in 12 global financial centres.
across the region in the key customer markets of Australia, China, Hong Kong, India, Japan and Singapore.
As a result our Asia Pacic order pipeline has grown and we are converting it into orders.
Contracts Our investment to support our customers and improve our services In October 2011 we announced a series of investments in Latin has resulted in contract wins around the world with an order intake of America.
Through recruiting around 200 new staff, increasing our 6.7bn in 2012, a reduction of 8% which is more than accounted for professional services capabilities, opening new centres of excellence by the lower level of contract renewals in the year.
We are seeing the and implementing a wide range of network and customer service benets from our investments in Asia Pacic, Latin America and Turkey, improvements, we aim to better support global customers investing the Middle East and Africa where the combined order intake was up in Latin America and help large Latin American companies expand over 60% on last year.
In February 2012 we also announced a series of investments in Turkey, the Middle East and Africa.
Global companies investing in the region, as well as local companies expanding further aeld, will gain access to a broader portfolio of services and will be supported by around 150 additional highly qualied staff, including professional services specialists.
Across these three regions revenue increased by Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
