Business 19 Regulation During 2013 Ofcom is expected to carry out reviews of the business Ofcom connectivity market covering products such as Ethernet and leased Ofcom is the independent regulator and competition authority for the lines and the narrowband market covering wholesale calls.
Where whole UK communications market.
Its main duties are: we are found to have SMP Ofcom will carry out consultations on to further the interests of citizens in relation to communications setting controls that could reduce or change the prices we charge for matters theseproducts.
to further the interests of consumers in relevant markets, where appropriate by promoting competition.
See the Ofcom website at www.
uk Ofcom sets out conditions under the Communications Act and directions for further details on regulation under these conditions.
Some conditions apply to all CPs.
Others apply to certain individual providers Ofcom has decided are universal BTs Undertakings service providers or have SMP in a particular market.
Anyone can In response to Ofcoms 2005 strategic review of telecommunications, appeal against Ofcoms regulatory decisions through a number of legal we put forward some legally binding undertakings under the Enterprise processes including the Competition Appeal Tribunal.
These Undertakings which included creating Openreach The general conditions that apply to all CPs are mainly about came into force in September 2005.
They set out to give clarity and protecting consumer general access and interconnection, planning for certainty to the UK telecommunications industry about the way BT emergencies, providing information to Ofcom, and telephone numbers.
This in turn supports effective and fair competition in related downstream markets.
Most of the We are the designated universal service provider for the UK excluding commitments in the Undertakings have been delivered.
the Hull area where KCOM Group is the designated provider and so we have certain universal service obligations.
This is an important responsibility that we take very seriously.
Our primary obligation is to Our relationship with HM Government make sure that basic xed-line services are available at an affordable We can be required by law to do certain things and provide certain price to all citizens and consumers in the UK.
We are also required to services for the Government.
For example, under the Communications provide public payphones.
Act, we and others can be required to make and implement plans to provide or restore services in connection with disasters.
Under the Civil The European directives require Ofcom to review relevant Contingencies Act 2004, the Government can also impose obligations communications markets regularly, usually every three years, and to on us and others at times of emergency and in connection with decide whether any CP has SMP in those markets.
If Ofcom decides that civil contingency planning.
The Secretary of State can also require a CP has SMP, it may impose appropriate controls, typically on the prices us to take certain actions in the interest of national security and which the CP can charge.
Where Ofcom decides a company has SMP it .
will also generally make sure that charges are reasonably based on costs plus an appropriate return on the capital invested.
Overseas regulation Impact of Ofcom regulation The degree of regulation in international markets varies widely and Around 90% of Openreachs revenue comes from products that are can hamper our ability to compete to a greater or lesser degree.
The main exception is Ethernet services at speeds We are pressing incumbent operators and their national regulatory above 1Gbps.
In addition, while bre broadband is a regulated service, it authorities around the world for fairer, cost-related wholesale access is not subject to explicit price regulation by Ofcom, and is instead priced to their networks.
In particular, in the US we are trying to persuade the on a commercial basis in order to encourage investment.
regulator to carry out a review of the US Business Access market to help us get fairer terms and lower prices from the incumbent operators for There have been a number of regulatory decisions and outcomes of wholesale products in this important market.
appeals in 2012 that will impact us in the future.
In particular, the charge controls imposed on our WLR and LLU pricing, which we are appealing, have reduced the prices we can charge for these products with effect from April 2012.
There are also ongoing disputes and appeals that could impact us.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview 20 I work from home part of Being the Brand for Business for UK SMEs the week, so I can help 1 million SMEs choose BT Business to provide them with the communications and IT products and services they need.
From take my young children sole traders to medium-sized enterprises, BT will be there with the right solution, tailored to suit customers' precise to pre-school, and with requirements.
super-fast broadband, I One business that BT has helped is LinedUp, a creative digital studio based in Camborne, Cornwall, set up in 2010 by can work from home as director Jonathan Davies.
Jonathans home is in St Agnes, one of the first pilot BT effectively as just about exchanges to offer super-fast broadband in Cornwall, anywhere in the world.
and Jonathan was one of the very first to connect to bre broadband.
He says: The speeds are staggering and have helped my business to succeed.
My business provides top quality interactive Jonathan Davies digital solutions and it is essential that I have a reliable and Director fast connection.
The super-fast connection at home also helps me deliver a better service to my clients.
For example, my eCommerce clients expect 24 7 support and with super-fast broadband at home it is straightforward to step in immediately if theres an emergency out of hours.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
