18 Business Customers, markets and products Fibre Voice Access FVA Broadcasting services Openreach is introducing a voice service over bre, FVA.
This will Our Global Media Network provides access to all the key locations allow CPs to provide voice services over bre with similar levels of around the world where broadcast content is either created or functionality to copper voice services.
Our bre broadband network can distributed.
We are strengthening our digital content capabilities by also deliver IPTV services as we have launched a multicast capability.
establishing a series of strategic alliances to expand our global media This allows triple play providers to prioritise broadcast TV trafc over footprint.
In the UK we provide TV outside broadcast services from our other internet trafc and to transmit broadcast signals efficiently to network of around 160 sports and news locations.
Our UK media MPLS their customers.
network also underpins all digital terrestrial TV delivery in the UK.
Passive Infrastructure Access PIA Regulation Our PIA products allow CPs to rent space in our ducts or on our telegraph poles.
CPs can use this space for their own bres, as an alternative to buying bre-based broadband from us.
The efficient supply of telecoms services is so important in the modern world that the industry Wholesale Ethernet sometimes needs to be controlled and monitored.
In Ethernet is a widely-deployed network transmission technology that can transport large amounts of any type of data in a fast, assured and the UK, and in the majority of countries around the highly cost-effective manner.
We offer a wide choice of high bandwidth world where we operate, these services are subject to Ethernet services designed to help CPs extend their networks and regulation by governmental and independent nondeliver a range of high quality services to their customers.
We explain below what this connection speeds range from 2Mbps to 10Gbps.
Our Wholesale Ethernet is certied as meeting the mandatory Government security assurance levels required to support PSN European Union EU regulation opportunities in the UK.
In EU countries electronic communications services are governed by a number of European directives and regulations.
These Capacity, call-based products and IP Exchange provide a Europe-wide framework for the regulation of electronic We sell a wide range of capacity and call-based products and communications services which includes both xed and mobile voice services, both regulated and unregulated, using both traditional services, broadband, cable TV and satellite TV.
The way in which the andIPtechnologies.
existing directives have been implemented varies from country to IP Exchange is our global IP interoperability service allowing IP network country.
They include rules about things like access and interconnection, operators to interconnect with each other as well as with xed telecoms universal service, and how often national regulators should review operators and MNOs.
markets for significant market power SMP.
They also cover matters such as how SMP remedies like price controls should be set.
They Private and partial private circuits require regulators to consult with the European Commission on any We are a major provider of traditional data circuits in the UK, which price control decisions before they are nalised, to make sure they are help our customers to extend the reach of their services and act as inll consistent with the European regulations.
solutions for their own networks.
UK Regulation Transit The UK telecoms industry is regulated through various European We provide transit voice services across the UK and internationally.
This directives, the Communications Act 2003 the Communications is a low-margin product where volumes are declining as CPs and MNOs Act, Ofcom the UKs independent regulator, and other regulations interconnect directly with each other.
White label managed services The Communications Act Our white label managed services business helps customers with limited or no infrastructure to offer telecoms services such as telephony and The Communications Act gives Ofcom legal powers and sets out the broadband without the need to make large investments.
We provide a legal requirements for how electronic communications services should complete service, from accepting and processing new orders through to be regulated in the UK.
It includes the conditions imposed by the customer service and end-user billing.
The Government is currently reviewing our sectors regulatory regime which will result in a new framework in 2015.
The Mobility and wireview is focusing on how growth and innovation can be encouraged Our Mobile Ethernet Access Service MEAS is now available at more and on removing unnecessary regulation and barriers to growth.
than 13,000 mobile base stations sites, an increase of around 3,800 in the year, reinforcing our market leading position.
Mobile operators can also boost the capacity of their services using our more than 4m wiUK hot spots.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
