28 Strategy How we measure our progress Running an ethical business Customer service improvement Operating ethically is not only the right thing to do, but is required Our strategy starts with customer service and we always try to improve by regulators and customers alike.
To make sure that we are running the experience we provide to our customers.
Right first time is our our business to the high standards we expect of ourselves, we have a key measure for customer service.
It measures how often we keep number of processes in place to make sure our people understand what is the promises we make to our customers.
As well as improving service, expected of them.
We offer extensive training each year on our statement keeping more promises reduces the work needed to put things right and of business practice, which we revise regularly to make sure we meet the so reduces our cost.
highest legally required standards in the countries in which we operate.
This is supported by a number of ethical policies, including AntiFor further details of customer service improvement Corruption and Bribery and Gifts and Hospitality.
Our condential 23 see page hotline is now operational in 62 countries providing 96% coverage of our employee population.
People and engagement Our resources Our people are crucially important for the delivery of our services and therefore our reputation and success.
They are our public face and are Our resources are the things we need to deliver our the talent behind our innovation.
Many of them are things that make us We know that engaged employees deliver better performance for the different and that set us aside from our competitors business.
Because of this we have a number of initiatives in place to and give us an advantage in our markets.
We deal with enhance their well being, and to make sure that work-life balance is maintained through exible working practices.
our resources in a responsible and sustainable manner.
Health and safety Brand and reputation Looking after the health, safety and well being of all our people is a The BT brand is an important business asset and a key resource.
We have comprehensive management systems to know that it is effective in making sure our products and services are help make our workplaces as safe as possible.
considered by customers of all types, in communicating our strengths, and in acting as a guide to our behaviours.
We are consistently assessed as one of the worlds most valuable brands.
For example, we ranked 86 How we measure our progress in Brand Finances Global 500 of the worlds top brands in 2012.
We measure our progress by three performance People who buy things from us do not just choose us for the obvious benets of our products and services.
They are buying into a set indicators: adjusted earnings per share: adjusted free of values, and a rich heritage.
Despite the diversity of our markets, cash ow, and customer service improvement see our the brand associations are remarkably consistent we are seen as key performance indicators on page 4. relevant to people, and they trust and like us as a brand.
In 2011 we began a two-year programme of renewing our trademark licences Adjusted earnings per share around the world to provide confidence that the value of our brand is adequatelyprotected.
Adjusted earnings per share represents the adjusted profit after taxation for the year attributable to our shareholders divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue.
As it excludes the impact of specic People items it provides an important measure of our financial performance in a Our people are a key resource: we rely on them to deliver our strategy consistent manner.
and we are proud of what they achieve for our business.
At 31 March 2012 our people resources were equivalent to 89,015 full time employees of which 73,845 were based in the UK.
For further details of adjusted earnings per share 53 see page Working environment Adjusted free cash ow It is important to match the resources available to our customers needs.
To help achieve this we have people on many different types of working Free cash ow is an important measure of our financial performance and arrangements.
These include part-time, term-time and job share.
They our progress against our strategic priorities.
It represents the cash we help to match the exibility required for the business with peoples own generate from operations after capital expenditure and finance costs and aspirations for a work-life balance.
reects the cash available to invest in the business, repay debt, support the pension scheme and pay dividends.
Our free cash ow measure We continue to support an inclusive working environment where people changed from reported free cash ow to adjusted free cash ow in 2012 can develop their careers and expect to be treated fairly, regardless of to align with management incentive arrangements as detailed on page78.
their race, sex, religion beliefs, disability, marital or civil partnership Adjusted free cash ow is before the cash impact of specic items.
status, age, sexual orientation, or caring responsibilities.
We also work with specialist agencies to enable the recruitment of people with disabilities and we run a retention service to ensure that people can stay For further details of adjusted free cash ow 53 with us even if their capabilities change.
see page Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview Strategy 29 Our resources As our business develops and grows, the skills that we need may Networks and platforms change.
We provide opportunities to re-skill and look for alternative Our infrastructure is made up of networks and platforms which in roles for individuals whose skills or jobs are no longer required.
Since combination connect our customers and support the services they use.
we started these arrangements six years ago, over 19,000 people have As such they are a vital resource and their reliability and security are successfully found alternative employment within BT with 4,100 of critical to our customers and to delivering our strategy.
these during the last year.
Our ability to help nd alternative roles has been enhanced by an ongoing review of work that has previously been Networks resourced externally and bringing this back into BT where appropriate.
Over the past two years around 4,000 jobs have been insourced from Our UK xed-line communications network is one of our most valuable suppliers and overseas.
Our super-fast bre-based broadband network is key to our future and our competitive position in the UK.
Around the world, our networks consist of assets that we own and those that are leased from Employee representation suppliers to give us global reach.
We have a record of stable industrial relations and constructive relationships with the recognised unions in the UK and with works We have established a global MPLS network which is designed to carry councils elsewhere in Europe.
In the UK we recognise two main trade different types of network services over a common infrastructure.
unions the Communication Workers Union CWU, which represents We offer two types of virtual private network VPN service: IPVPN people in engineering, administrative and clerical positions, and and Ethernet VPN.
These provide our customers with secure network Prospect, which represents managerial and professional employees.
We capabilities in many countries across the world.
deal with unions around the world and also operate a pan-European Our IPVPN service is available in 197 countries and territories and works council, the BT European Consultation Committee.
can be accessed through: global points of presence GPoP and direct leased lines in 118 countries: city bre networks in 24 European cities Pay and benets and two Latin American cities: Ethernet access in 42 countries: DSL in 21 countries: network-to-network interfaces NNI in 31 countries: We expect our people to work hard and in return we reward them fairly.
internet-based access in 178 countries, and satellite access in over 60 In 2012 we implemented a 3% pay increase in the UK as well as paying additional countries.
For our engineers and support people this is an across-the-board arrangement and for our managers there is BT-owned physical GPoP are MPLS points of access which house an IP performance-related differentiation.
The same principles of fair pay for the node.
NNI are the interface between our network and the network of a work done are similarly applied in all other countries in which we operate.
They allow us to use another provider's network to extend Our managers also receive bonuses linked to the success of the business our footprint in geographies where we have fewer of our own GPoP.
and their personal contribution to it.
Our most senior managers are Satellite links provides access to the BT network in remote locations, also eligible for long-term incentives, but again, payment is related beyond the reach of traditional xed-line solutions.
to business success measured by our corporate performance over Our Ethernet VPN service is available in 28 countries using Ethernet a three-year period.
Different arrangements apply to the most access.
This number is growing through the global expansion senior managers in Openreach but these are also entirely related to investments we have made over the past year.
We also provide savings-related share option plans in over 25 countries.
Platforms Under the BT employee share investment plan, we let employees in the Our platforms are the processes and technology that deliver products UK participate in a tax and national insurance-efficient share purchase and services over our networks.
For example, the billing and payments scheme.
We are pleased that more than 60% of our people participate platform comprises the systems and processes that calculate charges, in one or more of these share plans.
produce bills and collect payments from our customers.
The number We also provide pension and retirement benets for employees as well of platforms we own has grown over time through a combination as statutory retirement arrangements.
of acquisition, outsourcing contracts and technology upgrades.
We continue to improve platforms by modernising and rationalising them, so reducing complexity while improving reliability, exibility and cost.
For details of the largest of these plans, the BT Pension 58 We have reduced the number of IT applications by 11% over the year, Scheme, a dened benefit plan in the UK, see page which has helped BTID and BTO to underpin significant cost reduction.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview 30 Strategy Our resources BTs global network coverage a MPLS point of access Satellite Ethernet access DSL access City bre networks Network-to-network interface a Countries where BT, directly or working with partners, has an MPLS network service.
business propositions and market trends over the year.
In 2012 we Properties led patent applications for 65 inventions.
We routinely seek patent At 31 March 2012 we occupied around 6,500 properties in the UK, and protection in different countries including the US and China, and we around 1,720 properties in the rest of the world.
The majority of the currently maintain a total worldwide portfolio of over 5,000 patents UK properties are owned by and leased from Telereal Trillium, which andapplications.
is part of the William Pears Group.
Of the UK portfolio, 90% of the properties are operational telephone exchanges which contain telecoms In 2012 we invested 560m 2011: 684m in global research and equipment and are required as part of our continuing activities.
Our development to support our drive for innovation.
The reduction general purpose properties consist chiey of ofces, engineering depots in expenditure compared with 2011 has been delivered through and data centres.
Outside the UK, 90% of the properties are operational better procurement, systems rationalisation, development efficiency sites housing data hosting and telecoms equipment.
In 2012 we have improvements and platforms reaching maturity.
Our global continued our programme of property rationalisation, consolidating development centres, located in the UK, US and India, help us to draw ofce space within the estate and disposing of redundant ofce and together key and complementary skills and resources both internal operational buildings through cost transformation programmes.
and third party with the objective of increasing agility, efficiency and delivery of innovation into the market.
We are actively looking to invest in establishing additional centres in new locations.
Innovation Innovation has always been at the core of our business.
Our global In 2012 we applied our research and development capability to a research and development activities are aligned with, and focused on, number of areas including: supporting our strategy.
increasing broadband coverage we have been trialling innovative new technologies to test their suitability for providing service in hard Creating attractive and competitive propositions for customers is to reach locations across the UK.
For example, BT Wholesale trialled critical to our future.
We access some of the best innovation from xed-mobile 4G LTE in Cornwall and Openreach performed trials around the world through our open innovation model.
Our teams work using TV white space radio technology to get better broadband to with customers, partners and universities in the US, Asia, Europe and locations on the Isle of Bute the Middle East, exposing us to more than 500 new technologies, Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview Strategy 31 Our resources improving broadband speed we worked on the network frequency Payment of suppliers plan change described on page 26 and have been trialling 1Gbps In normal circumstances our payment terms for contracted suppliers FTTP broadband will be to pay each due, valid and undisputed invoice between 60 and improving customer service we have been developing advanced 73 days from date of receipt from the supplier.
There are variations to network test capabilities to diagnose and solve the more complicated this policy.
For example, there could be shorter timescales for some faults on our broadband network.
We try to predict faults and x interconnect payments to other telecoms operators, low value spend, them before they impact on customers or where there are specic customer requirements.
In 2012 the average number of days between the invoice date and the date of the payment enhancing cyber security to complement our security capabilities run for the invoice was 61 days 2011: 64 days.
we have developed advanced tools which provide additional insight and analysis.
In the UK we provide access to a nancing scheme which offers contracted suppliers the opportunity to obtain early payments for valid and undisputed invoices this can be a particularly attractive option for Suppliers SMEs.
In addition, we subscribe to the Better Payment Practice Code.
Suppliers play a key role in helping us deliver our products and services to customers and as such play an important role in helping us deliver our strategy.
We work with around 18,200 suppliers, spending Details of the Better Payment Practice Code can be found at approximately 10.6bn per year with them, with the top 100 suppliers www.
co. uk accounting for around 65% of this spend.
Our approach to procurement Our supply chain is global.
We source products and services from across the world and have a team of over 300 procurement professionals located across 27 countries.
We operate a strategic sourcing process for the vast majority of spend to derive maximum value and to meet our cost transformation goals, with vendor negotiations being a key driver of cost reductions.
Against the backdrop of a difficult economic climate, our strategy has been to focus on the suppliers with the greatest spend together with innovative approaches to the market to achieve maximum business benefit.
We are now planning to broaden this approach to include a larger proportion of our supply base, while at the same time exploring collaboration and consolidation options with our suppliers.
Supplier selection Suppliers are selected using an established set of procurement principles which makes sure that we act in an ethically and commercially responsible way in our business dealings with them.
It is important to us that we understand who we are doing business with and who is acting on our behalf.
Another important part of our supplier strategy is to ensure that the goods and services we buy are made, delivered and disposed of in a socially and  manner.
Sustainability factors such as energy usage, environmental impact, and labour standards are embedded in our procurement process, and influence supplier and product selection.
We are also actively restructuring our base of suppliers and partners to improve geographic reach, and increase resourcing resilience by reducing dependency on geographically concentrated suppliers.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
