30 Corporate governance Directors report for the year ended 31 October 2012 The directors present their annual report, together with the audited None of the directors had a beneficial interest in any contract of financial statements of the Group and the Company for the year signicance to which the Group was a party during the year ended ended 31 October 2012.
Information required as to directors shareholdings is set out in the Principal activities directors remuneration report.
The principal activities of the Group are the design, manufacture and sale of counter-IED equipment, countermeasures, pyrotechnics Substantial shareholdings and munitions.
At 23 January 2013, the following substantial holdings in the ordinary share capital of the Company had been notied to the Business review Company in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and The Chairmans statement and the business review on pages 4 Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority: to 27 provide an overview of the Groups business development, Name % Interest performance and position during and at the end of the financial year: its strategy and likely future development: key performance Invesco Limited 27.5 indicators: and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties UBS Global Asset Management 5.5 facing the business.
Further information regarding financial risk Old Mutual Asset Managers 5.1 management policies and financial instruments is given in note 24 of the financial statements.
There have been no significant events Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 5.1 since the balance sheet date.
JP Morgan Chase & Co. 4.9 AXA S. A. and its group of companies 4.8 Results and dividends The profit attributable to the Groups shareholders for the year was Standard Life Investments Ltd 4.6 15.3 million 2011: 73.9 million.
The directors recommend a final BT Pension Scheme Trustees Ltd as Trustees dividend of 4.2p per ordinary share which, together with the interim of the BT Pension Scheme 3.8 dividend of 5.3p per ordinary share paid in August 2012, gives a Cantillon Capital Management LLC 3.6 total for the year of 9.5p 2011: 14.8p.
The final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on Tameside MBC re Greater Manchester Pension Fund 3.4 20 March 2013, and accordingly has not been included as a liability Hermes Equity Ownership Services Ltd 2.9 in these financial statements.
Directors and their interests Employees and employee consultation The present directors are shown on pages 28 and 29.
Details of the Groups employment policies and employee consultation practices are set out in the corporate responsibility Mr D Evans resigned as a director on 21 March 2012, Mr P Rayner review on page 25. resigned as a director on 31 July 2012, and Dr D Price resigned as a director on 23 October 2012.
Charitable and political donations Mr M Papworth was appointed as a director on 5 November 2012, Charitable donations amounting to 64,000 2011: 129,000 were and Mr S Bowers was appointed as a director on 7 January 2013. made during the year.
No political donations were made during the Both of these directors will be seeking re-appointment under year 2011: nil.
Article 87.1 of the Companys Articles of Association at the Contractual arrangements forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Group contracts with a wide range of customers, comprising In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, all governments, armed forces, prime contractors and OEMs across the directors are required to submit themselves for re-election every globe.
The US Department of Defense is the largest single customer, three years.
However, in order to ensure compliance with the UK and procures the Groups products under a significant number of Corporate Governance Code, all directors now voluntarily submit separate contracts placed with individual Group businesses.
themselves for re-election at every Annual General Meeting.
The Groups businesses utilise many suppliers across the world, and Sir Peter Norriss has indicated his intention to retire as a arrangements are in place to ensure that businesses are not totally non-executive director at this years Annual General Meeting, reliant on single suppliers for key raw materials or components.
and will not therefore be seeking re-election.
Nigel Young, who was Interim Chief Financial officer between Policy on payment of suppliers August 2012 and January 2013, will join the Board as a It is the policy of the Group that each of the Group companies non-executive director at the end of April 2013.
He will become should agree appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions Chairman of the Audit Committee, succeeding Lord Freeman with suppliers.
These will range from standard written terms to who plans to retire from the Board at the end of the year.
Creditor days of the Group as at 31 October 2012 amounted to 25 days 2011: 29 days.
Details of the service contracts between the Company and the executive directors are set out in the directors remuneration Share capital and shareholder rights report on page 41.
The non-executive directors do not have service General contracts with the Company.
The Companys share capital consists of ordinary shares of 1p The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions each and preference shares of 1 each, which are fully paid-up for the benefit of its directors, which were in effect throughout the and quoted on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
year and remain in force at the date of this report.
Full details of the movements in the issued share capital of the Company during the financial year are provided in note 27 of the financial statements.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 31 All holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and Purchase of own shares vote at any general meeting of the Company and to appoint a During the year, the Company purchased 1,215,000 2011: 300,000 proxy or proxies to exercise these rights.
At a general meeting, of its ordinary shares, and 359,331 2011: 456,855 ordinary shares every shareholder present in person, by proxy or in the case of a were distributed following vesting of awards under the Chemring corporate member by corporate representative has one vote on a Group Performance Share Plan.
At 31 October 2012, the Company show of hands, and on a poll has one vote for every share held.
held a total of 2,198,814 ordinary shares in treasury representing 1.12% of the ordinary shares in issue on 1 November 2012.
To decide who can attend or vote at a general meeting, the notice of meeting can give a time, which must not be more than forty eight All purchases of ordinary shares were made by way of market hours before the meeting, by which shareholders must have been purchases on the London Stock Exchange.
Further details can be entered on the register in order to have the right to attend or vote found in note 29 of the financial statements.
A special resolution set out as resolution 14 in the Notice of Annual If a shareholder has been properly served with notice under General Meeting will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act requiring General Meeting, to renew the Companys authority to purchase its information about interests in shares, and has failed to supply own shares in the market up to a limit of 10% of its issued ordinary such information within fourteen days after the service of the share capital.
The maximum and minimum prices are stated in the resolution.
The directors believe that it is advantageous for the notice, then the shareholder is not entitled to attend and vote at a shareholder meeting.
Company to have this exibility to make market purchases of its own shares.
The directors of the Company may consider holding There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the repurchased shares pursuant to the authority conferred by this capital of the Company, other than certain restrictions which may resolution as treasury shares.
This will give the Company the ability from time to time be imposed by law, for example insider trading to re-issue treasury shares quickly and cost effectively, and will law.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services provide the Company with additional exibility in the management Authority, certain employees are required to seek the approval of of its capital base.
Any issues of treasury shares for the purposes the Company to deal in its shares.
of the Companys employee share schemes will be made within the The cumulative preference shares carry an entitlement to a 10% anti-dilution limit set by the Association of British Insurers.
The dividend at the rate of 7p per share per annum, payable in equal directors will only exercise this authority if they are satisfied that a instalments on 30 April and 31 October each year.
Holders of purchase would result in an increase in expected earnings per share the preference shares have the right on winding-up to receive, in and would be in the interests of shareholders generally.
priority to any other classes of shares, the sum of 1 per share together with any arrears of dividends.
The Chemring Group Performance Share Plan the PSP The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of The following conditional awards were made under the PSP during the year: securities and or voting rights.
Total number of Number of participants The Companys Articles of Association the Articles may Date of award shares awarded receiving awards only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting 27 January 2012 1,785,720 37 of shareholders.
Issue of shares The Chemring Group 2008 UK Sharesave Plan Under the provisions of section 551 of the Act, the Board is prevented from exercising its powers under the Articles to allot the UK Sharesave Plan shares without an authority in terms of the Act contained either in On 30 July 2012, options were granted over 553,724 ordinary the Articles or in a resolution of the shareholders passed in general shares.
Options over 14,115 ordinary shares were exercised during meeting.
The authority, when given, can last for a maximum period the year and options on 262,602 shares lapsed.
Additional of five years, but the Board proposes that renewal should be information is set out in note 31. sought at each Annual General Meeting.
Such proposal is set out as resolution 12 in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
The Chemring Group 2008 US Stock Purchase Plan the US Stock Purchase Plan Section 561 of the Act requires that an allotment of shares for cash On 30 July 2012, options were granted over 82,738 ordinary may not be made unless the shares are first offered to existing shares.
Options over 792 ordinary shares were exercised during the shareholders on a pre-emptive basis in accordance with the terms year and options on 59,130 shares lapsed.
Additional information is of the Act.
In accordance with general practice, to ensure that small set out in note 31. issues of shares can be made without the necessity of convening a general meeting, the Board proposes that advantage be taken Approach to share ownership of the provisions of section 571 of the Act to not apply the Acts The Group actively encourages its employees to share in the future pre-emptive requirements.
Accordingly, a special resolution set success of the Group.
The fifth annual grant of options under the out as resolution 13 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will UK Sharesave Plan and the US Stock Purchase Plan, which were be proposed which, if passed, will have the effect of granting the both launched in 2008, took place during the year.
directors the power to allot not more than 5% of the present issued ordinary share capital free of the requirements of section 561 of the Act.
No issue of these shares will be made which would effectively alter the control of the Company without prior approval of the shareholders in general meeting.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 32 Corporate governance Directors report continued Statement of directors responsibilities Directors responsibility statement The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the and regulations.
relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of for each financial year.
Under that law, the directors are required the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with taken as a whole: and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, as adopted by the Chairmans statement and the business review, which are the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, and have referred to in the directors report, include a fair review of elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in the development and performance of the business and the accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting position of the Company and the undertakings included in the Practice United Kingdom accounting standards and applicable consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the law.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss Provision of information to auditors of the Company for that period.
In preparing the parent company Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report financial statements, the directors are required to: confirms that: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit consistently: information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken and prudent: as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been aware of that information.
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Close company provisions continue in business.
As far as the directors are aware, the close company provisions of In preparing the group financial statements, International the Taxes Acts do not apply to the Group nor has there been any Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: change in that respect since 31 October 2012. properly select and apply accounting policies: Auditors present information, including accounting policies, in a A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors will be proposed manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and at the Annual General Meeting.
understandable information: Annual General Meeting provide additional disclosures when compliance with the The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting specic requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to to be held on 20 March 2013, together with explanatory notes, understand the impact of particular transactions, other events appear in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting sent to and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial all shareholders.
performance: and Approved by the Board of Directors on 24 January 2013 make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a Signed on behalf of the Board going concern.
S L Ellard The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Group Legal Director & Company Secretary records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions, disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company, and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012
