12 Business review Pyrotechnics Mecars sales of pyrotechnic rounds and products grew in the year, as part of major ammunition contracts for the Middle East.
investment needed to expand its marine Strategy Highlights in 2012 safety business and to develop its global Our strategy is on focused investment in The closing order book was maritime safety network.
new products that deliver transformational 178.2 million, up 24% on the capabilities to users in changing operational Smoke and illumination previous year environments.
We intend to expand our In January 2012, Simmel was awarded further Sale of the marine safety pyrotechnics activities in the space sector by developing contracts to the value of 38 million for 81mm business to Drew Marine, for improved products for initiation, stage pyrotechnic illumination mortar rounds, with 30.4 million separation, and satellite and sub-system deliveries over the period from 2012 to 2014. deployment for military and commercial Chemring Defence developed and Mecars sales of pyrotechnic rounds and customers.
This will address the US, European delivered a new vehicle discharge products grew in the year, as part of major and emerging international markets.
grenade for a Middle Eastern customer ammunition contracts for the Middle East.
We intend to expand our safety systems In addition, Mecar successfully completed Chemring Ordnance won a contract to activities, both in military and civil aircraft.
the development of two new pyrotechnic supply sixty weapons effect simulators products a new rie launched smoke for the man-portable aircraft Financial performance grenade and a new smoke lling for 120mm In 2012, revenue from our continuing survivability trainer MAST mortar rounds, which offers an alternative operations in military and aerospace Key information to white phosphorus.
Chemring Ordnance pyrotechnics was 123.0 million, which is is also developing next generation smoke Orders received 4% higher on a like-for-like basis than in obscurant materials, including non- 2011.
This increase resulted from growth in pyrotechnic solutions in partnership with sales of pyrotechnic products and rounds to 130.6m Florida State Universitys Department of the Middle East, which offset the reduction Chemistry.
This joint research effort will Revenue in deliveries of illumination mortar rounds concentrate on synthesising new smoke to the UK, which were affected by supply producing materials.
chain issues in the first half of the year.
123.0m This also substantially reduced the The US Navy awarded Chemring Ordnance Underlying operating profit profitability of this segment.
Sales of a contract to rapidly develop and produce training and simulation products were the 40mm MK325 Tri-color signal are.
This down 50%, reecting reduced demand cartridge was requested under an urgent 12.3m for training grenades in the US.
Space and need from the US Special Forces operating Underlying operating margin safety systems revenues were broadly at.
In addition to the impact of product mix on Chemring Defence continued deliveries of 10% the profitability of the segment, Chemring its new compact smoke grenade, and also Ordnance also indentied significant errors developed and delivered a new vehicle in the data underpinning its resource discharge grenade VDG for a Middle planning system.
The issues that led to Eastern customer.
This underpins a major this problem are now well understood and marketing thrust in the region to promote corrective action has been taken such that Chemrings range of 66mm and 76mm the problems will not reoccur.
VDGs for a range of platforms.
The closing order book was 178.2 million, up Alloy Surfaces submitted its covert 24% on the previous year, due to the receipt infra-red marker devices, based on special of UK orders for illumination rounds, Middle material decoy technology, for test and East demand for pyrotechnic rounds and evaluation by the US Air National Guard.
products, and orders for space components.
The products a covert position marker and an individual marker device passed, and Activities during the year were recommended for full elding for all In July, the Group completed the sale of US Department of Defense services.
its marine safety pyrotechnics business to Chemring Australia successfully developed Drew Marine, for 30.4 million.
The focus two new products in its Ascend range of of this business on the commercial and military pyrotechnics.
The A300D is a leisure market was no longer aligned with drill trip are, and initial production and the growth strategy of the Group, and it was deliveries were completed in June.
The clear that Chemring Marine would benefit from new owners, who would provide the Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 13 Smoke and screening Landing position marked by smoke grenade A400 is a thermite incendiary grenade, Our business units and companies Our products with first production orders received.
Chemring Australia Pty Ltd Space and satellite launch Training Supplies a range of pyrotechnics and Initiators Revenue for training products was down, military training products.
Separation sub-systems principally as a result of the full stockpiles of the US M228 practice grenade.
However, Chemring Defence Europe Thrusters and actuators Chemring Ordnance did win a contract to Centre-of-excellence for the design, Training supply sixty weapons effect simulators development and production of smoke and for the man-portable aircraft survivability Pyrotechnics and launchers illumination pyrotechnics and payloads for trainer MAST.
This product will be in military, OEM and safety customers.
Smoke and illumination service with all US Armed Services.
Chemring Energetics UK Ltd Military smokes, ares and rockets Safety systems Chemring Energetic Devices successfully A leading supplier of rocket motors, Distraction and screening products shipped its JCAST test systems to F-22 canopy cutting cords and pyromechanisms Pyrotechnic payloads and F-16 squadrons of the US Air Combat for safety and aircrew egress.
Command and US Air National Guard during Submarine distress signals Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. USA the year.
The system allows pilots to check Safety systems critical oxygen, communications and their Supplier of pyrotechnic and electromechanical systems for space, G-Suit prior to getting in the aircraft.
The Rocket motors system is the only authorised test set-up safety and military training applications.
Canopy cutting charges for the F-22.
Chemring Ordnance, Inc. USA Cartridge actuated devices Space Leading US manufacturer of military In the space segment, Hi-Shear has started training pyrotechnics and pyrotechnic working with SpaceX, one of the new US rounds for 40mm grenade launchers.
commercial launch providers contracted Hi-Shear Technology Corporation USA to provide launch services to NASA.
It has established the SpaceX standard initiator Leading supplier of space qualied and detonator, and won its first significant initiators and low shock satellite order.
In Europe, Hi-Shear and Chemring separation systems, and a range of Energetics have successfully promoted pyromechanisms for aircrew egress.
the PC-23 initiator to the European Space Agency ESA and European satellite manufacturers.
Chemring Energetics is also supplying detonating cords to ESA for cutting and stage separation applications on the Ariane V launch vehicle.
Roke is also developing a position in the space segment, with a contract with the UK Ministry of Defence to develop and deliver ight-ready payload modules for a multi-national nano-satellite demonstrator programme.
Outlook The outlook for pyrotechnics is stable, with space and safety systems sustained by long term programmes and large in-service aircraft eets.
In recent years, military signal and illumination enjoyed a major surge in demand, as a result of UK demand for 81mm illumination mortars, but this has now levelled, with some orders still to be delivered to the UK, and continued requirements from the Middle East.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 14 Business review Munitions Ammunition sales for land forces grew by 55% in the year, in both Europe and the Middle East.
Strategy Activities during the year Highlights in 2012 Our principal strategy is to develop Naval New generation miniature our position as a niche manufacturer The naval ammunition market is stable, radio-frequency proximity fuze for of specialist ammunition products for and our deliveries of naval ammunition 40mm gun ammunition developed, European and non-NATO markets.
We were at similar levels to 2011.
The two offering improved reliability and easier will build on our world leading position in largest customers were NATO countries manufacturing naval ammunition, our growing strength but sales continue around the world.
Mecar maintained its strong position in ammunition for light armoured vehicles A key development in the year was a new in the Middle East, with major deliveries LAVs, and our broad range of mortar and generation miniature radio-frequency to strategic customers including, for 40mm grenade products.
We will focus on proximity fuze for 40mm gun ammunition, the first time, the UAE new product development, and investment which offers improved reliability whilst in facilities that will allow us to expand also being easier to manufacture, requiring Chemrings lead azide production our presence in a growing international a reduced level of manual assembly, test process approved for US Department market.
We intend to establish our position and adjustment.
of Defense use by the US Energetic as a key strategic supplier of energetic Materials Qualication Board Land material components and sub-systems to Although deliveries of mortar systems 40mm ammunition sold into South the key prime contractors for ammunition were substantially delayed during the year, America for the first time and missiles in Europe and the US.
This will sales of land forces ammunition grew.
be achieved by developing and qualifying Key information Mecar maintained its strong position in components for next generation weapon the Middle East, with major deliveries to Orders received systems, and displacing poorly performing strategic customers including, for the first incumbents on legacy products.
time, the United Arab Emirates.
In addition, 146.1m Mecar continues to expand its presence in Financial performance the Far East, delivering components and Revenue In 2012, our Munitions revenues were ammunition to Indonesia and Thailand, and 227.9 million, a 4% reduction from 2011. completing its first contract in Malaysia.
Ammunition sales for land forces grew by 227.9m 55% in the year, in both Europe and the Mecar also completed the development of a Underlying operating profit Middle East, and naval ammunition and new family of low cost fuzing for its range of component sales remained steady during recoilless rie ammunition.
This was offset by the delayed 24.3m In 40mm grenades, we successfully delivery of mortar systems, due to extended completed the development and internal Underlying operating margin delays in the granting of export licences for qualication of a new dual purpose a limited number of critical components.
low velocity round, which meets NATO These licences have recently been issued, 11% insensitive munition standards and has and deliveries should commence in the 2014 a self-destruct fuze, which substantially financial year, when a customer-funded reduces the hazard from unexploded contract modication has been nalised.
ordnance left behind on the battleeld.
The profitability of the segment fell Initial performance tests have been very signicantly as a result of the different encouraging, and we look forward to product mix in the year.
qualifying the round with a NATO customer in the near future.
We have also succeeded The closing order book for the Munitions in selling 40mm ammunition into segment was 227.6 million, a reduction South America for the first time, with the of 39% on the previous year, notably US Department of State strongly supporting due to delays to the placing of significant the sale process.
munitions contracts both at Simmel and Mecar.
Delays in the granting of export Components and sub-systems licences were also a significant factor.
About Our components business grew slightly 75% of the order book is from in the year, with sustained demand for a non-NATO customers.
very wide range of products, from high explosive materials to mechanical and electronic subsystems.
In August 2012, the Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 15 Land ammunition SAS soldier ring a grenade US Energetic Materials Qualication Board Our business units and companies Our products approved Chemrings lead azide production Chemring Energetics UK Ltd Naval ammunition process for US Department of Defense use.
A leading supplier of detonators, Medium and large calibre ammunition As a result, Chemring Energetic Devices actuators, rocket motors, high explosive is now the only US based producer of this Land forces ammunition lling and pyromechanical sub-assemblies.
important primary explosive, which is used Medium and large calibre ammunition in a wide variety of US and NATO fuze and Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. USA detonator assemblies.
40mm grenades Manufactures a range of materials, Mortar ammunition Outlook components and sub-systems for leading Chemring operates in the global market missile and ammunition prime contractors.
Components for naval ammunition, and mainly in Chemring Military Products, Inc. USA Propellants and rocket motors the non-NATO market for land forces ammunition.
The naval market has suffered Provides load, assemble, pack Fuze and safe arm units budget constraints, with NATO countries and procurement services to the Pyromechanisms and actuators struggling to fund their land operations US Government and prime contractors.
in Afghanistan, but demand is expected Energetic materials Chemring Nobel AS Norway to remain steady.
Defence budgets in the Middle East and Far East are growing but Manufactures niche energetic local volatility and export licence risks mean materials with insensitive munitions that the market for land forces ammunition IM characteristics for munition and oil-eld applications.
Chemring Ordnance, Inc. USA Niche supplier of 40mm grenade ammunition.
Hi-Shear Technology Corporation USA Develops advanced sub-systems for ballistic missile defence and tactical weapons.
Mecar S. A. Belgium A niche supplier of medium and large calibre ammunition for light armoured vehicles.
Simmel Difesa S. p. A. Italy A leading supplier of naval ammunition, advanced fuzing technology and missile components.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012
