6 Business review Our strategy Our strategy is to develop and build on our core competencies in energetic materials and electronics for sensors, electronic warfare and network protection.
Group strategy Vision The Group strategy is balanced between our four segments Counter-IED, Countermeasures, Pyrotechnics and Munitions.
Our vision is to be the leading producer of All these segments build on a fundamental understanding of the protection systems and energetic products properties, characteristics and application of energetic materials, for the global defence market and, to an increasing extent, the application of electronics to provide new, high integrity solutions to difficult problems.
Our strategy develops and builds on our core competencies: Counter-IED Countermeasures Energetic materials We will focus the business on products Establish technology Maintain world lead where we can exploit our extensive knowledge and expertise in leadership Exploit lead in special explosive, pyrotechnic and pyrophoric materials.
We will address Maintain technological lead material, spectral and niche, highly profitable markets with significant value-added in ground penetrating radar thrusted ares manufacture assembly, where barriers-to-entry are high.
We will and counter-IED jamming exploit the commonality of our technology and design expertise Develop a market lead in to generate a broad centre-of-excellence that can be maintained Become world leader in naval launchers and decoys over the long term future.
IED, chemical and biological Become the world leader threat detection Electronics for sensors, electronic warfare EW and network in dismounted and protection A growing proportion of our business will be based Become world leader in vehicle electronic warfare on high integrity, high speed electronics for detecting and IED neutralisation and equipment analysing threats to enable a timely response.
Many of these demolition stores Establish niche position in electronic systems will rely on data from multiple sensors and network protection may also be network-based.
High reliability and integrity The nature of our products Pyrotechnics Munitions requires the highest levels of safety and reliability, particularly when their correct operation is life critical, as in ejection seats, Displace weak competitors Develop niche prime position or in chemical, biological or explosives detection.
Manufacturing Develop new products to Become a leading prime and product safety must always be one of our highest priorities.
deliver transformational contractor for non-NATO Agile manufacturing Our energetics manufacturing activities capabilities in changing customers range in volumes from thousands per day to tens per year, which operational environments Become a supplier of choice requires intelligent, agile manufacturing at key .
Ensure position on next for NATO primes Our strategy is to consolidate manufacturing centres, where generation platforms for possible, to give high volumes.
Expertise in automation and space and safety systems exible manufacturing will drive down our cost base and maintain competitive advantage.
In electronics, we will retain control of quality by focussing on assembly and test.
Establish Maintain Displace Develop technology world weak niche prime Organic growth strategy leadership lead competitors position The first element of our organic growth strategy is to maintain a geographic footprint which reects the balance of global defence spending.
As military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan wind down, defence spending is migrating to the Middle East, Far East and South America.
Our strategy is to target these growth markets and locally promote the full range of products which the Group offers.
Where we can identify a strong competitive advantage, we will establish manufacturing capabilities in key countries through equity participation in joint ventures, or in partnership with established local businesses, by transferring product, component and manufacturing technologies.
We will exploit our transatlantic footprint and expanded manufacturing base by promoting exports from all our businesses to our customer base in over sixty countries around the world.
Counter-IED Countermeasures Pyrotechnics Munitions Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 7 RESOLVE electronic surveillance RESOLVE in semi-static conguration Secondly, we will maintain a strong focus on developing Acquisition strategy world-leading products.
As a growing proportion of our business Acquisitions have been an important element of the growth of the is based on advanced electronics, we have developed parallel business.
The successful completion of seventeen acquisitions over energetics and electronics technology strategies.
the last six years has broadened our capabilities, diversied our segmental and geographic activities, and has directly contributed Our energetics technology strategy is focused on materials to the overall growth of the Group.
technology and applications engineering in five key areas: Whilst our focus in the near term will be on consolidation and Explosive materials We will develop and optimise material organic growth, we will continue to keep a watching brief on the formulations to improve their performance and safety.
We have three key criteria against which we evaluate Warheads We will build a capability in missile warheads and acquisition opportunities.
Firstly, they should ll identied gaps will offer insensitive munitions IM variants of our ammunition in our technology or product portfolio, where acquisition is an products.
expedient and cost effective alternative to organic development.
Propellants We will develop a new generation of low Secondly, we look for businesses which provide access to vulnerability ammunition LOVA propellant solutions and will attractive markets where we do not have strong existing routes to build a capability in composite rocket motors.
market, which may comprise access to new geographies or new relationships with prime contractors.
Finally, we look for businesses Pyrotechnic countermeasures and illumination We will which have the potential to overcome their historic growth maintain our world lead in air countermeasures and will develop constraints under our ownership for example, where we can a full range of spectrally optimised pyrotechnic payloads.
provide routes to market, technology or production capability.
Pyrotechnic obscurants We will lead development of safer, We maintained a watch on potential acquisition candidates multi-spectral smokes and less-lethal technologies.
throughout the year, and although we conducted a preliminary Our electronics technology strategy builds on our leadership in evaluation of a handful of smaller opportunities, we did not pursue key niches: these as they failed to meet our criteria.
Initiation Is the interface to energetic products, and we will extend the application of electronics to improve the performance of our munitions and pyrotechnic products.
Detection We will maintain our lead in stand-off threat detection technologies and will enhance these with sensor fusion and advanced algorithm development.
Electronic warfare EW We will extend our lead in man-portable electronic intelligence equipment, and will develop vehicle-mounted variants of our products.
Electronic countermeasures We will establish a world lead in active off-board decoys, and will develop a step-change in portable counter-IED jammers.
Network protection We will apply our leading capability in fast electronic hardware to lawful intercept applications and the protection of wirelessly networked military systems.
We will maintain an underpinning technology base to enable a cycle of rapid product development and technology insertion, through internal research and partnerships with universities, research institutions and technology companies.
Where we cannot quickly develop critical capabilities and technologies organically, we will supplement this with targeted acquisitions.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012
