28 Corporate governance Directors and corporate information Peter Hickson Mark Papworth Steve Bowers Sarah Ellard Non-Executive Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Group Legal Director & Joined the Group as a Mr Bowers joined the Group on Company Secretary Mr Papworth was appointed non-executive director on as Group Chief Executive on 7 January 2013.
He was Appointed to the Board on 1 July 2010, and was appointed 5 November 2012.
Formerly the formerly Finance Director 7 October 2011, having been Chairman of the Board on of Umeco plc.
Mr Bowers Group Company Secretary since Chief Executive officer of the 1 October 2010.
Currently Gas Turbines Services division joined Umeco in 1998, and for 1998.
Prior to joining the Group Chairman of Communisis plc, thirteen years held a number in 1994, Mrs Ellard trained and of John Wood Group plc, and a non-executive director where he was also a main of financial roles, alongside the worked at Ernst & Young LLP.
She is a Fellow of the Institute Board executive director from He has had senior management He qualied as a Chartered of Chartered Secretaries and 2006.
His career has covered experience with a number of high technology, service and Accountant with KPMG LLP, and Administrators.
large international companies, is a member of the Institute of manufacturing companies and previous appointments serving aerospace, energy Chartered Accountants.
include Chairman of Anglian and infrastructure markets.
Water Group, Senior Prior to his time at John Independent Director of London Wood Group plc, Mr Papworth & Continental Railways Ltd, spent two years as Executive Finance Director of Powergen plc Vice President of Rolls-Royce and non-executive directorships Energy, based in the USA, and of Scottish Power plc, thirteen years with Alstom Marconi Corporation plc, Power in various roles, nally RAC plc and Kazakhymys PLC.
as Managing Director of the He is also a trustee and Board Industrial Gas Turbines division.
member of Orbis Charitable Trust, the international sight saving charity, and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Membership of Board committees: Audit, Remuneration, Nomination Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 29 The Rt Hon Ian Much Vanda Murray OBE Air Marshal Lord Freeman Sir Peter Norriss KBE CB AFC MA FRAeS Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Joined the Group as a Joined the Group as a Joined the Group as a Joined the Group as a non-executive director in non-executive director in non-executive director on non-executive director in May 2006.
Currently a Independent Director and holds a portfolio of consultant to Tessella plc, Consultant formerly Partner Chairman of the Remuneration non-executive directorships, and a Senior Adviser to Newton.
Previous including Carillion plc, where He is also a member of major and Chairman of Thales UK appointments include she chairs the Remuneration programme review teams for the Advisory Board.
Previously a Chief Executive of fide La Rue plc Committee, The Manchester Ofce of Government Commerce non-executive director of and T&N plc, and non-executive Airport Group plc, and and an adviser or court member Savile Group PLC, a member directorships of Microgen plc.
She also took at three universities.
Formerly of the main Board of Admiral plc, Camelot plc, up the role of Senior Deputy Chief of Defence Thales S. A. France, and a Manchester United plc and Independent Director of Procurement Operations partner at Lehman Brothers Simplyhealth Group Ltd. Fenner plc in January 2012. and Controller Aircraft on the Investment Bankers between Currently Senior Independent Previous appointments include Air Force Board.
Member of Director and Chairman of the Deputy Chairman of the North of the Royal Aeronautical Society Parliament from 1983 to 1997.
Remuneration Committee of West Regional Development 2003-4.
Senior plc, and Chairman of the Agency, non-executive Minister 1985-1997.
Remuneration Committee of director of SIG plc, BTG plc.
Chief Executive officer of Blick plc, and UK Managing Director of Ultraframe PLC.
She is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Marketing, and in 2002 was appointed OBE for Services to Industry and to Export.
Headquarters and Registration number 86662 registered ofce Chemring House 1500 Parkway Registrars Whiteley Computershare Investor Services PLC Fareham The Pavilions Hampshire Bridgwater Road PO15 7AF Bristol England BS13 8AE Tel: 44 1489 881880 Fax: 44 1489 881123 Website: www.
co. uk Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012
