8 Business review Counter IED The closing order book for Counter-IED was 172.8 million, up 36% on 2011.
The closing order book for Counter-IED Strategy Highlights in 2012 was 172.8 million, up 36% on 2011, as a Our strategy is to establish leadership in the Revenue 22% higher than 2011 result of major orders for HMDS, chemical global counter-IED improvised explosive and biological detection products, and the NIITEK won a multi-year IDIQ contract device market, with high technology APOBS mineeld breaching system.
with the US Department of Defense products to detect, disable and defeat the worth $579 million threat posed by IEDs, as well as chemical Activities during the year and biological agents.
We will maintain our Chemring Detection Systems won During the year, threat detection remained world lead in ground penetrating radar, contracts for JSLSCAD and JBPDS the dominant element of our activity in the and will invest in complementary sensor worth a combined $78 million Counter-IED segment, with our expanded technology and data fusion to deliver high range of products covering chemical and Chemring Ordnance was awarded reliability detection of all types of IEDs.
biological agents, as well as improvised a further $40.4 million contract to We will also build on our leading position and concealed explosive devices.
The supply APOBS in advanced jamming technologies, and most significant contract of the year was will migrate our detection and jamming Closing order book for Counter-IED NIITEKs $579 million HMDS IDIQ contract.
technologies to hand-held, robot-mounted was 172.8 million, up 36% on 2011 This three year contract, with an initial and vehicle-mounted products.
In chemical order worth $161 million, provides the Key information and biological threat detection, we will US Department of Defense with the means to maintain our position as a leading Orders received procure spares and replacement systems to US prime contractor, accessing advanced replenish theatre sustainment stock, as well technologies to offer xed, vehicle-based as providing new systems for the US Army, 252.0m and hand-held solutions to defence and the US Marine Corps, and US Government security customers.
Finally, we will develop Revenue supported Foreign Military Sales.
A second and qualify a comprehensive set of delivery order worth $32 million was disruptors, demolition stores and electronic awarded to NIITEK in December 2012.
205.3m initiation systems to defeat a full range of threats.
NIITEK also won new export orders for Underlying operating profit the HMDS, with the award in October Financial performance 2012 of a $6.9 million contract from 43.9m Our revenue in 2012 was 205.3 million, the Commonwealth of Australia for the 22% higher than the previous year, driven production and delivery of ten complete Underlying operating margin mainly by the full year contribution of systems, and associated spare parts, for Chemring Detection Systems, which was the Australian Army.
NIITEK also secured 21% acquired in July 2011.
NIITEKs revenue its first order in Europe, with a $5.9 million for the year was at compared to 2011, contract from MBDA Italia S. p. A for the primarily due to the delayed placement of supply of the Mine Buster Ground the $579 million HMDS Husky Mounted Penetrating Radar GPR systems, and Detection System IDIQ indefinite delivery logistics support to the CALIFE 3 Italian indefinite quantity contract, which impacted Army Programme for the Italian Ministry deliveries in the first half of the year.
Deliveries under the contract will be made in 2013, and will support the Deliveries were also delayed on Chemring Italian Armys Route Clearance Mission.
Ordnances IDIQ contract for the supply NIITEK has established a partnership with of Anti-Personnel Obstacle Breaching Critical Solutions, Inc. the manufacturer Systems APOBS to the US Army, as a of the Husky vehicle, to jointly promote the result of problems with a US Government vehicle and detector to the international directed supplier who had to implement market.
The partnership recently completed new processes and improvements in a successful demonstration to the Turkish order to meet current government Armys Engineering School.
The supplier is now delivering, and APOBS is expected to complete its NIITEK continues to enhance its technology first article test in February, with base and product offering with incremental production commencing thereafter.
product upgrades, as well as development of hand-held, robot-mounted and multi-sensor solutions.
Following successful Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 9 Chemical threat detection Vehicle-mounted I-SCAD evaluation of its RVIS remote visualisation of Defense to incorporate this technology Our business units and companies system, NIITEK won a contract, potentially onto existing IED detection systems.
Chemring Energetics UK Ltd worth up to $18 million, to produce 102 Chemring Energetics delivered its first Specialises in the design and RVIS systems and initial spare parts, and full year sales of its expanded range of manufacture of energetic materials, deliver technical support, training and insensitive munition IM demolition stores, detonators, and demolition stores.
logistics data in support of Operation including plastic explosives, Sabrex linear Enduring Freedom OEF.
The RVIS system Chemring EOD Ltd UK cutting charges, sheet explosives, and provides remote viewing of the HMDS Bangalore torpedoes.
It also completed Manufactures a range of products for graphical user interface display in a its first deliveries of Sabrex charges to the detection, assessment and neutralisation follow-on vehicle, providing improved US, via Chemring Ordnance.
Following the of threats from improvised explosive situational awareness to the route receipt of a $150 million IDIQ contract in devices and unexploded ordnance.
NIITEK also established 2011 to supply APOBS, Chemring Ordnance a partnership with Minelab Electronics Pty has now successfully completed all the Chemring Ordnance, Inc. USA Limited, to incorporate Minelabs proven production facilities for this contract, and Supplies Anti-Personnel Obstacle Breaching metal detection technology into a new was awarded a further contract option System APOBS, a rocket-deployed mine prototype dual sensor hand-held detector, worth $40.4 million in August 2012. clearance system, to the US Army.
which was completed in July.
In response to growing demand for a Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. USA Chemring Detection Systems performed lightweight disruptor, Chemring EOD well in its first full year under Chemrings Leading US developer and supplier of rapidly completed development of its Wasp ownership.
In the US, it won two key product, to provide EOD specialists with a vehicle-mounted chemical and biological orders for its chemical and biological detection systems for the US Army.
small, backpack portable device to quickly detection systems.
The first, announced in and safely neutralise IEDs.
Chemring EOD Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, February 2012, was a $29 million contract also won a contract from the UK Ministry of Inc. USA to supply over one hundred Joint Services Defence to supply a range of disruptors for Lightweight Stand-off Chemical Agent The leading manufacturer of the UKs new bomb disposal robot, Cutlass.
Detectors JSLSCAD for the US Armys vehicle-mounted ground penetrating Stryker Nuclear Biological Chemical Outlook radar mine detection systems.
The The outlook for the Counter-IED segment Roke Manor Research Ltd UK second was a $49 million contract award is positive.
Most militaries have identied to supply Joint Biological Point Detection that there is a significant and growing gap in A world-class developer of electronic Systems JBPDS for installation on Stryker their capabilities to deal with the persistent countermeasures and threat detection NBCRVs and US Navy ships such as the and rapidly evolving threat of IEDs as technologies.
Chemring Detection the insurgents weapon of choice.
We are Our products Systems also delivered an export contract seeing sustained interest in our detection, for JBPDS to Japan, and completed a six jamming and defeat products, from both Detect week in-country operator training course for NATO and non-NATO users.
Even in the Vehicle-mounted IED detection systems the Japanese Ground Self Defence Force.
budget-constrained environments in the Chemical and biological detection UK and US, new programmes of record are Chemring Detection Systems Lightguard systems being developed to ensure that forces are Minotaur, a xed installation stand-off equipped with state-of-the-art equipment, explosives detector, successfully completed Stand-off IED detectors irrespective of current operations in its in-theatre early user test, and the Remote IED inspection equipment Afghanistan.
systems have been transitioned to a new Under-vehicle surveillance systems location in the Middle East for a new mission.
Chemring Detection Systems also Disable won a development contract for Lightguard Electronic countermeasures Mercury, an on-the-move variant of the Defeat Lightguard detection system.
In the UK, Roke is also developing a number Remote initiators of specialist detection technologies, Detonators and has successfully delivered concept Explosive charges demonstrators of its SPLINTER system.
Mineeld breaching systems It is in discussions with the US Department Recoilless fide-armers disruptors Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012
