10 Business review Countermeasures There is growing interest in Alloy Surfaces pre-emptive solutions in the US, NATO and the Middle East.
The customer is reconsidering Strategy Highlights in 2012 the timing of the order placement, and The core strategy for our Countermeasures Chemring Australia opened its new it is now considered unlikely that the full segment is to maintain our share of the are manufacturing facility contract will be placed before the end of expendable countermeasures market.
The product Kilgore won option awards totalling We will build on our current leadership in development issue related to the supply $44 million for expendable decoy ares special materials, spectral and thrusted of a newly developed countermeasure, from the US Army and US Air Force are technologies, and will work closely with where several lot acceptance test failures our customers to monitor threat evolution Roke achieved further export orders required a substantial provision to be made and to jointly develop new countermeasure for its Resolve man-portable electronic to recognise the costs and implications concepts.
We will also invest in decoy and warfare system and was also appointed involved in meeting acceptance conditions.
launcher technologies for the naval market, as joint-lead position in a three year Work to resolve the technical problem is where we see an unmet need for a trainable UK MoD research programme for next ongoing, and further customer acceptance launcher for larger vessels.
We will also generation electronic warfare tests are planned during the second half evaluate active off-board radio-frequency of the year.
Key information RF decoys, where we can establish a leading position based on our capabilities The closing order book for the Orders received in expendable countermeasures and in Countermeasures segment was advanced, miniaturised RF electronics.
182.3 million, down 22% on the previous 131.5m We will build on our strong position in year.
This reects lower orders for ares of man-portable electronic warfare equipment, all types, particularly in the US market.
Revenue to establish ourselves as a world leader in dismounted and vehicle mounted systems.
Activities during the year 184.1m During the year, Chemring Australia We will also establish a niche position in network protection, based on our opened its new manufacturing facility at Underlying operating profit its site near Melbourne, which creates a capabilities in fast electronic hardware and network enabled capability.
sovereign capability to manufacture ares 18.3m for Australias aircraft, and ensures a surge Financial performance capacity to meet operational requirements Underlying operating margin In 2012, our revenue in the Countermeasures in the future.
The facility was commissioned segment was 184.1 million, down 8% on in June 2012, and by the end of the year, 10% the previous year, mainly due to reduced had successfully delivered 50,000 ares to NATO demand as customers reduced the Commonwealth of Australia.
This facility stockpiles in anticipation of withdrawal from will also produce ares for the F-35 Joint Afghanistan.
Sales at our US subsidiary, Strike Fighter when it enters service, and will Alloy Surfaces, and at our UK subsidiary, operate as a second source to Kilgore for Chemring Countermeasures, were most this product.
This situation was exacerbated Alloy Surfaces is developing a number at the end of the year by a delay in receipt of new evolutions of its special material of a multi-year contract for the supply of decoys, and has successfully ight-tested aircraft countermeasures to a customer in its new ASD-1292 decoy.
This helicopter the Middle East, and technical problems on are deploys its pyrophoric payload in a the development of a new countermeasure, pseudo-kinematic trajectory, by sequentially which resulted in it not being accepted releasing strapped bundles of material by the customer until further tests have along its ight path.
The ASD-1292 has been successfully taken place.
shown, in ight-testing, to be an effective The combination of these issues affected single decoy solution against legacy and revenue, and had a major impact on profit advanced infra-red IR threats.
for the year, which at 18.3 million was Alloy Surfaces is also winning new down 61% on the prior year.
Delay to the export orders, particularly for its Middle East order meant that profit could BOL-IR MJU-52 decoy, which is not be recognised as expected under pre-emptively dispensed to protect fast contract accounting policies, on product jets in high-threat environments.
Italy and that had been manufactured during Germany received their first deliveries the year in expectation of that order Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 11 Airborne countermeasures Helicopter dispenses ares for ight-tests on the Typhoon and other strategically important overseas customer.
Our business units and companies platforms, and Finland placed its first Roke has also been appointed as Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc. USA production order for its F-18 aircraft.
joint-lead position in a three year The worlds only manufacturer of special Signicantly, Alloy Surfaces has also UK Ministry of Defence research programme material decoys for the US Department received, for the first time, a temporary for next generation electronic warfare, of Defense and militaries worldwide.
export licence to allow it to display its which will enable Roke to jointly develop Alloys patented technology employs products in the Middle East at IDEX in the future electronic warfare roadmap.
Outside the UK, Chemring Australia is pyrophoric materials to decoy attacking enemy missiles.
working closely with Roke to establish In 2012, Kilgore won option awards worth improved routes to the Australian market, Chemring Australia Pty Ltd a total of $44 million for three types of and this has included submission of a grant airborne expendable decoy ares from the Australias only on-shore manufacturer of fund application for collaborative US Armys Rock Island Contracting Centre.
The MJU-7, MJU-10 and M206 decoy ares Chemring Countermeasures Ltd UK are used by the US Air Force and US Army Separately, Roke successfully completed the to protect a number of xed and rotary wing software build for Selex to deliver artillery A world leader in the design, development aircraft from the threat of IR guided missiles.
location systems for the Italian Ministry of and manufacture of advanced expendable Deliveries of these units are scheduled to Defence.
In customer trials, the first system countermeasures for air and sea platforms, continue through to June 2014. detected mortars with unprecedented and is also developing next generation accuracy and reliability, and four systems Production of Kilgores MJU-7 are launchers for deploying naval decoys.
have subsequently been deployed to theatre restarted in the year, with ares successfully Kilgore Flares Company LLC USA and are currently protecting NATO troops.
delivered to US and export customers.
The Develops and produces airborne final phase of the production facility rebuild Outlook is the commissioning of its state-of-the-art expendable IR countermeasure decoys The outlook for the air countermeasures and naval decoys.
automated are assembly facility, which business is tight, with the decline in NATO started in October 2012. procurement being faster than non-NATO Roke Manor Research Ltd UK In Europe, Chemring Countermeasures growth.
Delays in Joint Strike Fighter A world-class developer of electronic deliveries and expected in-service dates will and Roke have engaged on their first joint countermeasures, electronic intelligence developments in the Countermeasures correspondingly delay major procurements and network protection technologies.
of warstock for these eets.
The first is in relation to the Centurion naval decoy launcher, where some capability extension to existing Our products Roke successfully completed the third phase platforms, and there is growing interest in Air countermeasures Alloy Surfaces pre-emptive solutions in of development of the launcher software, which provides key functionality that allows the US, NATO and the Middle East.
There is Conventional and advanced ares also a growing capability gap in customers the user to control the prototype launcher Special material decoys through a custom-designed user interface.
naval countermeasure inventories, and Chaff The second is the development of an air there is interest in improved naval decoys and launchers.
However, the timing of countermeasure electronic sequencer, which Naval countermeasures is a small circuit board which ts inside a orders in tight budget environments RF decoys remains uncertain.
In land EW, a growing standard are cartridge case, to provide IR decoys accurate time delays for a single are which user community and an in-service fleet res multiple shots.
This not only increases of equipment creates both a demand for Naval decoy launchers upgrades and a momentum of interest in the decoy deployment capacity within Land EW existing aircraft dispenser constraints, next generation equipment.
but also opens new technical and market Electronic intelligence equipment opportunities in air countermeasures.
Electronic countermeasures In the land electronic warfare EW segment, Lawful intercept equipment Roke achieved further export orders for its Resolve man-portable electronic warfare system.
It has now delivered nearly a hundred Resolve systems to four customers, including a recently developed lightweight variant, with improved sensitivity, for a Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012
