Our key focus over the next two to three years is to drive occupancy and hence revenue in the stores.
Business Review continued Our key focus over the next two to three years is to drive occupancy The average store size in the UK market is approximately 40,000 sq ft and hence revenue in the stores.
During the downturn we increased according to the 2012 Self Storage Association Survey.
The upside the level of promotional offers in the business, resulting in more from filling our larger than average sized stores is, in our view, only muted rental growth over the past couple of years.
As the stores possible in large metropolitan markets, where self storage drivers lease-up, and the number of vacant rooms in particular sizes reduce, from domestic and business customers are highest.
our pricing model will automatically reduce the level of discounts Of the customers moving into the business in the last year, our offered, leading to an increase in net achieved rents.
In our higher surveys indicate approximately 58% are linked to the housing occupancy stores within the established portfolio, we have seen net market, of which 18% are customers renting storage space whilst rental growth of 4-5% in the current year.
We have a rolling using the rental sector, and 40% moving within the owner occupied programme of price increases to existing storage customers, in most sector.
During the year 11% of our customers who moved in took cases providing an annual increase in storage rents of 6%.
storage space as a spare room for decluttering and approximately 22% of our customers used the product because some event has Store operations occurred in their lives generating the need for storage: they may be The Big Yellow store model is well established.
The typical store has moving abroad for a job, have inherited furniture, are getting married 60,000 sq ft of net lettable storage area and takes some 3 to 5 years or divorced, are students who need storage during the holidays, or to achieve 75% to 80% plus occupancy in the current macroeconomic homeowners developing into their lofts or basements.
Some stores have taken longer than this given they 9% of our customer demand in the year came from businesses.
These opened just before or during the downturn.
The average room size proportions of demand are in line with last year.
occupied in the portfolio is currently 66 sq ft, an increase from Our business customers range across a number of industry types, 65 sq ft in the prior year.
such as retailers, professional service companies, hospitality The store is open seven days a week and is initially run by three companies and importers exporters.
These businesses store stock, staff, adding a part time member of staff once the store occupancy documents, equipment, or promotional materials all requiring a justifies the need for the extra administrative and sales workload.
convenient flexible solution to their storage, either to get started or to Given that the operating costs of these assets are relatively fixed, free up more expensive space.
larger stores in bigger urban conurbations, particularly London, drive We have a dedicated national accounts team for business customers higher revenues and higher operating margins.
The table below who wish to occupy space in multiple stores.
These accounts are illustrates the average key metrics across the store portfolio for the billed and managed centrally.
We have three full time members of year ended 31 March 2012: staff working on growing and managing our national account Established Lease-up customers.
The national accounts team can arrange storage at short stores stores notice at any location for our customers.
Number of stores 32 21 Business customers typically stay longer than domestic customers, Store capacity 60,656 67,476 and also on average occupy larger rooms.
Whilst only representing Sq ft occupied per store 9% of new customers during the year, businesses represent 19% of at 31 March 2012 45,063 32,905 our overall customer numbers, occupying 35% of the space in our % occupancy 74.3% 48.8% stores.
The average room size occupied by business customers is Revenue per store 1,369,000 975,000 123 sq ft, against 53 sq ft for domestic customers.
EBITDA per store 887,000 589,000 EBITDA margin 65% 60% The demand from business customers has been relatively robust, as they seek a cost effective, flexible solution to their storage requirements, preferring self storage to the commitment of a Revenue per available square foot REVPAF across the wholly owned long lease.
portfolio, including the 69,000 sq ft store at Eltham, London, which opened in April 2011, and the 60,000 sq ft store at New Cross, London, which opened in February 2012, increased from the last year by 5.2% to 19.43 2011: 18.47.
