Report on Corporate Governance continued We have a large current storage customer base of over 36,000 spread across the portfolio of open stores and many thousands more who have used Big Yellow over the years.
In any month, customers move in and out at the margin resulting in changes in occupancy.
Despite the current economic environment, this has remained a seasonal business and typically we see growth over the spring and the summer months, with the seasonally weaker periods being the winter months.
The performance in terms of occupancy, revenue and EBITDA of our stores can be seen from the Portfolio Summary on page 22.
Property risk Our management has significant experience in the property industry generated over many years and in particular in acquiring property on main roads in high profile locations and obtaining planning consents.
We do take planning risk where necessary, although the current property market will in our view provide more opportunities to buy sites on a conditional basis.
The planning process remains difficult with some planning consents taking in excess of twelve months to achieve, although given we have planning consent on all bar one site, the risk to the Group has reduced significantly from prior years.
We manage the construction of our properties very tightly.
The building of each site is handled through a design and build contract, with the fit out project managed in-house using an established professional team of external advisors and sub-contractors who have worked with us for many years to our Big Yellow specification.
Treasury risk Our financing policy is to fund our current needs through a mix of debt, equity and cash flow to allow us to selectively build out the remaining development pipeline and achieve our strategic growth objectives, which we believe improve returns for shareholders.
We aim to ensure that there are sufficient medium term facilities in place to finance our committed development programme, secured against the freehold portfolio, with debt serviced by our strong operational cash flows.
We have a 15 year fixed rate loan in place from Aviva Commercial Finance Limited.
For our bank debt, we borrow at floating rates of interest and use swaps to hedge our interest rate exposure.
Our policy is to have at least 60% of our total borrowings fixed, with the balance floating paying margin over LIBOR.
At the date of this report we have fixed rate swaps in place over 47% of our outstanding bank borrowings, coupled with the 100 million fixed rate loan from Aviva, resulting in 66% of the Groups total borrowings being fixed.
The Group does not hedge account its interest rate derivatives, all movements in fair value are taken through the statement of comprehensive income.
The Group regularly monitors its counterparty risk.
The Group monitors compliance with its banking covenants closely.
During the year it complied with all its covenants, and is forecast to do so for the foreseeable future.
Interest cover and balance sheet risk The Group reviews its current and forecast projections of cash flow, borrowing and interest cover as part of its monthly management accounts.
In addition, an analysis of the impact of significant transactions is carried out regularly, as well as a sensitivity analysis assuming movements in interest rates and occupancy in the stores on gearing and interest cover.
Credit risk Our customers are required to pay a deposit when they start to rent a self storage room and are also required to pay in advance for their four-weekly storage charges.
The Group is therefore not exposed to a significant credit risk.
79% of our current customers pay by direct debit: however of new customers moving into the business in the last year 85% have paid by direct debit.
Businesses often prefer to pay by cheque or BACS.
Since the start of the downturn in economic activity, we have not seen an increase in the level of bad debts and arrears.
Indeed, we have seen an improvement in the current year, with our bad debt expense representing 0.06% of revenue in the year 2011: 0.12%.
Taxation risk The Group is exposed to changes in the tax regime affecting the cost of corporation tax, VAT and Stamp Duty Land Tax SDLT.
We regularly monitor proposed and actual changes in legislation with the help of our professional advisors, through direct liaison with HMRC, and through trade bodies to understand and, if possible, mitigate or benefit from their impact.
We are currently in consultation with HMRC over the proposed change to the VAT status of self storage.
Real Estate Investment Trust REIT risk The Group converted to a REIT in January 2007.
The Group is therefore exposed to potential tax penalties or loss of its REIT status by failing to comply with the REIT legislation.
The Group has internal monitoring procedures in place to ensure that the appropriate rules and legislation are complied with.
To date all REIT regulations have been complied with.
Human resources risk Our staff are key to our success and we are exposed to a risk of high staff turnover, and a risk of the loss of key personnel.
We have developed a professional, lively and enjoyable working environment and believe our success stems from attracting and retaining the right people.
We encourage all our staff to build on their skills through appropriate training and regular performance reviews.
We believe in an accessible and open culture and everyone at all levels is encouraged to review and challenge accepted norms, so as to contribute to the performance of the Group.
28 Reputational risk Big Yellows reputation with all its stakeholders is something we value highly and will always look to protect and enhance.
We aim to communicate clearly with our customers, suppliers, local authorities and communities, employees and shareholders and to listen to and take account of their views.
Big Yellows intranet and website are important avenues of communication for both employees and shareholders.
Security risk The safety and security of our customers and stores remains a key priority.
To achieve this we invest in state of the art access control systems, individual room alarms, digital CCTV systems, intruder and fire alarm systems and the remote monitoring of all our stores out of our trading hours.
We are the only major operator in the UK self storage industry that has every room in every store individually alarmed.
We have implemented customer security procedures in line with advice from the Police and continue to work with the regulatory authorities on issues of security, reviewing our operational procedures regularly.
The importance of security and the need for vigilance is communicated to all store staff and reinforced through training and routine operational procedures.
We have continued to run courses for all our staff to enhance the awareness and effectiveness of our procedures in relation to security.
Internal audit The Group does not have a formal internal audit function because the Board has concluded that the internal controls systems discussed above are sufficient for the Group at this time.
However, the Group employs a Store Compliance Manager responsible for reviewing store operational and financial controls.
He reports to the Chief Financial Officer.
The Store Compliance Manager visits each operational store twice a year to carry out a detailed store audit.
These audits are unannounced and the Store Compliance Manager carries out detailed tests on financial management within the stores, administrative standards, and operational standards.
This role is supported by an Assistant Store Compliance Manager, enabling additional work and support to be carried out across the Groups store portfolio.
Part of the store staffs bonus is based on the scores they achieve in these audits.
The results of each audit are reviewed by the Chief Financial Officer and the Head of Store Operations.
Going concern A review of the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out on pages 9 to 21 of the Business and Financial Reviews.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are shown in the balance sheet, cash flow statement and accompanying notes in the financial statements.
Further information concerning the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk can be found in this Report and in the Directors Report.
After reviewing Group and Company cash balances, borrowing facilities, forecast valuation movements and projected cash flows, the Directors believe that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
In reaching this conclusion the Directors have had regard to the Groups operating plan and budget for the year ending 31 March 2013 and projections contained in the longer term business plan which covers the period to March 2016.
The Directors have considered carefully the Groups trading performance and cash flows as a result of the uncertain global economic environment and the other principal risks to the Groups performance and are satisfied with the Groups positioning.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
29 Report on Corporate Governance continued Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent Company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that the Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors' responsibility statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and 2. the Business Review, which is incorporated into the Directors' report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board Shauna Beavis Secretary 21 May 2012 30
