6.0 HEALTH AND SAFETY continued 6.1 Big Yellow Self Storage customers, contractors and visitors continued There were no fatal injuries, notices or prosecutions and no reportable injuries.
Minor injuries increased by two, following a reduction of 12 in the previous financial year.
Minor injuries were set against a 12.8% increase in the total number of customer by move-ins.
Minor injuries were predominantly related to the handling of personal or business possessions by customers.
An improved induction manual raised awareness for our staff of safely handling packaging materials, room clearances and in assisting customers.
6.2 Big Yellow Self Storage staff Store and head office staff health and safety Year 2010 2011 2012 Average number of staff 252 273 279 Minor injuries 16 19 12 Reportable injuries RIDDOR 11 Annual injury incidence rate AIIR per 100,000 staff 397 366 There were no fatal injuries, notices or prosecutions and no reportable injuries for Big Yellow staff.
Minor injuries reduced by 7 against an increase in staff numbers of 2.2%.
Our staff were given additional Manual Handling training in the year.
6.3 Big Yellow Construction Company Limited Construction fit-out contractors and visitor health and safety Year 2010 2011 2012 Total man days 12,071 6,431 6,511 Minor injuries 21 1 Reportable injuries RIDDOR 1 No fatal injuries, notices, reportable injuries or prosecutions occurred indicating a well controlled environment for staff, contractors and visitors on site.
Only one minor injury occurred to a contractor.
Health and safety performance continues to be raised by induction training, weekly reporting and the Considerate Constructors Scheme where near maximum points 4 or 4.5 out of 5 were scored on all sites for safety.
CSR PROGRAMME FOR 2012 13 The CSR programme will continue to focus on energy efficiency, carbon reduction, renewable energy generation and waste reduction.
Last year we completed registration to the Carbon Reduction Commitment, installed 22 Smart Meters to monitor real time energy use on non half hourly meters and started the process of renewing our Carbon Trust Standard certification.
This year our strategy, programmes, objectives and targets are highlighted in the table below: Strategy Programmes Objectives targets The Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Submit the CRC Annual report to To achieve a position in the upper 5% the Environment Agency by July 2012. of the UK CRC league table.
The Carbon Trust Standard CTS Maintain CTS certification to measure and improve Absolute carbon and carbon intensity energy efficiency initiatives and performance reduction targets of 5% and 10% respectively over the longer term.
Energy efficiency To continue store energy efficient motion sensor Progress to more energy efficient LED improvements and internal LED re-lamping.
internal lighting increasing efficiency by 60%.
Increase solar energy generation and revenues Increase solar PV electricity generation percentages Increase solar PV percentage to 1% for the of the whole store portfolio.
portfolio and 6% for the solar stores.
Increase Feed in Tariff revenues by 10%.
Store waste recycling Improve on waste tonnage reduction and maintain A reduction in waste tonnage and increases recycling rates.
Store water use Acquire more accurate water volume monitoring Establish the significance of our water use and measurement from our suppliers.
More details of CSR policies, previous reports and awards can be found on our investor relations web site at http: bigyellow.
