OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 2036 2034 2032 2030 2028 2026 2024 2022 2020 2018 2016 2014 2012 FINANCIAL POLICIES AND PRINCIPLES This section of the Financial review and the likely direction of property values, We monitor our current and projected the principal matters we consider are the financial position using several key internally covers our approach to gearing, low level of risk across our business as generated reports focused principally on cash managing our debt portfolio, exemplified by our operational metrics, flow, borrowing levels, debt maturity, covenant managing our interest rate the strength of our debt portfolio and low headroom and interest rate exposure.
We exposure, foreign currency refinancing risk and covenant compliance.
also undertake sensitivity analysis to assess the impact of proposed transactions, exposure and our tax policy.
The strength of our operational metrics movements in interest rates and changes is emphasised by the longevity and quality in property values on the key balance sheet, Approach to gearing of our cash flows, with long average liquidity and profitability ratios.
In assessing The gearing level adopted by the Board is outstanding lease lengths 11.3 years : our ongoing debt requirements, including a significant judgement as it impacts on the high occupancy 98% : the in-built growth those of our development programme, we Net Asset Value of the Company, the scale of our portfolio 24% with fixed or RPI consider potential downside scenarios such of British Land and the amount of debt linked uplifts : low levels of vacancies and as an unexpected fall in valuations and the that can be comfortably sustained.
We use lease expiries over the next three years effect that might have on our covenants debt finance to enhance our total returns 9.3% of income, of which 7.6% is due and we consider the impact on the differing to shareholders.
to lease expiries : and reduced levels of categories of debt within our business.
development risk with 39 million already The loan to value net debt as a percentage contracted future income from pre-lets.
Managing the debt portfolio of the gross value of our assets or loan to At the heart of our approach to financing is value ratio is the primary measure of gearing The strength of our debt portfolio and the need to ensure that we have sufficient monitored by the Board.
Our preferred range low refinancing risk is illustrated by competitively priced financing available of gearing is a loan to value ratio between the average length 9.3 years and range to support our property strategy within our 40% and 50% on a proportionally within 12 months to 24 years of our stated gearing range.
To achieve this we consolidated basis i. e. including our share of debt maturities: our diversified pool have five key principles that guide the way we joint ventures and funds, with a maximum of of finance confirming our lack of reliance finance the Group and manage its debt book: 55%.
on single debt sources: our efficiency with an average cost of debt of 4.6%: We aim to manage the level of gearing over 1 Diversified debt maturity profile our use of non-recourse debt: and the cycle such that, as property values rise, The maturity profile of our debt is managed operational flexibility, supported by our gearing will be at the lower end of our by spreading the repayment dates and continued success at raising debt at preferred range: while at the bottom of the extending facilities and by monitoring the competitive prices.
cycle, gearing will be at the higher end of the various debt markets so that we have the range.
It is in the nature of real estate that Our covenant compliance is well ability to act quickly to arrange new finance transactions are often large in size which can managed and assisted by our careful at advantageous rates as opportunities cause large movements in loan to value within blend of unsecured and secured, and arise.
At 31 March 2012, Group gross our preferred range.
While our currently non-recourse and recourse debt.
borrowings were 2,621 million, including committed development programme and our share of debt in joint ventures and funds, acquisitions are likely to increase gearing British Land has a competitive advantage gross borrowings were 5,222 million.
towards the higher end of our range in the as, by leveraging our scale through joint Debt maturities are well spread over a long short term, this will be mitigated by increases ventures and funds financed with nonperiod, with no debt refinancing due in over time in property values.
recourse debt, the operational loan to value the next two years.
We arrange facilities at 45.3% proportionally consolidated in excess of our expected requirements In determining our preferred range of is higher than the Group measure for our ensuring we have adequate cover.
gearing for the business, the Board unsecured lenders, which is less than considers a wide range of factors to assess 30%.
This means that we can differentiate the aggregate level of risk and opportunity between covenant compliance and Debt maturity profile within the business.
In addition to anticipated operational gearing and so we can operate transactions, the impact of developments with a higher level of proportionally 1,000 including our speculative letting exposure, consolidated loan to value without taking 800 on unnecessarily increased risk in terms 600 of our covenant compliance.
400 All the debt in our funds and joint ventures 200 is arranged without recourse to British Land and secured on quality long-term cash 0 flows, where gearing can safely be arranged 45% 29% Drawn facilities at a higher level than Group debt.
63% of Private placements debt in our funds and joint ventures is Undrawn facilities provided by long dated securitisations without Debentures and loan notes loan to value covenants and with refinancing Proportionally Group loan consolidated loan to value ratio risk mitigated by amortisation.
to value ratio The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 65 OUR PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL POLICIES AND PRINCIPLES continued 2 Diversified sources of finance Medium to longer term financing comprises covenant applicable to these securitisations is that income must cover interest and The scale and quality of the Groups business public and private bond issues, including enables us to access a broad range of private placements and securitisations.
Other scheduled amortisation 1 times : there secured and unsecured, recourse and nonunsecured funding with recourse to British are no loan to value covenants.
We arrange our Land includes US private placements, issued securitisations provide for quarterly principal finances so as to be able to choose between in full at fixed rates, requiring no amortisation repayments with the balance outstanding different types of debt to suit our own and, and with terms up to 15 years.
We currently reducing to approximately 2030% of the where appropriate, our partners needs within have three US private placement issues: original amount raised by expected final the constraints of our borrowing covenants.
98 million 5.5% Senior Notes 2027 and maturity, thus mitigating financing risk.
We aim to maintain a balance between $154 million 6.3% Senior US Dollar Notes longer-term and shorter-term financings.
2015 which is swapped back into Sterling Those debt arrangements which include at 6.0%, together with the new $480 million loan to value ratio covenants have maximum Group issue in September 2011.
This new issue, levels ranging from 60% to 90% except for Shorter-term financing by the Group is which was swapped to 300 million at an one fund in which we have a small interest principally unsecured debt of British Land, average floating rate of 146 bps 1.46% over where the loan to value is 40% : several of raised through bilateral and syndicated LIBOR, comprises $40 million 3.895% Senior the debt arrangements have rental income to unsecured revolving bank facilities.
These Notes 2018: $220 million 4.635% Senior interest or debt service cover requirements.
credit facilities are based on relationships Notes 2021: $135 million 4.766% Senior There is no obligation on British Land to with a wide range of banks, reducing reliance Notes 2023: and $85 million 5.003% Senior remedy any breach of these covenants and on any particular lender.
Issuing in this market widens any remedy needed would be considered 19 different financial institutions from eight the debt investor base.
by the parties on a case-by-case basis.
countries provided finance to the Group via bilateral or syndicated facilities totalling Secured debt with recourse to British Land is 3 Maintain liquidity 2.3 billion at floating interest rates based provided by debentures at fixed interest rates The Group maintains undrawn Bank on LIBOR plus an average margin of 73 bps with long maturities and no amortisation.
revolving credit facilities which provide or 0.73% per annum: of this 1.1 billion The 0.9 billion of debentures issued by financial liquidity with full flexibility and was drawn at an average margin of 45 bps British Land are secured against a single drawing and repayment at short notice or 0.45% per annum.
Total facilities include combined pool of assets with common without additional costs.
This reduces the new 560 million syndicated loan covenants: the value of those assets is the need to hold liquid resources in cash facility provided by 11 banks and a further required to cover the amount of these and deposits, and minimises costs arising 200 million arranged on a bilateral basis, debentures by a minimum of 1.5 times and from the difference between borrowing signed during the financial year with five net rental income must cover the interest and deposit rates while reducing credit year maturities.
We use our rights under the exposure.
At 31 March 2012 we had cash, debentures to withdraw, substitute or add liquid investments and undrawn facilities properties or cash collateral in the security of 1.6 billion.
Diversified sources of finance pool, in order to manage these cover ratios proportionally consolidated effectively, deal with any asset sales and 4 Optimise flexibility at 31 March 2012 remedy any stress on covenants if necessary.
Our bank revolving credit facilities of over 2 billion provide full flexibility of drawing Debentures without recourse to British and repayment at short notice without 21% Land comprise two fixed rate debentures additional cost and provide valuable 32% of 73 million in total.
operational support, and are committed for terms of generally five years.
We arrange Joint ventures and funds these revolving credit facilities in excess Our joint ventures and funds are each of our expected requirements to ensure 10% financed in ring-fenced structures without we always have adequate financing recourse to British Land.
External debt availability and to support future business in total of 5.4 billion FY2011: 5.9 billion requirements.
In addition, these also has been arranged through securitisation provide the Group with a range of lenders.
17% or bank debt according to the requirements Operational flexibility is maintained with 19% 1% of the business of each venture.
our combination of unsecured debt and Broadgate, Meadowhall and Sainsburys secured debt with good substitution rights, joint venture securitisations The securitisations of the Broadgate Estate where we have the ability to move assets Other joint ventures and funds 1,859 million, Meadowhall 790 million in and out of our debentures.
Debentures without recourse to British Land and the Sainsburys Superstores portfolio British Land debentures Unsecured US Private Placements 634 million, have weighted average Unsecured facilities drawn maturities of 14.6 years, 12.9 years, and 9.3 years respectively.
The only financial Directors report and business review The British Land Company PL The British Land Company PLC C Annual Repor Annual Report and Ac t and Acc counts 20 ounts 201 12 2 66 OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 5 Good access to the debt markets Managing our interest rate exposure Tax strategy We aim to ensure that potential debt We manage our interest rate exposure and Our tax strategy is an important aspect of our providers understand our business and risk independently from our debt exposure.
Being a Real Estate Investment we adopt a transparent approach so that The Board sets an appropriate maximum Trust REIT significantly reduces the taxation lenders can understand the level of their level of sensitivity of underlying earnings and costs of the Group, but brings with it a exposure within the overall context of the cash flows to movements in market rates responsibility to our shareholders and to the Group.
We ensure that we operate within of interest over a rolling five-year period.
UK tax authorities HMRC to operate within the relevant covenants of our facilities: The proportion of fixed rate debt required the rules of the REIT regime.
We do not pay and we enjoy a senior unsecured debt to remain within the target sensitivity varies tax on our property income or gains on rating of A from Fitch.
These factors with the levels of gearing and interest cover.
property sales, provided that we distribute increase our attractiveness to lenders, and at least 90% of our property income to since April 2011 we have arranged 2.0 billion Our debt finance is raised at both fixed and shareholders, which becomes taxable in their British Land share 1.4 billion of new variable rates.
In addition, we have to meet certain facilities from banks and private placements.
rate swaps are used to achieve the desired conditions such as ensuring our property interest rate profile across proportionally rental business represents more than 75% We have the same banking covenants consolidated net debt.
Currently 73% of our total profits and assets.
applying across each of the Groups of projected net debt including our share unsecured facilities, which also helps of joint ventures and funds is at fixed rate We do pay tax on overseas earnings, which us when raising debt.
These covenants, over the five-year policy time period.
are subject to overseas taxation, and any which have been consistently agreed with UK income that does not qualify as property all unsecured lenders since 2003, are: The interest rate management of joint income within the REIT rules such as fees ventures and funds is addressed on an and interest is subject to tax in the normal a Net Borrowings not to exceed 175% entity by entity basis.
The use of derivatives way.
We also collect VAT and withholding of Adjusted Capital and Reserves: and is managed by a derivatives committee.
tax on dividends as well as employment b Net Unsecured Borrowings not to exceed taxes.
So we have a major responsibility 70% of Unencumbered Assets.
The Groups exposure to derivative for deducting, collecting, accounting for counterparties is monitored on a regular and paying significant amounts to the No income interest cover ratios apply to these basis, as are their external credit ratings.
Government in the year to 31 March 2012 facilities, and there are no other unsecured we paid a total of 201 million to HMRC.
debt financial covenants in the Group.
Foreign currency exposure Our policy is to have no material unhedged We maintain a regular dialogue with HMRC The assets of the Group not subject net assets or liabilities denominated in to let them know what we are doing and to to any security stood at 4.3 billion as foreign currencies.
The currency risk on maintain transparency, and we have been at 31 March 2012. overseas investments is hedged via foreign awarded and have maintained a low risk currency denominated borrowings and rating with HMRC.
Where there is a range Although secured assets are excluded from derivatives.
When attractive terms are of ways in which a transaction could be Unencumbered Assets for the covenant available to do so, the Group borrows in undertaken we consider the relative merits calculations, unsecured lenders benefit from freely available currencies other than and seek pre-clearance from HMRC in the surplus value of these assets above the Sterling.
The Group fully hedges its foreign complex areas.
We engage in discussions related debt and the free cash flow from currency risk on such borrowings.
on potential or proposed changes in the them.
During the year ended 31 March 2012, taxation system that might affect us, these assets generated 54 million of surplus Our overseas assets are held in Spain, particularly those relating to REIT legislation, cash after payment of interest.
In addition, Portugal, Italy and France and total seeking to ensure a successful and fair while investments in joint ventures do not 310 million our share.
They are hedged outcome for the Group.
We ensure that our form part of Unencumbered Assets, our by borrowings of equal amounts in Euros tax returns are correct and are filed within share of profits generated by these ventures from a range of German, British and other agreed timelines.
British Lands tax policy are regularly passed up to the Group.
and approach to taxation is regularly reviewed by the Board.
Covenant ratio As at 31 March 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Net Unsecured Borrowings 34% 25% 14% 6% 22% 1 to Unencumbered Assets Net Borrowings to Adjusted 44% 36% 37% 83% 74% 2 Capital and Reserves Highest during the year to 31 March 2012: 1 37%: and 2 45%.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 67
