UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Total property returns IPD 6.3% 1 Our objective 2012 8.3% is to deliver Creating 2011 13.1% superior total sustainable 2010 21.5% returns for our and growing Total Property Return measures the overall shareholders property return generated by our properties on a debt free unlevered basis.
It is calculated rental income as the net rental income generated by the portfolio plus the change in market value 1 of our properties as measured by IPD.
By comparing our returns with the IPD benchmark for the industry, we are able to measure how well we are achieving our aim of delivering superior total returns for our shareholders.
1 Investment Property Database Our goals Become overweight in sectors with long-term rental growth Total accounting return Maximise occupancy Attract and retain the best occupiers 2012 9.5% Manage buildings efficiently 2011 17.7% Focus on local communities 2010 33.5% The total accounting return is the overall How we have done return generated by the Group including the Why this is important impact of debt the levered return.
It is the In line with our objective of providing Our core business consists of high-quality combination of net income distributed to consistent and superior total property assets capable of generating secure and shareholders in the form of a dividend and the returns, our portfolio continues to have growing income streams.
Our long-term growth in Net Asset Value per share NAV.
a substantial weighting to high-quality investment strategy is focused on those It is calculated as the closing NAV for the investments in sectors with the potential sectors of the property market where we year plus the dividend paid, divided by the for long-term income and capital value expect demand from occupiers will be opening NAV for the year and is expressed growth, principally UK retail and central the strongest over the medium to longer as a percentage.
Over time, we would expect London offices.
term: well-located prime retail in the UK our total accounting returns to be a good and central London offices.
Assets in proxy for our Total Shareholder Return.
Our total accounting return for the these sectors will provide the core rental year was 9.5% and at a portfolio level, cash flows enabling us to pay a significant our total property returns were 8.3%, proportion of our income as dividends outperforming the IPD benchmark by and fund the business and its growth 200 bps.
We have now outperformed the through competitively priced equity and market on total returns over the last one, debt finance.
three and five years, and both Retail and Offices outperformed IPD Total Return benchmarks by 110 bps and 410 bps.
How we have done Our net rental income was 5.4% ahead of the comparable period last year 546 million on a proportionally consolidated basis.
Acquisitions accounted for a significant proportion of the increase with like-for-like net rental income growth up by 1.5% reflecting continued demand for our high-quality space and successful asset management initiatives.
Estimated rental values for the portfolio rose by 2.1% compared to 0.5% for the market as measured by IPD.
See Portfolio review P4455 Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 24 OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Like-for-like income growth EPRA NAV growth 2 2012 1.5% 2012 4.9% Investing in 2011 1.4% 2011 12.5% assets which 2010 1.4% 2010 26.6% protect and Like-for-like rental income growth is the The growth in EPRA Net Asset Value NAV, grow the growth in net rental income on properties measures the change in the value of the which have been consistently owned capital value Groups properties, less its liabilities.
This throughout the current and previous periods.
shows how retained shareholders wealth over the It shows the underlying growth in income has grown over time and is a good indicator generated by the portfolio and gives a good medium to of how well the Group has invested to protect indication of the Groups ability to capture and grow the capital value of its shareholders long term organic growth and benefit from asset investment over the medium to long term.
Net Asset Value is commonly expressed on a per share basis.
ERV growth IPD 0.5% Our goals Capital return IPD 0.5% Overweight in sectors with long-term 2012 2.1% capital growth potential 2012 3.0% 2011 2.7% Trade in cyclical sectors 2011 7.3% 2010 6.2% Recycle low growth assets 2010 14.4% ERV estimated rental value growth measures the change in the rental value on our investment The capital return gives the change in the properties, excluding those held for development.
market value of the portfolio as measured The ERV is our valuers estimate of open market by IPD, taking into account any money spent rents which we could achieve on our various during the period.
It therefore provides a Why this is important properties if they were re-let or were subject to measure of how the capital value has grown As well as investing in strong rental a rental review.
It is therefore a good indicator over the period under review and is calculated income streams, we want to ensure we of the rental potential and therefore future as the change in capital value of the UK both protect and grow the value of the performance of our portfolio.
Comparing this portfolio, less any capital expenditure to IPD gives a measure of how well the underlying assets.
We will continually incurred, expressed as a percentage of portfolio has performed relative to the market.
renew and upgrade our portfolio to retain capital employed over the period.
We use the measure as calculated by IPD so that its quality, the security of our income and we can compare how we have performed its attraction to investors.
Our portfolio is Customer satisfaction with landlord relative to the industry benchmark.
focused on well-located retail units where 1 Industry average 31% consumers and retailers increasingly want to be and our office buildings provide Rating British Land Good or Excellent the quality and flexibility occupiers now 2011 80% want and which meet their increasing 2009 82% technology and sustainability needs.
2007 73% 2005 40% Excellent customer service combined with outstanding buildings in prime locations maximise our occupancy rates and enhance How we have done our financial performance.
We aim to build Overall EPRA NAV grew 4.9% to a brand which sees prospective occupiers 595 pence.
The value of our portfolio choose our space because it is owned and rose to 10.3 billion, an increase of 2.6% managed by us.
We commission independent over the year.
Around three quarters customer surveys at least every two years, of the valuation uplift was driven by as well as post-occupancy surveys in our our own actions our successful asset new buildings.
95% of occupiers in our management initiatives across our new buildings rate us Good or Excellent.
investment portfolio along with our 1 Industry average based on Occupier early commitment to a significant Satisfaction Survey 2011.
Our capital returns outperformed the market by 250 bps.
See Portfolio review P4455 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 25 UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS continued Committed development 3 4 British Land share: 1.4 billion Creating Controlling 2012 1.4bn incremental our costs to 2011 1.2bn value through maximise 2010 0.7bn developing, profit The size of the development pipeline shows repositioning generation the incremental value being added by the Group through development.
It is calculated assets and as the total value of projects which are fully exploiting committed, including the cost to complete and any notional interest.
market anomalies BREEAM Excellent sustainability ratings for all office developments Our goals Our goals 2012 100% Develop in core areas of expertise Maintain our competitive advantage with a lower than average cost ratio Develop sustainable buildings 2011 100% Reposition assets to prime 2010 100% Exploit market anomalies Two of our retail developments are also on track to achieve Excellent ratings.
Buildings that are efficient, sustainable and meet the business needs of our occupiers which make them more competitive by cutting their costs, enhancing staff morale and building corporate Why this is important Why this is important reputations.
In our experience, these buildings Where we see the right opportunity, Controlling our operating costs so that therefore let more quickly and hold long-term we will invest a proportion of our capital we maximise the amount of profit we value better.
BREEAM certificates are in assets with the objective of creating generate is a key focus of our business.
A good recent Based on the percentage of net example is the office market in central operating costs relative to our gross London where a shortage of highproperty rental income currently quality space coupled with a lack of 14.9% we are one of the most efficient development debt finance is expected listed property companies in the UK.
to underpin strong development We are able to keep operating costs low returns.
During the coming year, through a combination of having a small we expect to continue to put capital and efficient Head Office, maintaining behind investments where we believe high levels of occupancy across our we can develop, reposition assets portfolio and owning efficient modern and exploit market anomalies.
How we have done How we have done Our total capital commitment to Our cost income ratio for the year was development is 1.4 billion, compared with 14.9%, maintaining our position as the 1.2 billion a year ago.
This primarily reflects most cost competitive of the major UK the addition of 439,000 sq ft of retail, office REITs.
Net operating costs representing and residential developments notably: a property outgoings and administrative major refurbishment of offices at 39 Victoria expenses, net of fees received for Street: the redevelopment of our Whiteley managing joint ventures and funds, Shopping Centre: and further additions to and other income were higher than our residential development portfolio.
the previous year which benefited from These new developments add 7.8 million the non-vesting of incentive schemes.
of potential rental income, bringing the total ERV of our committed pipeline to 88 million.
See Portfolio review See Portfolio review P4455 P4455 Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 26 O OV five ERVI RVIEW EW UN UND fide ER RS ST TA AN ND DING ING O OU UR R ST STR RA ATEG TEGY Y O OU UR R PER PERFORM FORMA ANCE NCE GO GOVE VERNAN RNANC CE E FI FINAN financial S CIAL ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NTS AN TS AND O D OT TH HE ER I R IN NF FO OR RM MA ATIO TION N Operating cost ratios % of rental income Loan to value 5 proportionally consolidated 2012 14.9% Exploiting 2012 45.3% 2011 13.5% our scale 2011 44.7% 2010 11.8% and financial 2010 46.8% Operating costs as a percentage of rental strength income show the proportion of revenue which Loan to value is the ratio of the principal value is spent operating the portfolio and therefore of gross debt less cash, short-term deposits also indicates the proportion of revenue and liquid investments to the aggregate value which can be distributed to shareholders of properties and investments.
It is important in the form of a dividend.
This is particularly as it shows the amount of debt relative to important in the case of a REIT which is the value of the assets which the debt funds.
required to distribute a certain level of profits.
We have a stated target range for its proportionally consolidation loan to value of 40% to 50% over the cycle with a maximum Like-for-like energy reduction short-term peak of 55%.
across the portfolio kWh Our goals Flex gearing through the cycle Interest cover 2012 63.0m Maintain diversified source of funding proportionally consolidated 2011 73.7m Optimise the cost of funding 2010 75.6m Maintain and grow the dividend 2012 2.2 times 2009 86.6m Attract the best partners 2011 2.2 times Over the last three years reductions in 2010 2.0 times landlord-influenced energy use have saved our Interest cover is a key measure of our financial occupiers 3.3 million.
It is calculated as the ratio of net us to lead on energy efficiency to cut their Why this is important financing costs to underlying earnings before costs and meet their sustainability goals.
This Our scale, knowledge and expertise in UK interest and taxation.
It is important because also future-proofs our portfolio, particularly property makes us a natural partner of it measures the number of times that the given increasingly stringent regulatory choice for major investors.
We have an Groups operating profit will cover its interest requirements, such as the Energy Act 2011. established track record of working with costs.
In addition, we also monitors its interest Landlord-influenced energy data is collected major institutions with complementary cover excluding any non-recourse items, online and reviewed each quarter, with key expertise and interests to our own.
The scale as this shows the Companys ability to performance data independently assured under and security of our rental income streams manage its solvency risk.
enables us to finance our business on competitive terms and maintain substantial credit facilities to support current and future investment needs.
Over the last few years, when the availability of banking finance has become highly constrained, our access to finance has made us one of a relatively few number of companies able to invest in major London office development.
How we have done We arranged 2 billion British Land share 1.4 billion of new financing since April 2011 at an average margin to British Land of 160 bps.
The Groups financial position remains strong with a diverse source of funds and a broad spread of maturities.
At the end of the year, our loan to value ratio was 45.3% proportionally consolidated, within the Groups stated target range of 4050%, and the Group loan to value was 29.1%.
The Groups interest cover remained at 2.2 times, proportionally consolidated.
See Portfolio review P4455 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 27
