UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY ABOUT OUR BUSINESS BRITISH LAND IS A LEADING EUROPEAN REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUST.
We own or manage over 15.8 billion of mainly UK properties which makes us one of the largest listed managers of property in Europe.
We are a UK-focused business the largest listed manager of retail 1 5.8bn 10.3bn properties in the UK and a significant operator in the central London office market.
Around two thirds of the assets we manage are in joint ventures or property funds.
Taking into account only our share Of British Land owned Our share of these joint ventures and funds, our gross assets are 10.3 billion.
or managed properties of assets See What we do P0203 Based on the data available, the investment A diverse range of pension and insurance property market in the UK excluding private companies, sovereign wealth funds, private residential for example was estimated to companies and individuals own the balance.
Ownership International investors account for an is highly fragmented with the listed sector important and growing part of the market, estimated to account for 15% of the total.
See Our markets P2021 REITs as property investments REITs are an established The US is by far the largest REIT market British Land converted measured by market capitalisation property asset class with an to REIT status in 2007. of companies listed.
The UK, is the fifth estimated 35 countries around largest market.
On conversion, we increased our the world having REIT or REIT dividend payout dividends as a The REIT structure is designed to provide like regimes.
percentage of earnings from around institutional and private investors with 40% to around 90%.
The scale of our a tax efficient, low cost way of accessing business combined with our focus on Breakdown of global REIT markets investment-grade properties and in costs means that we are able to pass particular, the rental income they 10% through a high level of the rent we generate.
REITs are required to distribute collect from our occupiers as dividends.
the majority of their profits as dividends 6% In FY2012, 46.3% of the rent we collected in the UK, 90% of profits and over time, from our occupiers dropped through a significant proportion of the total return 9% to our profits.
Of this, we paid out 87.5% for shareholders is therefore likely to Total to our shareholders as dividends.
The quality of 432 billion 4% building, quality of occupier and length of leases are considered to be important Distribution of gross rental income factors in determining the quality and 10% 572m 61% security of REIT dividends.
85m US REITs Australia REITs 218m 269m 4m 265m Japan REITs 33m 232m Rest of World REITs UK REITs Europe REITs See REITs www.
com 253-about-uk-reits Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 28 Gross rental income Net operating costs Net interest Underlying profit before tax Tax Underlying profit after tax Retained earnings Dividend declared OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Our approach We run a highly outsourced are specialists in their fields: our highly customer centric approach: our interaction Integrity operating model, focusing with partners: our responsible approach We do what is right not what is easy.
only on the most highly skilled to developing and managing properties: Excellence and value-adding activities the close links we establish with local We are the best we can be and have across the business in asset communities: the transparency of our a growth mindset.
communication with investors and other management, finance, One Team stakeholders: and the emphasis we place investment and development.
Working collaboratively with both on staff engagement.
Doing the right thing internal and external stakeholders.
is fundamental to the way we do business So, for the size of portfolio we manage, we and ensures that our brand is trusted Commercial Acumen are a small company in terms of headcount and valued by our stakeholders.
The way We take the lead in our field.
with just over 200 permanent employees.
in which we do business is guided by our four values opposite.
A combination of what we do and how we do it, is key to our ability to create long-term These values were developed involving value and is at the heart of the British Land employees at every level.
By ensuring we brand offer.
This is reflected in the quality of live these values, we are able to differentiate the buildings and environments we create: British Land and deliver a brand with which the quality of the people we employ who people and organisations want to engage.
Our property portfolio Our portfolio is well balanced over time will perform better than average Our focus on prime has delivered consistent or poorer quality property.
The balance outperformance against the broader property with a focus on high-quality of our portfolio principally consists of market in recent years, as measured by IPD.
assets in sectors with long-term properties being developed or being held growth potential UK retail for future development.
Portfolio returns relative to IPD and central London offices.
400 Our aim is to create properties with enduring appeal to occupiers, by virtue 310bps 300 270bps Within these sectors, our focus is on prime of their location, design, overall costs to 250bps 200bps assets high-quality buildings in the right occupy, environment and the way in which 180bps 200 locations which meet the current and future they are managed and maintained.
We aim 140bps needs of occupiers.
They consistently to provide occupiers with properties which 100 attract high-quality occupiers willing to sign satisfy their current and anticipate their 0 long-term leases on favourable terms.
We future needs and are environments in 12 months 3 years 5 years believe that prime assets, underpinned by which they and the local communities they Total return Capital return sustainable and growing rental income, work among can thrive.
Source: Investment Property Databank Our main properties 000s sq ft British Land share Rent m per annum 100% share Largest occupiers Broadgate, EC2 4,009 50% 173 UBS, Herbert Smith Regents Place, NW1 1,210 100% 51 HM Government, Aegis, Gazprom Meadowhall Shopping Centre 1,374 50% 82 Debenhams, Primark, House of Fraser Sainsburys Superstores 2,908 50% 68 Sainsburys Tesco Superstores 2,741 50% 62 Tesco Ropemaker, EC2 594 100% 27 Macquarie, Bank of Tokyo, Markit Teesside Shopping Park 457 100% 14 Marks and Spencer, Asda Living, DSG Drake Circus Shopping Centre 570 100% 15 Primark, Boots, H&M Debenhams, Oxford Street 367 100% 16 Debenhams York House, W1 132 100% 5 British Land, GIC, Bunzl Glasgow Fort Shopping Park 393 41% 17 New Look, TK Maxx, Boots See Our properties for a full list www.
com 664-our-properties The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 29 UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY ABOUT OUR BUSINESS continued Our retail properties We are the largest quoted retail asset ranks in the top 5% of the most What all our assets have in common dominant retail assets in the country.
is they provide retailers with modern, landlord in the UK with over affordable and flexible units in places 200 individual assets from While our largest asset, Meadowhall is where people want to shop and increasingly valued at 1.46 billion, the majority of our out-of-town retail parks to food spend their leisure time.
Diversity also assets by number are valued at between superstores or shopping centres.
plays an important role in enabling us to 150 million and 20 million.
A broad generate consistently superior returns and diverse portfolio is important to us underpinned by stable income flows and We own some of the best retail assets in because the retail market itself is very ensures that we have an unparalleled the country: according to CACI, the retail diverse and this means we are better able research group, the average British Land to meet the needs of our retail customers.
landlords view of UK consumer behaviour.
Teesside Shopping Park Glasgow Fort Shopping Park Superstores Teesside Shopping Park near Stockton-on-Tees Glasgow Fort Shopping Park, a 393,000 sq ft Our superstores are primarily held in joint is our second largest retail asset.
With 45 units scheme just outside Glasgow, is one of the ventures with Tesco and Sainsburys.
We have covering 457,000 sq ft it attracts over ten million pre-eminent shopping parks in the UK with 35 Tesco Superstores totalling 2.7 million sq ft. shoppers every year and is home to some annual footfall of around 12 million people.
Nine of our stores were refurbished or extended of the best known retailers in the UK including Key occupiers include Zara, Topshop, Next, by Tesco during the year with a further 17 stores Marks and Spencer, Outfit, Boots, WHSmith River Island and Boots.
A major expansion scheduled for refurbishment over the next 12 and River Island.
New fascias added in the year of the scheme, which is underway will initially months.
We have 40 stand-alone Sainsburys include H&M and Simply Be.
see the addition of an eight-screen Vue foodstores with a total of 2.9 million sq ft. Cinema along with a range of popular national Our stores are located throughout the UK restaurant chains.
with an emphasis toward the South East.
Last year, Sainsburys refurbished five of our stores and have undertaken three extensions.
Meadowhall Shopping Centre, Sheffield Drake Circus, Plymouth Debenhams, Oxford Street Meadowhall Shopping Centre is the fourth largest Drake Circus, bought in 2011, and located in the Debenhams, Oxford Street is a flagship 367,000 super regional shopping centre in the UK.
It is owned middle of Plymouth is the West Countrys most sq ft store close to Bond Street tube station in a 50:50 joint venture with London & Stamford popular shopping destination, attracting around in the heart of central Londons most popular International, a UK quoted property company.
Over 19 million shoppers every year.
290 shops provide around 1.4 million sq ft of retail centre, which was opened in 2006, covers space to a broad range of international, national 560,000 sq ft and includes Marks and Spencer, and local retail and leisure brands.
It attracts Primark, Boots, Next and Topshop among its an estimated 24 million shoppers every year.
46% Retail parks 25% Shopping centres 27msqft 97.9% 9.9bn 22% Superstores 7% Department stores Of retail space All retail Of assets under management occupancy British Land share 6.3bn Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 30 OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Our office properties Our Offices business is focused it attracts a depth of quality of demand concentrated in the City of London and from occupiers and investors not seen in the West End the largest of which on central London.
Despite the are our two office estates, Broadgate and economic uncertainty over the last year, Regents Place, which together account This reflects Londons position as a leading the market has remained robust and for 70% of the value our office portfolio.
global city and one of the largest centres for financial services in the world.
As such, values have risen.
Our offices are 7msqft Broadgate Regents Place Of office space Broadgate, the largest asset in the Group, is the Regents Place, is a 13-acre mixed-use office premier office estate in the City which has been estate at the northern edge of Londons West built around Liverpool Street Station, the Citys End, which we have progressively developed main transport hub.
Covering 30 acres, it is over the last 25 years.
Like Broadgate, it also made up of 16 independent buildings set around has excellent transport links with four tube four landscaped squares with around 60 and two mainline railway stations close by.
restaurants, pubs, wine bars, shops and health With six independent office buildings alongside 98% clubs.
Over 810,000 sq ft of the estate has been residential, restaurant, shops and leisure units.
developed over the past four years.
We are In 2011, we started a 500,000 sq ft mixed office currently redeveloping or refurbishing three and residential development which is scheduled of the older buildings 199 Bishopsgate and for completion in summer 2013 and is the 4 and 6 Broadgate which will add 842,000 sq ft final development phase of the estate.
Occupancy of new modern space between 2013 and 2014.
On completion over 14,000 people will work Broadgate is owned in a 50:50 joint venture or live at Regents Place.
with Blackstone, the private equity group.
5.1bn Of assets under management British Land share 3.6bn Broadgate Tower 20 Triton Street The 397,000 sq ft Broadgate Tower is one 20 Triton Street was completed in 2009 and 58% City of the newest properties at Broadgate.
at 254,000 sq ft is one of the largest buildings 39% West End Reed Smith, a leading legal firm, occupies at Regents Place.
Gazprom and Lend Lease 3% Other around 40% of the building.
occupy around 60% of the building.
Residential British Land has a long history Residential plays an important role in our strong.
We are looking to selectively office developments in the West End and is increase our exposure to the residential of owning, managing, also a profitable business in its own right.
sector in central London and have a total developing and financing In London we focus on high-end luxury residential portfolio with an estimated end residential property assets.
properties and have completed a number value of 330 million.
In addition, we also of successful schemes over recent years manage a 300 million residential portfolio See Our properties for a full list as investor demand has been and remains on behalf of the Northern Trust.
com 664-our-properties The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 31 UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY ABOUT OUR BUSINESS continued Our developments 4.1m sq ft Committed We regularly undertake major We currently have 1.4 billion of capital committed to developments equivalent development and refurbishment to around 13% of our total gross assets.
The capital committed includes the latest market value of the development as at We distinguish our development activities 31 March 2012 plus the estimated costs into those that are fully committed and to complete, including financing costs.
underway and potential or prospective The estimated rental value ERV of 88 developments which may be activated 2.7m sq ft million, represents our valuers estimates at some point in the future.
Today, we Prospective of the rental income the projects would have a significant committed development generate if the developments were fully let, programme underway, mainly in the London market and are building a pipeline at todays rents.
Of this, we have committed of potential development projects as pre-let agreements which will generate a store of future value for the business.
annual rental income of 40 million.
Our committed developments Total British Land Pre-let 1.4bn 88m Sq ft commitment ERV ERV Offices 2,289 1,162m 78m 34m Retail 1,707 139m 10m 6m Capital Estimated Residential 70 79m n a n a committed to rental value Total 4,066 1,380m 88m 40m developments Our biggest commitment is to offices in In retail we started construction of centre development is on schedule central London where we have invested Whiteley Shopping Centre, a 302,000 sq ft to open in autumn with 69% currently early in a strong cyclical upturn in retail scheme located between Portsmouth pre-let or under offer and a further 19% development returns.
We have seven major and Southampton.
Due to open in Q2 2013, is in negotiation.
development projects currently underway it is already 68% pre-let or under offer three in the City and four in the West End to a number of major high street retailers totalling 2.3 million sq ft of space which will including Marks and Spencer, Next, Boots, be delivered into the market between 2012 H&M and Bank Fashion.
Two of our City buildings are at we fully pre-let and started enabling works Broadgate, including a new 700,000 sq ft for the 45,000 sq ft cinema and restaurant building for UBS, which is our biggest extension which will improve the schemes existing occupier on the estate.
This leisure offer with an eight-screen Vue forms part of an ongoing investment Cinema and five-restaurant dining offer For further details on the individual projects programme, upgrading facilities which will include TGI Fridays, Pizza P1011, 1415 to maintain Broadgate as the premier Express and Harvester.
At Zaragoza See Committed developments office estate in the City of London.
in Spain, our 1.4 million sq ft shopping www.
com  Our prospective development pipeline Development is a potential future store of value and over time we seek to replenish our stock of potential development opportunities, whether it be land or buildings, with relatively short leases.
See Portfolio review P4455 See Prospective developments www.
com  Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 32 OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Our partners Partnerships are an important relationships rather than short-term share is 4.9 billion, around half of our transactions.
In the majority of cases, we gross assets.
Our net investment after part of our business providing our share of the associated debt was provide asset management, development, us with access to attractive corporate and financial advisory 2.2 billion.
We have 16 joint ventures investment opportunities services and we earn performance and where we partner with one investor and to additional capital and management fees in this respect.
This and three funds where there are enhances our overall returns, strengthens several investors.
allowing us to spread our risk.
our relationships with key customers and suppliers and keeps us close to our markets.
We also benefit from working with likeSee Joint ventures and funds P55 minded partners with complementary The joint ventures and funds own skills and expertise.
Our partnerships are assets worth 10.1 billion of investment See Joint ventures and funds www.
com  based on developing deep and long-term properties and developments of which our Our joint venture partners Our two biggest single assets, Broadgate Main joint venture partners and Meadowhall are co-owned in joint Value British Land Partner Asset m share ventures as is The Leadenhall Building.
Blackstone Broadgate 2,900 50% The decision to own part rather than all London & Stamford Meadowhall 1,497 50% of these assets is principally to reduce Tesco 35 superstores 1,865 50% the concentration risk of owning single 4 shopping centres large assets.
The majority of our retail 3 retail parks superstore assets are held in joint Sainsburys 37 superstores 1,276 50% ventures alongside the respective retail Oxford Properties The Leadenhall Building 176 50% operators, Tesco and Sainsburys, with Orion Partners Zaragoza shopping centre and retail park 168 50% whom we work in close partnership.
We are the largest owner of retail superstores outside of the operators themselves.
Our funds Around 13.5% of our retail assets are held Main funds in three funds which we co-own alongside Value British Land Fund Fund life Assets m share a range of investors.
The three funds Hercules Unit Trust HUT 2020 20 retail parks, 1,568 41.2% together are valued at 1.9 billion of which 1 shopping centre in the UK British Lands share is 856 million.
Each Pillar Retail Europark Fund PREF 2014 10 retail parks in Europe 288 65.3% is a closed-end fund with a fixed life which Hercules Income Fund HIF 2014 8 in the UK 80 26.1% can be extended with the agreement of the holders.
We act as the property advisor and asset manager to the funds and receive performance and management fees in respect of the services we provide.
The funds are mainly focused on investing in out-of-town retail parks.
Hercules Unit Trust HUT, where we have a 41.2% holding, accounts for the majority of our investment in funds.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 33 UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY ABOUT OUR BUSINESS continued Our customers We aim to be the partner We attract some of the highest quality We also assess the financial covenant occupiers to our properties, including well strength of our major occupiers of choice for occupiers, periodically, and those we consider may known UK and international companies.
understanding and anticipating This reflects the nature of the properties be experiencing financial difficulty more their needs and helping them we own, the strength of the relationships frequently, to help monitor and manage to achieve their objectives we build with them, the service we provide any occupier default risk.
These reviews and the way in which we continually seek are extensive and include calculation and by providing modern, to understand and anticipate their assessment of key metrics including flexible accommodation changing needs.
performance, gearing, solvency, liquidity in the best locations.
We access data from We have a diverse occupier base, both a wide range of sources, also considering by number and by industry.
No single our overall rental exposure to an occupier accounts for more than 8% occupiers group.
Occupiers which we of our total revenues.
The quality and consider pose a higher default risk diversity of our occupier line-up, coupled are formally reported and discussed with the length of leases they sign with monthly.
Despite difficult industry and us, gives us significant security of income.
wider economic conditions over the The strength of our occupiers is important past 12 months we remain confident to us, not only in providing security of our in the quality of our occupiers, which rental income but also in determining the is reflected by our continually high value of our properties.
We review the occupancy levels, currently at 98%.
financial covenants of all new occupiers with rent exceeding a certain threshold prior to any lettings being agreed.
Our top 20 occupiers % of total % of total Occupier rental income Occupier rental income Tesco 7.2 Spirit Group 1.7 Sainsburys 6.2 Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi 1.6 Debenhams 4.3 Macquarie Group 1.5 UBS 3.6 DSG International 1.4 Home Retail Group 3.0 Herbert Smith 1.4 HM Government 2.3 Asda 1.3 Kingfisher B&Q 2.2 Boots 1.3 Virgin Active 2.1 RBS 1.2 Next 2.0 Hutchinson 3G 1.1 Arcadia Group 1.9 Marks and Spencer 1.1 Our rental income by industry % Supermarkets 16 Fashion and beauty 17 General retail 13 DIY 7 Food leisure 9 98% Other retail 7 Occupancy across Banks and financial services 17 the business Professional and corporate 8 Government 3 Other business 3 Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 34 OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Managing our occupier relationships We consistently outperform industry In Retail, our internal team of asset averages for occupier satisfaction.
In 2011 we carried out our fourth biennial management specialists are responsible for overall strategy, decision making and independent occupier survey.
83% of our relationships with occupiers, both existing office occupiers and 78% of our retail and potential.
We have deep and strong occupiers rated their overall satisfaction relationships with occupiers with our with British Land as Good or Excellent, in-house asset managers responsible outperforming the industry average British Land scored highly in both for their assets and key retailer of 31%.
In post occupancy surveys in our this years Independent Property relationships.
We outsource the day-to-day new buildings, 95% of our occupiers rate Managers Association PMA retail operational management of the majority British Land and our buildings as Good centre management and accounting of our properties, such as maintenance or Excellent.
We continue to make positive standards audit.
The PMA, and cleaning, to external agents.
We also progress on our efforts to build a brand representing 110 of the UKs leading outsource rent reviews and lease renewals.
which sees prospective occupiers choosing retailers, monitors landlord and We believe outsourcing day-to-day our space because it is owned and managing agent compliance with management to expert agents brings us managed by us.
Other initiatives to engage the RICS Service Charge Code.
Our agents with our customers include: an active scale means that we are able to minimise key account programme: proactive All audited British Land properties operational costs for our customers and participation in industry groups and events: scored 91% or above, and ourselves: it gives us significant operational and management and performance British Land achieved five gold flexibility: and it also broadens our insights monitoring of our managing agents.
and two platinum awards, the into occupier and consumer trends.
only landlord to achieve the Gary Sokulski coveted platinum award.
In Offices, the strategic and operational management of our portfolio is managed Where else does British Land have The platinum award is only given by two separate in-house teams.
Like Retail, projects around the globe, so that in exceptional circumstances, the asset managers focus on strategy and we can lease more of your space?
to recognise and reward occupier relationships but they also control I put British Land in the very highest outstanding achievement in the majority of the leasing activity, reflecting category of landlords and developers Property Management standards the fact that single occupiers tend to be around the world and I am not an and going the extra mile, beyond larger and there are far fewer individual easy grader.
I look at British Land as expected excellence, to the benefit leasing transactions.
Day-to-day facilities the gold standard for all landlords.
management is undertaken by Broadgate Estates, a stand-alone in-house team Chief Operating Officer Reed Smith which also provides facilities management and other services to third party clients.
Broadgate Occupiers rating as Good or Excellent % Retail Offices Satisfaction with 78 83 British Land 80 85 Understanding needs 64 74 67 63 Responsiveness 88 68 66 89 Value for money 59 65 service charge 33 17 Satisfaction with 63 73 managing agents 37 53 2011 2009 Industry average: Occupier Satisfaction Survey 2011 where comparable and otherwise Occupier Satisfaction Index 2009.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 35 UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY ABOUT OUR BUSINESS continued Our suppliers We retain all commercial As already described in our customers designed to significantly increase section on pages 34 and 35, day-to-day supply chain standards and performance.
decision making within our activities on our existing property portfolio The accreditation includes checking the business, while outsourcing are managed through managing agents.
suppliers financial, safety, environmental much of the delivery of sustainability, social and ethical, Our development activities are managed property management and occupational health and quality separately from asset management by management systems, competencies our development activities such a dedicated in-house development team.
We are also as design and construction.
We develop new buildings in partnership signatories to the UK Governments with a team of external specialists which Prompt Payment Code.
includes architects, engineers, building This enables us to manage costs contractors and trade contractors.
We effectively, adapt quickly to changing have developed robust methodologies to circumstances in our portfolio and ensure our development suppliers meet employ the most appropriate resources our high standards.
We use Buildingfor each activity.
We work closely with our Confidence, as our third party construction suppliers to achieve our corporate targets, supplier accreditation scheme.
This is holding regular meetings, providing increasingly being recognised as the extensive guidance for instance through 100% our Sustainability Briefs, implementing standard for supplier excellence within the robust processes such as our ISO 14001 construction industry and we encourage certified Environmental Management our suppliers to sign up to the scheme.
Of budgets issued System for developments and writing key Accreditation status is only awarded to on time against industry performance indicators into contracts contractors who meet the requirements average of 70% where appropriate.
of the scheme and this is purposefully Responsibility Corporate responsibility in four areas: managing buildings Public Real Estate Association group on efficiently: supporting communities: best practices in sustainability reporting.
is central to our strategy and developing sustainable buildings: and to delivering value.
We report to the Global Reporting Initiative engaging staff.
B standard and EPRA Best Practice As one of Europes largest REITs we Recommendations on Sustainability Our corporate responsibility strategy have an important role to play in raising Reporting.
Our key performance data is supports our aim of being the best REIT in standards across the property sector.
independently assured under the ISAE 3000 Europe.
It creates competitive advantages We are the leading UK REIT on a number standard.
We are also a signatory to the for our business, at the same time as of key sustainability indices, such as the UN Global Compact.
delivering environmental and economic Sunday Times Best Green Companies benefits for wider communities.
This See Our corporate responsibility review 2011, and we participate actively in industry P5657 enhances our reputation, helps us to bodies and initiatives.
For example Chief See Our CR Report 2012 manage some of our key risks and leads Executive Chris Grigg is Vice President www.
com crreport2012 to us creating competitive advantages of the British Property Federation, Head for our occupiers.
of Planning and Corporate Responsibility The corporate responsibility team works Adrian Penfold is on the Department for with people across the business, engages Communities and Local Governments with external stakeholders, consults Planning Sounding Board, and Head of with experts, reviews best practice and Offices Tim Roberts is on the Board of the Leading benchmarks our performance.
In 2012, property industry charity LandAid.
We are this included an independently facilitated also involved in industry working groups UK REIT stakeholder workshop, a session on to encourage best practice.
These include targets involving external stakeholders and the UK Green Building Council group our new Corporate Responsibility Panel, that recommended to Government the CDP FTSE 350 chaired by our Chief Executive.
We focus introduction of Display Energy Certificates Carbon Disclosure resources to realise the greatest benefits for the private sector, and the European Leadership Index 2011 Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 36 OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Our people Our people are one of our people through a wide range of Company We have a full programme of formal activities and the opportunity to make real and informal staff communications major assets and we aim including monthly all-staff meetings, impact in the business.
to attract and retain the best annual company conferences and We believe that staff engagement is a people, whose efforts, skill and ad-hoc events with smaller groups.
We aim to judgement we can leverage We are currently reviewing all policies achieve 85% overall staff satisfaction by and procedures to ensure they remain across our extensive portfolio.
In 2011 we held our first independent appropriate and relevant.
staff satisfaction survey achieving a We employ a relatively small in-house response rate of over 90%.
Overall results team totalling just over 200 people.
This were outstanding with 92% of staff rating is a major distinction and provides a cost us highly as an employer and 80% very advantage between us and our key satisfied at work.
We also achieved a one competitors and most other FTSE 100 star accreditation in the 2012 Sunday companies.
Our approach is to recruit Times Best Companies to Work For small teams of experts in their fields survey and both activities have provided who procure additional specialist resource feedback for further improvements in 92% of as and when needed.
As a result, the staff engagement through an employee structure and processes of the business action plan.
Initiatives include a new staff is effectively aligned with its strategy.
staff social committee, new Company There are limited levels of management teamship rules and more training, and individuals have exposure to senior as well as improvements to our induction Rate us highly programme and appraisal process.
as an employer Financing The scale of our business for the business, the Board considers Key financing statistics Proportionally a wide range of factors including our combined with the security Group consolidated ability to refinance and the impact on the and stability of our rental IFRS net debt 2,303m 4,879m aggregate risk in the business including income flows means we are Weighted average 9.1 years 9.3 years development risk.
Our preferred range debt maturity able to finance our business of gearing is between 40% and 50% on Loan to value 29% 45% on competitive terms from a proportionally consolidated basis.
At 31 Interest cover 3.0 times 2.2 times a broad range of sources.
March 2012, our loan to value was 45.3%.
We aim to finance the business from Diverse funding profile We aim to ensure that the Group and a diverse range of sources with a broad its joint ventures and funds are financed 0.8bn 1.1bn mix of maturities.
Our joint ventures with sufficient resources and flexibility and funds are financed separately on to implement the strategy and cover the strength of their assets and without additional requirements and opportunities recourse for repayment to British Land.
Our joint ventures and Our debt financing includes long-term funds are included in our accounts as 0.5bn securitisations, unsecured private equity net investments and are not fully placements as well as shorter-term consolidated.
We consider the equity revolving unsecured facilities available and debt funding of the business for immediate drawdown.
This provides on both a group statutory basis and 1.8bn us with significant flexibility, enabling us 1.0bn on a proportionally consolidated basis, to take advantage of opportunities as and including the Groups share of joint Unsecured debt when they arise.
The average maturity ventures and funds.
US private placements of our debt of 9.3 years, reflects the long Debentures and loan notes Debt financing is used to enhance returns.
term nature of our property leases average Securitisations In determining the optimal level of gearing weighted lease length of 11.3 years.
Other joint ventures and funds debt The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 37
