UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR MARKETS THE UK HAS A LARGE AND LIQUID COMMERCIAL PROPERTY MARKET WHICH ATTRACTS A BROAD RANGE OF DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL INVESTORS.
The UK market grew modestly in the year reflecting a more challenging economic environment.
Rental values for the market as a whole were 0.5% ahead.
Central London once again was the stand-out performer although rental and capital value growth was more muted than the previous year.
UK retail retailers are increasingly focusing their store centres, pricing has begun to reflect growing The retail market in the UK continues to portfolios in retail properties which offer the occupational risk and increased capital undergo significant change.
Consumers are best combination of location, affordability, expenditure requirements.
more demanding and sophisticated for flexibility and environment.
them the line between the physical and In the occupational market, there continues virtual environments is increasingly blurred.
Over the past year, both the retail investment to be significant differences within the sector As much as they want to buy and compare and occupational environment has been with higher quality schemes performing products online: they also want the comfort, more challenging as consumer and retailer significantly better than poorer quality space convenience and experience of buying, confidence was hit by the twin impacts of as the graphs below show and we have collecting or returning products in the store.
austerity at home and the debt crisis in benefited from this.
Although retailers have For todays retail landlord, it matters more Europe.
Across the retail property market as become more cautious, the pressure to than ever that they are able to provide their a whole, for the twelve months to 31 March adapt to the rapidly changing market has occupiers not only with the spaces but also 2012, values were down 0.8% and rents seen retailers aggressively managing their the services and environments which allow continued to fall, at 0.4%.
portfolios to make sure they are in the most their businesses to thrive.
efficient space in the best locations.
Some Retail investment transactions in the are expanding, others are focusing on Retailers are looking for stores and spaces year ended 31 March 2012 were more than improving their portfolios, while others are which are easily accessible to their consumers a third lower than the ten-year average reducing store numbers.
The trend is evident and are places where shoppers not only want reflecting weakened investor appetite.
across every retail sub-sector and is to shop but also spend their leisure time.
Although prime has not been immune, mirrored by the diverse lettings across our In an increasingly competitive and changing strong demand for quality assets combined portfolio.
market, it is also important to retailers that with very limited supply has supported these spaces are affordable and can be current valuations for the best schemes Looking forward, we expect polarisation easily adapted to the changing needs of offering secure income returns.
In more to continue with the divergence between their business and consumers.
As a result, secondary schemes, notably shopping prime and secondary likely to become more marked.
We may continue to see some short-term variability in values reflecting weakened investor sentiment around retail Retail capital value growth Retail rental value growth in general.
While rental values across the market are likely to fall further as retailers Prime values compared Prime rental values compared position their store portfolios and take to secondary values to secondary rental values advantage of significant levels of impending 104 2 lease expiries, we expect high-quality 0.9 British Land 0.4 1 0.4 102 locations to benefit from robust demand 0 100 and a shortage of new retail development.
IPD All Retail 0.4 1 0.8 1.3 1.2 98 As polarisation accelerates, and as the 2 3 96 effects of multi-channel retailing become 4 IPD Secondary Retail more evident, our portfolio is defensively 94 5 5.0 placed for an environment which will remain 92 6 6.3 challenging in the short term but remains 90 7 March 2010 March 2012 H1 H2 FY well positioned to outperform in the future.
Source: Investment Property Databank British Land IPD All Retail IPD Secondary Retail Source: Investment Property Databank Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 20 OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Retail London offices Looking forward, we expect polarisation Looking forward, we expect modern to continue with the divergence between and well-located London office and prime and secondary likely to become residential buildings to continue to more marked.
London offices Prime retail Central London offices London enjoys a special position as one of a Outperformance of prime Outperformance of small number of global cities.
It is regularly retail rental values central London offices 520 bps 280 bps voted as the most attractive place to invest, compared to secondary.
rental compared to do business, live or visit and is one the most all offices.
important financial and business services centres globally.
Along with its transparent and stable political and legal systems, Central London capital value growth Central London ERV growth Londons attractions include its skilled and diverse labour force and its position mid-way % growth 2012 2011 2010 % growth 2012 2011 2010 between the United States to the west and City 5.0 14.5 9.7 City 4.3 6.0 8.3 the growing economies of the Middle East West End 8.3 11.9 14.6 West End 5.7 7.4 10.6 and Asia to the east.
Residential 8.6 6.6 23.9 Residential 0.2 10.4 4.5 Source: Investment Property Databank and Savills Source: Investment Property Databank and Savills In recent years, the London property market has attracted significant capital from a broad range of international investors including pension funds, sovereign wealth funds and private individuals, in part reflecting its safe despite weakness in UK prices as a whole was more subdued and rental growth haven status.
reflecting Londons attraction as a leading has stalled.
In the West End market, which and vibrant global city.
has a more diverse occupier base, demand It is therefore not surprising that central has remained more resilient, with the London offices have been the strongest During the year, central London offices growth in the Technology, Media, performing property market in the UK over accounted for almost 40% of all UK Telecommunications sector contributing the past three years, with values ahead by commercial property transactions as a large proportion of active requirements.
36.0% compared to 15.6% for UK property as investor appetite remained strong, a whole.
This strength has been seen across particularly from overseas.
Demand for Looking forward, we expect modern and all major asset classes including City and modern, well-located buildings with long and well-located London office and residential West End offices which are ahead by 31.8% secure income streams exceeded supply, buildings to continue to deliver strong and 38.9% over the same period, as well as particularly in the West End, contributing to outperformance.
Supply of new office space residential which grew by 43.5%.
As in retail, appetite is significantly limited with construction starts and pricing for secondary offices has at relatively low levels.
On average 1.5 million In most areas of central London, the lack of been much weaker particularly for shortersq ft per annum is due to be built over the high-quality supply has also been a key factor lease properties where potential for next four years, compared to long-term Grade driving rental value growth.
This has been redevelopment is significantly constrained A take-up of 3.0 million sq ft per annum.
At particularly evident in offices where a lack by a lack of available debt finance.
the same time, we expect demand to increase of debt funding and a greater unwillingness as impending lease expiries lead occupiers for companies to commit to large projects The occupational market in London was to commit to new buildings offering greater without pre-lets has meant that development more mixed, particularly following the efficiency and flexibility, resulting in rental activity is at historically low levels.
Although renewed concern about the economic growth over the medium term.
Against this prime properties have shown the strongest stability of the Eurozone in the summer, positive medium-term outlook, the quality performance, secondary has also benefited which caused some businesses to delay of our investment and development portfolios from the general strength of the London making decisions on space requirements.
in London mean that we are confident about economy and investor demand.
In residential, This was most evident in the City office our future performance.
values continued to grow strongly in London market where demand from occupiers The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 21
