OVERVIEW WHATS HAPPENED THIS YEAR RETAIL Glasgow Fort 06 Our Retail business continued Delivering new planning consents to outperform the broader retail During the year we continued to add value market, reflecting our focus through our planning expertise.
We secured on stronger performing parts 70 new consents across the retail portfolio of the market combined with accounting for one million sq ft, including new consents for Hobbycraft and our ability to provide retailers Pets at Home at the Beehive Centre in with modern, flexible and Cambridge: Frankie & Bennys at Parkgate, affordable retail environments Rotherham: and Smyths Toys at Glasgow where they are able to trade Fort Shopping Park.
07 See Performance review: Retail P4951 01 Creating the right space We are committed to ensuring that retailers have the right space to remain competitive, subdividing, extending or amalgamating units and utilising our 2.4 million sq ft of mezzanines.
We initiated over 142 capital projects covering 33% of our properties, with extensions to stores for Marks and Spencer at Teesside Shopping Park in Stockton-on-Tees and Deepdale Shopping Park in Preston, over the course of the year.
07 04 Multi-channel retailing Creating the right environment 02 We are working closely with our retailers as We are working to improve consumer Attracting retailers out-of-town they upgrade their stores to complement experience and enhance dwell times across The quality and location of our retail assets their evolving multi-channel strategies.
our portfolio by incorporating more food, continued to attract new premium retailers During the year, we completed 109,000 sq ft drink and leisure operators.
We carried out to our out-of-town formats.
This included with a further 63,000 sq ft mezzanine of 39 transactions representing 4.2 million the first Swarovski and Jack & Jones at refurbishments and extensions with Next, in contracted rent.
Continuing the evolution Glasgow Fort Shopping Park and Whole including the extension of their stores at of out-of-town retail, we created new units Foods Market at Gallagher Retail Park in Birstall Shopping Park in Leeds and Fort for Costa at Queens Retail Park, Stafford Cheltenham.
And we opened the and Tollgate Retail Park, Colchester: Pizza first out-of-town store for N Browns online Express and Nandos at Giltbrook Retail 03 fascia, Simply Be, at Teesside.
Park, Nottingham: and Greggs at Teesside, Edinburgh and Leamington Spa.
And in Locally dominant assets 05 town, we added YO!
Sushi at Drake Circus Understanding the local retail hierarchy for Shopping Centre, Plymouth.
Staying close to retailers each of our assets ensures we have the right strategy to deliver our key income objectives.
We continued to see demand from key 05 During the year, we enhanced the dominance retailers and our detailed understanding of many of our assets through lettings to of our clients operations means we work major retailers including Marks and Spencer in partnership with them to maximise sales Simply Food at Kingswood Retail Park in Hull, and profitability.
We worked closely with H&M and Republic at Crown Point Shopping Park as they continued their out-of-town expansion in Denton.
with new units opening at Teesside and New Mersey Shopping Park in Speke: Asda Living signed new stores at our parks in Rotherham, Stafford and Guiseley: and Mamas & Papas expanded into Whiteley Shopping Centre, Leamington Spa and Edinburgh Fort.
Lettings, rent reviews and 3,763,000sqft lease renewals Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 08 OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION OTHER 08 While we remain focused on our core retail and central 7m London office markets, our Invested in Oasis acquisition of a portfolio of Dining Quarter at Virgin Active premium racquet Meadowhall clubs demonstrates our ability to identify and work with banks, to unlock opportunities to create incremental value.
10 39 Food, beverage and leisure lettings across the portfolio 08 09 10 Meadowhall Oasis food court Portfolio management Virgin Active refurbishment completed Demand for space across our UK portfolio In July 2011, we acquired a portfolio of In October 2011, a 7 million refurbishment remained robust with occupancy remaining 17 premium racquet club properties with of the Oasis Dining Quarter at Meadowhall strong at 98%.
We exchanged 1.1 million a total of 1.7 million sq ft of leisure and gym Shopping Centre in Sheffield was completed.
sq ft of lettings and lease extensions at 6.9% facilities spread over 380 acres of land.
The redevelopment of the food court has ahead of ERV and 186 rent reviews, including Acquired for 179 million, a net initial yield created two distinct dining areas: the upper re-letting units previously let to Focus and of 7.3%, the clubs were all let on new, level provides a comprehensive casual Asda at Woking and Guiseley, B&Q at 25-year leases to Virgin Active.
The clubs are dining offer while the lower level focuses Malvern and TK Maxx at Guiseley, at rents all well located on the edge of major towns, on fast-food operators centred around 16% higher than passing.
offer an extensive range of facilities, are communal seating.
New operators include highly accessible and dominant in their Giraffe, Chaobaby and Rice, with Carluccios catchment areas.
sold five of the smaller properties Gloucester, Neath, Manchester, Oxford and Poole on a net initial yield of 6.5% to high-quality institutions, at a significant 06 premium above the purchase price.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 09 OVERVIEW BUILDING OUR DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE RETAIL WE BELIEVE THERE IS AN OPPORTUNITY TO ADD INCREMENTAL VALUE THROUGH RETAIL DEVELOPMENT.
At present there is a shortage of supply of prime retail assets and strong support for regeneration.
For these reasons, we are building our retail development pipeline, focusing on mid-sized projects, typically with 2560 units and valued at 50 million250 million, as we believe this is where returns are likely to be best.
Whiteley Shopping Centre, Hampshire Glasgow Fort Puerto Venecia, Zaragoza Whiteley Shopping Centre is located in The 45,000 sq ft leisure extension at Glasgow The second phase of Puerto Venecia southern Hampshire just one mile from Fort, which is fully pre-let and due to open in in Zaragoza, Spain, is targeted for opening Junction 9 of the M27, midway between 2013, will comprise a 22,000 sq ft eight-screen in autumn 2012.
Over 80% of the 1.4 million the cities of Portsmouth and Southampton.
Vue Cinema and five restaurants: TGI Fridays, sq ft scheme has been sold, pre-let or Scheduled to open in spring 2013, the Prezzo, Harvester, Chiquito and Pizza is under offer.
This shopping and leisure 302,000 sq ft development will comprise over Express.
Proposals are also being progressed destination will be anchored by El Corte 50 units totalling 268,000 sq ft of retail space, for a further 142,000 sq ft retail extension.
Ingles, Indetex Group nine brands totalling 34,000 sq ft of restaurants, cafs and other Together these two additions will increase the over 70,000 sq ft and including Zara, Primark, facilities and 1,136 car park spaces.
Anchored size of the retail park by approximately 40%.
by Marks and Spencer, Next and Tesco, the development is now 68% pre-let or under offer by rent with other retailers signed including H&M, Boots, JD, Schuh, Paperchase and Mamas & Papas.
Whiteley represents the latest in retail design incorporating dramatic double height retail units with oak panelling, centred around a new town square with New planning permissions high-quality public realm, landscaped Over the past 12 months we have 575,000 sq ft facilitated further value growth areas and public art.
Extensive energy and Planning permissions by securing over one million sq ft sustainability features will ensure that granted for additional of new planning permissions.
floor space Whiteley will be one of the first major UK Approximately 575,000 sq ft relates to additional floor space, 370,000 sq ft existing assets: retail developments to achieve the BREEAM which we will implement as part 205,000 sq ft new developments Excellent sustainability rating.
of our new development projects and extensions to existing assets.
We have also enhanced planning permissions on a further 450,000 sq ft of existing assets.
This will allow us to lease more retail park space to a wider spectrum of retailers, often including fashion.
450,000 sq ft Planning permissions granted for wider uses Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 10 OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION The retail development pipeline across We have committed to the development Over the UK is at an historic low and is expected of Whiteley Shopping Centre in Hampshire Of committed proposed UK schemes to be in a similar place for a number of and a leisure extension at Glasgow Fort 300m years.
Successful development requires Shopping Park and the refurbishment and capital, scale, strong retailer relationships extension of Surrey Quays Shopping Centre and to be a partner of choice for Local in South East London.
We are one of a very small Of committed retail 1.7m sq ft group meeting these criteria and so we We also focused on adding to our future developments can exploit the supply-induced opportunity pipeline, securing over one million sq ft we see in the market: looking to deliver of new planning permissions.
new high-quality retail space as the market recovers.
Fort Kinnaird, Edinburgh A proposed new 84,000 sq ft retail leisure extension, comprising a 24,000 sq ft sevenscreen cinema, eight restaurant caf units and a 60,000 sq ft department store pre-let to Debenhams.
Meadowhall, Sheffield A planning application has been lodged for a proposed new development on land surrounding Meadowhall Shopping Centre comprising 52,000 sq ft of Retail Restaurant together with a 177,000 sq ft premium Superstore extensions Surrey Quays Shopping Centre car dealership that includes a showroom, During the last twelve months, we have funded The proposed new 100,000 sq ft extension to workshops and office accommodation.
five store extensions totalling 95,000 sq ft Surrey Quays Shopping Centre in South East generating an additional 1.9 million of London will sit in front of the existing entrances Power Court, Luton rent per annum 100% joint venture level.
and provide 18 new shops and restaurants.
Power Court is a 19.5 acre development site, We have a number of discussions in hand The existing 309,000 sq ft shopping centre acquired in May 2011, situated adjacent to with our principal occupiers that could result will also be extensively refurbished.
Planning Luton town centre and currently occupied in a further 98,000 sq ft of extensions being permission has recently been granted for by derelict light industrial buildings.
We are funded over the next 12 months.
the extension which represents a 31 million working closely with Luton Borough Council investment in Surrey Quays.
Work will and expect to submit a planning application commence in early 2013. in late 2012 for a high-quality, retail-led, mixed-use development.
Construction cost tendering Pre-let by rent 30% 9% To let Untendered 58% Pre-let 12% Under offer 91% in negotiation Contracts placed The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 11
