BUSINESS MODEL Derwent London seeks to produce consistently above average, long-term returns from its portfolio of mid-market central London offices.
At Derwent London we look to create tomorrows space today.
John Burns Chief Executive officer Previous spread: Sweeps Studios, adjacent to Johnson Building EC1 22 Derwent London plc Report & AccoSt unra ts 20 tegy 12 Derwent was by far and away the most consistently cited UK company among the industry figures polled because of the way it focuses on creating buildings that tenants want to be in and spots trends in terms of the areas and types of buildings occupiers want.
Property Week Internationals The Big 10 8 March 2013 poll of property professionals to see which companies they rated as the best in the world From long experience the Derwent London team has shown that The strength of our balance sheet means that we do not require well-judged investment decisions, creative thinking, strong specific development finance for our schemes which are usually operational performance and an appropriate level of regeneration begun on a speculative basis, though these are often fide-risked activity supported by robust financing can achieve attractive, part way through via pre-letting.
The majority of the portfolio is income-producing with reversionary The Group typically acquires properties with identified potential rents.
This means that open market rents are higher than the often in improving areas of London.
These locations will have current passing rent.
The Group optimises income by applying good public transport links and, as the neighbourhood is detailed knowledge of current and potential occupiers needs to revitalised, new users are attracted to the area.
We adopt a attract strong tenants from a wide range of businesses.
Over time, unique plan for each property, which is designed to complement reversionary income is captured through rent rises or asset its particular characteristics.
Value can be achieved by: management.
We often seek to move tenants within the portfolio to maximise value growth.
a rolling refurbishment: adding space through infilling, conversion of underutilised areas Properties where we believe there is limited future growth are or additional floors: identified for disposal, enabling us to recycle our capital effectively regeneration where the building is obsolete: into more profitable projects.
creating marriage value through buying adjacent properties: Our business is supported by robust, flexible financing with negotiating with freeholders to restructure leasehold interests: or moderate leverage and comfortable interest cover.
This provides using asset management initiatives to increase the the ability to deliver development ambitions and to take advantage income return.
Underpinning this approach is a desire to create sustainable Total shareholder return % workplaces that are efficient and welcoming and in which tenants FTSE FTSE can work for many years.
Derwent All-Share EPRA UK London Index Index The team works with a variety of both established and up- 15 years 378.5 106.5 69.7 and-coming architects to create well-designed office space.
10 years 359.2 131.7 67.0 Development activity is balanced to maintain income where possible whilst freeing up space for regeneration.
5 years 64.6 13.2 22.3 1 year 39.0 12.3 29.9 500 400 300 200 100 0 Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec 1997 2000 2003 2006 2009 2012 275% outperformance compared with Derwent London ordinary shares FTSE EPRA UK index over 10 years FTSE All-Share Index FTSE EPRA UK Index Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2012 23
