Annual review Financials Governance 39 b N i F SPVQ JODMVEJOH JUT KPJOU WFOUVSFT Cash and undrawn credit facilities JT PQFSBUJOH XJUI TVCTUBOUJBM IFBESPPN PWFS JUT CBOL QSJWBUF QMBDFNFOU OPUF BOE EFCFOUVSF DPWFOBOUT w London continues to attract a significant ow of Taxation investment capital from around the world.
As a The tax charge in the income statement for the result, we expect yields for prime assets, particularly year is nil 2011: 0.9 million and the underlying in the West End, to remain stable for the time being.
effective tax rate was 0% 2011: 0% as a result of the tax free nature of much of the Groups income In this market context, we expect to continue to and other allowances being available to set against outperform.
Our developments are attracting healthy non-REIT profits.
The charge in 2011 resulted from tenant interest and delivering material surpluses, the REIT conversion charge on the purchase of whilst our conservative gearing combined with 35 Portman Square, W1.
The Group complied with plentiful, low-cost repower will enable us to deliver all relevant REIT tests for the year to 31 March 2012. on our existing growth plans and exploit new opportunities as we nd them.
Dividend The Board has declared a final dividend of 5.2 pence per share 2011: second interim 5.1 pence which will be paid in July 2012.
Of this dividend, 1.7 pence per share will be a REIT Property Income Distribution PID in respect of the Groups tax exempt property rental business.
Outlook We have had a strong year, outperforming the London commercial property market with a record level of leasing, significant development successes, accretive acquisitions, disposals ahead of book value and the efficient replenishment of our financial repower with new, low-cost debt.
Whilst we can expect further turbulence in the UK and Eurozone economies, conditions in Londons property markets, particularly the West End, remain favourable.
Tenant demand for new space is trending at the long-run average, with some pockets of strong interest from the likes of the TMT sector, whilst the supply of new space is low.
Over the next few years, absent a material economic set back, given the scarcity of development finance and minimal development completions, we expect this balance to move further in landlords favour, supporting the case for rental growth.
