Strategic review Business and financial review Financial and property returns Governance Financial statements Other information Financial and property returns Overview The table opposite sets out the financial returns Hammersons total shareholder return for achieved in 2012 and compares them with 2012 outperformed the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Our objective is to achieve a return benchmark indices.
UK index by 11.1 percentage points.
Over the on equity which is greater than our last five years, Hammersons average annual cost of equity.
To achieve this, we The IPD benchmarks shown for the UK total shareholder return has been -2.9% set hurdle rates for investment, based portfolio are based on the quarterly index.
compared with -4.9% for the EPRA NAREIT on a minimum five-year internal rate There is no benchmark for total portfolio UK index.
of return and adjusted according to returns which is comparable with the risk associated with each project.
Hammersons geographical portfolio EPRA financial reporting best practice When appropriate, the returns that allocation.
IPD data relating to the returns of recommendations would be generated by buying in the the French property sector in 2012 will be Companys own shares are evaluated available only after this Annual Report has EPRA European Public Real Estate against the potential returns from been published.
Association has established best practice property investment and development.
recommendations for the calculation and An analysis of capital and total returns by presentation of certain performance measures business segment is provided in the Property for the listed property sector in Europe.
Definitions and references to where the The IPD Universe includes retail, office and measures can be found in this annual report industrial returns for all grades of property in are shown in the table opposite.
the UK, although Hammerson does not invest in the industrial sector and, latterly, has little EPRA best practice recommendations invested in offices.
The outperformance of the BPR on sustainability reporting IPD Universe capital return index arose Absolute measures for energy and water usage, principally because of the prime nature of greenhouse gas emissions and waste, together Hammersons shopping centre portfolio.
Prime with intensity measures for energy and water shopping centres provide low initial yields usage and greenhouse gas emissions, as reflecting their high quality.
Consequently, the defined by EPRA, are set out in the full Global income returns for our portfolio are lower Reporting Initiative GRI and EPRA BPR than the index.
compliance pack which can be found online at Hammersons return on shareholders equity www.
com for the year ended 31 December 2012 was 5.3%.
The income element of the return on shareholders equity will tend to be relatively low given the quality of the property portfolio, as described above.
In 2012 the capital element of the return on equity reflected the slight fall in the value of our strategic land holdings and retail parks during the year.
34 HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Strategic review Business and financial review Financial and property returns Governance Financial statements Other information Returns data for 2012 return % benchmark % UK portfolio capital return -0.8 UK IPD Universe capital -2.8 5.2 5.8 UK portfolio income return UK IPD Universe income 4.3 2.8 UK portfolio total return UK IPD Universe total Total portfolio capital return 0.1 n a 5.0 Total portfolio income return n a 5.0 Total portfolio total return n a 5.3 7.9 Return on shareholders equity Estimated cost of equity 41.0 29.9 Total shareholder return over one year FTSE EPRA NAREIT UK index over one year 8.9 7.9 Total shareholder return over three years p. a. FTSE EPRA NAREIT UK index over three years p. a.
Total shareholder return over five years p. a.
-2.9 FTSE EPRA NAREIT UK index over five years p. a.
-4.9 Portfolio returns include developments, continuing and discontinued operations.
EPRA performance measures Performance measure definition Page PurPose EPRA Earnings Recurring earnings from core operational activities 102 A key measure of a companys underlying operating results from its property rental business and an indication of the extent to which current dividend payments are supported by earnings EPRA NAV Net Asset Value NAV adjusted to include 102 Adjusts IFRS NAV to provide stakeholders with properties and other investment interests at fair relevant information on the fair value of the assets value and to exclude certain items not expected and liabilities of a real estate investment company to crystallise in a long-term investment property with a long-term investment strategy business model EPRA NNNAV triple net EPRA NAV adjusted to include the fair values of 102 Adjusts EPRA NAV to provide stakeholders with financial instruments, debt and deferred taxes relevant information on the current fair value of the assets and liabilities of a real estate company EPRA Net Initial Yield NIY Annualised rental income based on cash rents 30 Comparable measure for portfolio valuations passing at the balance sheet date, less nonrecoverable property operating expenses, divided by the market value of the property, including estimated purchasers costs EPRA topped-up NIY EPRA NIY adjusted for the expiry of rent-free 30 Comparable measure for portfolio valuations periods Vacancy Estimated market rental value ERV of vacant 27 A measure of investment property space that is space occupancy is the inverse of vacancy vacant, based on ERV divided by the ERV of the whole portfolio HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 35
