Strategic review Governance Relations with shareholders Financial statements Other information relations with We actively seek to shareholders engage with our investors During 2012 the Company has undertaken Private investors All valid proxy appointment forms are properly a wide variety of investor relations activities.
For each resolution, Private investors are actively encouraged These activities were split across institutional after the vote has been taken, information on to attend the Annual General Meeting where and private shareholders.
In addition to these the number of proxy votes for and against they have the opportunity to question the events, the Company has held ad hoc meetings the resolution, and the number of shares in Board directly.
At all other times, investors with investors and arranged visits to Company respect of which the vote was withheld, are are able to raise any concerns or issues with properties.
The Company actively seeks given at the meeting and are made available the Board via the Company Secretary.
The additional channels through which to engage on the Companys website.
Company also participates in private client with investors.
For example, the Chief Executive fund managers events.
By Order of the Board is chairman of the European Public Real Estate Association.
Annual General Meeting Sarah Booth Institutional shareholders The Notice of Annual General Meeting is General COunsel anD dispatched to shareholders, together with Institutional shareholders represent the largest COmpany seCretary explanatory notes at least 20 working days group of equity investors and much of the 28 February 2013 before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are activity is focused on this group.
During 2012, proposed on each substantially separate issue over twenty-five events were either attended including a resolution relating to the Report or hosted by the Company.
investor roadshows in London, Paris and Amsterdam, five roundtable events and five The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration investor conferences.
Visits to key properties and Nomination Committees normally attend in the UK and Paris were also arranged for the Annual General Meeting and are available investors and analysts.
Wherever possible to answer questions.
All Directors normally the Company is represented by the Executive attend the meeting.
The Chief Executive and Chief The Board welcomes questions from Financial Officer host or attend the majority shareholders who have an opportunity to raise of the events held.
Key senior executives also issues informally before or formally at the participate in meetings and activities with Annual General Meeting.
For each resolution, the proxy appointment The Board receives reports of meetings forms provide shareholders with the option with institutional shareholders together with to direct their proxy vote either for or against regular market reports and brokers reports.
the resolution or to withhold their vote.
This enables the Directors to understand The Company will ensure that the proxy the views of shareholders.
The Board takes appointment form and any announcement of account of the corporate governance the results of a vote will make it clear that a guidelines of institutional shareholders and vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not their representative bodies such as the be counted in the calculation of the proportion Association of British Insurers and the National of the votes for and against the resolution.
