Strategic review Our focus areas Convenience Governance Financial statements Other information Convenience 22 convenient retail parks % 59 of consumers reserve online and pick up in store aT your convEniEncE Hammerson is the UKs largest Responding to consumers preferences Growing rents direct owner of retail parks.
There Retail parks have their origins in low-cost retail From a low base, our retail parks have rents is continued strong consumer demand space for DIY stores and bulky goods retailers with significant scope to grow as we introduce for the ease and convenience of outside the town centre.
However, the ease of fashion and catering formats.
In 2012 we retail parks, which is reflected in access and convenience of free parking have invested 260 million in new retail parks, the increasing requirements from a proved popular with consumers.
We are which we believe will enhance the income range of fashion and catering retailers.
capitalising on these inherent strengths by profile of the business.
bringing new fashion retailers, new caterers To capitalise on the strength of consumer and new formats to retail parks.
demand and create the winning retail parks In 2012 we secured Nikes first ever retail park of the future, we are also extending several store at Thurrock Shopping Park, introduced of our properties.
Costa coffee pods at several of our parks and brought household names like Marks & Spencer and Debenhams to the retail park portfolio.
In addition, as retailers look for ways to support their multi-channel strategies, a click and collect offer is increasingly important.
The accessibility of retail parks makes them an obvious choice in fulfilling an integral part of this strategy.
14 HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Strategic review Our focus areas Convenience Governance Financial statements Other information Convenience key facts 2 184 m average rents 2 area in m of floorspace 500,000 space consented for 2 3 open A1 fashion RETAIL PARKS Brent South Shopping Park, London Owned by Hammerson and Standard Life Investments, Brent South Shopping Park was completed in November 2004.
Located directly opposite Brent Cross Shopping Centre, the shopping park includes principle occupiers Arcadia, Next and TK Maxx, and also provides 350 parking spaces.
