Strategic review Governance Accountability Financial statements Other information accountability Our systems and procedures ensure the integrity of our information auDit COmmittee Meetings Review of the year The Board has established an Audit Committee The Committee meets at least four times During the year, the Committee reviewed the the Committee of five independent Noneach year with agendas organised around the draft Annual Report and the full and half-year Executive Directors, the membership of which Companys reporting cycle.
During 2012 it results announcements prior to their approval complies with the UK Code recommendations, met on four occasions.
These reviews considered the including that at least one member of the application of the Companys accounting The Chairman of the Company, the Chief Committee has recent and relevant financial policies and practices and any changes to Executive, the Chief Financial Officer experience.
Its responsibilities are set out in them, major judgemental areas, adjustments and other members of the senior finance written terms of reference that are available resulting from the audit and going concern management team together with senior on the Companys website.
The reviews also included representatives of the external auditor are consideration of the Groups compliance with John Hirst, the Chairman of the Committee, invited to attend all or part of meetings as statutory tax obligations, compliance with is a Chartered Accountant and a member of appropriate.
In order to fulfil its duties as accounting standards and with regulatory the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
He defined in its terms of reference, the Audit requirements, the statement on risk has been closely involved in financial issues as Committee receives presentations and management and internal control, property chief executive of the Met Office since 2007 reviews reports from the Groups senior valuations and clarity of disclosure.
and as chief executive of Premier Farnell plc management, consulting as necessary with between 1998 and 2005: prior to that he was the external auditor.
The Committee is required to assist the Board group treasurer of ICI plc.
Notwithstanding to fulfil its responsibilities relating to the The Committee meets with Deloitte LLP, that John Hirst has been a member of the adequacy and effectiveness of the control the Companys external auditor, and with Audit Committee for over seven years, and environment and the Groups compliance BDO LLP, which undertakes the majority of a Non-Executive Director for nine years, with the UK Code.
To fulfil these duties, the the Companys internal audit reviews, in the the Board considers that given his relevant Committee reviewed: absence of management at least once financial experience it is appropriate that he each year.
the external auditors management letters should continue to chair the Committee for the time being.
The Committee also consists The Companys external valuer, DTZ, present internal audit reports, including of a further four independent Non-Executive the conclusions of their full and half-year recommendations arising from them and Directors one of whom, Jacques Espinasse, valuations to the Committee.
The valuation the review of progress in implementing served as chief financial officer of Vivendi and is an important exercise and a significant previous recommendations currently chairs or serves as a member of the measurement of the Groups performance reports on the systems of internal controls audit committee of a number of European and in Executive Directors remuneration.
and the risk management framework companies.
The external valuer and external auditor have full access to each other and the Chairman the Companys approach to compliance The Committee is responsible for ensuring of the Committee meets the external valuer with legislation and regulations and to the that management has systems and and external auditor as part of the full and prevention of fraud, including arrangements procedures in place to ensure the integrity half-year valuations to ensure that they are for staff to raise concerns in confidence of financial information.
The Committee each satisfied that there has been a full and maintains an appropriate relationship with the recommendations of the 2012 Board open exchange of information and views.
the Groups external auditor and reviews the and Committee performance evaluations effectiveness, objectivity and independence the audit planning reports of the external auditor and considers both the scope of their work and the fees paid gifts and entertainment and expenses to them for audit and non-audit services.
The Committee reviews the Companys internal audit arrangements, internal financial controls and the audit process and has access to employees and all documentation and information it may require.
58 HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Strategic review Governance Accountability Financial statements Other information Auditor financial information system design and Where non-audit services are provided, the implementation, appraisal or valuation fees are based on the work undertaken and The Committee is responsible for the services, actuarial services, any management are not success related.
Consideration is given development, implementation and monitoring functions, investment banking services, legal to the nature of and remuneration received for of the Groups policy on external audit in services unrelated to the audit, internal audit other services provided by Deloitte LLP to the which is set out the categories of non-audit outsourcing services, remuneration related Company and confirmation is sought that the services that the external auditor is, and is not, services or advocacy services.
fee payable for the annual audit is adequate allowed to provide to the Group.
Details are to enable the external auditor to perform its given below.
Some services may be provided in specific and obligations in accordance with the scope of exceptional circumstances and can include tax The Companys external auditor is Deloitte the audit.
The external auditors remuneration compliance work, due diligence and property LLP.
In accordance with the Ethical Standards in respect of the year ended 31 December related consultancy.
Each occasion is issued by the Auditing Practices Board, the 2012, comprised approximately 754,000 specifically assessed and authorised by an audit partner responsible for the Companys for year end audit and half-year review work Executive Director up to a limit of 50,000 audit matters is changed at least every 2011: 527,000 and 375,000 for other and above that limit after review by the five years, most recently in April 2012.
The total cost of nonChairman of the Committee.
During 2012, Committee is fully supportive of the new audit services provided by Deloitte LLP in 2012 services provided by Deloitte LLP to the provision in the UK Code requiring FTSE 350 is considered unusually high.
Company in addition to acting as external companies to put the provision of external auditor, included due diligence for corporate The Committee has regard to the audit services out to tender at least every and property acquisitions, acting as reporting recommendations of the Auditing Practices ten years.
The Committee has reviewed the accountants for intra-group distributions, Board on effective communication between performance of the external auditor and is assistance with the electronic filing of accounts, audit committees and external auditors and satisfied that currently Deloitte LLP provides tax returns and bond compliance work.
has concluded that the relationship with an appropriate level of service delivered by a Deloitte LLP meets these recommendations.
team with an in-depth understanding of our To fulfil its responsibilities regarding the business and the broader real estate sector.
external auditor, the Committee reviewed: The Committee has recommended to the The Committees present intention therefore Board that the external auditor should be the scope of the audit as set out in the is that they will review the requirement to reappointed at the 2013 AGM.
external auditors engagement letter tender the external audit closer to the time for the forthcoming year when the audit partner next rotates.
In forming their opinion on the independence the external auditors overall work plan and objectivity of the external auditor, the for the forthcoming year Audit Committee takes into account the the external auditors fee proposal safeguards operating within Deloitte LLP.
a report from the external auditor Under the Companys policy governing describing its arrangements to ensure the provision of non-audit services by the objectivity and to identify, report and external auditor, they may not provide a manage any conflicts of interest service which places them in a position where they may be required to audit their own the extent of non-audit services provided work.
Specifically, they are precluded from by the external auditor to ensure that providing services relating to bookkeeping or it is not placed in a position to audit its other services relating to accounting records own work.
or financial statements of the Company, HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 59 Strategic review Governance Accountability Financial statements Other information Risk management and internal control The Company conducts internal audit activities The systems of risk management and internal through a programme of reviews.
These control and their effectiveness have been The Board has ultimate responsibility for reviews, which are principally undertaken by reviewed by the Board for the year under determining the nature and extent of the BDO LLP, but also on occasion by Company review and during the period up to the date significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its employees, and the implementation of of this report and the process accords with strategic objectives, for maintaining sound risk recommendations arising from them, are the Turnbull guidance.
The Board will continue management and internal control systems and overseen and coordinated by a Risk and Controls to develop its awareness and monitoring for reviewing their effectiveness.
This Committee comprises of emerging risks and its approach to the towards risk is discussed at Board meetings executives from the finance and operational reporting of risk throughout 2013. whenever significant strategic, financial or parts of the business, is chaired by the Chief operational proposals are discussed, and is Financial Officer, and is intended to ensure that Code of Conduct also high on the Boards agenda at its annual internal control is integrated into Hammersons strategy day.
The Groups risk management The Company has a Code of Conduct which daily operations.
The Audit Committee and internal control systems are designed to explains how employees are expected to considers these arrangements annually and is safeguard assets against unauthorised use or fulfil their responsibilities by acting in the best satisfied that they provide an appropriate disposition, ensure the maintenance of proper interests of the Company and in line with overview of the Companys internal control accounting records, provide reliable financial its corporate and financial objectives.
information and ensure compliance with includes compliance with laws and regulations, relevant legislation, rules and regulations.
Other key elements of the Groups systems of acting fairly in dealing with customers, risk management and internal control include: suppliers and other stakeholders, maintaining There is a regular review process throughout integrity in financial reporting, treating people the year of the effectiveness of the Groups regular meetings of the Board and the Audit with respect and operating within a controlled systems of risk management and internal control, Committee whose overall responsibilities framework which includes environmental including financial, operational and compliance are set out in this report and health and safety policies.
A summary controls and risk management.
These systems a management structure that is designed of the Code of Conduct is available on the are designed to support the achievement of to enable effective decision-making Companys website.
However, it must be with clearly defined responsibilities and recognised that any such systems can only limits of authority.
Monthly meetings of Whistleblowing provide reasonable and not absolute assurance the Group Executive Committee and of against material misstatement or loss.
The Company has whistleblowing procedures the management committees in the UK under which staff may report any suspicion Management has established a risk management and France are an important part of this of fraud, financial irregularity or other framework and procedures necessary to structure malpractice.
No reports of any such matters enable the Directors to report on internal the maintenance of operational control have been received for the year under review.
controls in compliance with the UK Code.
manuals setting out a control framework The Company subscribes to the independent The risk management procedures involve the for management to operate within and charity, Public Concern at Work, so that staff analysis, evaluation and management of the containing guidance and procedures for the may have free access to its helpline.
The key risks to the Group and include plans for the Groups operations whistleblowing procedure is reviewed and continuity of the Companys business in the if necessary updated annually to ensure it event of unforeseen interruption.
The Board, the measurement of the Groups financial remains appropriate.
which reviews the framework and procedures performance on a regular basis against regularly, has allocated responsibility for the budgets and long-term financial plans.
management of each key risk to Executive Directors and senior executives within the Group.
Reports on these key risks are made regularly to the Board.
A more detailed explanation of the Companys approach to risk management is set out on pages 36 to 39.
