Strategic review Overview Market background Governance Financial statements Other information Market background Market dynamics & consumer trends Our marketplace Experience shopping centres generate annual rents of 69 million per annum.
The portfolio is one of the largest in Hammerson is a focused retail REIT In the UK, Hammerson owns stakes in France, attracting over 70 million shoppers with operations in the UK and France 12 shopping centres that accommodate per annum, who spend a total of over and concentrates on specific sub-sectors 1,300 retail and catering occupiers.
of retail property in its chosen markets.
centres attract over 180 million shoppers each year that spend in excess of 2 billion Key occupiers in the French portfolio include: The operating environment for retailers, both and generate annual rents of 141 million.
Carrefour, Monoprix, Inditex, H&M, Sephora in the UK and France, remains tough.
The The portfolio comprises nine of the UKs top and Printemps.
impact of austerity is squeezing household 30 shopping centres.
budgets and the rise of e-commerce is One of the Companys key objectives is to challenging the way that traditional retailers Major tenants in the portfolio include: John increase its scale in French retail property.
In engage with their customers.
With a greater Lewis, House of Fraser, Marks & Spencer, this direction it is developing a major shopping number of channel options, consumers are only H&M and National Amusements.
centre, Terrasses du Port in Marseille, that is selecting physical retail in locations that satisfy due for completion in spring 2014, and is In France, the Company owns eight shopping their need for convenience or the wish for a shortly to commence development of a centres concentrated in the greater Paris special experience.
shopping centre in Beauvais, to the north west region.
The portfolio comprises approximately of Paris which is due to complete in 2015.
We believe these market dynamics create an 300,000 sq m and its 900 occupiers opportunity for selected operators.
Total UK retail sales are predicted to grow rapidly over the next decade by 26% to reach 377bn by 2022.
However this growth will not be evenly OWNERSHIP OF MAJOR UK SHOPPING CENTRES distributed across all consumer segments.
16 14 Consequently, retail venues are polarising.
14 Shopping centres and retail parks, such as 12 those owned by Hammerson, which provide 10 9 a compelling mix of retail brands and high- 8 quality leisure and catering, have shown high 6 5 occupancy and increasing market shares.
4 4 3 3 3 Expanding retailers, including international 2 2 2 2 2 brands, continue to compete for the best 0 INTU Hammerson Land Henderson PruPIM Aviva Westeld Standard British Land GIC CPPIB space in these winning locations.
At the other Securities Life end of the retail spectrum, retailers continue Source: Hammerson analysis to exit underperforming stores.
Hammerson operates in the UK and France where planning regimes impose restrictions on new property developments.
These restrictions are particularly onerous in the case of large retail schemes, limiting the supply of new space and thereby benefiting owners of existing retail properties.
The UKs first House of Fraser.
com store opened in Union Square, Aberdeen, allowing consumers to use interactive screens to order goods which can then be collected in store 8 HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Strategic review Overview Market background Governance Financial statements Other information The Company takes an innovative approach Given large individual lot sizes, Hammersons These retail locations succeed by meeting to the development and management of its preferred approach is to use single asset joint consumers needs for convenience as well shopping centres, utilising in-house expertise ventures to control exposure to individual as retailers needs for accessible locations to to adapt to changing market dynamics and assets.
This approach enables Hammerson to support the fulfilment of multi-channel sales.
constantly evolving consumer preferences for maximise its market position and increase its For some retailers up to 25% of all sales are a wide range of shops, restaurants and leisure footprint across its retail markets, so ensuring made online with an increasing proportion facilities and the need for a unique and special multiple touchpoints with retail and catering either collected or returned in-store.
Joint ventures also mitigate risk is becoming an increasingly important driver by spreading capital more widely across of store traffic and incremental retail sales.
In 2012 we attracted 12 new fashion brands the sector.
to our centres and continued to improve the Following Novembers acquisition of The leisure offer: over 10% of total rents now Junction Fund, Hammerson became the Convenience retail parks derive from leisure and catering operators.
We largest direct owner of retail warehouse are also engaging with consumers on a digital The Company owns 21 of the UKs leading retail properties in the UK.
We utilise this strong level and increasing our use of social media parks that accommodate 360 retail tenants.
market position to secure favourable terms and loyalty programmes.
All of our UK centres Major occupiers include B&Q, Boots, Next and with occupiers and other counterparties.
have free wi-fi and our digital marketing Currys, as well as catering operators such as initiatives have resulted in a 190% increase in Costa, Frankie and Bennys and Pizza Hut.
Luxury premium designer outlets the number of users of our mobile websites Hammerson is a major investor in Value Retail, and a 150% increase in online dwell times.
the only company in Europe that specialises exclusively in the development and operation TOP DIRECT OWNERS OF UK RETAIL PARKS 000 SQ M of luxury outlet shopping Villages.
Value Retail 500 owns and operates nine luxury designer 5.0 471 450 outlets across Europe, which provide guests 4.5 400 with an outlet shopping experience unrivalled 4.0 anywhere in the world.
350 3.5 327 312 300 3.0 276 The portfolio is home to a high concentration 250 239 2.5 227 of luxury and aspirational brands such as 213 200 Gucci, Prada, Mulberry, Burberry and Giorgio 2.0 150 Armani.
The Villages have become must-visit 1.5 100 shopping destinations for domestic shoppers 1.0 Hammerson Hercules British Land Henderson UK Retail The Prudential and international tourists.
They benefit from Unit Trust Land Securities Warehouse Fund Crown Assurance Company Estate increasing prosperity in emerging markets and Source: The Denitive Guide to Retail & represent one of the fastest growing sectors Leisure Parks 2013, Trevor Wood Associates of the retail property market.
Since 2007, tenants sales at Value Retail villages have grown at an annual rate of 17% and the villages are among some of the most successful retail locations in the world.
Sales at the most successful village, Bicester Village, now exceed 20,000 sq m. As rents in outlet villages are directly related to store turnovers, asset values over the period have increased at a similar rate.
Cyfarthfa Retail Park, Merthyr Tydfil, which fulfils shoppers needs for a local convenient retail venue HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 9
