Strategic review Governance Effectiveness Financial statements Other information effectiveness ensuring an appropriate balance of SkillS, knowledge and independence on our Board nOminatiOn COmmittee A candidate brief, including a job description, Diversity person specification and explanation of The Committee had two scheduled meetings Last year the Company announced its time commitment was created and a long in 2012 to conduct regular business.
The intention to add to female representation list proposed by the search consultants.
A Committee undertakes an annual review of on the Board as soon as practicable and number of candidates were interviewed, and succession planning and ensures that the in May 2012 Gwyn Burr joined the Board.
once all the candidates had been interviewed, membership and composition of the Board, The Company believes that diversity, both David Tyler was identified as the preferred including the balance of Executive Directors at Board level and within management and candidate.
David met, or spoke by telephone and Non-Executive Directors, continues to staff at the Group, is an important factor for with, all Directors and the Board appointed be appropriate.
As part of these reviews, the maximising performance.
Within Hammerson him in January 2013.
Committee considers the independence of there is significant diversity, including gender Non-Executive Directors and the balance diversity.
The male : female ratio in the Group Board balance and appointments of skills and knowledge required of both as a whole is 46:54. process Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
In addition to identifying potential The effectiveness of the Board and its Commitment successors for executive positions, senior Committees is vital to the success of the Positions held by Non-Executive Directors are functional positions within the Company Company.
Therefore care is taken, through set out on pages 52 and 53 and the Board are also considered.
the Nomination Committee, to recruit and is satisfied that each of the Non-Executive appoint Directors who can provide and During 2012, the Nomination Committee Directors is able to devote sufficient time maintain an appropriate balance of skills, worked on two Non-Executive Director to the Companys business.
Non-Executive experience, independence and knowledge appointments.
An executive search firm Directors are advised on appointment of of the Company.
The balance of the Board is was appointed to assist with the search for the time required to fulfil the role and are reviewed annually.
an additional Non-Executive Director with asked to confirm that they can make the retail and marketing experience.
A number of The Board is satisfied that the Non-Executive required commitment.
Executive Directors are candidates were considered and interviewed.
Directors, each of whom is independent from encouraged to take non-executive positions The preferred candidate, Gwyn Burr, met management and has no material commercial in other companies and organisations, to with each member of the Board, prior to her or other connection with the Company, are broaden their experience.
The appointment to appointment in May 2012. able to exercise independent judgement.
Their such positions is subject to the approval of the experience, gained from varied commercial Board which considers, in particular, the time When John Nelson indicated to the Board backgrounds, enables them to bring specific commitment required.
that he wished to step down as Chairman insights and make valuable contributions to following the Annual General Meeting in 2013, the Company.
They challenge assumptions Conflicts of interest the Nomination Committee agreed a work constructively and effectively and help the plan for appointing his successor.
John Hirst The Companys Articles of Association executive management to develop their was temporarily co-opted for this purpose allow the Directors to authorise conflicts thinking.
The Nomination Committee has alone, whilst John Nelson was excluded and potential conflicts of interest, where considered the fact that by the 2013 Annual from Committee discussions concerning his appropriate.
The Board considers conflicts or General Meeting John Hirst will have served replacement.
Following receipt of proposals potential conflicts at each Board meeting.
on the Board for more than nine years.
The from a number of executive search firms, one Nomination Committee agrees with the NAPF firm was appointed.
Corporate Governance Policy and Voting Guidelines in that it views the UK Code nineyear rule as a milestone rather than a cut off.
The Committee considers that John Hirst continues to be independent in character and judgement and of considerable value to the Board and the Audit Committee.
56 HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Strategic review Governance Effectiveness Financial statements Other information Development Information and support The evaluation concluded that the Board was an effective team that worked constructively, There is an induction programme for NonDirectors have access to independent inclusively and in a trusting environment.
Executive Directors in place which is based professional advice at the Companys Recommendations from the evaluation such as on the guidelines issued by the Institute of expense and to the advice and services of reviewing the composition of the Committees Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, the Company Secretary who is responsible and reviewing and re-establishment of the tailored to the specific requirements of to the Board for advice on corporate division of responsibilities between the Chief newly appointed external Directors.
On governance matters and for ensuring that Executive and Chairman will be carried out their appointment, Non-Executive Directors Board procedures are followed and that later in 2013.
Other recommendations meet with the Chairman and the Chief the Company and the Board operate within include additional property visits and periodic Executive and are provided with briefings applicable legislation, rules and regulations.
These are to be on their responsibilities as Directors and The Company Secretary is also responsible included in the Board calendar for 2013. on the Companys business, finances, risks, for facilitating the programme of Directors strategy, procedures and the markets in induction, for enabling appropriate training The Chairman meets with the Non-Executive which the Company operates.
Non-Executive and development needs to be identified Directors as necessary, but at least twice each Directors also meet with members of senior and addressed, and for Board performance year, without the Executive Directors present.
management who provide further information evaluation.
The appointment and removal of The Chairman also carries out a formal Nonon the Companys operations, including the Company Secretary is a matter requiring Executive Director performance evaluation visits to the Companys properties, and with approval of the Board.
individually with each Non-Executive Director representatives from the Companys auditor in order to review whether the Non-Executive and advisers.
Any new Executive Director Performance evaluation Director continues to be effective and receives a tailored programme appropriate to demonstrate commitment to the role.
The In accordance with the UK Code, an external his or her needs.
Senior Independent Director chairs an annual evaluation of the Boards performance, and meeting of Executive and Non-Executive All Directors are kept informed of changes those of its Committees and individual Directors, Directors without the Chairman in order to in relevant legislation and regulations and was undertaken in December 2010.
It is appraise the Chairmans performance and to changing financial and commercial risks, with intended that the next external Board evaluation provide an opportunity to address any other the assistance of the Companys legal advisers will be undertaken in 2013.
In the intervening matters which the Directors might wish to and auditor where appropriate.
Executive years, evaluations have been undertaken raise.
The outcome of these discussions is Directors are subject to the Companys internally by the Company Secretary.
conveyed to the Chairman by the Senior performance development review process The internal evaluation for 2012 commenced Independent Director.
through which their performance against with reviewing the matters for consideration predetermined objectives is reviewed and identified in the December 2011 evaluation Re-election of Directors their personal and professional development and providing the Board with an update on the needs considered.
Non-Executive Directors In accordance with the requirements of the progress made.
To perform the November are encouraged to maintain and expand their UK Code, all Directors, with the exception of 2012 evaluation, a narrative-based approach knowledge of the Company and visit the John Nelson who will retire from the Board was taken.
Questions, grouped around Companys properties.
The performance of at the end of the Annual General Meeting, governance themes taken from the UK Code, Non-Executive Directors is appraised annually are submitting themselves for re-election at were asked and free text comments were by the Chairman.
The training and personal the 2013 Annual General Meeting and will be sought from the Directors.
The evaluation was development requirements of Non-Executive subject to annual re-election.
conducted this way so that it would be more Directors are reviewed and agreed as part informative than a questionnaire and scoring of this appraisal process and Non-Executive approach and enable the Board to establish Directors are encouraged to attend seminars more specifically areas where it could improve and undertake external training at the its performance.
Companys expense in areas considered to be appropriate for their own professional development including on issues relevant to the Board Committees to which they belong.
A record of such training is maintained by the Company Secretary.
